-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Condemned: Criminal Origins
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/condemned/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ferocious first-person hand-to-hand combat looks completely insane.
 Compelling premise puts you on the trail of a deranged serial killer.
 Morbidly unsettling atmosphere (in a good way!).
 Excellent presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring level design makes you get lost in hallway after hallway.
 Not much depth or variety to the combat after the first few hours.
 Storyline teases more than it delivers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 84 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 7,040 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This first-person action game hits you like a sledgehammer with its astounding, stunningly creepy 
 presentation, but it sacrifices opportunities for more shocks and surprises by settling for repetition. 
 

  Raw, savage beatings are the order of the day in Condemned: Criminal Origins, an original first-person 
 action game developed exclusively for the Xbox 360. You play as an investigator tailing a serial 
 killer while struggling to keep your own sanity as you face off against what seems like an army 
 of depraved sociopaths. Condemned's impressive graphics and bone-crushing hand-to-hand combat sequences 
 make for a visceral, highly atmospheric experience that's quite unlike anything you've ever played 
 before. But as great as that may sound, Condemned is also something of a one-trick pony, whose 
 monotonous gameplay doesn't quite live up to the quality of the presentation and underlying concept. 
 Don't you dare let that stop you from making this one of the first Xbox 360 games you play if the 
 concept intrigues you, though. Despite its shortcomings, Condemned offers a compelling sneak peek 
 at some of the incredible potential of the next generation of games.  

          The next time you think you're having a bad day, just think of Agent Ethan Thomas here. 
     

  FBI Agent Ethan Thomas is a sullen man who's part of the Serial Crimes Unit, so it's little wonder 
 he isn't more cheerful. The game begins with Agent Thomas on a routine assignment: Someone's been 
 brutally murdered in a bad part of town, and he's there with the police to figure out what happened 
 and to clean up any remaining mess. Without spoiling anything, let's just say that things don't 
 quite go according to plan. Thomas winds up implicated in some serious crimes, but not before he 
 has a run-in with some sort of a madman who spares his life -- just barely. But why? Bent on finding 
 the truth, his assailant, and his missing pistol, Thomas goes off on his own, with nothing but 
 a cell phone, a Taser-style stun gun, and his forensic tools to aid him. The only other person 
 he can depend on, save himself, seems to be a colleague of his who's willing to stay in touch by 
 phone, helping Thomas to analyze evidence so he can slowly connect the dots that lead to some disturbing 
 discoveries. The dark, engrossing story of Condemned starts out strong and has its moments along 
 the way, but unfortunately, it doesn't take center stage during what's mostly just a straight-up 
 action game with an intriguing premise. As Thomas begins to question his own sanity when faced 
 with unbelievable evidence, the narrative purposely takes some incoherent turns, causing you to 
 wonder if there's any hope of a satisfying resolution.  

  It's too bad the story hadn't been more developed. As it stands, answers to some of the most important 
 questions raised by the game (for example, what the hell is wrong with everybody?) are relegated 
 to loading screens in between chapters rather than to contextual exposition. So instead, what Condemned 
 boils down to is cautiously exploring dark, dilapidated buildings -- they're condemned, get it? -- while 
 confronting and ruthlessly beating down violent thugs bent on smashing your face in. Except it's 
 not quite as great as that makes it sound, because the dark, dilapidated buildings and, somehow, 
 even the ruthless beatings start to get old some time before the nine or 10 hours it takes to finish 
 the game. And optionally collecting bird carcasses and metal pieces hidden throughout each level 
 (don't ask) doesn't add much intrigue. You'll keep waiting for Condemned to throw you a major curveball, 
 since it feels like that sort of game. And it sure comes close, but it never quite goes beyond 
 a threat, merely teasing you with potential while inundating you with repetition.  

  Condemned is kind of like a first-person shooter, except instead of shooting, there's mostly just 
 a lot of pure, bloody brawling. For some strange reason, there's no real bare-handed combat, but 
 improvised weapons are everywhere. You've got everything from metal pipes, to nail-covered two-by-fours, 
 to fire axes, to sledgehammers, to signposts. Each weapon is rated differently for speed, range, 
 power, and defense, though the differences can be pretty subtle. So it'll often come down to a 
 subjective choice: How does that metal conduit strike you? How about that nice concrete-crusted 
 rebar over there? Take your pick, and hang on to it, because you can only carry one weapon at a 
 time.  

          All our gushing praise still won't quite prepare you for how awesome the fighting looks 
 in this game.     

  You'll get the impression that the vast majority of effort that went into this game was invested 
 in the interaction between you and your deranged enemies. There's some striking artificial intelligence 
 at work, combined with some amazingly, frighteningly lifelike animations that will make you wince 
 as if in pain or in anticipation of it. Your foes cannot be reasoned with, as they're lunatics 
 with a thirst for blood who'll rush out at you from the shadows, flailing anything they can get 
 their hands on while trying to kill you. They'll scream obscenities and smash things in freakish 
 anger. They'll lie in ambush, and they'll gladly hurt one another -- as well as you -- just as long 
 as somebody gets hurt. And they won't just stand there and take it as you lash out at them with 
 weapons of your own. As they recoil in pain from your attacks, they'll lurch forward for their 
 next strikes, as if guided by momentum and adrenaline. The best thing to be said about Condemned 
 is that it captures hand-to-hand combat with intense, lifelike brutality like no other game before 
 it. No other first-person-perspective game even comes close, with the notable exception of last 
 year's The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay.     

  The problem with Condemned is that it can be safely described in generalities, since there aren't 
 enough specific moments that stick out. The nerve-racking, unpredictable behavior of your enemies 
 will have you on your toes, holding your breath for several hours. But eventually, the bad guys 
 just seem to run out of new tricks. Similarly, you have few tricks of your own: The left trigger 
 makes you block, while the right trigger makes you attack. There's no combo system, so Agent Thomas 
 is mostly limited to just some slow, powerful strikes. Meanwhile, enemies' attacks can be very 
 damaging (as well they should be, judging by how painful they look) , so you'll find it's foolish 
 to just slug it out with them. Instead, you'll find yourself stepping in for the strike when your 
 opponent leaves himself open, and you'll find yourself stepping back or blocking when he attacks. 
 At least blocking is an active process, meaning you need to time your blocks to deflect the enemy's 
 attack -- but watch out, since he'll sometimes throw fake swings at you. That's pretty much what 
 the action boils down to. Sometimes enemies will be staggered to their knees, near death, at which 
 point you may execute some sort of finishing move just by pressing one of four directions on the 
 D pad. These moves look great (especially the head-butt and the knock-out punch) , but they're only 
 for show, reinforcing that Condemned's spectacular appearance is rather superficial.  

          As great as the combat seems at first, Condemned definitely could have used some more depth. 
     

  You've got that stun gun, and you can also kick those fools if you like. The stun gun feels pretty 
 overpowered, though it's necessary later on in the game when you're dealing with more than just 
 one or two enemies at a time. It's easy to aim, and it immobilizes the unfortunate target, giving 
 you a free shot as well as a chance to rip his weapon from his grip. After each use, the stun gun 
 automatically recharges its battery for your next shot. And, yes, there are some conventional firearms 
 in Condemned, but the gunplay isn't particularly satisfying, and it's quite scarce. The weapon 
 models for guns don't look nearly as realistic or detailed as the game's much broader assortment 
 of makeshift melee weapons. Any guns you find will never have more than a few rounds of ammunition 
 in them, so you'll need to make these shots count and then throw the weapon away in favor of something 
 a little more solid. Your enemies have no fear of guns (or seemingly anything) , and since all the 
 action takes place in very close quarters, the long-range advantage you'd expect from a pistol 
 or rifle is made nearly irrelevant.  

  Since it's going for chills and creepy atmosphere, Condemned doesn't just stoop to throwing enemies 
 at you around every corner. That's the good news. But the bad news is that this means you'll often 
 walk through long stretches of terribly dark, dreary corridors without much of anything happening. 
 The level design in Condemned is pretty disappointing overall, since it's chock-full of grimy, 
 depressing locales that definitely get the "grimy, depressing" part down pat, but fail to come 
 up with much of interest for you to do or look at. Sometimes you need to find a fire axe or a sledgehammer 
 to bash through a locked door (inexplicably, only the fire axe breaks down wooden doors, as the 
 sledge is only for padlocks) . But these types of cases are just too common.  

  It all starts to blend together after a while, no thanks to the repetition of textures and lack 
 of any distinguishing reference points in most areas, and no thanks to the thick darkness that 
 permeates most of the game. Unless you chicken out and crank up the brightness on your television 
 above where you'd normally have it, you'll find that many sequences of Condemned are nearly pitch 
 black, save for your weak little flashlight's reassuring glow. All that said, it probably won't 
 be long before you find yourself wishing you had some kind of a map to help guide you through each 
 area, since you don't. It's fairly easy to get lost, disoriented, and then frustrated as you stumble 
 around looking for the one door you're supposed to open or the one little corner concealing the 
 next hallway.  

          Besides braining crazy freaks, you'll get to sniff out hidden clues using some high-tech 
 gadgets.     

  Occasionally you get to stop to gather some forensic evidence, which helps break up the action 
 a little, though there's really not much to this process. Your "instincts," which come in the form 
 of an onscreen prompt, will indicate to you when you're supposed to ready one of your handy gadgets 
 instead of that club you've been cracking skulls with. For the most part, you can't use your forensic 
 tools unless a mission-critical objective is nearby. Once you've got your equipment on the ready 
 (you automatically bring out the right item for the job) , it's just a matter of slowly walking 
 around until you find what you're looking for. Certainly it's a cool effect, seeing trails of violence 
 materialize under a black light and so forth. These bits also tie in to the plot, so they're more 
 than welcomed, but there's just not much challenge involved since the game does almost all the 
 work. You end up feeling about as actively involved in the investigation as you would be just sitting 
 there soaking up an episode of  CSI . Luckily, some of the later evidence-gathering sequences are 
 more interesting since they take place in more-dangerous areas, so you might have to quickly swap 
 that digital camera for a two-by-four if you run into bad company.     

  The quality of the presentation in Condemned goes a long way toward keeping you riveted, even when 
 the action starts to grow stale. We can't overstate just how good a lot of the hand-to-hand combat 
 looks. There's some meticulous attention to detail that might make you squirm -- such as when you 
 rake your crowbar across an enemy's jaw and then watch him spit blood (and what looks like teeth) 
 as he whirls about violently, face red from more than just anger. And while the game doesn't go 
 into too much detail about exactly what's wrong with all the people you're fighting, it doesn't 
 really need to, because just one good look at them is enough to tell you they're far gone. Better 
 yet, the further you go, seemingly the more inhuman and misshapen your foes will become -- as though 
 their deteriorating condition represents Agent Thomas' own psyche. To make things more believable, 
 the game does a good job of presenting some of its noninteractive cutscenes from a first-person 
 perspective in the context of the game itself. Ever been thrown down an escalator? You'll get a 
 feel for what that might be like in Condemned.  

          It's hard to get a good look at what you're up against in Condemned, but you'll see enough 
 to know this is one great-looking game.     

  The graphics do have a few minor problems, mostly centering around the relatively bland environments. 
 Granted, it's not like filthy rundown buildings are inherently interesting to look at, but the 
 main issue with the environments in Condemned is that there's too little contrast in them. In the 
 very first setting, you'll see the breaking dawn piercing through shuttered windows into dust-filled 
 rooms. It's a beautiful effect, but the game almost never does anything of the kind again, instead 
 pushing you through one lifeless corridor after another. The last sequences of the game look distinctive, 
 and another part that's set in an old, rundown department store stands out, but it's too bad the 
 settings of Condemned aren't as inspired as their fearsome inhabitants. Also, despite how vicious 
 the combat looks, the act of getting killed in this game (which will happen often, since it's pretty 
 tough on normal difficulty) is a little underwhelming. The action just freezes the instant the 
 deathblow connects, all too mercifully preventing you from witnessing Agent Thomas' collapse -- and 
 whatever might happen next. For that matter, considering how much care clearly went into the animation, 
 it's sort of unfortunate to see Condemned making liberal use of rag-doll physics. Killed enemies 
 all collapse in what look like the same lifeless heaps found in just about every action game these 
 days, thanks to the ubiquitous rag-doll effect. But this is just nit-picking over what's a graphically 
 amazing game.  

  As with most any Xbox 360 game, for best results you should view Condemned at the highest possible 
 resolution on a nice big high-definition display. Even when you do, you'll find that the game's 
 frame rate holds quite steady, smoothly rendering some highly detailed scenes. But even when you 
 don't, you'll find that Condemned still looks really impressive running on a standard television 
 (the game is presented in a letterbox even if you don't have a widescreen TV, though) . Older video 
 game systems just can't pull off these kinds of good looks.  

  In addition to an HDTV, you'll want a surround-sound system to get the most out of Condemned's 
 excellent atmospheric audio. There's very little music in the game, apart from some subtle ambient 
 tracks that play here and there, and the sparse voice acting is of good quality. So it's really 
 the sound effects that deserve most of the credit, since they're essential to fulfilling the gut-wrenching 
 intentions of the graphics. Suffice it to say you'll hear every thud, crunch, and spatter in alarming 
 detail. Even relatively mild acts, like breaking the glass on a first-aid kit, might well cause 
 you to flinch from how piercingly loud and clear they are. Some aggravating repetition in the audio 
 drags things down a bit, specifically in how the shrieks from enemies struck by your stun gun always 
 sound exactly the same, ruining some of the suspension of disbelief. But overall, Condemned is 
 by far one of the better-sounding games this year.  

          Given all the potential on display in Condemned, we can't help but hope for a sequel.  
    

  Condemned's success in delivering the best-looking first-person melee combat of any game to date 
 is truly admirable, along with its unusual premise. It's just that the longer you play, the more 
 you'll wish that there were more substance to the experience. Fortunately, the game's main area 
 of focus is executed on incomparably well, and it's thrilling for a good while if not all the way 
 to the bitter end. If you do manage to fight your way through to the conclusion, there's not much 
 reason to keep coming back, unless you want to brave certain arbitrary challenges (such as never 
 using guns) to unlock some modest extras -- like concept art galleries and such. But when it comes 
 to showcasing just how shockingly up close and personal the act of fighting for your life can get 
 in a game, Condemned has become one to beat... preferably over and over with a lead pipe.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (717 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  Very few games manage to earn the title of being unique. Condemned: Criminal Origins has truly 
 earned that title. Though it has its share of disappointments, they are easily overlooked. And 
 the strengths of the game easily make it worth a look for any horror fan to go though.
  
  What makes Condemned: Criminal Origins a unique game is that it is game that takes place from the 
 first person perspective, but technically is not a first person shooter. It is more of a first 
 person action game than anything else. You use random objects that are sitting around as your weapons, 
 like crow bars, or a fire axe. And the feel of those melee weapons is great! I loved beating down 
 an enemy down with a shovel. Sure, there are guns, but they aren't very fun. The guns feel pretty 
 dry when you shot them, and they have very little ammo when there is a gun.
  
  Besides just being an action game, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a horror game. The story in Condemned 
 is a very confusing and, yet again, unique story. You are FBI agent, Ethan Thomas, who has been 
 working on the cases of multiple serial killers. Ethan is in the middle of an investigation when 
 a mysterious man comes and kills the people Ethan is working with his gun. The police automatically 
 blame Ethan Thomas for the murders. The story gets even more interesting, but I won't spoil it 
 for you.
  
  What the story does best is set you up in very creepy, very morbid atmosphere. This is one of the 
 scariest games I've played to date. The atmosphere in the game is amazing, I was always scared 
 to turn the next corner, for fear that one of the games many psychopaths would attack. The enemies 
 aren't always predictable ether; I was always expecting the enemy to be around the corner, when 
 usually they would surprise me by coming from behind me, or above me.
  
  The main problems I have with Condemned is that there are parts of the game that strongly suggest 
 you use guns. I got though a majority of the game without shooting a bullet, until I got to some 
 of the last level, where only the most skilled player will be able to though the whole level without 
 using guns. Another problem some player will have with game is that its a very slow paced game, 
 but that is mainly because the way the game approaches horror, it wouldn't be the same it was a 
 fast paced action game.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great game. It is a scary, morbid, brutal, violent, creepy game, 
 and I love it for that. There are some problems with the game stop from reaching the gaming nirvana 
 it could have been. But those problems are easily overlooked. If you're looking for a fun game 
 that will deliver plenty of scares. Then look no further than Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drugsrbadmkay16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  Storyline: A+
  This game is pretty much based on its fantastic storyline. It's ridiculously scary, and keeps you 
 on the edge of your seat until the credits roll. You play as a crime scene (CSI) investigator, 
 Ethan Thomas, who has had a lot of experience in the field of investigation. After a sick, twisted 
 murder goes down, you are put on the case to try to find out how exactly it happened. To Ethan, 
 it's a very disturbing scene, indeed. You are put in charge of basically the entirety of the case, 
 although Ethan is reluctant. After more drama comes around the corner, you are told to search a 
 building where you have been told that the killer is hiding out. What Ethan doesn't know, however, 
 is that this killer is a very intelligent man. While searching through the building, the serial 
 killer finds you and basically takes you as a hostage. When Ethan doesn't respond to multiple messages 
 via walkie-talkie, the police begin to working. This is where the intelligence comes in to play. 
 The killer strips you of your weapons (mainly the handgun you were supplied with when told to investigate 
 the building) . After a minute, three policemen come rushing through the door where you are being 
 held hostage. But before anything can be said, the killer shoots all three cops with your weapon. 
 All that's left at this crime scene is three dead cops, and your gun right next to the three corpses. 
 Of course you are then charged with the murder. But you are then knocked out unknowingly and eventually 
 find yourself in a completely different room with Ethan's father's old friend, Eddie Van Horn. 
 Van Horn is a very strange character, and Ethan is quite suspicious of him from the beginning. 
 He seems to know way too much about the entire situation. He claims to be on Thomas' side, however, 
 and since Thomas KNOWS that everyone is already against him, he takes his chances with Van Horn 
 and goes along with his plan. The remainder of the game (without posting any spoilers) just involves 
 you trying to escape the police and find SKX (Serial Killer X, as they call him) . That's all I'm 
 saying. There are just way too many incredible twists in this game, that saying anything could 
 ruin them. That's what makes this storyline BY FAR the greatest horror/survival storyline so far 
 on the Xbox 360. Instant classic with its storyline. Very fulfilling, just as long as you're fine 
 with possibly having to go to the bathroom very often (to make sure you don't have any "accidents") . 
 Yes, the game's atmosphere is that creepy.
  
  Graphics: B+
  Now overall, the graphics on "Condemned: Criminal Origins" are very good, but there is just way 
 too much inconsistency in the visual portions. There are times when you may be saying "wow, this 
 looks incredible!" and other times where you may be complaining "what the hell is that?". I think 
 this all came down to effort with Sega. They worked hard on some parts, but really didn't care 
 about others. The 'goodness' in the game's graphics are in the actual scenery. Everything is ridiculously 
 detailed. You can walk up to a wall and will have trouble looking away because it looks so damn 
 realistic. But the problems are with two things: character animations and weaponry. The character 
 animations are just pitiful. The characters are so rubbery that there may be times when you're 
 asking yourself if it's even supposed to look good. They were just awful. None of the characters 
 at all looked any good. As for the weaponry, it itself was very inconsistent. Some of the weapons 
 were phenominally prepared, while others look absolutely repulsive. There is a wide variety of 
 weapons (you can walk up to almost anything and use it as a weapon, which is pretty cool) , and 
 some definitely look better than others. The majority of the 'swing' weapons (don't know what else 
 to call them) , like pieces of wood, pipes, signs, toilet seats, etc. look great. But when it comes 
 to the modern shooting weapons, like handguns, shotguns, etc., you are sure to be disappointed. 
 The shotguns are by far the worst. It honestly looks like you are holding a long black stick that 
 makes noises. There is just a lot of inconsistency. Mind you, the scenery makes this game definitely 
 worth LOOKING at, especially since it is one of the very early releases for the Xbox 360.
  
  Entertainment: A-
  All in all, "Condemned" certainly satisfying. However, it's a game that's 
 definitely not for everyone. You will get scared, so that's one thing you need to be able to handle. 
 Anyways, the storyline, like I said, is phenomenal, and it makes it very difficult to stop playing 
 once you start. In that perspective, it's a very fun game. The biggest problem with it is in replay 
 value. The storyline is bitter and suspenseful that once you've beaten the game, you will have 
 absolutely no desire to ever put it in again (unless you're one of those 'achievement hunters') . 
 It's a game that you will buy, play for about a week, and then sell. 
  
  Recommendations: C+
  Like I said, this game only fits a certain number of people. You basically 
 have to have ALL of the following characteristics to enjoy this game:
  -don't get afraid easily
  -can handle suspense (no spoiler searches)
  -likes FPS games
  -likes 
 RPG games
  -don't need to be obsessive over achievements
  -patient
  
  Overall: B/B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: code523
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a survival horror game wherein you play a police forensics investiagtor trying to 
 solve a mystery that involves the population of a large city becoming violent lunatics. The story 
 is pretty decent so, without offereing any spoilers, I'll just say that early on, your character 
 becomes the prime suspect in a murder investigation and must go into hiding. You'll spend the rest 
 of the game making your way through the city trying to find who or what's responsible for all the 
 shenanigans. 
  
  I must say that for a next-gen game, Condemned's controls are pretty sluggish. This really makes 
 the gameplay suffer because there are a lot of times when you really need to move fast but, your 
 character walks and runs like he's got dumbells stuffed in his socks. Which brings me to one of 
 my biggest peeeves about the game: You can't run! Ethan's running speed is a joke to begin with 
 but, the fact that it's difficult to control your direction while running, combined with the fact 
 that you can't run more than about 15 yards before becoming winded and having to stop, makes for 
 some frustrating moments. You can't duck either. So, if someone's shooting at you, you can'y crouch 
 behind soimething, and since you can't jump at all, it's easy to get stuck on game environment 
 items when trying to manouver during combat. Luckily, this doesn't happen too often but, really 
 spoils the immersion factor when it does. Even simply turning around is a hallway is sometimes 
 a chore. 
  
  But, the main element to any survival horror game is the atmosphere, and this is where Condemned 
 really hits the mark. The locations you travel through in the game are sometimes way beyond creepy, 
 and really do a good job of making you feel isolated; Even though you're in the middle of a big 
 city, you always feel on your own and that no help's coming. The lighting effects are top notch 
 and really add to the spooky ambience, (the department store sequence litterally gave me goosebumps!) 
 but for me what really sells the "horror" part of this game is the soundtrack! You'll hear unidentifiable 
 creaks and thumps that convince you that someone is right behind you getting ready to cave your 
 skull in, only to wheel around and see only an empty room... or sometimes a piece of rebar smashing 
 you in the face! You can also hear the shrieks and disjointed babble of crazed meanies echoing 
 through allys and hallways, sometimes shouting out instructions to one another on how to find you, 
 and what to do to you when they do!
  
  Then there's the combat. When you actually happen upon one of these weirdos, they go absoulutely 
 berserk, intent on beating you to death with the first thing they can find. These encounters can 
 be extremely brutal since the only thing at hand is usually something like a fire-axe or the steel 
 blade from a paper cutter. There are guns in the game but hardly any ammo, and the gunplay is just 
 not very exciting anyway. I usually like games that have plenty of guns avalable but, most games 
 don't do the visceral hand-to-hand combat so well! Plus, never having a weapon you really trust 
 and always feeling outgunned, really helps create that desperate feeling that the best survival 
 horror game have. During combat the controls seem to be a little more responsive than in the rest 
 of the game but, could still use some improvement.
  
  There's also a lot of times where you'll need to use your forensics tools. The equipment is fun 
 to use, and is an interesting element in the story but in the end there's no challenge to these 
 sequences. A bit of a puzzle-like gameplay could have been a welcome addition here, I think.
  
  Condemned is well worth playing if you're fan of the genre. Very scary and extremely violent 
 with a definite "on the edge of your seat" mood throughout! It's just too bad they didn't work 
 harder on other aspects of the game. It could have been a true classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmine_The_Man
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  When the game starts you play as a detective/cop/agent, whatever. You investigate a gruesome murder 
 in a run down warehouse. After checking for fingerprints and other evidence CSI style, you are 
 left alone in the dark, creepy as hell building with only a pistol which is low on ammo. After 
 shooting and bludgeoning your way through the building full of drugged up addicts who's jobs are 
 to scare the crap out of you, somebody shoots two of your fellow cops with your pistol and runs 
 away, leaving you to fend for yourself and pursue him.
  
  - Graphics
  
  Amazing, really revolutionary for its' time. Almost everywhere you go has an old, run down feel, 
 as if it were all placed in an abandoned town. This just adds to the feeling that your alone and 
 have to fend for yourself.
  
  - Gameplay
  
  Great, addictive, and scary as hell. The game leaves you weapon less at the start of every mission, 
 but you can grab almost anything as a weapon to beat your enemies to death. From a pipe, to a crowbar, 
 to an axe, to a piece of wood with nails. Another bonus is that you are always carrying a tazer, 
 which temporarily stuns enemies (You can take their weapons from them while they are stunned) . 
 From the start to finish this game will scare you at sometime (Especially a certain mannequin mission) 
 and as you progress the game gets more and more disturbing.
  
  Another good thing about this game is the great enemy AI. Your enemies will pretend to be hurt 
 if you hit them with something, then quickly swing around and try to hit you when you're off guard. 
 Your enemies will also run and hide sometimes, leaving you only to hear there ramblings and movements
 
  
  In conclusion, buy this game now. It's cheap (I got it for 7) and worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKriegerx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the scariest game I have ever played! I had just heard about this game 2 weeks ago. And 
 it's been out for 6 years!! I was just scrolling down the games list on the xbox live marketplace 
 and saw condemned and condemned 2. I looked at it because I had never heard of it before. When 
 I saw the screenshots for the game, they were pretty frightening. I thougth it was pretty cool. 
 Then I saw that there was a demo to the game, and I was really excited. The demo was awesome and 
 I showed it to my brother and friend. They thought it was cool too. So we planned that the nearest 
 Friday we would spend the night in our upstairs gameroom. We turned off all the lights and turned 
 the volume all the way up so it would be super scary. We started at about 8:00 p. m. and ended at 
 about 4:00 p. m. It was THE scariest night of my life. You are an F. B. I. agent Ethan Thomas securing 
 a murder at the first part of the game. It is pretty good graphics for a game that was made in 
 2005. Then while in the same wharehouse of the murder, the SKX shoots 2 police officers with your 
 gun. And you're framed for it. So mainly the rest of the game you are trying to escape the cops 
 and catch the SKX to prove your innocence. You go through levels like wharehouses, abandoned schools, 
 mannequin department stores (the scariest level you will ever play in your entire life) , farmhouses, 
 barns, train/subway stations, and much more. We beat the in one night and I couldn't stop thinking 
 about Condemned for days. I had to keep playing Rated E games for a week to get that game out of 
 my mind. But it is my favorite game i've ever played, and the scariest. 
  The gameplay is good too. You mainly use melee combat moves to eliminate your enemies. Such as shovels, 
 fire axes, large pipes, sledgehammers, crowbars, etc. You rarely find guns and whenever you do, 
 they have a maximum ammo of 7 bullets, which is the only bad part of the game. Your eyes are glued 
 to the screen the whole game because they're sounds coming from everywhere and Ethan's visions 
 that can see the past of some muders. There's no multiplayer in this game, but if there was, it 
 would stink. Going around hitting people would be pretty bad and boring. But there is multiplayer 
 for Condemned 2. I wander how that is. Well I would highly recommend this game to any horror lovers 
 who want a thrilling survival horror game that will keep you gripped to your seat in cold sweat 
 of fear. Go out and get this game now. It is only about $15.00 which is a really good price for 
 a really good game. Get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joker_cliq
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:36 am PT
Review:  The game is totally addictive. The graphics are pretty good, but the story line is just awesome. 
 I've played this game with the bowl of popcorn next to me. Anyone who hasn't played this game should 
 definitely try it. One of the best features of the game is the weapon holding. The fact that you 
 can't carry more that one weapon at a time is pretty realistic, and when you find firearms you 
 have a limited number of bullets. Also the AI acts very real. The enemies will hide behind walls, 
 use the environment and work in pairs to hit you, or they will fight with each other. In the game, 
 99 percent of it, you will walk, you will really have to run somewhere near the end of the game, 
 and it's kind of hard to control the character when you're running. An other downside of the game 
 is the movement of the camera. The camera moves sometimes like the game has low frame rates, but 
 only the camera, the rest of the environment moves normally. And another thing is the flashlight, 
 you have the option to toggle between turning the flashlight on or off but in most of the game 
 if you turn the flashlight off you can't see jack. Any way the game is one of the most innovative 
 games in 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Great, Awesome, Perfect, Scary, Stick Smelly Poop
  Those are some words that describe this survival horror game that beat Resident Evil, Dead Rising, 
 and Dead Space.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Orgins is a game that, persay, made me s*** myself.
  Im not lying. I think 
 i'm traumatized for life after beating this awesome game.
  
  Condemned is a survival horror game that has enough levels to either make you leave the room or 
 shake where your sitting.
  
  Lets give you a few examples of scary levels:
  
  1. Bart's Department Store
  You are running around looking for clues of SKX's apperance in this 
 creepy maniqune infested warzone, alone, no partner, no co-op, alone, by yourself.
  This may not sound scary to natural gamers, trust me, I thought the same thing to until I realized 
 that the killer we're dressing up and disgusing themselfs as them sneaking around behind your back. 
 I had to go in a party chat and talk to my friends so I did'nt feel so alone.
  
  2. Catholic Schoolhouse
  Like running through schools in horror games arn't creepy enough (*cough* 
 Resident Evil *cough*) . In Condemned, you encounter St. Joesph's Catholic School. This level is 
 THE SCAREST S*** I'VE SEEN IN MY LIFE (Other than "The Exorcist") . This abandon schoolhouse is 
 running around with little kid-like mutaunts crawling on the ground just to get shots at you, Like 
 this wasn't enough, Monolith added a 'lunch lady' boss soaked in blood with a meat cleaver.
  
  Hey, go out and buy this game, you can get it for like $5.
  it WILL MAKE YOU JUMP AND P***! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:35 am PT
Review:  I bought my 360 3 years ago. And this was the very 1st game that I bought. As soon as I started 
 playing I was hooked. I had never played a horror game that was this scary! The sounds all around 
 and the hiding enemys had me jumping outta my seat all the time! I love a game where you dont know 
 whats gonna happen next, and this is that game. I liked the realism that it had with the guns and 
 the fact that you didnt find ammo on every table. You can also pretty much use anything as a weapon, 
 like toilet seats and locker doors. But just assume beat the crap outta someone with a fire axe 
 or sledgehammer. I also liked that all the enviroments were different , the farm house and farm 
 were my personal favorites. But there is also schools, back alley streets, and subways to name 
 a few. This game is one of the gems on the 360 that I think anyone could enjoy because of the simple 
 controls as well. Anyway, If you are a survival horror fan and you wanna get scared, and dont wanna 
 pay $60 for Dead Space ( also very scary! ) , then pick up Condemned: Criminal Origins. Its well 
 worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd24456
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:59 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great game not good but great it had a really complex story. You will not guess 
 the ending that's how good it is, and spoiler alert there is a choice at the end of the game. The 
 combat is great when you face one enemy but when there is more then one it is absolutely crap it 
 was built for one so why they added fights with more then one person is beyond me. But is this 
 game scary and I would say yes it is. At first it wont but towards the end you will be jumping 
 out of your socks the graphics look O. K. but remember that this was a launch title so its passable. 
 The game is worth it for its story there is a killer. Lets call him killer A. Knocking off killers 
 lets call them Killers B and C. Just like the killers B and C did to there victims. So an example 
 would be if the killer B would cut off the left thumb to his victims. Then the killer A would do 
 that to him. So as Ethan Tomas Killer (A) kills two cops with your gun your blamed so you try to 
 catch Killer (A) to clear your name. Lastly the boss fights are amazing and scary one you fight 
 in a normal house just like yours. This game is a blast and now that it is down to $20:00 go get 
 and get Condemned 2: Bloodshot well your at it you would get 2 games for $40:00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  i originally got this game because i saw the trailers to the 2nd one Bloodshot. Now the graphics 
 at times were great but sometimes they were average but then again the game isnt that new. Walking 
 through dark areas and hearing crackheads lurching ready to attack is creepier than you would think. 
 Weapon choice is good but when you pick up a gun you usually have an average of 7 shots so you 
 have to use it sparingly. Enemies popping out of nowhere and hitting you with a weapon is cool. 
 The enemies are dynamic and vary in models, eventually you incounter weird muatated monsters and 
 paranormal activity. you use investigative tools to collect evidence.
  
  For acheivement junkies, this game gives you alot of them, this game was fun and would make me 
 jump at times, now that i have beat it im moving on to the next one
  
  all in all i give it a 8.5 a great game and i would recomend anyone to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:37 am PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is one of the scariest games. It came out in 2005 when this series made 
 its debut for the X360. It grows on you as you play along. You are first somewhat scared, and then, 
 you just want to keep playing.
  
  The graphics are actually pretty good. They are good compared to todays, and back then. You can't 
 say they're amazing, but they're decent. 
  
  The gameplay can get repetitive at times. It's also pretty confusing when you're walking along, 
 and you keep seeing the same wall with the same writing on it, but it really is a different wall. 
 It's so confusing to really tell the difference.
  
  Multiplayer on this game... well, there is no multiplayer. First of, there is only three different 
 types of guns, and a bunch of pipes and pieces of wood. Even if they tried their best to make multiplayer 
 out of this, it would suck. What would you use? A pistol vs a pipe? Pathetic. No multiplayer kinda 
 sucks.
  
  Overall, Condemned is worth a rent. You can't miss out on this, but it's not amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnarr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Category : Horror Action/Adventure
  
  Story 6/10 : You play as an FBI agent named Ethen Tomas trying to track down a serial killer that 
 is murdering other serial killers in there own methods. 
  the story is pretty well told through cutscenes and little calls on Ethen's cellphone, the reason 
 I gave it a 6 is because I did'nt really connect with the story. It's more like a story that you 
 only want to hear once but still good none the less.
  
  Gameplay 8/10 : The gameplay was what really made me want to play this game, you go through 9 chapters 
 while fighting diffrent kinds of crazy people with weapons such as guns and fireaxes, lead pipes, 
 and 2x4s, you'll be using melee weapons since the times you do come across guns they don't have 
 very much ammo in them. You should still like the fighting cause the melee is nicely done with 
 this game
  
  Graphics 7.5/10 : The graphics that I seen on my HDTV was pretty nice, there not nothing too great 
 but they will still make you appreciate what games can do.
  
  Audio/Music 7.5/10 : The audio such as gunshots and the wacks when you hit and enemy is done okay, 
 it's nothing to write home about and let's not get on the music because while your playing Condemned 
 you will start to notice that...... there is not alot of music, pretty much next to none.
  
  Single-Player : Since single-player is all there is in this game I wont go into detail about it.
 
  
  BREAK it down : While I was playing Condemned I was having alot of fun but by half way through 
 it, I knew that it was a story I could'nt sit through again since there was'nt no replay value 
 at all besides achievements, another thing that I did'nt like about the game was that during play 
 you have to collect these metal pieces that throughout the levels and there is an achivement to 
 collect all of them and I did collect every single one of them but guess what, No achievement. 
 But if your looking for just a game that is fun with a quick story you found a match since it can 
 be completed in a couple of hours. With pretty easy achievements since most of them come from just 
 finishing the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjohnson007
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of games in the survival horror category and you haven't tried out Condemned then 
 you should defiantly think about trying it out its worth it for its low price.
  
  As Ethan Thomas you must hunt down this Mysterious Serial Killer X while collecting evidence and 
 fighting off crazed bums, addicts, and squatters as you also collect dead bird and metal pieces 
 to unlock secrets and achievements. 
  
  In this first person game you must combat your opponents by picking up items like pipes, wooden 
 boards, Fire Axes and other items and whacking them upside your enemies head. There are also guns 
 out there like a pump shotgun and sub-machine gun just to name a few, with limited ammo so you 
 can shoot at your enemies and then when your outta ammo give them a good pistol whip. 
  
  At certain points in the chapters you'll have to investigate areas using you evidence gather tools 
 that'll upload and send them to your friend Rosa who will analyze them and give you the low down 
 and what to do next.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty nice. Not to many technical problems. One that i really noticed 
 was towards then end of the game an area was blocked off but was suppose to have had opened up 
 after a beat an enemy and didn't open up until i walked through it. But other than that everything 
 else is pretty good.
  
  The Sound fits this game perfectly. From when you bump into something and it falls to the sound 
 the floor makes when you walk on it. You will be alert wondering when and where something is gonna 
 happen and when you think your good, you might get a little shock.
  
  Although the game is pretty short the story is done pretty well. For you Heroes fans Greg Grunberg 
 does the voice of Ethan. Its spooky atmosphere will keep you on your toes all the way through till 
 the moment the credits start rolling. 
  
  You haven't started gaming until you pressed START!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocustWarlord
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:37 am PT
Review:  Condemned - Criminal Origins is the BEST MOTHEREFFING GAME IVE EVER PLAYED!!!!!!!!|
  
  It has a great atmosphere, not one place you go to is light. everywhere is dark, the only source 
 of light you have is your torch making things even scarier because you wont know when someone is 
 going to come out of nowhere and attack you. The weapons are different, the fact that you can literally 
 pull a pipe off a wall or something and use it to wack your enemies around the head until they 
 dont get up again. thats one thing I love about this game!
  
  The game is incredibly scary as well. Like i said, you dont know when your going to be hit due 
 to how dark the game is. When I was playing it, there was a time when I saw a bottle lying on the 
 floor and for some reason i couldnt bare not to look at it. so i went to the bottle, moved the 
 camera so i was looking straight at the bottle. then i suddenly saw a shadow going over the bottle, 
 looked up and there was a big cuboard falling over me and I s*** myself badly because i wasn't 
 expecting it.
  
  If you are into scary games, then I would recommend buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a survival horror game made by sega and warner brothers games featuring a realistic 
 take on melee combat and great gunplay. The melee system is unique on condemned, just about anything 
 is a weapon for example you cant find a weapon so you go over to a loacker and rip the door off 
 or you steal a pipe to beat the hell out of anything that comes near you. The gunplay is realistic 
 too where you have to check your ammo but the only downside is that there are crosshairs and no 
 iron sights. sounds good? well.
  
  Gameplay: This is where condemned excels with a creepy atmosphere and gruesome fighting up close 
 and personal but this is also where it also falls flat too, to be honest the level design is awful 
 with cramped corridors and stupid wall placement allowing enemies to get in cheap shots.
  
  Graphics: Becasue this was released near launch the graphics now look quite ugly, the enemies and 
 terrain look good but the main character Ethan Thomas look like a half eaten zombie.
  
  Sound: Not too bad, guns sound good and so is voice acting but when you ht someone with a pipe 
 for example you expect to hear cracking bones but a little thump is chugged out of your speakers 
 not leaving you satisfied at all.
  
  Overall: Condemned ticks all the right boxes but not enough with a very short 5-7 hour story and 
 no multiplayer at all but a creepy atmosphere and great story make this fun enough to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishaboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with this game. From the beginning to the end i was entertained. It wasn't scary, 
 but that doesnt mean it wasnt good. The combat is really great and extremely brutal. I love how 
 everything is shown in 1st person. Theres a part when you get thrown out a window at the beginning. 
 It's awesome to see that in 1st person. The graphics werent too great, but it was 2005, so i guess 
 they werent bad. The game is just a little bit too short. I wish that there would have been maybe 
 2 or 3 more levels. The story is pretty good, but at the end you are still pretty much clueless 
 as to what happened. Another problem is how sometimes it's really hard to figure out where to go 
 because the environment always looks the same, no matter if you're in a subway station, house, 
 condemned building, condemned school, condemned department store, or anything else. The bottom 
 likne is that this was a pretty good game and it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Condemned
  
  Graphics: are good but not brilliant, good lighting reflected off 3d environments. The shadows 
 don't do much they rarely ever hide any bad guys allowing them to be seen even when pitch black. 
 Over all the graphics aren't bad but they are that good either.
  
  Game play: solid weapons violence from Pipes to Shotguns, and blood from head to toe. this game 
 will scare you out of your mind as you can find your self walking down a dark corridor and suddenly 
 being attacked by a mental criminal with a crowbar who was badly hiding behind a trash can. sometimes 
 you wonder how did I miss his fat head poking round that bin. But Overall the Game play has mastered 
 the brutal combat style that is backed up by a good story line where you find yourself chasing 
 a convict who shot you cop buddies right in front of you. The game also features excellent in game 
 and voice acting.
  
  *Prepare to soil yourself* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0rr0rG4m3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is so damn scary yet so good. This game is a first person horror game, 
 not a fps because you mostly use melee weapons then guns in the game. Anyways this game will make 
 walk in the dark with only a flash light for light, a taser to temporalily stun enemies and any 
 weapon that you can find in the environment for pipes to sledghammers. This game is very brutal 
 and each time you hit an enemy it feels good (well to me) and sometimes when enemies kneel on the 
 ground after a beating you can perform a finisher, or you could just yell out "THIS IS SPARTAAA" 
 and give them a kick. Now the horror parts of this game includes enemies jumping out of nowhere 
 and the infamous 'Manequins' and another scene when your about to do a close-up photo of this "corpses" 
 face when you press the button to take the photo BOOM the face turns to you and grabs you but i 
 wont ell you any other scary moments because I dont wanna wreck the surprises and freak outs for 
 you if you haven't played the game yet. To sum it up Condemned: Criminal Origins is a brutal first 
 person horror game that will leave you with 25 used diapers. If you have a xbox 360 or a pc GET 
 THIS GAME and then play it at midnight with all the nights turned off and the game volume up... if 
 you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Man Condemned is such a great Horror Action Adventure game. You will love this game if you ever 
 get the change to play it. There was some things in the game that made me jump and sometimes it 
 even got my heart pounding you got to play it if you haven't already.
  
  To start it off you are a FBI agent that goes after serial killers and stuff and your name is Ethan 
 Thomas. So this guys takes your weapon from you and now the FBI thanks you killed someone because 
 that guys used your weapons to kill a person. Condemned is a really good brawler to and the enemies 
 in the game are insane. If you are fighting one and knock his weapon away he will pick it up are 
 search for another one.
  
  This isn't a game where your going to be blasting through your enemies with a gun. Because guns 
 are rare in the game although you will find some but not that many and when you do find one there 
 isn't much ammo any way. So most of the time you will be using melee weapons like fire axes, and 
 lead pipes and a lot more stuff. And they all feel different when you use them which is cool because 
 you'll want to use every one to give them a try.
  
  This is such a good game and defiantly worth a buy if you like Horror games. You will defiantly 
 like and be amazed by the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game will have you sitting on the edge of your seat as you take out one violent addict after 
 another in some of the most violent ways humanly possible. In Condemned it is never save to turn 
 your back on anything because enemies can jump out of nowhere and attack you. This game shows that 
 almost anything can be used as a weapon. Whether it's a desk draw, a crowbar or a shovel; it can 
 be used to deliver gruesome blows to your enemy.
  
  This game is well constructed and has suspense, violence and melee combat as it's core backbone. 
 Very few producers can pull off a game as well as this and I was honestly quite surprised that 
 SEGA did it as well as they did. There are only a couple of things wrong with this game. Firstly, 
 there is no multi player. Secondly, I sometimes got frustrated when i spent ages searching room 
 after room for entry tools and ways to get to the next stage.... but I suppose if you're playing 
 a detective then that's the way it has to be.
  
  Overall Condemned: Criminal Origins gets an 8.5/10 from me and I think that that is a fair result 
 for this game.
  
  MR-ELIJO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a horror based game with FPS.
  
  Story: You are Thomas the detective and you are accused for murder. So what you have to do is prove 
 that you are innocence. But while processing story something is happening and you encounters weird 
 atmosphere...
  Condemned is for my opinion, is pretty confusing story somewhat. Also the ending is confusing too...
 
  
  Gameplay: This is likely beat them up because not only you can use guns you can take anything in 
 environment to use it as weapon for as pipe, wood stick, etc. Also it have a horror theme that 
 not only those crazy psychos scary the crap out of you when they popped suddenly, there are weird 
 atmosphere as the sight gones white and black all of sudden and something flashes or you sees a 
 weird hallucations.
  
  Also you are playing as Thomas the detective. So you will investigate crime scenes to find a clue. 
 In game almost all of them cannot be missed.
  
  However the problem of this game is it's getting bit repeative later on because you take weapon 
 hit, block, hit, block and on and on...
  
  Graphic and sound: graphic is superb and the detail shows nicely. Sound is important in horror 
 based game and in Condemned sound can make you chilling to you neck. The sound will change in situation 
 as you are seeing something weird or like that.
  
  
  Condemned is a game that can be called revolution because of gameplay that you take anything to 
 use weapon and survive and the creepy atmosphere keeps you on foot anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I happen to like horror games of all types and have planyed many different kinds. But this is the 
 first one I played that had you not only try to survive multiple enemies but you had to use your 
 detective skills in order to solve the Serial Killer X murders. 
  
  You play as Thomas, a cop with a mysterious feel because even he doesn't know why certain things 
 happen to him at times. He would pass out or have visions during his investigation that leave you 
 wondering what the heck was going on. The game has you tracking a serial killer murderer who goes 
 by the name Serial Killer X. Soon you learn that he is also being controlled by something even 
 more evil and dangerous.
  
  The game itself isnt difficult to master as it's your typical pick up a weapon and hit the baddie 
 till he dies game. However there are parts of the game where you have to collect evidence in order 
 to solve the crimes. Using various high tech tools you can search for clues and gather samples 
 that can be sent to the Lab and analyzed The more clues and evidence you find the closer you get 
 to finding your killer. 
  
  The fights and battles can be hard at times as you can face several enemies at once and sometimes 
 they are all shooting at you. Finding places to hide while they spend their ammo can be a chore 
 too. Plus being the horror game it is, the areas are mostly very dark and difficult to see, even 
 with your flashlight. You can only carry one weapon at a time (which i thought sucked) so even 
 if you get a gun, once your out of bullets, your pretty screwed unless u find a melee weapon. Thank 
 God your given a taser which can stun your enemies and bye you some time. The majority of time 
 you will be using a melee weapon as guns are few and far between anyway. Plus by the time you find 
 one, you have to ditch it anyway for a special weapon that you need to open a door (fire ax, crowbar 
 or shovel) .
  
  Overall the game was fun to play and I enjoyed the challenge it presented. The graphics were creepy 
 and realistic and the enemies were pretty smart. The storyline was decent so it wasnt difficult 
 to follow. Definately worth playing if you enjoy horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cringle88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  When i first played the demo i didn't think much of it i though this looks like another one of 
 the those gore filled low budget games with no direction of storyline and will probably get targeted 
 as a corrupted violent game. But after buying the game i realised it was more then that. it was 
 darker and twisted then any game id played before it didnt try to be scary it was. I love the fact 
 that its based around using random melee weapons because your character uses them with such force 
 and impact as well as the enemy as they lunge at you and scream in frustration when they miss its 
 great. 
  
  Condemned's storyline is something you'll wanna play through to the end it kept engrossed for a 
 few days. I suggest playing it before the sequel although you can easily piece together the storyline 
 the game-play was improved a great deal as well as the graphics in Condemned 2 bloodshot so you 
 might judge it harshly because of that. 
  
  But all up a great game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:47 am PT
Review:  To get right to the point, Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the scariest and most atmospheric 
 games I have ever played. The presentation is excellent and the story is quite compelling. The 
 characters in the story are all interesting and the story is crafted in the same mold as a thriller. 
 You have to keep playing this game to the end so you find out what happens, there is no other option. 
 Sadly, despite the strong gameplay and story, the game has a lot of technical problems and the 
 level design at times is bland which leads to confusion. 
  
  Condemned tells the story of a decorated agent named Ethan Thomas, Ethan is sent to investigate 
 a murder which is suspected to have been committed by a serial killer called, 'The Matchmaker'. 
 Before he knows it, he is a wanted criminal who must hunt down a serial killer in order to clear 
 his name but all becomes more complicated when a shady character named Malcolm Van Horn enters 
 the picture. That's the best plot outline I can give you without spoilers. Though it might sound 
 bland and cliche the story is actually very well told and the plot twists and turns are unexpected. 
 The story is simple but effective and it's one worth experiencing. Another great thing about the 
 game is the presentation. Think Se7en (Movie) but creepier. It's really great and the creepy atmosphere 
 of the game is perfected which sets you up for a lot of shocks and scares. I'm never frightened 
 by games or movies but this game made me jump and made my heart race. It is genuinely creepy and 
 awesome.
  
  Technically this game is nothing amazing but for its time it's not bad. This game came out around 
 the time that the Xbox 360 first came out, developers really weren't sure how to properly use the 
 hardware and thus the graphics are not amazing but they are effective. A lot of the textures look 
 great but character models aren't that impressive. There are also graphical blemishes and some 
 odd graphical glitches but they aren't anything that'll ruin the game for you. The sound is quite 
 good though, this plays a large role in bringing on the scares. The melee weapons sound great but 
 the guns leave more to be desired. Luckily though Guns aren't a big part of the game. The game 
 can be beaten with all melee weapons quite easily but it would still be nice to have the guns have 
 the deep rattle a real gun has. 
  
  In terms of gameplay there is not much to be said. It's nothing new and innovative but it's done 
 well. The melee combat is really great but it's kind of simple. Most of the time one good hit to 
 the head is all you need. Sometimes you need more but when it gets to that stage all you do it 
 hit, run back, hit, and repeat. It's fun but over simplified. You can make it harder on yourself 
 by blocking but... who does that? The guns work well but could have used a bit more work. The AI 
 is really good in this game, a lot of the time they pop out of nowhere and sometimes they just 
 jump from the darkness. It's heavily scripted but they fight well. The game's difficulty is just 
 right though, it's never unfair and it's never really easy so overall the gameplay is great.
  
  Overall Condemned is great. There are a lot of bugs though and some bland level design which 
 may sometimes leave you running around in circles. Other then that it's a solid game with an intriguing 
 story. It's worth the price now as it is pretty easy to pick it up for cheap. I wouldn't pay for 
 then fifteen dollars for it though, the game is quite short. It takes around nine to ten hours 
 to beat although some might go back to beat it again for achievements. It's worth a buy especially 
 if you like games with a lot of suspense, horror, and thrills. 
  
  Goods: Great melee combat, creepy atmosphere, compelling story, difficulty is perfectly tuned
 
  
  Bad: Bland level design at times, lots of glitches, graphics leave a bit more to be desired
  
 
  Overall: Worth a buy especially if you love games with horror 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  It's a simple premise for a game. You're a cop that's been framed for murder & you must hunt down 
 the real killer through the usual 'scary' locations, killing any psycho that gets in your way & 
 clear your name. So far, so run of the mill.
  
  However focusing on this is missing the real stars of this game. The Sound, lighting & melee combat.
 
  
  First the sound. The biggest star of this game by far. While exploring you will encounter many 
 areas where nothing is really happening but then you'll hear something in the dark. Quickly spinning 
 around the room aiming your flashlight in every corner you'll still be able to hear it but not 
 see it. Then you might get a black shadowy figure dart past your light & disappear or nothing may 
 happen at all. But you still can hear it, scurrying about or just breathing. It doesn't sound like 
 much but when playing it really does give you a massive uneasy feeling. You never feel relaxed 
 & you'll be constantly unnerved with what's going on. 
  
  Next we have the combat. Now with this being an FPS game I was highly sceptical of the emphasis 
 being on melee weapons. But they work fantastically well. You can rip pipes off walls or take sledgehammers 
 off the floor. & when you smack a psycho with any of these its satisfyingly brutal. Guns are present 
 but in very short supply & there's no reload. When you're out of bullets that's it. So when you 
 finally get a shotgun the power you feel is immense but it also makes you think carefully about 
 every shot. With the ammo being so low one miss or badly placed shot can be a disaster. 
  
  The graphics aren't brilliant at first look but they convey the setting of serial killers hideouts 
 very well & the lighting effects are fantastic & work incredibly well with the sound. But as a 
 whole presentation is top notch. 
  
  The only problem is that with everything being so dark & it being quite scary it's an exhausting 
 game to play. But have a quick break & you'll be itching to get back to it.
  
  This is a fantastic game I recommend to anyone who likes a good scare. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrispwns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  do not get me wrong this is in every single solitary way a scary game. In fact youll be jumping 
 out of your skin with the unexpected scares in this game. this game offers more of a scare than 
 f. e. a. r in my oppinion. every enemy youll fight in this game will respond to your movements theyll 
 insult you theyll know when youre gonna attack they know when to block etc. the story is pretty 
 simple youre ethan thomas in search of several serial killers in a city infested with drug maniacs 
 that want you dead. dont get me wrong though you will find an interest with the twist at the end 
 of this game so sot tight grin youre teeth grab an energy drink and get prepared to get scared 
 out of your living mind this game will truly screw with your head. dont worry though its just a 
 game.... until you make it a reality!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazyplayer-187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  i first bought this back in 2005 and played the 2st level and was sooo scared i couldnt play it, 
 but i reacently started playing it again and im glad i did it is one of the greatest games i have 
 ever played, some of the missions and locations are just brilliant you will be going into train 
 stations, abandoned schools and eventually a farm, i would recomened this game to people who were 
 fans of FEAR, or even if u played the sequel to condemned i would still urge u to pick this up 
 and play it, u can get it now for under 10 ($15) which is a bargain for such a classic game
  
  Graphics: 7/10 (not the greatest from the 360 but still good)
  Sound: 10/10 (the sound from 
 this game is truly brilliant esspecially if u have surround sound)
  gameplay: 8/10 (a little slow at times but it is meant to be)
  replaybility: 9/10 (some of the 
 missions are amazing and will have u coming back for more constantly) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The game was the first xbox 360 game I have gotten for the holiday, and what a gift I got, I couldnt 
 find out why this good was so good. Gamplay is great, the sound is fantastic, and the storyline 
 was perfect. I cant say mch about the game but just so freaking good. It is the real way to solve 
 crimes in real life. So thats all I have to say about it. So ill finish this with my numbers. 3453 
 635 6533 4536534 45654 5464 45634 564 45 456 5436 34635 57896 657 4576 54765 6574 574 5674 654 
 54 54763 5474 666 666 666 666 6666666666 566 65 7 56 4 73 6 55 45 754 76 34 7 45 736 734 635 76 
 538 76 9865 9 586 978 9 0 6 786 5 63425 5 3245 3 654 7 8 79 587 9 8567 3 65 34256 76 58 7 975 56 
 88 4 7 566 3 766348 84 784 57356 4 376 859 6846 35246 748 89 57 87 66 54 26 634 85 79 84 5 6 63 
 475 487 65 7 5 4 78 6 8 58 65 856 78 56 84 57 4 856 84 5 77 84 45764 8 74 874 4 58 7 87 65 3456 
 43 7657 9 875 6 5 4 6 7 987 5 65 46 476 8 7684 6 57 798 57 895 78 7 76 458 776 8 647 56 7 68768 
 768 457 3456 7 456765 6557465 56748 4 6 657 4 65 374 48 7 65 7i6 986 76 356 79 87 6 546 78 9 654 
 789 654 879 76 546 8 97 86 5 789 65 4 6879 654 6 789 7 654 6 789 765 4 6 789 65 789 6876 54 67 
 898 765 78 654 6 879 654 6 789 865 4 789 65 46 789 76 54 978 65 46 789 65 46 789 765 4 678 98 765 
 789 876 5 789 65 78 9 65 4 789 876 54 76 5 78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  You are just about asleep... and then you hear something. You think that maybe someone is in your 
 house. Perhaps in your kitchen. Your heart pounds. Ever so slowly, you pull back your sheets, trying 
 to make almost no noise, as your heightened sense of hearing continues to search for any sound 
 that is out of place. You creep ever so slowly to your door. The floor creaks fainlty under your 
 feet, and you catch your breath, hoping you have not alerted the intruder to your prescense. You 
 reach for something, anything you can use as a weapon. You creep up the hallway. You look in the 
 kitchen. Nothing. You creep around to the lounge room. Nothing. You are sure you heard something. 
 You go back to bed. Perhaps an hour or more later, you finally get to sleep.
  
  If you have ever experienced anything like the above, then you know what to expect from Condemned. 
 Things start well enough. You are Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent who tracks down serial killers. Before 
 long, your weapon is taken from you by an assailant, and the FBI suspects you of murder committed 
 with your weapon. While you are wanted by the FBI, another agent is willing to help you out in 
 an attempt to find the real culprit, and clear your name. But something is going in the city. Violence 
 is on the rise. As your trail of clues take you through mostly derelict buildings in various locations, 
 psychotic hobos who look like they have lost their humanity will attack you without provocation.
 
  
  Primarily, Condemned is a first person brawler. While firearms are in the game, they are rare, 
 limited to the ammo in them when you pick them up, and liable to break if you use them as melee 
 weapons. Most of your time will be spent with melee weapons, which you will find scattered about 
 the environments, or can be picked up from enemies. This ranges from pieces of 2 x 4, lead pipes, 
 and fire axes. Each weapon has different attributes, being speed, damage, reach and block. As such 
 they all handle a little differently, so you will need to test them all and see which ones suit 
 you. You also have a taser, which you can use to stun enemies from afar, and follow up with a free 
 hit if you are close enough. This does take a while to recharge after each use, so you will need 
 to use it wisely, and you will be unable to rely on it to deal with all of your foes.
  
  The enemies, and combat in general, are brutal. If an enemy does not have a weapon when you encounter 
 him, or you knock it from their hand, they will pick it up, or search the environment for another. 
 If you can effectively block an incoming attack, it usually stuns the enemy for long enough to 
 get a hit in. However, opponents can block too, and will likely counterattack when they do. If 
 you aren't used to the weapon in your hand, you can quickly succumb when surprised by an enemy 
 after a few mistimed blocks or attacks. The sickening thuds and rumble of the controller give every 
 blow substantial weight. While the enemies start out as hobos, you will come across hefty firemen 
 who have been driven crazy, huge disfigured men who have no business moving as fast as they do, 
 and more. Sometimes more than one crazy will be out for your blood at a time, but in their wild 
 swinging, they can sometimes hit each other, and will then fight each other. It's always best to 
 use this to your advantage, as being attacked from multiple angles is likely to get you killed 
 quick smart.
  
  As most of the game takes place at night and in unhabited areas (crazies notwithstanding) , the 
 environments are very dark. Light sources may be littered about, though these are usually very 
 faint. Ethan, however, does have his torch. Luckily there is no contrivance here of running out 
 of batteries every 30 seconds, which is great, because you are going to need that torch. This really 
 forces you to look around to find your exits, and clues. Due to the darkness, it is possible to 
 become disoriented or miss exits, but this feels like more fuel to the paranoia than frustration. 
 Ethan has something of a sixth sense, and when it seems apparent there is evidence nearby, you 
 can put away your weapon and switch to your evidence collecting kit. While there are a few different 
 items, such as a camera and a UV light, Ethan will always pull out the right tool for the job. 
 This process is very simple, and the evidence is then sent to your helper, who analyses it and 
 assists you in deciphering the clues. While searching for clues, you will always be on your toes, 
 as enemies can still attack you during your search. The levels are mostly linear, and sometimes 
 you will need a particular weapon to progress. For example, some doors are jammed and require a 
 fire axe to chop through.
  
  As a launch title, the graphics hold up well. While there are the occasional jagged edges or muddy 
 textures, everything looks suitably creepy. Enemies are disfigured or otherwise lacking humanity, 
 environments are suitably gritty and detailed, and the lighting effects are excellent. On some 
 occasions, Ethan will have an in-engine flashback, where the graphics are filtered, such as colours 
 drained, or made grainy, and these are effective at heightening the tension. The sound is really 
 the star of the show. When someone brushes past a bucket or can, it makes the appropriate noise... 
 whether by you or an enemy. The same goes for walking over broken glass or through littered paper. 
 Given the darkness, when you hear these sounds, you will frantically be looking about to determine 
 whether the sound was made by you, or whether it was up ahead of you. You will hear noises of people 
 treading on floors above you, or a pane of glass shattering just outside of your vision. A wail 
 by an unseen enemy will have you stop in your tracks, while you pray they are up ahead and have 
 not blindsided you.
  
  It's not enough to simply talk about mechanics in this game; what is really important is how you 
 feel when playing. Everything combines smoothly to have you freaking out throughout the game. While 
 there are many scripted events, they all serve to further your paranoia. Whether it be a shadow 
 slinking out of sight as you round a corner, seeing large objects being moved in front of you by 
 unseen enemies, or going back to a room to find its contents moved, you will always be wary that 
 there is someone waiting for you just beyond your torchlight. There is no regenerating health; 
 you will have to rely on the good old health kit method. This makes every hit you receive count, 
 especially in areas where those health kits are spread far apart. What's going on with these flashbacks? 
 Is Ethan being affected by whatever is turning everyone else violent? Is something supernatural 
 going on? Or is he just losing his mind? What starts out as a seemingly simple investigation soon 
 turns into something else.
  
  It would be inadequate to call Condemned a first person action game. While there certainly is plenty 
 of action, first person thriller or horror is probably a better description. If you don't like 
 scary movies, you will probably not like this game. If you are looking for a thrill ride that is 
 sure to elevate your heart rate, this might be just the ticket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dough007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has a weird start to it. Nothing exciting happens. You just investigate for the first 
 5 to 10 minutes. Then, it gets really good. You're just walking around with your gun until you 
 have to look everywhere to find a really good weapon to bash your enemies with. The only thing 
 bad is that your in the dark and you can barely see. A criminal might be behind you and you won't 
 know unless he smacks you in the back of the head. But the game really does show whats going on 
 and what you have do to to stop the horror in the town. You'll start getting better and more powerful 
 weapons as you get more into the game. My advice is to play at night because it's more scarier 
 and exciting. Playing in the daytime isn't fun at all. This game is a definite game to get if you 
 love action horror games. So this game I recommend you get for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deakin_Droon
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing Condemned but the story was very shrouded and nothing was very well explained 
 until the 2nd one. I liked the introduction of the Uro but you were sitting there wondering what 
 the hell the giant thing covered in metal was. Some problems with the game were that I wasn't to 
 compelled to play through it more than once, and why does the main character look like a completely 
 new person in condemned 2? I also disliked the fact that they didn't explain what was going on 
 when the world went black and white but it was still a really cool effect. The story line (Shrouded 
 as it was) still left me wanting more. It was well thought out and I was excited to play through 
 the levels chasing SKX and trying to figure out what the hell was going on in the world. The fighting 
 system was kind of lame, and it wasn't a very scary game, but I could forgive all that for the 
 story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Games come in alot of varieties, some you just play and that's it. Some you experience, you actually 
 feel the game-Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of them. It by no means is the best game ever, 
 it has flaws, but it really brings you into the gameplay with a cool story, solid gameplay, creepy 
 environments, and vicious enemies. 
  
  The story sounds similar to many-you are Ethan Thomas, and FBI agent on the Serial Crimes Unit 
 (SCU) . You start off investigating a homicide, but things change quickly. The suspect is still 
 on the scene and you must find them, between you and him are drug-addled maniacs who want to kill 
 you. By the time you find the killer, you end up framed for the murder of two policemen and get 
 sent on a quest to clear your name and find out what is going on. To describe the whole story would 
 ruin it, but lets just say, it gets progressively weirder, creepier, and more intense as you go.
 
  
  The gameplay alternates between Crime Scene Investigation and brutal melee combat. The CSI stuff 
 is a blast, it is alot of fun to find evidence and use all the nifty tools. You send the info back 
 to the lab and get reports on it which is pretty satisfying-but this part of the game is VERY underscored 
 and used primarily to liven things up between fighting segments. This is unfortunate because the 
 mechanics of it worked very well and it was a very interesting part of the game. Had it been incorporated 
 more, it would've made the game better.
  
  The gameplay focuses most on the fighting element which is extremely intense. The game is in the 
 First Person-this combined with very gritty and brutal combat makes for some extreme and intense 
 combat situations. You rely primarily on melee combat-you have to grab weapons from the environment 
 which is very cool-it really drives home the desperation and brutal nature of the fighting. This 
 is also reflected in your choice of weapons-for they exist in everyday life and are commonly found. 
 You can use pipes, 2x4's with nails and bolts, fire axes, sledgehammers, electrical conduits, locker 
 doors, signs, crowbars and other environmental items. Guns are available in the game, but they 
 are rather scarce. Furthermore, they cannot be reloaded, and if an enemy fires 8 shots with a gun 
 that holds 10, there will only be two shots left in it if you pick it up. This is a pretty cool 
 feature given that the gunplay is standard fare for FPS's and the focus is on the melee combat. 
 You do get a taser at one point in the game, this weapon can be the difference between life and 
 death. It stuns the enemy allowing you to get in a free shot, it does take time to recharge though. 
 It's a nice addition to the game, but it can be spammed (except for the last level!)
  
  The combat is fast, frenzied, and desparate. You feel like you are fighting for your life when 
 an enemy attacks you. You can block and attack, but no combos or other movements with your weapon. 
 The blocking mechanic was a bit hard to learn, it varies from weapon to weapon, and isn't spot 
 on. Your blocks must be timed, but the timing seemed rather off for all of the weapons. The collision 
 detection is pretty good, though judging distances can be hard at times. 
  
  The enemies are impressive, they are enraged maniacs who can appear from nowhere and will batter 
 you to death if you are not careful. They are frenzied, relentless, and rather smart. They will 
 run and hide, take cover, grab new weapons, and even feint blocking or attacking to put you in 
 a bad spot. One of the coolest aspects is that these enemies are insane and sometimes drugged up-if 
 you hit them, they'll recoil only to use the momentum to come back at you swinging. It is a very 
 cool effect and really livens up the realistic combat. The enemies range from addicts, deranged 
 homeless people, mutants that crawl, and some freakish kali-stick wielding monsters. 
  
  The atmosphere of the game makes it, you are put in dirty, filthy, dark, locations which have minimal 
 light and are utterly creepy. Trash is strewn about, rats scamper around, and odd noises fill each 
 area. There will be several times where you walk over a bottle or knock over a bucket and you will 
 jump out of your seat. The lighting is used well as it is very dark and that which is lighted shows 
 off eerie details. You often will see enemies dart in and out of the shadows and hear the noises 
 they make. The sound adds to this with a minimalist score that is very creepy. The sound effects 
 are spot on-each grunt, creak, crack, shatter, and scream is realistic. The weapons make realistic 
 sounds as they hit flesh and bone adding to the intensity.
  
  The graphics are good, not great, but it was a first generation Xbox 360 game. The level designs 
 are intense ranging from decrepit buildings, a deserted apartment store, a burned out library, 
 and a creepy old house and farm-the creepiest level in the game. The character animations are great, 
 the enemies aren't varied-but their animations are very realistic and gritty. The enemies start 
 out looking human enough but devolve into freakish mutants which are well animated and very creepy. 
 Their movement animations are very realistic and frenetic. 
  
  This game is also pretty bloody, it gets rather gory at points as well. The sound effects when 
 you hit an enemy are very realistic-the sound of a 2x4 hitting someone in the skull is rather intense. 
 Enemies will spit blood and teeth when hit, and convulse wildly when tased. If you beat an enemy 
 to submission, you can pull a "finishing move" that include a fierce headbutt, a neck snap, and 
 my favorite a vicious right cross to the face. Some of the victims are rather messed up and it 
 gets pretty intense in terms of violence. This is a very violent game-make no mistake-this one 
 IS NOT for kids or for those who are easily spooked.
  
  Overall-this is a great game. Few games these days draw you in and make you "feel" the game. Condemned 
 succeeds greatly in this department. The environments are by far the creepiest I have ever seen 
 because they are so realistic and legitimately possible in real life. The enemies are very clever 
 and will fight you with complete and utter abandon. The whole game from start to finish will have 
 you looking around constantly and swinging at shadows. The game has a few flaws-none of them critical. 
 The combat is intense, but it is flawed in areas-blocking is hit or miss and many enemies sneak 
 up on you with no way for you to counter-alot get the first shot and there is nothing you can do. 
 The game is also a bit short, they could have lengthened it a bit and it would still be just as 
 intense. The CSI portion was downplayed, and could've been included more. The story was very cool 
 and very interesting, it left you wanting a sequel (which fortunately was made) . 
  
  I strongly reccomend this game, there could very well be a franchise here.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngnikolaos312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a terrific First Person Horror Shooter that blends the awesome noir atmosphere of 
 Se7en, along with enormous amount of melee encounters.
  
  Story:
  Ethan Thomas is a police investigator who gets framed for the murder of his partner and a fellow 
 officer while chasing a wanted felon. Not only he must clear his name, but he must find the reason 
 of a serious mental breakdown that occurs with lots of homeless and weak-willed individuals, turning 
 them into deranged sociopaths.
  
  Condemned's story, while not particularly strong or original, is executed with a suspense that 
 can only be found in the most hardcore of police thrillers. While there IS a paranormal threat 
 hanging in the air (and after a while it's more than just tangible) , most of the time you feel 
 as a regular person would feel when hunted down by former allies as well as crazed madmen. My only 
 complaint is that near the end, the story rushes to reach an abrupt climax, which is not entirely 
 calibrated with the previous pace of the story. It was as if the game's budget stopped, or the 
 deadline was approaching and they had to quickly wrap up the game.
  
  Still, a horror game's true goal is to provide you with anxiety, scares and a looming sense of 
 dread. And in that case, Condemned does more than its share. Nowhere is truly safe, with walls, 
 windows and doors crashing to reveal madmen after you. Any dark place can be turned into a deadly 
 trap, and no place is safe from ambush. You never feel safe in Condemned, and that is the whole 
 point.
  
  Graphics:
  For a first-gen title, Condemned's graphics are very nicely done, with the animation being one 
 of the best you could lay your hands on two years ago. The way the enemies stumble after a hit 
 and turn around to counterattack is so fluid and natural you can't always predict whether he is 
 attacking or just plain hurt. It adds to the tension and suspense, elevating the combat system 
 even more. Environments are realistic and full of detail, giving you a town of despair and madness 
 to an amazing degree, with trash and decay being the usual visual culprits. Character models are 
 nicely done and the lighting is dark and moody. Colours are a bit monotonous in grey and brown, 
 but that happens with most dark horror games.
  
  Music / Sound Effects
  There is not real music in Condemned, just moody tunes to create anxiety and stress, making you 
 feel rather uneasy. I must admit though that I'm beginning to long for the days where Resident 
 Evil would scare, and have an amazing soundtrack to boot. Sound effects are sharp and realistic, 
 from metal pounding flesh, to iron crashing wooden doors and even you giving electroshocks to various 
 lunatics, the sound does what it does best to put you inside the nightmare of Condemned.
  
  Gameplay:
  Condemned is a bit original when compared with other FPS in that it's not really a 
 shooter. It's more of a 1st Person Hit and Smash game. You are most often armed with hammers, poles, 
 planks, and any object you could find inside a building and use as a melee weapon. As a result, 
 you'll find that the battles in Condemned is a lot more about block/parry/counter rather than blindly 
 shooting a guy thirty meters away (although you do get a firearm now and then) . Sprite collision 
 is also a lot better than most other FPS, which is reasonable considering the amount of time you 
 spend getting toe-to-toe with various villains.
  
  In addition to the game's macabre fights, you also get to play Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman from 
 Se7en, using forensic tools to analyze crime scenes and get clues about serial killers (which mostly 
 serve as story-progression, rather than bonus stuff) . While incredibly original and interesting, 
 some players might be turned off by the "guided-by-the-nose" approach the game uses to make sure 
 that you DO find those clues. I think that for a game that uses this twist for the first time, 
 the guiding was needed.
  
  OVERALL:
  Condemned is an awesome game. Although short, the atmosphere, enjoyable battle system and visual 
 splendor is more than enough to guarantee it a purchase to any 1st person horror game fans everywhere, 
 unless they're trigger-happy and don't really like melee encounters as much as long-distance ones. 
 Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  m gonna come out and say it right away Condemned Criminal Origins for the Xbox 360 has a confusing 
 and lackluster story, quite a few graphical glitches, decent at best voice overs, and controls 
 that can get a bit annoying at times. The game is too short and I beat it in about six-seven hours 
 on the normal difficulty, and despite all of these downfalls Condemned Criminal Origins manages 
 to be one of the most original of the 360 launch. The game's atmosphere saves the day. The game 
 truley feels creepy and and you really feel like you are in the game it really is too bad that 
 the game isn't all that it could be.
  
  The game's story has you playing as an FBI Agent on the trail of a serial killer. The table's get 
 turned at the serial killer kills two cops with your gun. You know have to clear your name and 
 hunt down the killer. This is the only part of the game that makes sense, and while it is the main 
 focus of the storyline there is so much stuff going on around you that doesn't make sense. The 
 homeless and junkies have turned into some sort of demonic being that terrorises you and they get 
 in your way. It is never really explained as to what it is that is causing this, and its almost 
 as if the guys at Monolith didn't care enough about the game to decide exactly who they are as 
 the final objective in the game is so vague as "put a stop to all of this evil". Yeah, that is 
 pretty much all that they leave you with. The game tries to leave to on a cliffhanger but it doesn't 
 really work, because by the end of the game its hard to really care about the characters and what 
 happens to them because the story is so vague.
  
  The game is also very short. I started playing it one evening on the normal difficulty, and I had 
 it completed the next afternoon and I never really felt like I was playing the game for long periods 
 of time. Unless you are obsessed with getting the achievements there is no need to ever go back 
 and play this game making it a rental at best since it can be beaten so quickly. The fact that 
 the game is short isn't such a huge problem though because like I said before you start to grow 
 tired of the game by the time that it ends, so it kind of works out in it's favor that it is a 
 short game.
  
  One thing that makes Condemned one of the most original games of the 360 launch is that everything 
 in this game is weapon. You will use 2x4's to take out your opponents, and everything that you 
 can use as a weapon the enemy can use as a weapon as well. The game has a very scary atomosphere 
 that really helps you feel like you are inside the game. The graphics in the game are good, but 
 at times it feels as if you are walking down the same dark hallway a thousand times, and even though 
 it may be a seperate hallway you may feel like you have been here before and think that you are 
 backtracking when you are really not, therefore causing you to really backtrack . Dang that was 
 a long sentance. There are a few glitches inside the game, like the dead enemy bodies will slide 
 around in random directions across the floor after they have been killed, and occasionally I ran 
 into some invisible walls that got quite annoying. The character models do look quite good, even 
 though they could have found better people to do the voices for the characters. I did like how 
 the main character had a Roberty Downey Jr. tone in his voice.
  
  That being said while Condemned Criminal Origins is not a bad game, its also not a great game. 
 Its just ok or good. While the game is quite intense at moments the game is just too short and 
 lacks replay value to suggest buying the game, even though you can find it used for quite cheap. 
 If you feel like you must buy this game, pick it up used at GameStop and if you finish it within 
 the seven days just return it for the full price. Otherwise just rent the game because the short 
 time you will have it is really all the time that you will need to get the full experience.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 6/10
  Tilt: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Demon is quite someting unreal tough but it someting spicy in horror game
  the Good Thign is You are barely Armed with gun so you have to meele combat & Dodge and be scare 
 of the darkness and survive trough it
  as you hear crawling noise. weird noise hobo who are will to kill you
  and lot of Good Stuff 
 Wich is Clue Game the clue Game can get realy hard for young people age & some stressed people 
 you have to make sure they don't kill you while you do so and to find all the bird like any easter 
 egg game can be a pain specially against demon and in full darkness
  
  im intenidng one day or another play the most Scary Game of it
  Bloodshot the aftermath of what 
 he become a demon and resistance to it
  he is now drunk alcholic and stronger to survive against a damm weird gouvernement who do nothing 
 about such surnatural power maybe there scare or know they can't do someting all we know is he 
 is the detecitve and only hope to human kind if the serie continue more girlfriend will scream 
 in there boyfriend room. whAT WAS THAT NOISE.. shhh go listen ur movie or tv i was killing evil 
 demon lol j/k but good game guy
  try it and if you are a fearless person dear TO Put the sound of ur 5.1 to it Loudest and put the 
 light down . it how the suspense growth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simianjohn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Okay so this game was suppossed to fill me with suspense, and make me feel like a real detective. 
 It kind of failed in all the aspects.
  
  It wasn't scary most of the time mostly because all of your opponents are retardet beyond believe. 
 I mean what's with them running in your face for the next minut run away to hide behind some pillar 
 where they are pretty easy to spot, to go hit you again and then run away again. I don't know it 
 just felt really strange.
  
  The detective work feels really really staged and is most of time absolutly stupid. Well it might 
 have been because I just felt the murder scene in the start was great, and I kind of hoped it would 
 continue like that but I found myself looking for traces of paint borring^^ 
  
  The story to me was okay without really leaving much to the imagination.
  
  Well all in all 
 pretty good game even though it doesn't sound like it, but I had just expected so much more than 
 I got
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapetoucher
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a different approach on survival horror/shooter. I bought it used and beat it in a few 
 days. First off, the combat is all melee, very few guns. The story is ok, nothing great or immersive 
 by any means. Graphics aren't too bad for the time it was released. 
  
  Need to mention control issues. Picking up dead birds, pieces of metal, health kits, etc... You 
 need to be very precise or the game will not pick up an object for you. Right before the last boss 
 fight sequence, there's a health kit. It told me "A" so I mashed the button to pick it up but no 
 luck. I actually had to pick it up while he beat on me. Forget birds, unless you are dead on, you 
 won't pick them up.
  
  Combat frustrated me, the enemy could use backhand swings and forehand swings, I could only use 
 forehand swings. The tazer is only useful for disarming, not enough time to taze with left then 
 hit enemy with right because you can't swing your weapon while the tazer is still active. Forget 
 the guns, if you want achievements anyways. Guns have limited ammo, which was fine, but to get 
 gamerpoints you can't use them until chapter 10.
  
  Checkpoint/save system is terrible. You must press continue at the end of a chapter whether you 
 are done for the night or not and begin the next chapter. If you quit at the end of a chapter and 
 press continue next time to play, you will start at the previous chapter you just beat last time 
 at the last checkpoint the game autosaved. When the npc's talk to you, you can't walk away, you 
 are forced to listen-same with cut scenes. 
  
  The game is very linear, fine with that, but gives very little direction. You do some backtracking 
 with no real clue on where to go. Puzzles are easy enough to solve, but you must solve them when 
 the game finds it necessary. You can't get ahead of the game or you'll be unable to progress-sometimes 
 you don't know you haven't done something though, again no direction.
  
  Achievements have glitch issues. I found all the fire-arms but no achievement. I got chief investigator 
 without doing anything but playing and using forensic tools when prompted. Everything can be found 
 just by exploring-which is not really encouraged that much. All the birds and metal pieces need 
 to be found from the beginning of the chapter to the end. If you replay a chapter and don't find 
 everything, you will need to play until you find every bird/metal piece in one playthrough to get 
 those achievements. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay -9
  Graphics - 9
  Audio - 10
  Story/Multiplayer - 8
  Chin Factor - 10
  
  TrueScore - 9.2
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a refreshing, brutal take on a familiar genre 
 and a game that manages to flourish despite some unfortunate design choices.
  
  Most PC gamers remember Monolith best for their excellent shooter, The Operative: No One Lives 
 Forever. It was a refreshing, revolutionary game that spoofed 60's spy movies with hilarious dialogue, 
 a cheery atmosphere and funny characters. As in F. E. A. R. though, none of these things have carried 
 over to Monolith's launch title for the Xbox 360, Condemned: Criminal Origins. Instead, you find 
 yourself immersed in a world clearly influenced by movies like Se7en, The Silence of the Lambs 
 and other psychological horror movies. A world that is as seedy and dark as the characters that 
 inhabit it.
  
  The story centers on a hotshot FBI investigator named Ethan Thomas, who is framed for the murder 
 of two police officers. To clear his name, Ethan must hunt down a serial killer in a deadly game 
 of cat and mouse, where everything is not as it seems and paranormal occurrences are plentiful. 
 To further complicate the situation, something is killing all the birds in certain areas of the 
 city and driving up the crime rate, turning people in affected zones into crazed, violent savages.
 
  
  Condemned differs from other first person shooters in a variety of ways. The most profound difference 
 is the scarcity of weapons and their lethality. Unlike in other games of the genre, weapons are 
 hard to come by. Also unlike most shooters, pretty much every gun in Condemned is one-shot, one-kill. 
 In an effort to further intensify the atmosphere and promote survival horror, ammo is extremely 
 scarce. You have to make do with what little ammo has been loaded into the weapon as you acquire 
 it and to make matters worse, enemies share the same reserves. This forces you to attack gun-toting 
 enemies quickly if you wish to have any hope of using their guns before they run dry. Luckily you 
 can use the weapon as a club after it's precious ammo has been used up. You also get a taser that 
 incapacitates anyone long enough for you to grab their weapon, a trick that comes in handy on a 
 couple of occasions.
  
  All this naturally begs the question of how exactly do you defend yourself from those murderous 
 hobos if guns are so rare? The answer is simple; with anything you can get your hands on! Be it 
 pipes, 2x4s, electrical conduits, locker doors, paper cutters, fire axes, sledgehammers or good 
 old fashioned desks, almost anything in the environment can be fashioned into a weapon. One strange 
 omission is the lack of sharp weapons like knives or swords. Because of this, the game features 
 no dismemberment whatsoever, which is also a shame and rather odd when taking into account the 
 otherwise extremely violent nature of the game.
  
  In order to break up the action every now and then, the game uses some extremely rudimentary CSI-esque 
 clue hunting. Apparently Ethan is gifted with an uncanny ability to sense when evidence is around, 
 turning the screen devoid of color and blurring his hearing. When presented with such a scenario, 
 you have to find the evidence and analyze it using various gadgets like black lights, DNA samplers 
 and even common digital cameras. This might sound interesting, but thanks to the extremely simple 
 two button interface, it quickly devolves into mere pixel hunting. The fact that Ethan automatically 
 chooses the appropriate tool for each piece of evidence further dumbs down an otherwise promising 
 aspect of the game.
  
  Graphically, Condemned is a damn fine looking game, especially for a launch title. It's not quite 
 as jaw-dropping as Perfect Dark Zero, but it's art design is undeniably better. Each location is 
 gritty and downright disgusting, lending to the creepy, almost claustrophobic feel. While the level 
 design can get a bit repetitive on occasion (a la F. E. A. R.) , the game never gets tedious thanks 
 to it's outstanding visuals that draw you in. Condemned also maintains a mostly smooth framerate, 
 also a great plus for a launch title. The motion capture is truly something to behold. Each vagrant 
 and freak moves with an uncanny realism, making the beatings seem that much more savage. Each hit 
 and parry is painstakingly choreographed and it really helps bring the game alive. Looking at a 
 bum struggling to keep his balance, swearing and pumping his fists after a brutal hit is just one 
 of those "Did you see that?!"-moments in the game. If I had to find fault in the graphics though, 
 it would probably be the character models. Most of them are fine (or even great) , but especially 
 during cut scenes you can clearly see that some tighter textures would have helped a great deal.
 
  
  Audio often gets overlooked in a lot of games and I have honestly no clue as to why. Crusading 
 against this, Monolith has created such a fantastic sound world that will force you to take notice. 
 Each ghostly scream, tilting bottle and creaky door is captured beautifully and it all adds up 
 to an unbelievable experience. If at all possible, be sure to play this game with a proper 5.1 
 surround sound system. It will drive you to the edge of your seat more than a few times. The music 
 featured in Condemned is a successful, if sometimes odd mix. At certain parts in the game (especially 
 the main screen) , the soundtrack takes an almost NOLFish tone that conjures up hilarious memories. 
 There's a fair bit of creepy tracks in there too, most of which blend in with the action nicely, 
 occasionally rising up to scare you or highlight a particular plot point. Most often than not though, 
 the game relies on silence to create ambience. This was a brilliant choice on Monolith's part, 
 as it helps create tension more than any scary track and it also lets the brilliant sound world 
 run free with your paranoia.
  
  Even though there are a few disappointing facets, like the sometimes repetitive nature of the levels, 
 the combat that stays pretty much the same through the entire game, idiot-proof puzzles or the 
 story that doesn't quite deliver in the end, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a fresh take on a stagnant 
 genre, and one that should definitely be experienced by fans of survival horror, psychological 
 terror and visceral, brutal action. As a launch title, it is unrivaled in the Xbox 360 library 
 and deserves a home in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussiehalofan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Hello fellow gamers,
  
  I don't usually play many horror games, but I decided that something different was needed to break 
 up the monotony that Halo 3 has been giving me lately. I found this cheap on Ebay and decided to 
 give it a spin. 
  
  Condemned is basically a survival horror game about a cop who investigates a homicide but ends 
 up being framed for the murder of two fellow cops. The aim of the game is to hunt down and find 
 this killer. Most of the game takes place in tight, dark rooms and rarely is there ever a light 
 on. So for most part of the game you rely on your flashlight to navigate through the levels. What 
 I liked about Condemned is that the combat takes place predominately beating weird druggy smack 
 head with objects rather than shooting them. You can pick up items such as pipes, wooden pieces 
 with nails in the end, axes, sledgehammers and a few others that I won't spoil for you. Firearms 
 such as pistols, shotguns and rifles can be found, but don't appear too often, so use your ammo 
 wisely. 
  
  The game gives you a genuine sense of being scared. You never know who is going to jump out at 
 you with an axe or meat cleaver. With this being the case it makes you approach each room with 
 caution and you will rarely find yourself rushing in.
  
  Overall I enjoyed this game, it had a decent length of around 7-8 hours (I don't really like long 
 games) , had good pacing and a decent set of believable characters. If you like you scary horror 
 survival games, then I highly recommend this, just expect a lot of gore and violence.
  
  Aussiehalofan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of segas best games, it is actually very scary in some parts, and the idea of dark, 
 atmospheric places make it even better.
  
  The a. i i think are very good as they keep you guessing, they come from behind of you, the sides 
 and front of you, but it always keeps changing and is never the same, this what makes it scary 
 as they could suddenly come behind you. which keeps you on the edge of your seat.
  
  the story is also quite good, but seems traditional, the same as a horror film, the game could 
 of been alot more scarier but it is still scary.
  
  some parts make you jump out of you skin, as you don't suspect them to come, but i won't tell you 
 what part does it.
  
  you play as agent ethen thomas, hunting down a serial killer, who kills serial killers the way 
 they have killed thier victims.
  
  also the CSI are quite good as well, where you take photos of the corpse, find evidence E. T. C. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Condemned is like an interactive horror movie.
  It's an atmospheric, violent, edge of seat experience that deserves to be played properly in order 
 to appreciate it.
  The graphics, for one of the first games on XBOX360, are fantastic, with detailed subways and city 
 streets, and horrificly detailed tramps and monster who are asking to get the head caved in with 
 some lead piping.
  The overall feel of the game is pretty unbeatable, with atmospheric lighting and well designed 
 maps.
  The story is tight and exciting and makes you want to play on, with a sympathetic main character.
 
  The meat of the game, the fighting, is satisfying and meaty, and nothing beats smacking a pyscho 
 in the face with a 2x4. The forensic science is interesting and adds an extra dimension to the 
 game, making you feel like a real forensic investigator.
  The sound really adds to the feel of the game, with creepy soundtracks and crazy screams coming 
 from the enemies, this game is shocking and not for kids. It's violent, but at the same time, beautiful.
 
  The game could do with a more varied fighting system, and perhaps some actual fisticuffs would 
 have been welcome, and the game is slightly on the short side, however overall you can't fault 
 the experience Monolith has made with Condemned. It really is an eye opener of a game, a visceral, 
 bloody shocker that really makes good use of the capabilities of the XBOX360. It is bloody scary 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Like you've probably gathered from my previous statement, THIS GAME IS SCARY. 
  
  At the beginning the game sets you up for what you think is just another day on the job. Sadly 
 for you your a cop and that means it's up to you to track down the bad guys. 
  
  The bad guy of the day is a nut case dubbed "The Manikin Killer" because of the scenes he lives 
 behind when he kills people. When investigating the scene of his latest murder you quickly realise 
 you're not alone. After that the game is a WILD game of cat and mouse. 
  
  You'll be chasing down the big bad "Serial Killer X" and all the while going toe to toe with some 
 of the city most disturbed hobos, killers, and plain out freaks. 
  
  The game manages to not only deliver jump scares (BOO!!!) , but also do what few games can which 
 is create truly unsettling environments. Trust me this is not a game for the faint of heart or 
 people with a history of heart problems.
  
  You'll be afraid to go on, but at the same time you won't want to stop playing until you know the 
 truth of what's going on. 
  
  Good luck. This is one WILD ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  *******SPOILER WARNING**********
  
  Having initially been uninterested in Condemned due to the boring overhyped gruntfest that was 
 Monolith's previous effort FEAR, I was impressed enough with the demo of this on Xbox Live to go 
 out and buy it.
  
  That opening chapter of the story sets the scene well and introduces the player to a very atmospheric, 
 claustrophobic, violent and ultimately really rather scary game, that unfortunately gets somewhat 
 repetive and loses the plot towards the end.
  
  Associating its visual and storytelling style with the cinematic serial-killer conventions of the 
 past 15 years or so helps with the presentation. However, the very nature of the game engine is 
 what sold it to me initially - I've never previously experienced such tense ambience combined with 
 such a great visceral portayal of physicality and bone crunchingly painful close combat in a video 
 game. This game feels so *real*, it hurts!
  
  The story involves the tracking down of a serial killer during a mysterious period of unexplainable 
 rising violent crime. You do this using your tools of the trade, being electronic devices to investigate 
 the crime scenes, and your well trained 'instincts'. These are quite nicely contrived ideas that 
 work quite well, but unfortunately they do not get to be used as much as you'd like, and don't 
 actually take that much skill or effort to control.
  
  The majority of the actual gameplay actually involves surviving encounters with the many psychotic 
 individuals and gangs who inhabit the depressingly dingy and run down locations you visit. These 
 range from junkies and mentally ill homeless types, to mutilated children and large axe-wielding 
 man-mutants.
  
  You do this by using the very limited firearms that exist in the game, but mostly by wacking them 
 around the head with pipes, sledgehammers and big lumps of wood you find littering the environment. 
 And if you don't quite kill them, you then get to make a choice from the D-pad as to how finish 
 them off - neck snap, headbutt, punch in the face or slam to the ground. Most satisfying, but worryingly, 
 pointlessly, sadistically sick!
  
  You also get to explore some quite creepy environments, and, er, solve a few puzzles, and, er, 
 and... And this is where the problem is in this game, because, like FEAR, it has obviously been 
 quite difficult for the developers to create a solid, progressive and varied gaming experience 
 around their impressive engine, dark and brooding style and initially strong story premise.
  
  They certainly have achieved this to a greater degree than with FEAR, but ultimately the action 
 does get somewhat repetitive - there are only so many things you can do with a pipe and a vagrant 
 junkies head in a run down office block / department store / library / school.
  
  Unfortunately the story also only just manages to hold itself together, taking you kicking and 
 screaming to a pretty unsatisfactory conclusion (though the pre-showdown level is by far the best 
 part of the game, because there are only a few baddies to shock you and you do some interesting 
 detective work in a very creepy location) 
  
  What irks me mostly about this is that the story develops into a fairly hokum supernatural mystery 
 that is not half as satisfying as it could have been. It also looses some credibility in that a 
 lot of the bad guys in the later part of the game are quite unrealistic and seem out-of-place with 
 the rest of the game.
  
  Further to this, the agency that you work for is very concerned in getting the serial killer, then 
 catching you for the murder of 2 policemen who were shot by the serial killer using your gun. Yet 
 they don't seem too bothered by the fact that everywhere is overun by psychotic tramps, subhuman 
 wallcrawling mutants and hordes of mutilated children. Also, though they are after you about the 
 cops death, they don't seem at all perturbed that throughout the game you also kill over 200 people 
 (admittedly, most of them psychotic tramps, subhuman wallcrawling mutants and hordes of mutilated 
 children) !!!
  
  Okay, I've digressed a bit and have starting picking holes in the plot - its a video game about 
 psychos and bad stuff happens - perhaps I'm a jaded game-player / movie-goer whose suspension of 
 disbelief is not so willing these days.
  
  For all this though, overall I do think that Condemned is well worth playing and provides a fairly 
 polished and convincing if rather sadistic scary experience, one that is satisfying and believeable 
 up to a point, but just misses the mark of greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Embark on a suspenseful adventure as a shy but unflinching homicide detective tracking a brutal 
 serial killer while encountering hordes of psychopaths. 
  
  You have various forensic tools at your disposal with which to collect evidence to track the killer, 
 but there aren't enough opportunities to use those tools to fulfill the game's main premise. The 
 combat almost makes up for this as you battle scores of violent criminals with an assortment of 
 basic and improvised weapons. Good controls and some creative weapons compliment the action, as 
 viewed from some effective camera angles.
  
  The graphics are nice but, for this type of game, aren't detailed enough. Chilling music sets the 
 mood nicely as do the ambient sound effects. There's some decent dialog and good voice acting as 
 well. The enemies you face are challenging at times though not nearly diverse enough in appearance. 
 Also, some of the levels feel a tad too simple or linear. There aren't enough areas to explore 
 and not enough dead-ends to raise the realism.
  
  The multiplayer experience is fun, but not enough to make up for the flawed single-player campaign. 
 It just doesn't quite live up to its potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goretrotter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed emotions going into playing Condemned and was reluctant to get started. I got a little 
 push out the door by my best friends girlfriend actually. I am not entirely into the new wave of 
 horror games/movies with their over-the-top grittiness and cliche story lines of mentally disturbed 
 serial killers ala Se7en, Silence of the Lambs, Saw, etc. I am into classic video games and horror 
 in general, but this game swayed me in its favor. 
  
  I really like the detective work and wide array of tools you get to use and experiment with. With 
 the current wave of criminal investigation TV shows it was no surprise that the developers explored 
 that route. The graphics were great for the first wave of 360 games, however, the bland pallet 
 of color was less than flattering. Some of the underground cityscapes were great, and I understand 
 that bland coloring is part of the overall effect of the game, but, it has been done before this. 
 The controls were relatively simple despite my disdain for the XBox 360 controller. 
  
  I was impressed by the ending of the game, and the protagonist was very peculiar and remained a 
 relatve mystery throughout. I would recommend this game for anyone with a few hours on their hands 
 who enjoy bashing in the skulls of crackheads with a 2x4 adorned with a rusty nail. Not to mention 
 some interesting detective work and a twisted story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millwrought
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Opening Statement:
  
  Earlier this year I didn't even know this game existed, but as I was looking through my Game Informer 
 I read a preview about this odd game called 'Condemned 2: Bloodshot' and I was extremely hyped 
 up for it. But as I was going to pre-order it I noticed there was a 1st game already out called 
 'Condemned: Criminal Origins', so I decided to buy the first game (For a grand total of 15 USD) , 
 and then decide if I would even want the second game.
  
  So here's my opinion about this gory, survival/horror FPS that focuses on brutal close combat. 
 I know this was a launch title for the Xbox 360, and that I am REALY late with this review, but 
 please don't beat me too badly. And please excuse my lame jokes that come with the pictures...
 
  
  
  Game Play:
  
  As said above, it seems the developers (Monolith) were trying to get away from their firefight 
 packed title F. E. A. R, and wanted to do something a little different, well they certainly achieved 
 that.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins focuses on melee combat, and while this sounds boring if you automatically 
 think Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4 melee combat (Mostly for Call of Duty 4, but Halo 3 tries to spice 
 it up with the Gravity Hammer and Energy Sword.) , but Monolith takes it to a deeper, even strategic 
 level.
  
  There are many weapons for you mess around with, from 2X4's (Including those of the flaming variety) 
 to Locker Doors. Each weapon is defined by different stats (Power, Reach, Speed, Block, did I miss 
 any?) so each weapon has their own strengths and weakness, and you can even compare them to each 
 other before you pick them up. I love this feature as it almost seems to be combining an RPG element 
 into the game, and it is a nice feature. (Imagine shooters that would do that with guns!*Points 
 at Army of Two*)
  
  Each weapon, thanks to the stat system, has their own character, so pretty quickly you will find 
 a weapon you like the most and grab it at any chance you get (Even if you are carrying a fully 
 loaded firearm!) . My personal favorite was the electrical conduit if in case any readers were wondering.
 
  
  You can sense Monolith firmly placed the screaming-and-kicking jealous and spoiled firearms in 
 the backseat in this game, the guns are not that cool looking, and they don't do that much damage 
 as the melee weapons, and most of the time I would rather pick up my melee weapon and go crazy 
 with it. Something I have to give Monolith credit for is that they let you choice between using 
 it a melee mode and shooting mode, but sense firearms break easily on contact, and do lame damage, 
 I rather just run away from any enemy and search around for a better melee weapon.
  
  Each impact with melee weapons feels satisfying and brutal (Yet again, firearms fail here to; the 
 bullets don't even slow them hobos down!) , but one MAJOR problem I have with melee combat is the 
 blocking. Even with weapons high in the blocking stat, you move about as fast as Bigfoot when you 
 block, and most of the time your timing is off so you get hit A LOT. Also even if you hold down 
 the block button, it goes up then back down, so you can't even be a n00b and block the whole time. 
 I found it is just easier to strife and dodge attacks then actually block.
  
  Another problem I have is sprint; it is mapped to pushing down the left stick and forward to actually 
 sprint. I have always hated this feature in most games (*Glares at Call of Duty 4*) and you actually 
 can't sprint that long so there really is no point expect if you are rushing an enemy, and it doesn't 
 recharge that fast either so you be walking very slowly for most of the game.
  
  One thing that I found broken right away with the melee system is the taser, it automatically stuns 
 enemies for a large amount of time, and recharges ungodly fast. Soon you will completely rely on 
 the taser, so when it takes taken away at the end of the game, you suddenly find that you actually 
 have to play with SKILL.
  
  Overall I loved the things Monolith try to go after with the melee system, and they still did a 
 great job, but some of the things just didn't turn out as well as they sound.
  
  
  Art:
  
  Even for an older game, Condemned: Criminal Origins looks good, but it sadly it never 
 tries to take advantage of this and exploit it to its fullest. You will get one beautiful glance 
 at a sunset in the beginning of the game, but there will be the only time you see the trick. For 
 the rest of the game it is dark and gloomy environments that are all too familiar with other horror 
 games.
  
  I suppose you could argue me down by saying that Condemned: Criminal Origins IS a survival/horror 
 game, and one of the best ways to create a horror atmosphere is with dark and gloomy environments, 
 but it would have been nice to see something new every once in a while.
  
  The repetitive bloody walls and dirty floors soon get all jumbled up, so it is hard to tell where 
 you are. This problem reminds me of Monoliths other game, F. E. A. R; it would have been nice to go 
 into a forest, or a zoo or something, just something else then the old walls over and over again. 
 And the one time the game tries to take the fight outside, it STILL looks familiar and repetitive.
 
  
  The character animations are superb, and really make you feel like you are in a real, no rules 
 fight-for-your-life melee combat. No much over-the-top which is nice. (Expect for one monster that 
 I am thinking of, but that thing is too cool to put down.)
  
  The monsters and angry hobo's models are designed extremely well, and the blood and teeth that 
 fly out when you smack them in the face is quite satisfying.
  
  
  Audio:
  
  The audio is extremely well done, when you hit somebody it sounds almost pretty close to what it 
 actually sounds like. Each melee weapon sounds a little different which adds to their character, 
 and the enemies make the correct grunting and screaming sounds when you smack them around. 
  
  The music is well done as well, sometimes you can't even hear it but you know it's there, that 
 is how well it mixes with the rest of the game and its dramatic moments. One place the audio fails 
 is the guns (Monolith, why!?) they sound boring and under powered, like a badly done WW2 shooter.
 
  
  
  Content:
  
  The story is superb in the game; you play as SCU Agent Ethan Thomas and follow him in his adventure 
 to clear his name of the murders of two police officers, and to get his damn gun back. The story 
 is just deep enough so you love the characters, and so it is interesting, but not deep enough thankfully 
 to steal the show and put the quiet and shy Melee System in the backseat with the little brat Firearms.
 
  
  The ending is well done (Actually one of the best endings in most of the games I have played in 
 awhile *Shakes fist at Assassins Creed.*) , and sets it up for Condemned 2: Bloodshot. One of the 
 things I didn't like is the alternate endings; they all end the same way so there really isn't 
 any point. (Expect for two shameless achievements that take advantage of this.)
  
  After you beat the first game, there is not much reason to go back expect to get the collectibles 
 (In the forms of dead/dying birds or metal pieces.) and unlock the rest of the achievements. With 
 its sort single player mode you should breeze past it pretty quickly, and then turn your back 6 
 hours later wondering why it was so short. But you could argue that the game lasts just long enough 
 so it doesn't overstay its welcome.
  
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great game, which unfortunately has a lot of flaws, some major, 
 some not that might distract the player from the fun brutal melee combat. Some it steals from its 
 big brother F. E. A. R, and some it grew for itself.
  
  But overall nice game, now I will be going to pick up Condemned 2: Bloodshot, hopefully here is 
 to major improvements for the sequel, and a satisfying journey through a world that seeks redemption.
 
  
  Game Play: 7.5 out of 10
  
  Art: 7 out of 10
  
  Content: 8.75 out of 10
  
  Audio: 9 out of 10
  
  Technology: 8.5 Out of 10
  
  
  
  Final Score: 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishHunta007
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  No idea why this game got such high reviews.. It IS fun. Just fun. a 7 at best. AT BEST. 
  
  The graphics are not the best. The "crime solving" well.. You don't really solve crap because 
 whenever you get to a crime scene the computer tells ou what to use, and where to use it! ...!?!?.... 
 Arent I solving the crime? NOOOooooo.. All you do is fight around pitch black tunnels against weird 
 crack feinds, and zombie people.. Really you do this for hours. Its Pitch black so you get a flash 
 light, and you maybe get to use a gun once an hour. IF your lucky. 
  
  I said Id give this game a 7 at best, but I cant do that. Im giving it a solid 6. Its not that 
 great, Im not even pumped for part 2.. I never beat this game, so I dont even know if I should 
 or want to play part 2!? Anyone have any advice or scoop on the sequel? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajchicago
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  When I 1st heard bout this game i thought to myself this looks freakin grooss and herendous... thats 
 how i like that!... lol Condemned: Criminal Origins iz the 1st of its kind and took survial horror 
 to a whole new level!!!! 
  
  Story:
  You play Ethan Thomas, a very distubred / very stressed F. B. I agent that investigates homicide 
 murders. In the beginnning you would know that the whole game is in 1st person the entire way (except 
 for cut scenes) and thats a brand new concept especially for a game this well detailed. but later 
 2 of ur fellow cops gets shot during ur first invesgeation and later framed for it. then the games 
 starts for real after that!
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is also diffrent with the difficult gamplay since the weapons first off are mostly melee 
 weapons like crowbars, sludgehammers, water pipes & ETC. While others like guns are very scarce 
 and very limted their pretty much useless and only usable for about 5 mins. (since theirs no ammo) 
 and again its awsome how the game is all in first person and thats when the challage comes in since 
 ur vision is his vision! but its pretty hard since ur health isnt that long and pretty much anything 
 can kill you!
  
  Visuals:
  The graphics are so stunning and for a launch titile for the 360, thats saying alot since launch 
 titiles dosnt have a good rep for being any good or jus very overly hyped and doesnt deliver that 
 spark that the consol needs. One MOre thing bout this is that it has real time blood dripping form 
 the bad guys and ur weapon starts to be coverd with it its jus insane!!!!!! and they couldve have 
 looked more demonic than it already is... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpapaya007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Condemned for the xbox 360 was a great treat following closely to 360's launch. The game focuses 
 heavily on close quarters combat as you try to stop a serial killer and foil his sinister plot. 
 The games protagonist, crminal investigator Ethan Thomas comes off as a bit of a coward but shortly 
 after the first couple scenes of bashing heads with household products you discover the man holds 
 his own.
  
  Condemned's crime scenes while brief felt fresh and new. Melee combat works to a charm but does 
 lose its edge later. You do uncover some guns but most are low on ammo and it just didnt seem as 
 fun. Ethan is a bit of a psycho himself and he has many disturbing hallucinations. These i felt 
 were some of the scariest moments in videogames. Particularly the scene inside the store where 
 the mannequins start to surround you. The levels are all defecated, music and sound add to the 
 creepiness.
  
  My biggest gripe with Condemned is level design. Each level has collection achievements in it, 
 however you cant backtrack as most of your paths are blocked off after going through a door that 
 triggers a scene. Also level design gets very repetitive.
  
  I recommend this to anyone looking for a scary game, likes first person shooters or you just cant 
 get enough of that gratuitous violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a game that anybody and sit down and enjoy. What to expect:
  - Serial Killers
  - Melee Weapons
  - Investigations on mysteries
  That's all? No this is only the beginning.
 
  
  Squeeze your legs tight because condemned will eat your heart away. Condemned is a survival horror 
 but not fictional like resident evil or silent hill. It's based on truly real situations and CAN 
 happen. 
  
  Warning: Play in the dark (more experience)
  
  This game is violent, gruesome and scary.
  Why?
  Because..
  It's dark 
  and 
  scary
 
  that's 
  why.
  
  Ethan Thomas is the main protagonist in the game and you play as him. 
  
  Good - 
  - Good 
 graphics
  - Good gameplay
  - Good level designs
  - Good bosses
  - Good achievements (xbox 360)
  
  Bad - 
  - No multiplayer
  - Easy to get lost in some 
 levels
  - Story is potentially weak
  - It is a very difficult game (no difficult options)
  
  There you go. Condemned is a great 
 game. Ignore every review and just get the game. Because it is worth the try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elann2008
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  You might as well be if you haven't already picked up a copy of Condemned: Criminal Origins. One 
 of the launch titles for the Xbox 360 console that was misunderstood and underappreciated. Not 
 until 2 years later, Condemned 2: Bloodshot released and gamers that did not take notice to the 
 series a few years ago, are now going out and grabbing a copy of the original Condemned. Those 
 that have played this title, loved it. The immersive atmosphere, unique melee combat system, and 
 suspenseful storyline meshed well into one neat-scary package.
  
  The setting in Condemned: Criminal Origins is your worst nightmare. If the rundown streets with 
 crazy madmen and hobos arent enough for you, then you're just as crazy as any one of them. The 
 environment sets the tone and mood which is creepy, eerie, dark, and intense, all at the same time. 
 It literally has you gripping your seat, with moments that make you jump out of your chair, screaming, 
 shouting, or blurting out cuss words you dont normally say. Blinking would equal death or a missed 
 opportunity to save yourself from the hands of a killer. Condemned: Criminal Origins consistently 
 keeps you on your toes and eyes wide open constantly surveying your environment for anyone or anything 
 that comes your way. 
  
  Your weapon? Any object that you would consider using as a weapon. Metal pipes, crowbars, fire 
 axes, sledgehammer, 2x4 with nails attached, shovel, even a paper cutter ripped right off its hinges. 
 Throughout your missions, you'll have your melee weapons mentioned above, but there are also firearms, 
 like handguns, shotguns, and even a machine gun or assault rifle. These dont show up often but 
 they are crucial for your survival during certain moments and events. Ammunition is limited so 
 beware. You're only given the ammo that comes with the gun. After the ammo is used up, you will 
 have to either switch out for another gun or melee weapon, or use it as a melee weapon, smashing 
 heads with the handle. This keeps Condemned true to the genre, which is survival-horror FPS. While 
 using your melee weapon, you may block using the left trigger button. At first, it takes some getting 
 use to. You may even find it frustrating, but it only becomes better with more practice. It's all 
 about precise timing and patience. You must time your enemies' attack. This keeps the enemies at 
 a distance and your health bar full. You wont make it out if you go mad ape on your foes. It will 
 only make you more vulnerable to oncoming attacks, especially with multiple enemies situations. 
 Your character, Agent Ethan Thomas, also has a taser that stuns your enemy on the spot, bringing 
 them down but not necessarily killing them. This brings us to the finishing moves. Once the enemy 
 goes down, he will get back up but remain in a kneel position. You then have the the choice to 
 finish it off in four different ways or you can just kick it or hit it with a final blow with your 
 weapon. The combat system works great, but I couldnt help but notice the character movement feels 
 slow and rugged. Sprint button requires you to push down really hard in order to sprint. While 
 in sprinting mode, your character still feels a bit slow. It felt like he was pulling a freight 
 train behind him. I would have prefered the left shoulder button as the sprint button. Besides 
 the sprint function, you have a flashlight to help guide you through the darkness. Combat system 
 - Grade: A-
  
  Besides the dark and creepy environment, you have the sounds that come into play. The music in 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins sets the tone. You will absolutely know that you're playing a survival-horror 
 video game. Enemies make crawling noises, breathing sounds, and knock books off shelves. You can 
 even hear your enemies running upstairs, and you can hear and see dirt falling from the ceiling 
 as they run across. Footsteps, noises like wood or metal objects falling to the ground. Hobos even 
 fight each other and you can hear the intensity in their voices. Voice acting in Condemned are 
 top notch. Greg Grunberg from the TV show Heroes lends his voice for Agent Ethan Thomas and the 
 Rosa's voice acting is superb as well. There are other great voice talents but I wont mention their 
 characters due to possible spoilers. Everything from the music to the metal clanking sounds, and 
 voice talents, are very well done. I can recall being startled many times because of the incredible 
 sound effects. I nearly had a heartache when a hobo snuck up behind me and whacked me with a two-by-four. 
 Excellent job with sound. Soundtrack - Grade: A+
  
  My favorite aspect in Condemned: Criminal Origins was the story. It was suspenseful, thrilling, 
 captivating, and enthralling. Some may say that it's a cheesy knock-off detective storyline but 
 it's not. Condemned has its twists, and darker side that you wont find in any other game. It's 
 your everday, detective has to capture the killer, story. Without giving anything away, it has 
 it's twists that you'll find very enlightening. With the superb voice talents, the storyline is 
 brought to life. 
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins has your heart pounding, pupils dilated, from the beginning to the 
 grand finale. This is a much older title, a launch title, but its gameplay elements and superb 
 storytelling and narrative makes it one of the most unique titles to date. If you haven't already 
 played Condemned: Criminal Origins, do yourself a favor and grab yourself a copy today. It's a 
 haunting and thrilling ride you would not want to miss out on. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal origins is a horror first person shooter/fighter for the Xbox360 and pc. You 
 play a Forensic investigator for the F. B. I named Ethan Thomas who is reporting to a crime scene 
 of a murder in a neighborhood where the crime rate has sky rocketed. As you arrive at the scene 
 you see the murder has the signature of a murderer called the Match Maker. Early on in the game 
 you're framed for two murders and you're trying to catch the real killer by proving your innocence. 
 
  The story starts off a little weak but the intensity builds as you get closer to catching the killer. 
 You find out very early in the game that you have the ability to see flashbacks of the killer. 
 This power is useful and it pushes certain aspects of the story along however it is never really 
 explained why these flashbacks occur. 
  The thing that makes Condemned stand out from other horror First Person perspective games is that 
 it has a fairly deep melee combat system. Blocking is key to winning confrontations while swinging 
 a handful of close combat weapons like 2 x 4's, pipes, axes, sledgehammers etc. Each weapon has 
 statistics for speed, damage, block and reach. From time to time you find firearms such as pistols, 
 shotguns and submachine guns but they usually have next to no ammo and are too scarce. Also, you 
 can't hold onto more than one weapon at a time, or load one gun with another gun's ammo which would 
 be more realistic. You also have a taser that temporarily stuns the enemy giving you a free hit. 
 It has to charger for about 8 seconds after it fired but it becomes your greatest weapon. While 
 an enemy is stunned you can also grab his weapon. 
  Don't forget you're playing a Forensic investigator so from time to time you need to use your "CSI" 
 tools. You have tools such as a black light to find hidden messages and gas spectrometers. Unfortunately 
 the CSI segments your hand is being held, which means they tell you which tool to use and were 
 to point it. Never the less these parts break up the combat which can get very repetitive. Theirs 
 also only about 7 different enemy models which means that most enemies you're fighting are wearing 
 the same clothes. 
  All in all over used enemy models with repetitive combat don't mix well, but the great story and 
 CSI segments help get over these small flaws.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  First thing first this game is one of the scariest games I have ever played. At first I didn't 
 think the game was that scary but after trying to go to bed after plaing this game for a couple 
 of hours in the middle of the night I realized that I was thinking about the game. I loved the 
 story how it was gritty and dark. I also loved how you had to find clues while making sure your 
 not going to be sneaked attacked by a bad guy. The graphics are really good. The game takes place 
 mostly in dark places but the dark places look amazing. The gameplay is great the way you is awesome. 
 You can either use you fist or grab a weapon. It cool how everything in the game can be a weapon 
 also there are guns in the game but they really are that good since your given a small amount of 
 ammo and they are few and far between. The ending is kind of weird but definitly hints that there 
 would be another one. This is one of those games that kind of out there but in a good way. This 
 is a must own for any one who is in to horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a 360 launch title that really muster up the lighting physics of 
 the system to show the potential of future titles. Outside of those, the game becomes either a 
 frustrating experience for players with its tough-to-learn-to-survive combat and long investigations 
 or an amazing story-driven experience with a nearly flawlessly combat system.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Condemned's gameplay is actually easier to explain than it looks. It's relatively 
 Silent Hill in first person, meaning that all you have is melee weapons and the occasional placement 
 of guns, with only a flashlight to see where you are going in the game world. All of that is now 
 done in first person and also add some more abilities to the gameplay, like the snapping of necks 
 or that taser you always have equip to shock players. In detail, however, its a much more aggressive 
 system, with blocking and strikes focused on timing and also by maneuvers you take during combat. 
 First, the actual attacks must be timed in-sync with the foe's strikes, mainly right after he swings, 
 begin you-re swing. However, this time is completely changed depending on the weapon your holding. 
 If you hold a sledgehammer, you have to swing earlier. If you hold a rebar, you have to swing later. 
 Also, you have to watch how he swings, since some enemies like to go into frenzies, long or short, 
 and some just don't stop swinging. For those, you have to be prepared with the block ability, which 
 stuns enemies. The block is also a timed, but more so than the attack. Blocks have to happen when 
 he is prepping a swing, which is easy to tell. The hard part is figuring out when he is swinging 
 fast or slow. The taser also comes into play when it comes to stunning, since it can't really be 
 blocked by any enemy. However, it is not something to rely on, since you do have a good amount 
 of time away from the tool. Also, tasering some enemies only stuns them for 1 or 2 seconds, barely 
 giving you an advantage on him.
  
  So, as you can see, this combat system can be a frustrating mess for a good amount of people, but 
 it can also be an enjoyable experience for gamers looking for something fresh in their games. A 
 good tip I learned while playing was that running away is still a good idea in some combat situations. 
 The game does feature a limited-to-bar sprint, which allows you to go faster until the bar is empty. 
 The bar is thankfully replenished on its own over a short period of time. Health, on the other 
 hand, is not. The game has a health bar available at all times, which is only recovered through 
 medic kits placed in medic boxes or in a glass medic shelf. The medic kits are placed well except 
 for this one part of the game which I found rather odd. This part was at the pool in the one level. 
 It is an indoor pool, it's empty, and you fight a horde of enemies in it. However, when you get 
 out, there is no medic boxes anywhere around this pool. How can there be no medical box around 
 a POOL? That's like the no. 1 place I would place a medic box.
  
  The final element of the game is the FBI part, which is the actual study of bodies and evidence 
 in the game. The investigations are probably the most boring part of the game, surprisingly, since 
 they tend to lag the story a great deal, with a great amount of detail. The tools are way too simple 
 to use after a while, which is nice and lame at the same time. The main reason its lame is because 
 the game could have placed more tools to use in investigation if they where going to be that simple. 
 Also, the tools are limited to only when needed, which is depressing since the game could have 
 used them to a fuller extent, like in finding collectables around the levels. 
  
  Speaking of what hurts this game, this reminds me to state the game has either unskippable cutscenes 
 or has the worst skip button combo in gaming history since I could not skip a single cutscene or 
 dialog, dragging the game down when you had to repeat investigations because it was right after 
 a checkpoint. Yes, the game is saved via checkpoints, thankfully, but those checkpoints are nicely 
 placed, except for when they are forcing you to repeat conversations.
  
  Finishing up this section, let's talk a little about what's going on in the game, without spoiling 
 for those who haven't touched this game. The game revolves around an FBI agent named Ethan Thomas 
 who investigates the worst crimes on this fictional version of the city you are in, which I believe 
 is either New York or Chicago (it never was clear to me where they are) . The city is pretty roughed 
 up, and the game's grit really shows what kind of crap this guy has to go through. Anyways, some 
 pretty bad stuff happens in the beginning and you end up getting blamed for it, so you're on the 
 run from the police. That's the best way to sum up the game without spoilers, so take it as you 
 will.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Condemned is all about the lighting, and it really shows with the fact about how realistic the 
 flashlight of the game is. The lighting of the world is also pretty realistic, with the light from 
 lightbulbs and candles only lighting what they can. However, that is pretty much the only really 
 nice thing about this game. The graphics themselves are a downgrade compared to games like Prefect 
 Dark Zero and Kameo at launch. Sure, you could say that its the fact that the game is really dark, 
 but I really would consider that an excuse when you look at a game like Gears of War, which was 
 in complete dark and ended up look amazing. So, it could have been better, thats all I'm saying. 
 Still it was a nice effort for a first generation game.
  
  Sound:
  
  Condemned's audio was something definitely worth listening to, with its creaks, moans, and sadistic 
 random noises. The game's beat was also something amazing to hear, especially when we got to those 
 really horrific moments in the game. I loved every moment of this game's audio, and would definitely 
 give it a listen if I got a hold if its soundtrack. The voice acting was also amazing to listen 
 to, with characters giving a realistic performance and life to the characters. Ethan sounds amazing 
 real when he grunts as he swings his weapons. Loved it all here.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10.0
  
  Sure, the game is pretty amazing. Be that as it may, the game's real flaw is that it definitely 
 not for everyone. not because its scary, but because it has a combat system that can scare people 
 away so easily and a somewhat boring investigation system to work with. It is also a short adventure, 
 ranging in at only 10 hours of gameplay. Horror fans should definitely pick this up for their 360, 
 but other should give it a test run on XBL with the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hulkness
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Condemed is a game that truly captures a scary feel. You will be nervous about whats happening 
 next the whole time through. This game will definetly deliver on the scare facter. Even when I 
 was playing a second time through to try to unlock the achievements I was scared. The meelee system 
 in this game really make the game get an even more nervous feeling. The AI of the opponets you 
 are going to face in really not all that special. You can beat most opponets by taking a usefull 
 weapon like an axe or a sledgehammer and just hit them back up when they counter swing and hit 
 them again. The game also implaments a taser which allows you to stun enemys and take there weapon 
 from them or just slug them a good one. I suggest playing on Hard because otherwise dieing is quite 
 hard since health cases are all over each level. I played through on Normal and regret it because 
 I rarely ever died. The guns in the game are fun to have but are very hard to obtain. You may be 
 able to find one or kill an enemy that has one but ammo is limited so it doesent last long. Sometimes 
 you'll run into a situation where you have a shotgun with three shots and there is a shotgun with 
 three shots on the floor but you cant take the ammo just the gun. The game also allows you to use 
 detective equipment to check crime scenes which is pretty cool but can get annoying when your getting 
 really into the action. This game isint very long it can take you 8 hours if you play on Normal 
 and if on Hard it will probably take around 10 hours considering you going to have to be a little 
 more carefull and you will probably die more.
  
  Rent or Buy: I would say rent since it doesent take too long to beat but its deffinetly worth playing 
 this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatesy917
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  When purchasing my Xbox 360 at launch the games i purchased were Fifa 06, Condemned, COD2 and PGR3.
 
  
  The only game i was really amazed with was Condemned.
  
  Don't get me wrong the other titles are great games but Condemned really stood out was an amazing 
 game!
  
  If you are really into horrors i suggest you shut your curtains, plug in your stereo, turn the 
 volume up and turn the lights off. It is brilliant!
  
  Condemned to this day stands as a very impressive Horror/First Person Shooter with brilliant graphics 
 and a gripping story line Condemned really makes YOU into the game.
  
  With worthy achievement points and a worthy campaign time Condemned will really keep your playing 
 for hours on end looking for the various achievements!
  
  Despite all this Condemned is also a brilliant Action game, with brilliant graphics and tremendous 
 AI this game keeps you on end, wondering were the next bad guy is gonna be! Ha-ha!
  
  Anyway Condemned 2: Bloodshot is out soon! I strongly recommend playing The first condemned as it 
 is a great game and also starts off the story for the 2nd Title!
  
  9.5/10.0! 
  
  Thank-you goodnight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehine
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is unique on its own. there is no FPS out there quite like this one. for one thing, you 
 don't get to shoot very often. this is a melee horror game and quite a good one at that. 
  for about 90% of the game you will be using melee weapons. with a wide variety from a 2X4 with 
 nails/bolts, to a handle bar in a handicapped washroom stall. for most things, if you see it you 
 can pick it up. now the other 10% of the game you get guns. and when you get a gun you only have 
 the ammo that is in it. once thats used up ditch it. 
  the game has an interesting story and some real freaky parts. if you play this game at 2am with 
 the lights off, and play 3 feet from yout tv... it gets kinda scary. BUT you won't fall asleep. 
 it'll keep you on the edge of your seat. 
  when the game starts its pretty basic, you're fighting bums on the street, crazed lunatics etc. 
 then as you get farther on into the game... the enemies become a little more... "obscene"... 
 
  this game has great graphics and delivers the creepy atmosphere flawlessly. this is one of those 
 games that if you can still find, BUY IT!!! it's hard to come by now as it was one of the first 
 bunch of games released for the 360, but if you find it at any video store used pick it up! 9/10 
 because this game is just so damn cool... but the forensic tools didn't do anything for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  You will take the role of Ethan Thomas, an investigator. It takes place in metro city where you 
 will not be taken kindly by most citezins. I will not go deep into the story because it always 
 changes but I will tell you this much: You are basicly framed and you need to investigate and fight 
 through homeless, addicts, and something more to prove yourself not-guilty. Condemned is not a 
 game of guns. You will rarely be aquianted with one. It is all about picking up a crowbar and bashing 
 an addict with it. The game features 10 levels. You will almost never come across a new charecter 
 after half way but the story will change and progesses very well. You can also collect things that 
 are hidden throughout the game like dead birds and metal pieces. If you collect enuff than the 
 game will let you in on things to do with the story. If you are a fan of horror games, can get 
 to sleep good and have your xbox in a room near the bathroom, Condemned is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VegetaJr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  So what is Condemned? Survival Horror? Action? Adventure game? A little bit of all the above, but 
 whatever genre or sub genre name you refer to it as, it's this above all else.... a truly awesome 
 game. It's a game developed by Monolith of F. E. A. R. fame, using the same graphics engine to boot. 
 Published by Sega, and available on X360 since launch day. Looking at it from the perspective of 
 the launch lineup, this was easily the highest quality dedicated single player game available for 
 the system.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is played from a first person perspective with the player assuming 
 the role of FBI agent Ethan Thomas, a troubled agent whose star is falling in the FBI, as many 
 of his case files have gone cold. The game starts with a call to the scene of a crime committed 
 by a serial killer on his case list, at a time when odd violent outbreaks are occurring all over 
 the place, and from the moment you duck under the tape, your strapped in for a heck of a roller 
 coaster ride. Because the story has some intensely interesting twists and turns that make you think, 
 and sometimes shock you a bit.
  
  The story is supported by the excellent next generation visuals and audio. These are the graphics 
 you paid all that money to see. The game has a default darkness that may be a bit too much, so 
 you may want to adjust the brightness at first, but besides that the use of light and dark is really 
 spectacular. With fog and even seeing intense amounts of dust particles in the pale amounts of 
 light that may be beaming though a board that was covering a window. Everything looks smooth and 
 detailed, as detailed as condemned building can get.
  
  That's one of the few downsides, every area is a condemned building of some sort, it suits the 
 theme well, but despite looking good you still can't help but want to see an area that isn't run 
 down and otherwise messed up. The character models also could use a little more work, they look 
 a little... chunky? I know Thomas is a bit hefty, because he moves pretty slow. The audio is likewise 
 fantastic, especially if you play with a high end surround sound system. Creepy audio is used to 
 great effect, including the popular sudden whispers in the dark to make you jump stuff, ala Silent 
 Hill.
  
  In fact, I'd say overall that's what this game feels like, Silent Hill in a first person perspective. 
 Due to the emphasis on a persistently creepy atmospheric game world and story over gameplay. Not 
 to say the gameplay is bad, just a bit one track and simple. You do a mild amount of investigative 
 work with CSI like tools, to detect fingerprints, blood and sweat, etc. All to be sent back to 
 the lab for evaluation by Rosa, who communicates her findings to Thomas via cellphone throughout 
 the game to help move along the mystery. Very little work on your part, the screen resolution sharpens 
 drastically and a blue tint occurs, that's your instincts kicking in.
  
  When that happens you simply press X and the right tool is chosen automatically. Not much work 
 at all on your part, it's just used to help you find pieces of the plot and put them together little 
 by little. But now the real meat of the game, cracking skulls! Thomas is a tough guy, and can take 
 and dish out extraordinary amounts of damage. (this is actually a part of the plot, just believe 
 me, he's a tough hombre) He can grab and use many different melee weapons out of the environment, 
 a pipe off the wall, a 2x4, a rebar with concrete on the end, locker doors, a lot of stuff. The 
 combat is basic, you can swing with the R trigger, and block with the L trigger.
  
  It's pretty satisfyingly gritty and in your face, with bruises and blood appearing on an enemies 
 face, and you can even send their teeth flying. They aren't stupid either, if you go to block too 
 early they may pull back and wait to whack you when your arm goes back down. You also get a few 
 finishing moves on stunned enemies, just for flashiness really. You also have an equalizer, a taser. 
 You can use it to stun enemies and take their weapon, or get a free hit. It has a recharge time 
 between each use, so you can't over abuse it to make the game too easy. You also occasionally find 
 sledge hammers and fire axes, which are mega powerful weapons that also play a role in helping 
 you through certain obstacles in the environment, and finding the many hidden items in the game.
 
  
  Because the game is packed to the brim with things to discover. It's interesting stuff to look 
 out for, but I recommend more or less sticking to the plot on the first play through, and using 
 a guide to find the hidden items and get achievement points on a second play through. Story before 
 gamer score people! You can also on occasion use a gun or shotgun, but are limited to the ammo 
 found in them, so they should be utilized wisely. It could get repetitive, but it only lasts about 
 ten hours, so I feel it didn't quite get there, or at least to a highly annoying level anyway.
 
  
  But that's Condemned for you, a great single player adventure/horror/action whatever game. Also 
 available on PC. You may want to rent it, if it's not really your kind of thing, but if you love 
 a good plot and want a boat load of achievement points, while also having a game that shows off 
 the extra horsepower you paid good money for, here it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  For all the good reviews this game recieved, you would figure that it should be a fun game. This 
 game is made up of 10% fun and 90% frustration anger humor (the later as in why i paid $ for this 
 game) . Considering that the game is 3 years old that doesnt make up for its poor level designs 
 and annoying glitches that halt any fun you might have. After you get over the ambiance inside 
 the game youll be overpowered by the poor gameplay. Its ridiculously plain. The sounds in the game 
 arent that creepy and there are dozens of better games with superior "eerie music". Overall i can 
 see why people bought this game when it first came out since it was the only one of its kind on 
 next gen. There is no reason now to get this game now... i made the mistake of spending my money 
 on this game and i advise you not to. Better to try your luck with the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a deeply flawed game. The character models during the cutscenes are ugly and look 
 like molded plastic. The detective tools are buggy at times. Game hating politicians and lawyers 
 would *love* the hyperviolent combat system. 
  
  However, it is one of the most compelling and driving games I have ever played. I played it through 
 in two sittings, and had nightmares for a week. This has never happened before- I've played through 
 the Fatal Frame games, I adore the Silent Hill series, I survived System Shock 2, and have played 
 a great number of similar Survival Horror games and been fine. But something about Condemned shook 
 me deeply. 
  
  The key to this game is storytelling. The gameplay is decent, the combat is brutal and intense, 
 but the storytelling is masterfully done, and paired with a hostile atmosphere that grates on your 
 very sanity. The main character is running for his life, not sure of what is going on. He is confused, 
 possibly insane, and finding himself doing more and more acts of random depravity and madness, 
 ranging from brutally beating to death homeless people to collecting dead birds- a confusing, but 
 very nice touch. All while this happens, he starts to experience very threatening hallucinations, 
 and the line between reality and illusion becomes incorporated in the gameplay, where at times 
 your hallucinations begin to control the pathways available to you as a character.
  
  You play as a cop, voiced by Greg Grunberg, who plays Matt Parkman, the psychic cop in Heroes. 
 As you are investigating a serial killer's latest victim, you realize the killer is still in the 
 building, and go after him. He overpowers you, and kills two officers with your gun, then leaves. 
 The police believe you murdered the officers, and begin chasing you.
  
  However, as you continue to run from the police and chase after the killer, you begin to realize 
 that not all is as simple as it seems. The police seem to not care if you are innocent, and you 
 begin to experience some highly unpleasant hallucinations yourself, making the player doubt despite 
 the main character's firm belief in his innocence and sanity. The more you seek answers, the more 
 questions are raised, and the feeling of isolation begins to set in. As you wander through increasingly 
 nightmarish environs, you are surrounded by people, but they are no longer mentally human, instead 
 being something much darker. Hideous vagrants, deranged junkies, psychotic lunatics, and sewer 
 urchins will all come after you, and you run out of ammo very quickly, having to resort to using 
 whatever is nearby to fight.
  
  The capabilities of the game are limited, in this respect- your weapons are limited, and you can't 
 just grab a chair off the ground, throw it at someone, then break off the leg and continue to beat 
 your victim with it. Instead, you might just get a chair leg right off the bat. Not bad, but it 
 would be much cooler to be able to beat down your victim with a chair, then break off a leg to 
 make the beating more direct. The lack of diversity in models is also somewhat distracting, however, 
 you rarely get a good view of who you are fighting, save when you are finishing them off. However, 
 the fighting is consistently a bit too close for comfort, and the AI is rather good- setting up 
 ambushes, obtaining better weapons when available, and fighting each other when applicable.
  
  In many respects, it is the locales that lead to this game's eerie nature. You play almost 
 all of the game in parts of town that are blocked off for good reason, they are toxic dumps. They 
 look like crap, are unstable, and even worse, full of psychotics. There is never a comfortable, 
 pleasant place, and that alone creates a threatening atmosphere. What is worse is that the places 
 are all easily identifiable- an office building, a school, a subway station, a house- all places 
 you find normally very comfortable, are transformed, meth-house-ified, into places that are very 
 hostile. It serves to tell you, "This could happen to your house. This is just waiting to happen." 
 Furthermore, the hallucinations only serve to make the atmosphere even more threatening, as you 
 never know if what you are experiencing is real or just another illusion. 
  
  The hallucinations were one of the strongest points of the game. Never before have I had an in 
 game hallucination directly impact gameplay as well as it did here- allowing certain areas to be 
 accessed when a hallucination was triggered, or even forcing and chasing you down another path. 
 They are incredibly unpleasant and lucid, and yet there are some hallucinatory details that are 
 barely noticeable, but there- in many ways this game reminded me of the silent hill series in that 
 respect. 
  
  An aspect I really enjoyed was the sense of vulnerability. You have a lead pipe, and that's it. 
 Fight off several insane malnourished homeless people who have similar weapons. While this allowed 
 for some of the most ultraviolent and brutal combat I've seen in a long time, it also made me keenly 
 aware of the fact that I am just a man, not a killing machine. I can be hurt. I can die here, at 
 the hands of some nutjob with another lead pipe. I'm losing it, but I can't stop to get therapy, 
 because I've got to get this psycho who framed me. Prove myself innocent, and try to ignore the 
 fact that I'm most definitely not sane. You are incredibly fragile in this game, and the more you 
 play, the more the player realizes that their character is just becoming another dangerous psycho 
 in this area. This sense of raw vulnerability is something I particularly appreciate, as at no 
 point in the game do you become a gun-toting marine type. You are consistently running out of ammo 
 if you do get a gun, and that alone keeps it scary- knowing that you have 4 bullets left before 
 having to resort to pistol whipping the rest of them.
  
  Another great thing is the ambiguity- most of the questions are left unanswered, and the answers 
 given are so obviously wrong that it screams for a sequel. There is something greater happening 
 in this game, and you aren't even a pawn. You're just trying to stay alive and clear your name, 
 and that's not likely to happen.
  
  Overall, this isn't a happy game at all. However, it is one of the eeriest games I've ever played, 
 having some very disturbing and frightening hallucinations. This game scared me both on an immediate 
 and deeply subconscious level, and in that respect, is one of the best games in the survival horror 
 genre, getting right what F. E. A. R., Condemned's predecessor, failed to. Despite it being in the 
 FPS viewpoint, the combat is nothing like anything I've ever seen on a FPS game, but I was busy 
 being too traumatized to really care. If anything, I feel that is the greatest strength of this 
 game- it is traumatic on multiple levels. It gave me nightmares. it scared me. I lost sleep from 
 this game. I loved it.
  
  Definitely not a game for everybody, but if being traumatized sounds like your cup of tea, then 
 it doesn't get much better than Condemned. Just be prepared to begin doubting your sanity for a 
 bit afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew254
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Great game with a great story and superb voice acting. Seriously, the voice acting in this game 
 is the best I've ever encountered in any game - Bioshock included. Voice acting is one of those 
 elements that one does not really ever pay attention to - only if its bad.
  
  The story is great. The battle mechanics are rough and difficult but challenging.
  
  Let it 
 be known - this game will scare the crap out of you. I have dropped the controller more than half 
 a dozen times in each setting. Its all cheap scares, but scares none the less.
  
  This sleep hit kind of snuck by but shiyuld not be discounted. High production and eeriely well 
 defined graphics set this game apart. It is truly unique - not a Silent Hill clone by no means.
 
  
  This website claims that the environments get repetitious. I did not have that experience whatsoever. 
 In fact, my experience was quite the opposite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bab725
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun and amazing that I can't describe it! It is very scary with creepy looking 
 weirdos running around crazy. The game makes you believe that you are actually in the game as the 
 character you are playing. Very realistic combat with some pretty gruesome attacks. Great game 
 for $20 or less. This game is not for people with weak stomachs because the crime scenes you have 
 to look at the body really closely. The is the edge of your seat kind of scary because you are 
 always looking around corners to see if a crazy guy is around the corner ready to attack you. If 
 you like horror games then you will love this awesome horror survival game. It can be a little 
 to hard at times, but that makes it a lot more realistic! Sega does an awesome job on a lot of 
 games, but this is hats off to them!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLXD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  It pains me to admit that I was one of the many people to disregard this game when it first came 
 out, and just recently picked it. I was really happy that I did, and as soon as I started playing 
 it I had to admit that I was wrong, and that I should have picked it up earlier than that. The 
 game grabs you from the beggining, and if it doesnt give you a heart attack or a mild stroke, keeps 
 you to the very end.
  
  You're an FBI agent, hunting down serial killers. There have been an increased activity lately 
 and the whole city is on the alert. Investigating another case, and while you think the killer 
 is still there, you are lowered into the underground world of the city, psychotic killers, and 
 derranged hobos. In the process of the chase, you are framed for deaths of two cops and now you 
 do not only have the difficult task of catching the cunning serial killer, but also prooving your 
 innocence.
  
  The gameplay is intersting. It looks like the first person shooter, and at the beginning its what 
 you expect, but very early you find out that that is not the case for Condemned. The regular shooter 
 tactics will not work here, and for the most parts, you wont even be shooting. The fire arms are 
 so few and far in between that you will cherish times you get your hands on them, not to mention 
 try to conserve bullets. The fighting is well done, except that I didn't like the lack of finishing 
 moves. They're fun, but I am already looking forward to the second environmental kills. The forensics 
 aspect is also very fun and brings a different aspect to the game. The only thing I disliked was 
 the intuition, maybe its just me, but I would prefer to look for evidence a bit more. At least 
 give me the general area and not only start giving me signs when I'm standing right by the evidence.
 
  
  The controls are good, its pretty much standard for what you would see in most first person games, 
 with a little variation on some things (like A being the action button) . Switching between forensics 
 investigation and fighting gave a little bit of the creeps when I was playing because sometimes 
 I took a few wacks to the head when I was ambushed.
  
  Furthermore, the atmosphere created in the game is just terrific. The environments are immersive, 
 albeit a little bit linear. You really feel like you are in the dark and abandoned buildins, scared. 
 The use of the lighting is good. The sounds are amazing, and sometimes they will have you jumping 
 from your seat terrified of whatever comes from behind the corner (or creeps behind you) . You'll 
 be turning Ethan around a number of times, just to make sure what you've heard.
  
  The visuals are solid for the time that this game came out. The environments are well crafted, 
 and the opponents are great, and terryfying. Level design presents you some intersting dark and 
 frightening environments. Some graphics are quite sharp for one of the first 360 games even though 
 they might not be as great as CoD4 or Gears of War they are still quite impressive. 
  
  All in all this is a great game, that can keep you coming back for its atmosphere. If not anything, 
 it is a great bargain at 20 bucks at the moment, and you can claim to have played one of the more 
 underrated games for the 360 so far.
  
  Gamertag : Shady9XD 
  
  Come Play...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petri87
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  It was the 360s only true next gen game for the 3-6 months post release. 
  It has a interesting story and is a blend between CSI, Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay and Resident 
 Evil (when it was scary and the crazy Spanish ppl from 4) . 
  
  Great graphics compared to other games at the time like say PDZ and COD2 and others that were out 
 at the time. It also has a great atmosphere and lighting that really makes the game even more creepy 
 then it already is.
  
  It has amazing sound, I just sit in my chair shacking from the realistic sound from all the blunt 
 weapons (having hit ppl whit signs, pipes and rebar whit concrete on I know how it sound) and the 
 heavy breathing form the enemy hiding behind the corner or the fot steps of the enemy running up 
 behind me and hitting me whit a shovel.
  
  The AI in the game is among the best I've seen in a game. It probably uses alot of the same AI 
 tecnhology as they used in F. E. A. R. so you should see how good it is from just that.
  When you hit an enemy they swing back at you whit a huge swing that really surprises you the first 
 few times since you don't really expect so life like reactions form enemys in a game.
  There is also alot of mo-cap in the game that makes all the enemys look great and have smooth moves 
 form one attack to the next.
  
  In short its a game you shouldn't miss out on and will really creep you out in more then a few 
 spots.
  So if you like horror games like Silent Hill and Resident Evil you should check this out.
  And 
 on the plus side it has gone Classic, meaning that the price is really low and all 'n' all a great 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 80 % The gameplay is good the storyline is pretty easy to understand. Altough when you 
 play you get to be a cop and you investigate what happens in town. If your a fan of shotting games 
 you wont be very interested in this game because its more about hand-to-hand combat. But in the 
 game you can use gun's like shotgun's pistols ect.. This game doesn't get boring because you always 
 get to walk investigate and shoot. and its fun. In the game there is allot of scary parts i think 
 this game is pretty scary but thats the best part of the game. There's sometime mini clips that 
 helps you understand the story better.
  
  Graphics 90 % The Graphics are awesome if you have a hd tv you have to get this game i personally 
 think this is one of the games with the best graphics. The walls the objects in the game looks 
 pretty realistic. 
  
  Sound 95 % The sound is good the music matches with the game and almost every sound you hear in 
 the game sounds real. The guns sounds like real guns. I think you'll really like the sound and 
 music in the game.
  
  I dont think you'll spend allot of hours playing this game because this game doesn't have xbox 
 live. 
  
  I reccomend this game because its fun and this is certainly a game that should be in your xbox 
 360 game collection.
  
  This game is good when you beat the game you just want to beat the game again.
  
  If you like 
 Condemned Criminal Origins you should buy Condemned 2 bloodshot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about condemned? other then the fact it's a bone breaking crowbar to the face action 
 FPS with crazy junky's trying to kill you. Yeah the game is pretty crazy in term's of graphic's 
 and sound effect's. Other then that condemned is your basic FPS with a short and kinda repetitive 
 single player. The game's story isn't that great either it's not really interesting and is sort 
 of confusing, in short you have a killer trying to.. well kill you.. not much else. The combat 
 in condemned is some nasty stuff like hitting guy's in the face with a sledgehammer then breaking 
 there neck's, yeah thats fun. But the combat's brutality comes with a price it gets very boring 
 and repetitive after a few hour's the same goes for enemy A. I at first they seem very smart and 
 will manage to kill you but after the first few level's they are very easy to take down. Graphic's 
 wise condemned hit's pay dirt cause this game looks superb. Same goes for the sound you'll here 
 every neck break and face crush to every gory extreme. Value is the game's poorest feature it will 
 take the average player around 10 hour's to beat the game and there no reason to play the single 
 player again cause it play's out the same way and there's nothing but single player so really this 
 is a game you will wanna buy for ( like i did) $20.00 buck's. In the end though condemned has problem's 
 it's still a one of a kind game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  I had never heard of this game. I've recently bought a 360 and downloaded the demo and was instantly 
 hooked.
  
  The easiest way to describe the game would be this: First person brawler meets FEAR. This is game 
 not made for people who scare easily. I don't think my gf could play this game. Lots of blood and 
 gore.
  
  The game starts you as an FBI agent investigating a crime scene. You have tools (automatically 
 selected for you) that allow you to scan and take pictures / samples of different crime scene elements. 
 This will happen often enough throughout the game in order to push the story forward. Although 
 mostly automatic, it's still fun to do and gives you a break from beating things over the head, 
 which is what you'll be doing a lot of the rest of the time.
  
  The game can be broken down into parts: One part has you beating things (or occasionally shooting 
 things) which is tons of fun. There's always a melee weapon around, be it a pipe, shovel, sledge 
 hammer, locker door, conduit, locker door, 2x4 with nails, etc. And all of them have different 
 speed, damage, blocking capacity, etc. Although the mechanics of combat are simple (you can block 
 or swing) , it takes a while to get the hang of it. Your can't just perma-block, so you have to 
 time it right. Enemies will sometimes fake a swing to surprise you, or riposte immediately after 
 you hit them. It's by far the most satisfying and challenging hand-to-hand combat I've ever seen 
 in a game, much better than Oblivion. On top of these mechanics you also have the ability to kick 
 (works great following a hit) and a taser to stun enemies and yoink the weapons out of their hands 
 (great for guns) .
  
  Enemies will run around and find cover or try to hide and surprise you. They won't just run towards 
 you. They have that sort of FEAR AI about them. They'll sometimes help each other out, or start 
 beating each other in a frenzy. Playing the game with a surround-sound system will definitely have 
 benefits. The game's pace is slower than your typical shooter and most of the time, you're walkign 
 slowly, checking every corner and just listening and watching... You'll hear frantic breathing, 
 foot steps, boxes or buckets falling down or being kicked on the floor. You'll hear breaking windows 
 or doors opening. It all adds to the immersion, and more importantly, you need to be on the ball.
 
  
  So, apart from the very satisfying combat, the other parts of the game will have you exploring 
 your surroundings and looking for clues. It sounds like a simple recipe, but it's perfect for this 
 type of game. You have just the right amount of combat, exploration and story telling. You'll also 
 have tons of scares and this game has made be jump or given me chills very often.
  
  Graphically, the game is one of the best looking even to date. The only thing that limits it is 
 that it's mostly indoor environments. At 1080i I ran into the occasional FPS slow down, but it 
 didn't happen often at all. The lighting in the game is about the best I've ever seen. Knock a 
 hanging light and you can watch the shadows change as the light bounces about.
  
  All in all, this was a very fun experience that I'll definitely play through again, and I'm highly 
 anticipating the sequel coming out next month.
  
  - Jorlen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased an X-BOX 360 over the summer, and after a brief absence, i've begun to review 
 for the 360.
  
  Condemned is how to put it, unique. I have never played a game quite like this before, and I'm 
 glad I did. What makes it unique is its sense of atmosphere. The atmosphere draws you into the 
 game, much what Konami's Silent Hill series. Condemned doesn't really rely too much on the stereotypical 
 "jump out and say boo!" aspects as most so called scary games use. Condemned's use of atmosphere 
 will draw you into the game, and it will make you keep playing until you beat it.
  
  Graphics
  This is a first gen 360 game, and every usually knows how first gen games usually look 
 on a system. Condemned has a sort of dated look, when it comes to other 360 games that have been 
 released. But overall though, the textures are smooth, detailed, the lighting effects are great. 
 The visuals in the game, from dark subways, to old schools, and even a department store that has 
 been abandoned look forboding. The only flaw in the engine is the game suffers from jagged textures, 
 which this is a first gen game for the 360.
  
  Sound
  The voice acting is a little weak, but the sound effects are great thanks to full Dolby 5.1 support.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The protagonist in the game Ethan Thomas, is like a walking CSI labe. He carries a duffle bag with 
 him that contains several tools. Tools of which you will use to find clues and solve a variety 
 of mysteries. This adds a whole new depth to gameplay. The game is a FPS, but adding in the solving 
 crimes, keeps it from being yet another FPS. The problem though lies in character movement. Thomas 
 moves like a tank, instead of a default run, he walks. The only way to make him run is to hold 
 in the left analog stick while pushing forward. Here in lies the pain so to speak, when your trying 
 to manuever around certain enemies, and can't really because of the tank like control scheme. The 
 FPS engine overall is great due to a fighting engine simliar to the one found Chronicles of Riddick 
 Escape from Butcher Bay. Thomas find all kinds of weapons, ranging from fire axes to sledgehammers, 
 and even conduits.
  
  Overall Condemned is a great game. Monolith did a better job of freaking you out, then they did 
 FEAR. If your in to alot of atmosphere in your games, and have played the Silent Hills and enjoy 
 being freaked out, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins places you in the role of Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent framed for the 
 murder of two police officers. Now he must track down the actual serial killer who is possessed 
 with demon powers. With your keen FBI skills and training, you search for clues, investigate crime 
 scenes, and collect evidence that will lead to the killers and prove your innocence. The game has 
 great controls and superior graphics; the environment settings are highly detailed. The story will 
 be long remembered and the scenes will remain in your mind's vision long after you have finished 
 the game.
  
  I originally bought this game by mistake thinking it was a third person shooter. I'm not a great 
 fan of first person games but after playing this game, I was thoroughly impressed with all aspects 
 of the game including game play. So much so, in fact, I'll be one of the first people to buy and 
 play Condemned 2 when it's released.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  A great game in general. There are some cons of it though. Like no online play. Another example 
 is its graphics. They aren't bad, but they aren't good. The story is good with some things that 
 make you have to think. And the thrills are great. If you are in the mood for a good videogame, 
 or want to play another game like Bioshock, this is the game. All in all, it was a great game, 
 with great thrills, and a great ending. I recommend it to anyone who likes horror video games. Pretty 
 short though... (beat it in about... a day and a half)
  
  10/10
  
  If you beat this and enjoyed it.... Get ready for Condemed 2
  
  w00t!
  
  P. S.....
  
 
  6 more days till  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  As soon as i heard survival horror had to have this game. Its gameplay is amazing the story line 
 is somewhat weird at times but also excellent.
  
  So this game is basically made to scare the **** out of you because when i played it i got right 
 into it with the widescreen HD, surround sound system running, lights out i was sucked in and also 
 scared out of my mind.
  
  Now the game play is really well done because of the atmosphere, which pretty much makes the game 
 look very well done and puts you in the reality that your character is in. The weapon system is 
 interesting because every weapon you pick up will eventually always break with time and the guns 
 you pick up can only be used up to the amount of ammo found in them. Then theres the random shadows, 
 feet, arms, faces, that make you not want to go around that corner.....
  
  Graphics wize the game produces something outstanding because right when the opening scene happens 
 your going to know how good this game will be. While the enemies run wildly at you like escaped 
 convicts or something you get to really experience the graphical standards of the game.
  
  The one things about the game is at some points it can be very difficult. But its a must play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I was VERY late in playing Condemned Criminal Origins. I'm glad I did pick it up however as its 
 a great game plus there's a sequel coming out soon.
  
  Ok Condemned first off is a brutally violent FPW (First Person Whacker) guns come in rarely and 
 are more of a liability as they are left with limited ammo inside. Melee weapons are the main way 
 to kill off enemies, they mean you need to be up close and personal making the fighting all the 
 more horrific. 
  You have a flashlight as with most games in this genre but it doesn't run out, strange. However 
 it again adds to the horror when you see an enemy hop into the beam of light as that's the only 
 place you're concentrating!
  
  It has a good story which can be at times a little hard to follow but is really quite interesting. 
 It usually advances with you "investigating" a crime scene. I say investigate I mean the game dictates 
 what tool to use, you use it, etc etc. There's no player freedom in this area.
  
  Anyway it's a great game that's now going cheap with it's age and definitely deserves a play. Graphics 
 look dated but it's always dark so you barely notice. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a game like no other. It is seriously the most immersive horror 
 game, ever. Seriously. Basically play this game in the dark with all the doors closed with the 
 volume all the way up so you can hear the silence and just play it. I tried and couldn't do it 
 for more than a half-hour it was so scary. Anyways, the games gameplay is very unique. The typical 
 horror game consists of just a lot of just bloody gore and guns or mythical things happening left 
 and right and I'm not saying thats bad but Its was time for a actual realistic horror game and 
 this game delivers. Basically your and FBI agent who gets caught up with this serial killer who 
 claims he's doing justice by killing serial killers and eventually gets a hold of your gun and 
 shoots and kills your partner and a cop and you get blamed for it. Now you have to go on an adventure 
 through subway stations and abandoned stores to find clues and such to prove your innocence. Your 
 main weapon is whatever you can find basically like pipes, 2x4's and other things. This game is 
 great and shouldn't be missed. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Not since the Fatal Frame 1 & 2 has a game made me say "WTF" about 30 times during a night of game 
 play. One of the funny things is, I noticed that by the end of the night, I would have more and 
 more lights on in the house just to keep the freaky freaks away :)
  
  Being one of the launch games when the 360 was released, I did pick this game up a few years ago, 
 but for one reason or another, I set it down and probably got side tracked by something else. But 
 with the coming release of Condemned 2, I figured I would pick it up again and finish it, boy am 
 I glad I did.
  
  I'm not one to really give anything away (spoilers) when it comes to games, but there were a few 
 scenes in this game that, in my opinion, that were down right disturbing. What starts out as a 
 normal, cop invest aging murder, cop gets framed for murder game, soon takes on a element that 
 to me is just hard to explain.
  
  Over all the game play is smooth and the controls are easy to use. How ever, to me it seemed very 
 sluggish, like your character moved like he is stuck in mud. Like in many games, you can sprint 
 for a short period of time, but there really is no need to about 90% of the time.
  
  The graphics and audio are nothing less then outstanding. While walking through a run down school, 
 or retail store, you really get the sense of being there. The use of dark rooms, corners and hallways 
 help deliver the sense of creep that can keep you up till all hours of the night wondering what 
 that noise was!
  
  Condemned offers a good amount of achievement points that are pretty easy to obtain, while at the 
 same time being just difficult enough to not make it a walk in the park. It also has a small amount 
 of exploring if you like looking for things.
  
  Over all this is a VERY solid game and worth the time and $20 it now cost. I highly recommend playing 
 through this, with the lights out, and the volume up :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is damn. Playing this at night with all the lights off and the 5.1 blasting will 
 definately get your heart pumping. I've never played a game this intense. The game is very unpredictable.
 
  
  Anyways, let's get to the point. Considering the time of this game's creation, it is definately 
 another classic. Graphics are nothing less than enjoyable and the sound / gameplay all go together 
 nicely. Although it is gory ( I think that's how you spell it?) it's a realistic kind of gory. 
 If you have always wondered what it'd be like to wander through rough parts of a big city, this 
 should sum up the worst you can run in to. Twisted scenes that make you appear dillusional while 
 bashing in the heads of violent drug users hiding in the dark make this game one of a kind. A must 
 play if you appreciate realism in games and the twisted minds that created it. 
  
  For the price you'd get it at now, it's a steal. Part 2 is also coming out soon, supposedly improving 
 on all the flaws of this one and the continuation of this one. Although I haven't really seen any 
 flaws myself, people say that the evidence tools are too easy to use, but I have no problem with 
 that because I always feel that I need to be holding a weapon anyways lol. The surround sounds 
 really freak you out ... like when you hear a bumb panting up from behind you in the dark and you 
 turn around to shine your flashlight into one ugly arse lunatic's face trying to throw you a beatdown 
 with a 2x4 is pretty damn freaky! 
  
  Definately innovative and a SEGA classic. Recommended for horror lovers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Count_Nikoghas
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a first person horror game for the XBOX 360, that combines brutal 
 combat, survival horror, and crime scene investigation game play into one package. All of these 
 ideas mesh well together into a great survival horror game that feels fresh, while staying away 
 from some of the annoyances in the horror genre.
  
  The premise of Condemned is one that has you assume the role of Ethan Thomas, an agent in the Serial 
 Crimes Unit of the FBI. Ethan's job is to investigate the sudden increase in the crime rate, as 
 well as bring the cities many serial killers to justice. Or at least that is how it starts, without 
 spoiling too much I will say that the story does take a turn very early in the game that has you 
 not only trying to track down the killers in the city, but avoiding being captured by the police 
 as well.
  
  With an interesting story like that as the backdrop the game has you investigating a series of 
 decrepit building such as burned down libraries, and abandoned schools and department stores. The 
 game play boils down to you making your way through dark, dirty, and often blood stained halls 
 and corridors searching for clues to help you crack the case of finding serial killers. However 
 it isn't as easy as that all sounds. You will find that all of the buildings that you go through 
 are crawling with deranged addicts and vagrants that don't like that you are in their hangouts 
 and they try to brutally kill you. Survival is the key point in this game so you will have to use 
 any weapons you can find to stay alive, implements such as sledgehammers, pipes, axes, shovels, 
 and even a few firearms. Since about ninety percent of the combat is done with melee weapons you 
 can probably imagine it gets pretty brutal, so expect to see a spray of blood or two as you smash 
 an enemy's face in with a crowbar. 
  
  Combat is fairly easy to master since the right trigger acts as a swing, and the left acts as a 
 block; but since you take significant amount of damage for each blow that hits you it remains tense 
 through out. Advanced techniques to help you stay alive is a well placed kick with a click of the 
 right analog stick that knocks away enemies as well as stunning them long enough for a follow up 
 attack and a stun gun. The stun gun is probably your biggest defense in the game since it has the 
 ability to stun enemies and makes them drop their weapon long enough for you to grab it, which 
 is especially useful if the culprit has a fire arm. Of course, whenever a defense like this is 
 given to you in a game it always has a flaw, and this one's is it's lengthy recharge time after 
 every use. All of the weapons and sounds they make when a blow is dealt are extremely realistic 
 and brutal, so suffice it to say this game is not for the faint of heart. The only problem with 
 combat is simply that it does become repetitive after a while, and the guns while pretty powerful 
 only have a handful of bullets at a time which renders them completely useless after a fight or 
 two.
  
  The survival aspects of this game are things that you have seen in other games in the genre. Taking 
 damage will have you proceed as cautiously as you can to the next first aid kit conveniently located 
 on a few of the walls in each location to snag a health pack or two. You can only hold one weapon 
 at a time so you will be constantly on the look out for something better, and the like in every 
 survival horror game you will find a door that requires a special tool for opening, but this is 
 where Condemned proves to be a little different that most games in this particular genre. In games 
 like Silent Hill or Resident Evil you come across an obstacle that requires a specific item, and 
 usually you either have to do some serious backtracking or have to defeat a boss or something of 
 that nature before you have to progress. In Condemned however I was pleasantly surprised to find 
 that if I needed a crowbar or a fire axe to break down a door it was usually located within close 
 vicinity of the door itself, it might break the realism a little but it definitely makes for a 
 more streamlined pace than a frustrating one.
  
  Crime scene investigating is the final part that makes up the game play, and in my opinion it is 
 the weakest link in the game. Using black lights, scanners, and cameras to investigate the grizzly 
 settings is a nice touch, but you simply don't have much freedom with it. The excuse given is that 
 Agent Thomas has heightened instincts, so the game simply tells when you can investigate and chooses 
 the correct tool for you. They all work fine and they make you feel like you are scoping out the 
 area, but you don't feel like it is you doing it. I realize that this cuts down the frustration 
 from guessing when to take out your tools, but it just feels automated.
  
  Other than the game play there is not too much to be said about the game; the graphics, even though 
 now a little dated compared to games like Call of Duty 4 and Bioshock, are pretty solid due to 
 the detailed environments and pretty impressive lighting. Only one complaint truly arises in this 
 department, and it is simply that the game can be a little too dark at times. The sound design 
 is really good, especially the little things like glass bottles rattling on the floor when you 
 step on one, and the sound of an enemy knocking over a heavy object like a table is realistic enough 
 to make you alarmed. The music is very brooding and atmospheric, which adds another layer of dread 
 to an already tense game, and the voice acting for the most part is terrific.
  
  As far as complaints go they are nothing to serious. Combat can grow a little repetitive as already 
 mentioned, game is sometimes too dark to fully see what is around you, and the crime scene investigating 
 can feel a little too automatic. The biggest complaints however, are that the game is a little 
 short with not too much replay value, and that (without spoiling anything) the choice that you 
 make in the end of the game has no real weight on the story what so ever.
  
  These things aside; the game is incredibly atmospheric and quite scary. The story is quite gripping 
 and throws you for some good twists, and in the end it has you wanting more. It is not perfect, 
 but if you are looking for a good game that can actually give you a scare then look no further. 
 I truly think it is worth picking up if you are someone who likes to be scared and can handle the 
 brutality and I am looking forward to the upcoming sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up for twenty dollars at the store thinking it was gonna be just another crappy 
 game, but i was wrong this games story was really good and the gameplay is really good too, if 
 you like games were they cut off peoples fingers and stuff as a sick joke you'll love this game. 
 The thing i love about this game is that the story was well planned out that it's almost believable.. 
 this game is really really good.. but yet it still has no online, either way its still a really 
 good game to go and pick up. This is one of my favorite games as far the story goes... it's really 
 good and thats all i can really say or i'd ruin it which i WON'T. But i will say this, You are 
 someone who investigates crimes, sort of like a cop and a investigator.. [ I can't remember the 
 fricking word] You are there to find clues, track them, and solve something out about where all 
 the serial killers came from and try to kill them and stop them from killing people. That's all 
 i'm gonna really say because i don't want to ruin it because it sucks when people do that because 
 you need to experience this game for yourself... there's nothing in the store quite like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Me_L33T
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  this game is a pretty good game, in the short 8 hours it took to beat, but still that shouldn't 
 get you from buying this game. 
  First lets get the bad out of the way.
  The graphics are kinda blah in todays day in age, but they still hold up well against some of the 
 newer releases that have recently come out. But still thats is one of the only bad thing about 
 this game. 
  Now for the good, just about everything else!
  This game has an excellent storyline that is really easy to follow, even if u are a n00b, but still, 
 the controls are good, the gameplay is good, the graphics are decent, but then there is the fighting 
 system, which is the best one i have used in ages. Sure, it is only one button, but the fighting 
 looks awesome, as you watch you character slam a lead pipe into the side of a physco's face!
  A MUST BUY GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moscardino
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  condemned is a very good game with a creepy atmosphere but soon beomes boring and repetitive.
 
  graphics in condemned are brilliant and the atmosphere is even better with enemys making noises 
 and jumping out when you least expect it. Character models are repetitive and environments are 
 the same dark and dull places over and over.
  gameplay is extremely repetitive with the same one combo attacks over and over with the occaisonal 
 gun comming into play. fighting is owever incredibly good with enemys making great counter attacks 
 and making you block alot. however this becomes repetitive too as the enemys only do the same things 
 all the time.
  the story is confusing ut still reels you in and you quickly understand it. The places you go however 
 are dull and you will get lost alot throughout the game.
  
  overall condemned is a decent game but fails to add anything new while playing it apart from the 
 CSI part which is the same thing over and over aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game, is one of those games, that reminds me why I still play video games. The graphics may 
 seem outdated to elitists but I find them to be great. The sound effects are spot on, it could 
 be something falling over making you turn around, or your own footsteps making you wonder if someone 
 is following you, either way it will leave you spooked. The use of lighting is fantastic, it never 
 gets old when you're walking around and all of the sudden an enemy pops out of a dark corner, and 
 I swear I couldn't see him before. The A. I. is awesome. One of the scariest moments in the game 
 was when I was walking in a subway and there's what looks to be a homeless guy sleeping on a bench, 
 and he jumps up and charges me with an axe! There were several moments in this game that made me 
 yell oh god! The developers effectively build suspense until all of the sudden someone pops up 
 or shoots you through a window or something. Best of all is the combat, some of the situations 
 were so intense I literally felt like I was fighting for my life, partly due to the first person 
 perspective I think. I have to say, this brings that terror of the Silent Hill series together 
 with realism and better, more innovative combat. Best of all, I bought this used for $14.99. Best 
 15 bucks I've spent in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Condemned's creator, Monolith, has been a relatively obscure company in the past years. Known among 
 some for its mediocre "No One Lives Forever" games, it had gained some reputation after a release 
 of "Tron 2", - one of their best titles. Through the past years Monolith was best known for working 
 on a `train wreck' project "The Matrix Online". Warner Bros. (Monolith's parent company) has dropped 
 the MMO project after only a few months of game going live.
  
  But in the fall of 2005, Monolith's team had proven that they didn't pick the name for the company 
 as a form of sarcasm. And that their newest lineup of games indeed isn't "hollow". Striking the 
 PC audience with "F. E. A. R" project has risen the companies name to the ranks of big hitters like 
 Id Software and Raven Software. "F. E. A. R" had received rave reviews from the critics and was considered 
 the first psychologically twisted 3D action shooter.
  
  For the Xbox 360, Monolith has decided to bring out a different type of horror game. (Perhaps fearing 
 controls issues always haunting 3D shooters) . The result: A well made game "Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins". Although the game is not perfect, it's definitely one of the worthy titles to be considered 
 for the Xbox 360.
  
  The game places you in the eyes of an FBI agent investigating a spike of murders and other crimes 
 around the city. When he gets framed for the murders of the police officers on a crime scene, the 
 agent is forced to make a tough decision and to attempt not only to clear his name but also find 
 out what's causing all the violence in the city. Being a solo ranger on the run, the agent no longer 
 has the luxuries like supplies of ammunition and calls for back up.
  
  The game is set from the "eye view" of the FBI agent (a usual camera placement for 3D shooters) . 
 Condemned, however, is not your regular 3D shooter. Although you can wield the fire arms, the game 
 takes approach of "closer to real life" action over some other mindless shooters. Enemies die from 
 one shot if you can aim well, and once the ammunition is out, it's unlikely you will find more 
 just laying in the corner of an abandoned building. So without the bullets, the only thing that 
 shotgun is good for is hitting enemies with its butt. You will be switching weapons quite a lot, 
 but all of them can roughly be divided into 2 types: fire arms with a limited ammo, or melee swinging 
 weapons like pipes, sticks, and hammers. Each of those swinging weapons has different statistics 
 which reflect your ability to block, and attack effectively.
  
  Let's get one thing straight. This isn't some twisted psychological nightmare game like "Silent 
 Hill 2". And by 'them' saying the game is scary, they mean "your friends jumping at you from around 
 the corner and scream 'BOO!'" - scary. It's a thriller, not so much horror.
  
  Once the door opens, you can expect that there is a drug addict somewhere in the room hiding behind 
 a desk with a metal pipe. Or maybe there is no one. That's the guessing game you play. Often times 
 you get ambushed by them from around the corners, which keeps you jumpy for the most times. A direct 
 hit to the head with a metal pipe is not pleasant and can cause severe damage to you.
  
  Dealing with enemies is still one of the more pleasant parts of the game. Although combat itself 
 is very repetitive and redundant, NPCs' intelligence is quite impressive. Swinging the metal pipe 
 itself isn't really that exciting, however when an NPC doesn't just charge you and tries to out-damage 
 you, but rather tries to out-smart you - it's a very refreshing feeling. The NPCs will hide and 
 try to ambush you if they have a chance. If you charge them, they may behave very differently. 
 Some drug addicts will fight you to the death recklessly, while some will estimate their chances 
 and may try to run away and get a better weapon and backstab you. In a fight, some of the smarter 
 NPCs will actually be faking their hits and unloading a barrage of swings once your block goes 
 down. Once hit, they may also pretend that they are falling down only to turn around and hit you 
 with a metal pipe in a face.
  
  One of the more impressive situations I came across in the subway, where I was attacked by some 
 crazy looking NPC with a wooden stick. Seeing an axe in my hands, he quickly turned around and 
 started to run away in circles around the ticket booth. After chasing him around a few times without 
 any luck to catch up to him. I decided to intercept him on by going the opposite direction to meet 
 him on the other side. But unlike my expectation, NPC also turned around after peeking around the 
 corner and seeing me change my running direction, he actually went after me and intercepted me 
 from the behind, taking down half of my health bar. After being shocked with my shock pistol he 
 turned around and ran away again only to come back with a sledge hammer. If it wasn't for my successful 
 block afterwards, he would have been the winner in our encounter.
  
  While moments like those are certainly exciting, the combat itself gets boring after a while simply 
 due to the lack of fighting tactics. Sure AI is smart, but you only have two buttons to work with: 
 an attack and a block. Different close combat weapons have different effects on how fast you can 
 block or swing etc. So Monolith's idea of extending the fights is by making you take 3 hits from 
 an NPC simply because block time on an axe is way different from a block time on a pipe. HINT: 
 It's probably best to attempt to stick to one or two close combat weapons to learn their swing 
 and block time.
  
  One of the other things that bring down the value of the game is the lack realistic movement controls. 
 You can't just jump whenever you want to. You can only do that when the game tells you can. That 
 also affects other things in the game play such as moving objects. In some situations you are able 
 to just push away an iron safe, while in others - a bunch of empty cardboard boxes create an obstacle 
 you cannot pass.
  
  A little disappointing is the lack of puzzles in the game. With practically no challenging ones, 
 it brings all the emphasis to fighting (and fighting, as mentioned before gets pretty old after 
 about 2 hours of play) . The most complicated puzzles you will meet will probably be of this sort:
 
  
  "To continue though the building, you need a fire axe to break the door. The fire axe you find 
 near by in the locked cage is protected by a security device. To break the security device, you 
 need a shovel. The shovel will probably be somewhere in the room with two crazy maniacs waiting 
 to beat the crap out of you."
  
  It also is probably worth to note that the game is pretty linear. It's extremely rare when you 
 will have a doubt of where to go or what to do in Condemned.
  
  Another small issue is with the character models in the game. Although the environments in this 
 game are extremely well made and can be considered pretty creepy most of the time, the character 
 models could certainly use some work.
  
  Overall this is the best thriller type game for Xbox 360 right now and is a worthy buy. Although 
 [I, myself] prefer games in the genre of "Silent Hill", this game does a good job of keeping me 
 on the edge of the seat at times as well. But it's not just the dark theme that makes this game 
 stand out. It's the combination of a good story, realistic gameplay (although a bit repetitive) , 
 great voice acting, gorgeous environments, and most importantly - intelligent enemies that make 
 this game an exciting experience. 
  
  Overall, this is one of the most interesting, and dare I say it, most beautiful games that I have 
 ever had the pleasure of playing for the X-Box 360. If you like horror or thriller games, then 
 you need to give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest horror games ive ever played, full of suspense and creepy hopped up criminals, 
 with an ending that leaves you wondering ".... wtf just happened" but it in a good way!
  The combat system, while simple, is still very good. The only problem i noticed was that sometimes 
 the blocking system seemed to be a bit off, but not terribly so. Although you can only use ammo 
 in the guns you acquire, and not pick up any more, you'll only mind this if your a hardcore fps 
 kinda player, which isn't what condemned is all about. It also adds a small strategy element, since 
 you have to disarm the druggy wielding the pump shotgun before he uses all the shells and decides 
 that he can use it as a two by four.
  Story is good, if slightly muddled. I've only beaten the game once so far, so maybe things will 
 become clearer later on or it's just setting you up for the sequel. The graphics are pretty good 
 in game, though nothing to scream about. To me Ethan's face sometimes seemed bland and emotionless, 
 except at the end (shudders.)
  The only flaws are the short campaign and that theres no online. I know online wouldn't really 
 fit into this game, but it still takes away some replayability. If you like horror games, you should 
 definatly get this game, especially since the sequel will be coming out soon and condemneds now 
 20 and under, even for a new copy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I had the opportunity to play this 360 launch title a few days ago and I was pleasently surprised. 
 Graphically it might not be much to look at and it uses tried and true mechanics, but it does what 
 it specializes in well. With this game we may have just found the successor to Resident Evil in 
 the survival horror genre (RE4 doesn't count) This game will actually scare you... it made me jump 
 quite a few times.. the melee combat is nothing to praise but it gets the job done, and the story 
 is top notch with a ton of twists and turns... the scene at the end again implies a sequel, and 
 a supernatural twist. It's got a pretty decent achievment system too... I racked up about 400 points 
 with little effort. All in all Condemned is a decent game that should be checked out in a post 
 holiday drought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hrubikscube
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I only rented Condemned: Criminal Origins once, and that was probably about ten months 
 ago. Still, I feel that I can write a decent review based on renting it that one time.
  
  I was incredibly surprised at how much the game creeped me out. I'm not a wimp ---I've been a horror 
 fan ever since I was a little kid. I was fifteen when I played the game, but it still really creeped 
 me out. It's nearly a game you want to play with the lights on and with other people in the house.
 
  
  Overall, it's a well done game. The graphics are pretty good, the story is superb, it's original, 
 etc. 
  
  Hmm, I would have to suggest renting it before buying it, though. I'm glad I rented it to check 
 it out before paying $60 for it. I'm still looking around for a good deal on it ---it's not really 
 a top priority. Don't get the wrong idea, though! It IS a good game.
  
  If you're into detective movies/books/TV shows and all things suspenseful, Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins truly is the game for you. It's creepy, fun, interesting, and well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was a breath of fresh - and cold - air.
  
  I picked this game up for the simple reason that it looked different. It isn't a twitch-based FPS, 
 it wasn't a slow and methodical RPG, and it certaintly wasn't an action/adventure game. It ended 
 up a creepy, melee-combat using, story-based, investigative... something.
  
  Hell, I'm not even sure what genre to put it in.
  
  The slow-paced (mostly) melee combat was 
 a nice surprise, though I did often wonder why it took my character a half a second or longer in 
 order to block an oncoming attack. If somebody was swinging a metal pipe at my head, I'm sure adrenaline 
 would shoot my blocking weapon up (or my head down and out of the way) in a fraction of that time.
 
  
  I enjoyed the easy-to-understand weapon stats, the lack of ammunition counter (you have to press 
 a button to make your character actively remove the weapon's magazine and visually inspect how 
 much ammunition you have left) , and the tazer gun that had to be used sparingly.
  
  The most compelling feature of this game was the ability to use various investigative tools to 
 probe a crime scene, as well as the (totally screwed up) story. For those of you who have completed 
 the game, and think you understand the story, make sure you check out the "reports" that you gain 
 by finding various objects in the game.
  
  For any gamer who wants a fun game that is a break from the mold, definitely give this sucker a 
 shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins, a game created by Sega and Monolith is possibly a scary game. The 
 atmosphere of the game is spooky and you'll find yourself scared possibly always on every stage 
 unless your not that afraid of scary stuff. The enemies in the game are dumb as they tend to charge 
 at you directly though being very violent due to the drugs, its just ok. Even though they just 
 mindlessly charge at you, they can kill you if your not carefull or smart enough to fend them off. 
 Some enemies in the game are somewhat look horrifying that you might be scared enough to just ran 
 away from them rather than try to fight them. The battle system is nice and brutal but at first, 
 you'll pretty much get pounded by your enemies often before you manage to learn to block there 
 are attacks well enough. Graphics in the game are great. Your enemies may not look that much detailed 
 though they stil look nice. The lighting in the game is nice. The environment is reach in detail 
 including some important characters (including the protagonist) . The sounds in the game are nice 
 and trully fun. The voice acting also in the game is supreb. The music adds more things to the 
 games atmosphere which makes it even more scary.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins does have some some flaws though its nice, fun, and brutal battlesystem, 
 nice graphics, and great sound and music makes it great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  What Condemned Lacks in graphics it makes up for in cleverness.
  Sega's creepy survival horror FPS game have practically created their own game genre. Making a 
 game of a psychological thriller is a lot harder than it sounds and Monolith have pulled it off 
 perfectly.
  Condemned is a survival horror done in FPS style plus a whole new original idea of having to explore 
 crimescenes with state of the art technology.
  I know this game may look really slow and it would be a lie to say it wasn't but there is not a 
 single moment of boredom. Exploring the crimescenes is actually really great fun and for once your 
 holding something in first person that's not designed to kill people. Your character you play as 
 keeps getting these horrific visions and if that wasn't enough to scare you, brutally mangled, 
 deformed almost unhuman junkies and homeless people charge at you from behind walls beating you 
 over the head with whatever blunt object they can find nearly giving me a heart attack!
  The graphics could have been a bit better but it was an early 360 game.
  I don't know if the 
 sequel is going to continue on the story with the same characters but the end of this first condemned 
 game certainly seems like they have set it up for a sequel. The background sounds are great filling 
 you with suspense, stopping your heart and have you on the edge of your seat.
  I love the hand to hand combat in this game holding rusty bars and hunks of wood with bent nails 
 attached added to the horror. This is a brutal game (not for the faint hearted) the levels are 
 set in dark murky places that couldn't have any other place that would have suited this game as 
 much, Such as the abandoned Mall filled with manikins and the deserted train station.
  I found the AI in this game absolutely brilliant and I mean it.
  In no other game have i seen 
 enemies that will always go to grab the best weapon around them, hide behind walls and jump out 
 at you, run away when they are losing a fight, hide in the shadows and then crawl behind you and 
 sneak up on you, knock over stuff to slow you down and work together as a team to take you down.
 
  There could have been more save points around but I found this game easy enough anyway.
  From what I've seen the sequel is going to pack in a lot more horror and possibly improve on the 
 game so FPS fans do not be put off by the slowness of this game because its still a really great 
 game and chances are the sequel will deliver big too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is one of the xbox 360s first games and it was one that i did pick up... The stoty in 
 condemned has you play the role of a detective and you are chasing after a murderer and he kills 
 your partner and frams you know your running trying to fiqure out things while these werid people 
 are just attacking you and its your job to survive....
  
  The Graphics in condemned are spot it captures the feel of a horror game its dark theres the acassional 
 light flicker the dark room that you have know idea whats in and its just great looking the character 
 models are prety good and the designs arnt realy all that bad either its a prety good looking game 
 
  
  The sound.. Condemend captures sound perefectly the voice acting is great wherter it be a crminial 
 or a friend its pretty good and when you here a foot step comming from behind you and it delivers 
 a chil you know its good...
  
  The gameplay.... The game play however is not the games strong part. Its a FPS but you don't realy 
 shoot all that mutch i will explain later. The game itslef has you go threw the levels with i think 
 a few boss battles and you wil come sometimes woundering what to do as you are woundering some 
 people will come behind you and its prety freaky and I ofter found myself woundering around for 
 several minutes not realizing the obvise 
  
  The combat.... Condemed combat is realy repeditive you get a gun but its realy should be used in 
 desperete situations... the game will ofter have you grabbing a pipe or block of wood and even a 
 ax and each weapon is better for other things you will start to melle a enime and then he will 
 hit you and you will block bust out your tazor on him (wich is a fun weapon in the game wich never 
 runs out of amor ,well it has to charge) and hit him and this happens with bassicly every enimie 
 in the game.
  
  Some prety cool things sometimes when i would be woundering in a room and find a enmime i would 
 kill him here something behind me and there would be a guy right there and its pretty scary..
 
  
  Closing thoughts condemned is a nice but repeditive experince that horror fans will like and you 
 will want to play this game in the dark...
  The graphis 9.0
  Sound 10
  game play 7.0
  value 6.0
  overall 7.5
  my second opinion 6.0 because its so repeditive but it will slide with 
 a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kari_23
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  To be fair the only PROS I can think of for this game was that there were good graphics and great 
 audio. Moreover, the game is full of creepy environments that will get your heart racing. That 
 however, is where my praise ends. 
  
  Condemned Criminal Origins is one of the WORST games I have ever played and certainly, the worst 
 I have played on 360! Do not get me wrong, plenty people out there are going to like this game. 
 If that is what does it for you than all I can say is, you are a lot easier to satisfy then myself. 
 I had high expectations for this game, and it could have been something special, but for me Condemned 
 Criminal Origins fell way short of even being good. 
  
  This game is all about slashing! That is it! If you were expecting something more like me, than 
 you will be sourly disappointed. This game literally consists of slashing some druggies in a room 
 than two or three rooms later, slashing some more druggies. This is what occurs throughout the 
 whole entire game! It is like a bad nightmare that you keep having over and over the same exact 
 way. There is a bit of forensic work in the game that tries but fails horribly at giving you something 
 else to do. The forensic work is so easy and so brief I think the developers just threw it in there 
 on a whim. The whole reason I purchased the game was because I thought it was going to be a thrilling 
 mix of forensics, cinematic action and intelligent minds hot on the trail of a serial killer. Instead, 
 I got a slasher game that insults your intelligence and repeats itself more than Bill Clinton claiming 
 that he never had sexual relations with Monica. The game's storyline starts out good than goes 
 from worse to horrendous! I think Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs are more realistic than this 
 game. The fact that the FBI would act the way it does in this game is just down right impossible. 
 I felt insulted for them! 
  
  Please, Please do not waste your money on Condemned Criminal Origins if you are expecting and more 
 than slashing people in a creepy environment. If that is what you like than be all means buy the 
 game I am sure you will enjoy it, but for the people who are looking for a game with a bit more 
 intellect, and aptitude I would skip this one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATOMB
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is scary fun and very violent. The grfx are great the ambient sounds are spooky and set 
 the mood. This game has ez controls and keeps you at the edge of your set. No its not very deep 
 yet has a good story line or plot that keeps you wanting to know whats next.
  I wish there where more games like this. I am a picky gamer and this one makes the cut. It's not 
 perfect but it gets the job done and done well. This game reminds me of a resident evil and Silent 
 Hill sandwich served up with a side of CSI. 
  A must buy for any horror fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt31632
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Brought to the world by the team at SEGA and Monolith Productions comes Condemned: Criminal Origins 
 for the Xbox 360. Condemned is a First Person game, that puts you into the realm of a creepy psychological 
 crime thriller and takes you for some weird but awesome ride through it's horrific world.
  
  Condemned puts you in the shoes of FBI Agent Ethan Thomas, who at the beginning of the game 
 is with a small group of cops investigating one of the latest in a bizzare group of killings by 
 someone known as the "match maker". When you find that the killer is possibly still at the scene 
 of the crime, you go after him. After chasing this mysterious figure he attacks you, takes your 
 gun and shoots the two police officers following behind, then throws you out a window after saying 
 some bizzare mumbo jumbo. You awake at your place with a supposedly old friend named Malcolm Vanhorn 
 claiming to know you telling you that you must escape quickly as the police are looking to arrest 
 you, as they suspect that you killed the two cops, being that it was your gun that fired at them 
 and killed them. So trusting this man you escape as the police arrive at your place, and from then 
 on your on a quest to find the real killer and prove your innocence. 
  
  Gameplay 8/10- The gameplay is handled pretty well all around. You will use your tools to investigate 
 the crime which is quite easy to do. Though it would have been nice to include more freedom with 
 the forensic tools because theres not much thinking involved with them as they are only useable 
 when there is a spot where they are required. The combat is pretty good too. Depending on the weapons, 
 you can perform different attacks depending on what direction your moving in. Guns are powerful, 
 but you will find no ammo for them and are hard to find, so when you run out you can use it for 
 melee combat, but unlike melee weapons, the guns will break after so many successful hits, then 
 you will be weaponless until you pick up a new one, as you for some reason cannot punch. Though 
 you can always kick, which isn't too powerful and you have access to a taser which is very useful 
 and a great strategy for taking down foes with ease and when you stun an enemy you can have the 
 option to do one of four violent finishing moves snap their neck, slam there head onto the ground, 
 ram your head into theirs or serve them up a knock out punch to the face. They all look well done 
 but can get a little boring after a while as you can only do four different ones and will mostly 
 only do one of them through out the game. Though everything is very immersive along with realistic 
 movements, and tough and smart enemies which will toy with you at times to try and get an upper 
 hand on you. The enemies are very smart and like to mess with your head and hide in the shadows, 
 especcially in the department store. Hint: beware of the mannequins. Things can get boring after 
 a while due to the broken melee features, as it isn't really broken but just gets repetitive after 
 a few levels, and also due to the somehwhat very linear levels but the game still manages to be 
 a fun and very violently filled experience unlike any other. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- Everything looks great in the game. All the enviorments have a dark and creepy tone 
 to them. But there are a few things that could look a little better. The character models could 
 use a little bit of work on them, not that they look bad they just look a little weird looking. 
 The enviorments look great and all but could use some more lighted areas and different looking 
 locales, because after a while everything starts to look the same, and a bit uninspired. But the 
 game still looks good, as everything moves realistically, like when enemies are hit they will react 
 to the pain as a person in real life would.
  
  Sound 9/10- The sound is very well done. Everything sounds creepy, like it should. The enemies 
 will scream at you while attacking you and while in pain, and your character will do the same. 
 The voice overs are well done and everything sounds movie like. But game could also use a little 
 bit more of a soundtrack, as there isnt really much of one. The enemies could also use a bit more 
 work on there sounds as they all seem to sound the same. But overall the sound is superb, giving 
 off a creepy feel to it.
  
  Replay Value 7/10- Now there isn't that much replay value in this game there are still a few reasons 
 to keep playing. Theres different modes of difficulty as in most games which are easy, normal, 
 and hard. Then there are the achievments that can be earned to raise your gamerscore, and with every 
 achievment you will earn an award in the game, such as making of movies, and just stuff to help 
 you get a better understanding of the game. Most of them will be unlocked by finding all the dead 
 birds and metal pieces lying around througout the levels, with some levels containing secret tv's 
 that can be found to unlock other achievements. There are other things that you will need to do 
 to unlock the achivements/awards as well. Plus the game it's self is quite fun to play through 
 as well.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  Final Score 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a sick game, and when I say sick I mean sick in both ways, Awsome 
 & Bloody. I really enjoyed the story line and had a great time bashing, shooting and chopping other 
 killers. This was one of the first games I owned for the Xbox 360 when I bought it 3 years ago. 
 I traded Condemned in a year or so after I got it, but played it over and over with out getting 
 bore, and I still play it when ever I go to my friends house and I'm up late. Playing Condemned 
 at night made it much better and horrifying, I recommend this game if your looking for a great 
 first person shooter and don't care about multi-player being in a game like most people these days. 
 Condemned was truly a great play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The goal of this game is simple: Kill anything that tries to kill you. Right, so thats been used 
 in 80,000 other video games before. But this game does it a little differently. Let me explain:
 
  
  On the positive side: you can basically pick up anything and beat your opponent with it. The plot 
 is very interesting and keeps you guessing what will happen next. And, it is a unique approach 
 to a very straightfoward type of gameplay
  
  On the negative side: OOH!! Another brick wall. Looks like he could have used a map or a compass 
 or SOMETHING!!!
  
  Verdict: Very satisfying game that won't be in the $3.00 bin at your local car wash anytime soon. 
 This is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknotsoad
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is the sort of game where everything is believable, you spend many 
 hours trudging around some of the most depressing areas ever created in a videogame. An excellent 
 story, great graphics and sound and terrifyingly good gameplay combine to make this one of my favourite 
 xbox 360 games.
  
  Graphics
  To put it simply the graphics here are fantastic, the environments are dark, hostile and extremely 
 creepy, every are that you explore in this game is very different from the last, you feel as though 
 the buildings you are in have been left to rot and only the brilliantly creepy enemies would want 
 to be there, the fact that you use parts of the environment as weapons makes the whole thing all 
 the sweeter.
  
  Sound
  From the sound of your foes desperately fighting to stay alive to the great voice acting the sound 
 is universally great across the board. The sounds of weapons cracking into flesh and bone sound 
 so real you will end up wincing.
  
  Gameplay
  This really is a great game to play, armed with whatever weapons you can lay your hands on you 
 pace through darkened environments waiting to hear the slightest sound to alert you to the presence 
 of an enemy, combat is fast and furious, you attack and parry and can use your taser all to very 
 good effect, if you beat you opponent to within an inch of their life you can finish them off with 
 a head butt punch to the face and other equally vicious attacks. The story is well told and very 
 intriguing, it makes you want to play so as to solve what on earth is happening to you.
  
  Overall
  I really enjoyed this game, its blend of in your face combat and tense moments as you 
 try to work out what is going on are very unique to this game, on the down side it isn't very long 
 but what is here is fantastic, The story will hook you in like no other and keep you guessing till 
 the end (even after most likely) . This game can be found very cheap now witch makes getting this 
 essential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0d0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Back when Condemned was released I never had much interest in it. It looked cool, but several friends 
 who played the game said the gameplay got stale too fast and the levels feel all too similar. So 
 I never got it. But after seeing it for about 20 bucks used at GameStop I couldn't resist and bought 
 it.
  
  The storyline is okay. It starts off good; you are Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent. The game begins 
 with you being framed for the deaths of your fellow officers, and soon afterwards you have to (with 
 the assistance of your partner) hunt down the Match Maker to prove your innocence. Sounds simple, 
 but later on it gets a bit more complicated and in the end is hard to follow. The last level makes 
 little sense at all. But anyway I'll stop there; needless to say, it's strange.
  
  The game plays great, although it does get a bit tiresome. All areas of the game are condemned 
 - hence the title - with dozens of insane bums and criminals inhabiting them. Obviously, you must 
 fight through these enemies, with anything you can get your hands on. While you do get your hands 
 on some small firepower, most of your weapons are melee weapons taken from your environment. Pipes, 
 2x4s and Rebars are some common weapons you'll find. Others include crowbars, axes and sledgehammers. 
 All these weapons have different stats in the game: Damage, Speed, Block and Reach. Because you 
 can only carry one weapon at a time you must choose wisely. There's also as I mentioned earlier 
 some firearms but they all only hold one clip, and most of the time there's only a few bullets 
 left in the clip. So there will be many moments where you will have to choose - do you want to 
 drop that rare melee weapon for a couple bullets?
  
  It plays rather slow, not only with a slow movement speed but with lots of backtracking. Among 
 the game's weaponry are entry tools - weapons that not only function as melee weapons but also 
 as tools to get through certain obstacles. Weapons like axes and crowbars can be used to break 
 down doors and pry open lockers or safes. Some of these are optional and some are mandatory; if 
 you don't have the required entry tool you will have to go back through the level to find it, which 
 can get annoying. There's also many moments in the game in which you must investigate crime scenes 
 to further advance the story. The concept sounds great, but it's very simple and the game walks 
 you through it (the game selects what tool you must need, gives you hints as to where to investigate 
 etc.) . Overall it's disappointing and could have used a bit more work. 
  
  Graphics are great. Very dark and eerie. The addicts you'll encounter in the game are frighteningly 
 real, and actually look like they want to smash your face in with their weapons (which they'll 
 do if you don't fight back!) . Same goes for sound, after being hit enemies go mad and scream and 
 curse at you, swinging at you frantically.
  
  While Condemned is a fantastic horror game and does its melee combat well, it does get a bit repetitive. 
 While the levels are different from each other (subways, schools, apple orchards, department stores) 
 they're all basically the same in both gameplay and look. Condemned is definitely worth a rent, 
 and maybe a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The premise sounds inviting; you play a criminal investigator who has collected several case files 
 on serial killers. You get to survey crime scenes, collect evidence and solve mysteries, all without 
 the help of a smart-alecy talking dog. Unfortunately, what begins with a bang slowly turns into 
 a grind. The anticipation of investigation quickly becomes an unwanted feature, mostly because 
 no one likes the idea of getting whacked over the head with a gas pipe while taking pictures of 
 fingerprints. There are methods of gameplay that can remedy this, but honestly, it's hard to step 
 into the role of a professional investigator when your teeth are chattering like a cartoon character.
 
  
  * Gameplay: First-person "shooter" is not very accurate for this title, since most weapons are 
 of the found variety. Gas pipes, two-by-fours, crowbars, axes and sledge hammers are what is mostly 
 available. Each weapon has strengths and weaknesses which fit the material. Heavy sledgehammers 
 are slower but do more damage than a gas pipe, and so on. Picking up the occasional gun offers 
 no extra confidence, since running out of bullets happens faster than you would believe, and then 
 your stuck trying to pistol-whip that which does not take kindly to being pistol-whipped. Nothing 
 like a solid hunk of concrete swung around by a length of rebar to make a loony think twice about 
 messing with you. These manually dexterous battles are graphic, crunchy and brutal. That's another 
 reason to avoid guns; blunt-force trauma is so much more exciting. Of course, after the fiftieth 
 crack to the skull, neck snap, face slam or taser between the eyes, it gets a tad monotonous. To 
 break this up, you will be required to investigate scenes using a variety of impossible technological 
 tools, the kind that, if they really did exist, would mean sending robots in to do this work, not 
 people who get spooked by jumping shadows. The tools are pretty cool, using blacklights and spectrometers 
 to see and smell what the human senses cannot. The drawback to these moments is that you can still 
 be attacked, and clearing out a room before investigating is not always possible. The worst kind 
 are the "trail quests" that inevitably lead you down long, twisty sections just oozing with crazies 
 ready to pounce. Once evidence is transmitted back to the lab, you'll often hear your counterpart 
 on the other end analyzing the data and giving you feedback on what you've found and what it means. 
 What? Huh? I'm sorry, I can't listen to you right now because I'm in an insane department store 
 from Christmas Hell filled with wannabe mannequins that peeled their own faces off! Leave a message!!
 
  
  Interspersed with all this playground fun are flashes and cutscenes into the mind of a killer. 
 Or several killers. I never quite figured that out. As muddy as this is, the best moments develop 
 during the gameplay, having you running down corridors chasing (or running away from) things that 
 were never there. The ability of 'Condemned' to set a tone of menace and paint every scene with 
 disturbing imagery is its greatest strength. It's greatest weakness however, is the murkiness of 
 the plot, which left me more in the dark than half the levels I lived through. As mysteries go, 
 this one went, right out the door, and didn't even say goodbye. I know there was a killer, and 
 I know there was some killing. I know, because I saw the bodies. What I don't know is who was the 
 killer, what was the killerwas there more than one killeror am I the killer? And why the hell 
 did she hit me with a two-by-four? My headache is coming back.
  
  * Graphics: It's a wonder all these rundown tenements and commercial buildings haven't fallen down 
 on their own. The decrepit shambles in every corner of every room are faithful to the overall dread 
 you feel while wandering around. Trash is piled everywhere, containing vague shapes and stains 
 that match what's smeared on the walls and dripping through the ceilings. Every surface shows the 
 signs of neglect, misuse and vandalism. These levels aren't just dirty; they are downright nasty. 
 Take the grease and blood splatters in the cafeteria of the school. Was that blood cooked before 
 itnever mind, I don't really wanna know. If you prefer not to be subjected to this imagery, you 
 could always turn off your flashlight, but you won't get very far if you do. This game brings dark 
 and gloomy a whole new definition. The lighting and shadow play are staged to become the most effective 
 tool at scaring the fecal matter out of you. Even the pre-dawn light that streams through a few 
 areas seems like a laughing tease, knowing you will never find comfort in the daylight. In keeping 
 with the theme of isolating inhumanity, you never see anyone besides the crazies that attack you. 
 Oh, there are two supporting characters who make brief on-screen appearances, but you'll never 
 stop feeling you wish you had the safety of civilization to warm your cockles. During an encounter 
 with the seedier element, the lumbering wackos use shifty gaits and determined motions in your 
 presence, sometimes coming right at you, other times pacing as if deciding which of your organs 
 they'll want to sample after they pound your head in with a metal coat rack. Depending on the loony, 
 their skills at attacking vary, some being quicker and more accurate while swinging weapons, others 
 more clumsy and slow. When you manage to defeat one of these things, you usually have the option 
 to deliver a killing blow which adds a little something extra to the gore factor. More satisfying 
 is using the taser, which lights them up like a Christmas tree. The integrated flashbacks / flash-forward's 
 / flash-sideways come unexpected, turning your vision into a grainy black and white freak show 
 for a short time. I don't believe it was intentional, but the physics of the game result in items 
 and bodies that flap around a lot after being hit instead of settling down. It looks demented when 
 a body flaps around but silly when it's a cardboard box.
  
  * Sound: Survival horror games rely heavily on directional sound, both to help the player locate 
 enemies quickly as well as supply the player with an endless amount of seat-jumping. Bottles roll, 
 criminals mumble, footsteps are heard where nothing is seen, on and on. The soundtrack remains 
 very low-key, slightly industrial but never overt, only jumping to the foreground when a cutscene 
 is triggered. The voice-acting is surprisingly plentiful thanks to the use of a cell phone the 
 main character answers quite often. I felt the main character should have had more gravel in his 
 voice. There is no question that sound is used as effectively as it should be in all areas, with 
 some areas unrelenting in assaulting you with nerve-wracking audio. For this alone, it is hard 
 to play 'Condemned' alone in a dark room with a multi-speaker setup.
  
  * Value: Depending on how long you enjoy being creeped out, the shortness of the whole experience 
 could be good or bad. There's a reason you never see three-hour horror films. Ten levels are all 
 you get, all artificially extended by the amount of time you spend looking for birds and metal 
 pieces to unlock achievements. Due to the fact that the entire game has the same feel all the way 
 through, I don't feel the need to play through it again. There is no multiplayer.
  
  * Tilt: Stumbling through the darkness of the menacing city, I began to think for the character; 
 "I like this closet. It's off the beaten lunatic path, has three doors to open before you can get 
 in here, a heavy file cabinet I can push in front of the door, and has a nice bucket I can use 
 for all purposes until someone finds me. Or I starve to death. I'm just not gonna go back out there, 
 that's all there is to it. Nothing can jump at me in here. I'm safe. Warm. Alive." That pretty 
 much sums up my experience playing the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is amazing i cant believe the graphics on it the horror involved while playing my 
 god some of these crackheads have literaly scared the sh1t out of me. if you cant watch horror 
 movies do not pick this game up you will be having hallucinations about crackheads zombies and 
 coming up behind your and trying to beat the sh1t out of you with a 2x4 with nails in it. the A. I. 
 is very smart and complex they fend for their lives and while in a fight they may even go grab 
 a stronger weapon. but dont be scared of this after i cleaned up the sh1t all over my room i started 
 to enjoy it then something else would scare the sh1t out of me but its worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gator_Fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I just happened to pass this game one day, and took a look at it. I ended up buying it and have 
 played it ever since then. This game has one of the best plots and endings Ive ever witnessed besides 
 Halo3 and Doom3. But if you like walking around in the dark and like getting a good scare, purchase 
 this game. You wont regret it, and you will have second thoughts because you havent heard about 
 it, but trust me, its great. The only things bad about the game is its length and no online mode. 
 Dont worry though, both of those catagories are being treated in its sequel which releases in Q1 
 of 2008. Also is one of the prettiest games on the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jklbgdgklbnbn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  I recently bought this game at Wal-Mart for a bargain price of 19.99 and this game was worth the 
 money spent. I turned of the lights, grabbed a soda, and popped in the disc. This game has you 
 useing pipes and other objects to beat the holy-hell out of these bums/zombies! It's pretty fun. 
 But the levels seem the same for some reason. The storyline was poor. And the gameplay was repetative. 
 But this game is worth 19.99 due to the fact that you get to kill zombie/bums who pop out from 
 everywhere. it's SCARY! so rent this game first if you don't want to spend 19.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Games that creep me out are few and far between. I grew up playing Doom. I've beaten Resident Evil 
 (SS, DS, GC) , RE2, RE3, RE: CV, RE0, and RE4, Doom 3, and Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem. I've 
 also played Alone in the Dark: The New Nightmare. None of those prepared me for how creepy this 
 game is. The ambience is amazing. Enivronmental noises keep you on edge. Enemies are genuinely 
 psychotic. While not the best game graphically, the scares are plentiful. Controls are slightly 
 confusing at first but you should learn them fairly quickly. The story line is rather predictable, 
 but it serves its purpose. If you want a game to play alone in a dark room at night at a good price 
 then look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greencard123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  im mean i do hate how every level is like abandoned but i love the thrill i get playin this game. 
 cant wait until the secound one comes out condemmed bloodshot!!! hands down this is got to be nex 
 on my list nex to halo 3 ima get this new game cant wait i love it. every time i play this game 
 i get the intense like im really hittin people with sticks and stuff. this game is so cheap now 
 u can get this game for less than wat u can prob make one day working. really if u havent gottin 
 this game i suggest u get it because once u get it ur ganna be amased!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a little brother of F. E. A. R. produced by monolith team. In fear you faced super soldiers 
 and dealt with different fire armes but in condemned there is no super soldier. In condemned you 
 will encounter savages and serial killers. Don't play this game if you hate blood and gore. In 
 this game you can use different things as your weapon. For example axe, hammer, pipe, stick and 
 many other things, but it will not be very cool because it will bore you after some time. i think 
 the only thing that kept me to finish this game was its story. Story of the game is a real story 
 but unfortunately will leave you many unanswered questions, so you can continue it in Condemned 
 2 blood shots. this game may be ranked medium but it worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Since the day I played Eternal Darkness on the Gamecube a few years ago I've had an interest in 
 the horror-action-survivor games. Whether if it is the more popular series such as Resident Evil, 
 Silent Hill and Fatal Frame, or the less well known games such as Clock Tower 3 and Haunting Ground, 
 they hold a certain fascination for me. Maybe it's because at my age (44) they tend to bring a 
 bit more excitement into my comfortable, but rather mundane daily routine than other genres. About 
 a month ago I purchased a 360 and with my next paycheck I wasted no time in buying a copy of Condemned, 
 a game that I had heard many favorable reviews on. While it wasn't a perfect game, you'll see that 
 the positives definitely outweigh the negatives.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8) We start right out with a good example of what I'm talking about. You are an FBI agent 
 on the trail of a serial killer. The game is played from a first person perspective, and you will 
 have a lot of fights wherever you go. The combat is set up well, using the RT to attack, the LT 
 to block, and pushing on the RS to kick. Occasionally you will find a handgun or shotgun but the 
 limited ammo means that you will always be using them for a short time. Most of the time you are 
 using a variety of melee weapons such as pipes, boards, sledgehammers, axes etc. Each weapon has 
 a distinct feel as far as damage, speed and blocking is concerned. The thing is this combat pretty 
 much stays the same from start to finish. You won't be finding improved weapons or combat techniques, 
 you'll be sticking with the same method. However, it works so well that it really isn't a problem. 
 Now I'll admit I've never been in a fight where I was trying to kill someone with a shovel, but 
 this feels like it's giving you a very accurate simulation of what that would be like. I never 
 became bored with it. A nice little touch is that if your enemy gets to the point where he is almost 
 down you have the option of picking a fancy finishing move. The other part of the game involved 
 using your detective equipment to pick up clues at the different crime scenes. These parts of the 
 game ae nice in that it gives a break from the fighting, though there is really no challenge as 
 the game pretty much tells you what to do.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) Another example of not being perfect but still getting the job done. Most of this 
 game will take place in extremely run down and dirty environments, places that you would normally 
 not want to go anywhere near for fear of picking up a disease or an injury. Abandoned apartments, 
 subway stations, a school and a department store that has been closed for years are some of the 
 places you'll go on your investigation. These environments for the most part are very dark and 
 you will have to rely on your flashlight. The game does do a great job with the lighting and the 
 details but some of the areas will seem a bit repetitive as you go through hallway after similar 
 hallway. I know it would go against the general idea but I would still like to see an occasionally 
 brightly lit area in the sequel just for some variety. The enemies you face are very realistic, 
 not only in their detailing but also in their movement. Once again you will see some repetition 
 but the fighting is so frantic you won't be concerned about the fact that this guy looks like the 
 guy you fought ten minutes ago.
  
  SOUND (9) Sound is very important in this game. Because you will be spending most of your time 
 in dark environments you will be depending on hearing the approach of enemies before you see them. 
 This will be necessary because they have a nasty tendency to come up behind you or try to hide 
 around a corner before attacking you. If you keep your ears open, and especially if you have surround 
 sound speakers, you can hear them as they appoach and can tell from what direction they are coming. 
 The times that your protagonist has conversations is also well done and very believable. Music 
 did not play a huge part other than contributing towards a dreary and dark setting.
  
  VALUE (7) This game lasted approximately 10 hours, certainly not what would be considered a long 
 time. However, the intensity and the story itself fit in very well in this amount of time. To be 
 honest I was ready for this game to end after 10 hours, not because I didn't enjoy it but because 
 I was getting exhausted from the intensity! The game does offer a lot of different achievements, 
 and you can go back and replay the chapters if you want to try to find and unlock everything the 
 gme has to offer. I picked this game up for $18 so I felt it was worthwhile despite the relatively 
 short game time.
  
  SUMMARY Obviously this game is not for everyone. It definitely deserves its M rating for extreme 
 violence along with some other disturbing scenes. Certainly would not have children playing or 
 watching this game. I thought that the story was intriguing and the combat, while repetitive, was 
 still a lot of fun. This was one of those I gotta play just a little more, gotta see what's around 
 the next corner type of games. I won't give any spoilers but I have to mention one chapter in particular. 
 There is a point where you have to go through a shut down department store. The last ime the store 
 was open was several Christmas's ago and the decorations are still up and it seems like you can 
 still faintly hear Christmas music. As you go through the darkness you realize that the store still 
 has many mannequins on display. Imagine going through the dark with only a flashlight and having 
 these statues looking at you from every direction. It was a brilliant level, and one that I'm going 
 to have to go back to and check out again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to get this game, since I like horror and there aren't too many horror games out 
 there, but I personally found this game impossible to get into. Maybe I was expecting more FPS 
 action (which I love too) . Condemned had precious little. It's mostly melee combat with various 
 weapons you have to scrounge around for.
  
  I personally found the melee combat difficult, and unsatisfying. Maybe it was because I could never 
 block effectively. It worked once and a while, but not dependably for me. Unlike Chronicles of 
 Riddick, or Oblivion even, blocking is a swing, not a stance. So timing is everything. Enemies 
 that looked exactly the same seemed to have random difficulties. Some would go down easy and others 
 would take forever.
  
  The game struck me as very contrived thought the whole story: doors would close behind you which 
 cut off access to unused health packs, the inability to scavenge ammo from guns, the inability 
 to stick a pistol in your coat pocket while you get go get a shovel (but not a sledgehammer or 
 fire axe or crowbar) to bust some door open. The lab tech who can't really tell you much from the 
 evidence, and Malcom van Horn who keeps calling you to say, You got a gift! I gotta go! are just 
 annoying for most of the game.
  
  The design and atmosphere are superb though. Here the game really excels. The urban decay setting 
 is really effective. Many of the enemies are positively creepy. But your character, Ethan Thomas, 
 doesn't really blink an eye. All that CSI detective equipment he's carrying around and he doesn't 
 document any of the weird subway zombies, or other odd creatures that attack him. Some FBI agent.
 
  
  All in all, the core gameplay just didn't appeal to me, and the story didn't really deliver the 
 goods. This was the first game I've ever played where the Saving... messages for each checkpoint 
 were the most exciting moments in the game for me. I was glad to finish Condemned, just to be done 
 with it, but I won't be coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArsenicA
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  ok ive been playing Condemned for a week by now n i finaly beat that last nite... n man the last 
 boss fight gave me nightmares... i kid you not lol
  Condemned is kinda hard to describe is a Horror FPS/brawler.
  yeah i know its like Final fight 
 meets silent hill meets bioshock or something like that.
  ok the graphics n enviroments look so cool despite the fact its an old game. the model for the 
 main character looks fugly lol i know i mean they couldnt make him cute... at least not hideous 
 lol the voice acting is terrific the AI is pretty smart something that i think its great.
  the difficulty well i just played it on normal n its not hard but aint that easy im gonna try it 
 on hard to get the archivements im missing.
  the story is not that great at all its kinda easy to figure it out wuts gonna happen.
  combat 
 system. ok this is where it relly shines this game... wut game lets you beat bums with a shovel? 
 lol none that i can remeber lol i relly loves kicking butt. but i never really understood the block 
 system. sees kind of trial n error system more then timing. but even tho it was cool cool.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  if u like me n missed this game. maybe u should contemplate the idea of 
 giving it a try i know it has no MP... thats such a turn on specially for me since im some kind 
 of MP whore but its still fun fun walking throu dark hallways armed with whatever u may find from 
 conducts, 2x4nails/bolts or shovels or crowbars (ma favorite) or sledgehammers or fireaxes... yeah 
 u still can find firearms but its not as fun as using melee weapons plus u only have like 10 bullets 
 on every weapon u find. Bottom Line play this game its... unique.. u wont regreat it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Everyone has said it before but i'll say it again. 
  This game is SCARY. 
  
  And I know thats easy to say of a few games. But if you can get a grown man to actually be checking 
 behind his back whist playing a game, then you've done good.
  
  This fact alone is more than enough reason to buy this game. 
  
  But ontop of that, the graphics, 
 sounds and overall feel of the game just come together to give you what silent hill almost did. 
 
  
  The christmas store and school gym hall are the best bits and you've never wanted to stay and play 
 whilst wanting to get the hell out of there so much in your life.
  
  The bad points: yes the gameplay does get a bit repetative near the end but you are so wrapped 
 up in finding out what the hell is going on that you dont really care.
  
  BUY IT & PLAY WITH SOMEONE IN THE ROOM TO KEEP YOU COMPANY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  + Graphics and sounds are incredible, as well as dark and creepy.
  + Solving crimes, CSI-style.
  - The game's over before you know it.
  - Guns are almost completely 
 useless.
  
  Condemned was one of the first 360 games I bought, and just it really was one of the best looking 
 original games. It uses the F. E. A. R. engine but unlike F. E. A. R., you're not slowing down time to 
 take make a head roll. You're actually just solving a case, using a cell phone and some cool high 
 tech gadgets. The unique thing about this game is you get a lot of different weapons, but they're 
 mostly melee. Sure, you'll come across a shotgun or a pistol, but really, they're almost useless 
 to the game since you hardly get any ammo. However, the melee attacks are powerful enough. One 
 of the things that really just makes the game easy is the taser gun. It will bring your foe to 
 a stop while you beat him down, usually killing him. Sometimes if you beat them down without killing 
 them, they'll go into a stun daze, giving you several options of how to kill them. Snapping their 
 neck to even head butting them. It's a really violent game, which is always a good thing. There's 
 a few parts that will make you jump, but it's mainly from the enemies just showing up right in 
 your face while you've been walking around fighting nothing for a bit. The clue hunting is pretty 
 cool. Using an ultraviolet light, you can loot for footprints, fingerprints, or even blood stains 
 on walls. It's a pretty useful tool, especially when look for achievements. The real downfall of 
 the game is the length. It's decently long, but not really for more than a day. It's a great run 
 through, but then you really have no point to go through it again. Note to developers: please, 
 if you do a game like this, let us unlock anything to use the next time we go through it.
  
  The graphics are impressive, and they have to be. This game wouldn't work at all if you were 
 looking at a lit up room, trying to look for clues and crazy criminals. Most of the textures are 
 really beautiful looking, and the way the game plays through with the graphics and physics is just 
 amazing. One of my favorite little things about the game is watching your character bust through 
 a door with an axe. It's just really cool looking. The game is perfectly smooth all the way through. 
 The sounds are the same; really good, and they really add to the game.
  
  Adding some sort of multi player would have added a little bit to the game value. I don't really 
 mind tacked on multi player, as long as I have something else to do after the game ends. Overall, 
 I have to say the game is really fun to go through once, and has 2 good endings, but overall, unless 
 you just want to show off the game's melee attacks to some friends, not worth spending the money 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  In Condemned: Criminal Origins you play as FBI Agent Ethan Thomas while hunting a serial killer 
 titled as Serial Killer X . Along the way, you run into all sorts of druggies, (aka addicts ) where 
 you have to fight off mobs of swarming enemies with just peice of debris or a gun... if you can 
 salvage one. The game is great, because you dont just find guns and ammo all over the place. You 
 might kill an addict with a fireaxe, and then take his sawed-off shotgun to find only 1 bullet 
 left. Condemned is also packed full of different weapons and debris which you can wield as melee 
 weapons. My personal favorite weapon was the crowbar, (which you can use to open locked safes and 
 doors) but towards the last two levels you get different types of weapons like flaming 2x4's and 
 some of the most powerful ones. There are also different obsticles, like weakened wooden doors 
 that you can plow through with a fireaxe, or locked doors in which you have to smash the lock off 
 with a sledgehammer.
  
  So you can see now how good of a game Condemned: Criminal Origins is by reading the above, but 
 let me tell you my favorite part of the game.
  
  *SPOILER*
  
  At the very end of the game, you are given the opportunity to kill Serial Killer X, the guy that 
 put all this madness into place from the start, or let him live. You are faced up with him gunpoint 
 with a .45 caliber pistol and you can either pull the trigger, or let him live. Either way you 
 get 50 acheivement points for your choice, and you can even kill him, get the achievement for that, 
 then load up your last checkpoint which is right before you kill the last boss by ripping his metal 
 jaw off to get the other achievement.
  
  Condemned is easily one of my favorite action-horror shooters of all time and I really think you 
 should give this one a shot, especially for the mere price of 20 dollars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo of this game I was truely terrified, but having played the full game, it 
 didn't live up to any expectations. The game is quite boring, as every level seems so similar to 
 the last one. They just involve you wandering a dark building, trying to find something. Some of 
 these buildings are so dark you can't see where you are going, even with a torch. It gets very 
 repititive and on each level I found myself saying, How long untill this finishes and I get my 
 achievement? . You play as a detective, however you don't really detect that much. The first level 
 has you narrowly missing out on capturing the killer, and then the next 8 or so levels, have you 
 basically running from point A to B in search of him. A few more crime scenes along the way to 
 actually make you WANT to catch the killer would have been a good idea. The graphics are very last-gen. 
 You would be forgiven you were playing on an original Xbox console (and I play on an HDTV in 1080i) . 
 Sound isn't too impressive either - overall the whole game isn't too impressive. Unless you managed 
 to find the single player mode remotely scary, you may not want to replay the game and it may just 
 become another dust collector on your shelf. In summary, possibly one of the most boring games 
 available for the Xbox 360, and I suggest, unless you are totally desperate to play the game, you 
 give this one a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  You go through levels filled with drugged up people who seem to appear out of no where and beat 
 them down with almost anything that can be used as a weapon while trying to solve the crime by 
 looking for bodies left by a serial killer. Rich story and but somewhat strange characters that 
 take a while to get used to. Great weapons (paper cutter being my favorite) , slight scares throughout 
 the game making you watch your back at every turn. I ended up playing it several times through 
 to get the achievements that are hidden in each level. A must for the fans of horror FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-racer22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I was intrigued by the demo but not enough so to pay $60. I finally picked up a used copy for under 
 $20 and was very pleased.
  
  There are already a hundred other reviews you can read so I'm not going to give you a run down 
 on the game, just my impressions. I should also note that when an easy option is available, I generally 
 take it. I wont ever use a cheat in a game, but I will take advantage of this option when its presented.
 
  
  First and foremost this was a fun title. It did a good job of setting up a spooky atmosphere and 
 giving me the creeps. While the graphics were nice, after awhile all of the abandoned, burned-out 
 locations got a little repetitive. However, the developers tried to mix it up with some, at least 
 to me, unconventional locations such as a library or abandoned school. As stated you play from 
 a first person perspective and while there are some firearms available, this is first and foremost 
 a hand-to-hand combat experience. The weapons you encounter only have a few rounds and you never 
 find any spare ammo lying around. So, once you've expanded your ammo, its time to grab a lead pipe, 
 2x4, or anything else your able to get from the environment. Condemned provides you the ability 
 to harvest weapons from the environment such as electric conduit, paper cutter blades, desk drawers, 
 locker doors, etc. Most of your enemies also make use of the same tactic.
  
  A nice feature of this game is your ability to stun your opponent with a tazer , disarm them, and 
 then turn their weapon upon them. Your tazer has to recharge, so, you can't abuse it to heavily. 
 Another plus is that enemies are equipped with unlimited ammo. That can and will run out of ammo 
 and then pick up a melee weapon. So, if you want that shotgun the brutes using on you, you'd better 
 disarm him quick, otherwise, he'll expend his ammo and you'll have a worthless gun. And while you 
 can use the gun as a melee weapon, unlike the other make-shift weapons, this one will break after 
 a few hits.
  
  There is an excellent story to this title. You play an FBI agent on the case of serial killer. 
 It actually turns out that the serial killer you're tracking is being stalked by a serial killer 
 or serial killers. Hows that for ironic. This serial killer X gets the jump on you and uses your 
 weapon to gun down some cops. Now your a fugitive on the run trying to clear your name by bringing 
 serial killer X to justice.
  
  Luckily your lab tech at the FBI still believes in you and continues to provide support. The forensics 
 portion of this game is another interesting and novel mechanic. You have a number of special tools 
 available to you to locate and sample evidence. Fortunately you have a built-in ability to sense 
 forensic evidence which clues you in as to when and what tools to use. I'm torn on the decision 
 to implement this feature this way. On one hand, if they hadn't automated this, you'd spend forever 
 looking for clues where the were none and basically make the game a frustrating pixel hunt. But, 
 on the other hand, you never actually have any freedom to make choices regarding these tools so 
 it just comes off as pre-scripted, and while cool, makes it a bit of a let down.
  
  This is a pretty short game. I picked it up on a Saturday night and was finished by Monday night, 
 so, I'd guess about 8-12 hours on the easy setting. The achievements angle does add some re playability 
 for those obsessed with their gamer score, however, it can be frustrating when you enter one area 
 of a level and find yourself blocked from returning from an earlier portion. Forget to search that 
 one room, you're out of luck unless you restart. Its a minor quibble, but, still a frustration.
 
  
  If you haven't played it and own a 360, I'd recommend picking it up if you like shows like the 
 X-Files or FPS games. Based on my experience with this title, I much more likely to pick up the 
 sequel when it gets released instead of waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Designer1: So I met a homeless crack-addict on my way over here today...
  
  Designer2: Oh yeah?
  
  Designer1: Yeah.. and though I ended up tossing him a quarter a part 
 of me just wanted to bash his face in with 2-by-4. A BIG part.
  
  Designer2: O-oh! Should I speed-dial Dr. Stanlon now, or do you think you have it under control 
 this time??
  
  Designer1: No, no, no -- this isn't one of my spells , I really just wanted to hit him in the face 
 with something nearby.
  
  Designer2: Man.. You're just WRONG!
  
  Designer1: Oh come on - are you honestly telling me that you've NEVER felt the same way?
  
 
  Designer2: Yes, Robert, that's what I'm telling you.
  
  Designer1: C'mooooooon...
  
  Designer2: No!
  
  Designer1: C'mooooooooooooooooon...
  
  Designer2: ..... ALRIGHT! Of course 
 I do! We all do! Goddammit - what do you want from me???
  
  Designer1: I want to make a game - all about beating up homeless people with nearby objects! I 
 call it Hobo-Bash 2000!
  
  Designer2: Surely you jest! How are we gonna get away with that?
  
  Designer1: Don't rain on 
 my parade, dude! We'll just make them evil or something, not that I believe that your average crack-head 
 is a particularly nice guy anyway, but - we'll make it sinister and paranormal.
  
  Designer2: Yeah... YEAH - beating evil hobos, I can totally see myself doing that, and we're also 
 tapping into a highly overlooked part of the market!
  
  Designer1: Beating them with boards, pipes and.... paper-cutters muhahahahaha!
  
  Designer2: 
 Yessss - Hohohohoho! Release the gimp and get him started on the programming!
  
  Do you see yourself in any of those two characters above? Good - read on, you sick bastard!
  
 
  You play FBI-guy out to catch a Se7en-esque serial-killer. But something goes all wrong and suddenly 
 YOU'RE the one in trouble. So now you're all alone out there, expelled by the Feds with only one 
 friend on your cellphone on a name-cleansing hunt for something that just grows darker and darker 
 until you're staring into the pits of madness and find a madman staring back at another madman 
 behind you who's glaring at the back of your mad head into the... etc, you get the picture. So as 
 a result of this, all the hobos, vagrants, crackheads and drifters have gone totally bonkers and 
 are all out to stop you from reaching your goal. And all you have to defend yourself with is whatever 
 you can find in the derelict scenarios. Planks, pipes, lockerdoors, 2-by-4's stuff like that (you 
 also have a tazer) . Of course you WILL also happen upon the occasional firearm, but the game is 
 really all about the brutality of up close'n personal melee mayhem. And boy is it IN YER FACE. 
 From the very first combat you get a distinct feeling that this game really shouldn't be. But once 
 that adrenaline starts pumpin' - who cares about right or wrong - wholesome or sick -- you just 
 wanna smash in some teeth before you'll be picking your own up from the ground. The fighting system 
 is very simple, RT attack/LT block (plus some really hardcore finishing moves) , but stays intense 
 thoughout - which is quite a testament to the atmosphere and mind-set the game puts you in. For 
 boy, does this game lay it on you... This is truly horror-gaming at it's very best. I won't talk 
 about any specific moments, that'll just ruin it, but I'm a pretty sturdy guy when it comes to 
 horror yet this game has given me some of the most horrific moments delivered by any media. Ever. 
 I don't know why everbody got so riled up about FEAR - in my book - this is the real McCoy and 
 makes it's own horror, instead of just copying popular movies. It's just you with a flash-light 
 at the mercy of some truly depraved game-designers, let's leave it at that. If I'd have to whine 
 about something, it would be the somewhat boring investigation parts of the game. Mind they aren't 
 plenty nor prolonged, but they seem a bit pointless, since you're told exactly which phorensic 
 tool to use and where... So it's not like you're actually using your brain here, but... a little 
 break from all the bloody chaos can actually be rather nice, so I wouldn't want it completely removed 
 either. A little more interaction is probably what's needed - make it into small puzzles - that 
 would work better.
  The visuals and sound are just peachy, and in my book - I actually found the graphics to be better 
 than FEAR, but others say I'm insane. Nevertheless it's great stuff. Let's wrap it up, shall we? 
 This game is hardcore - all the way and reaches new levels of ultra-violence in games. Maybe we 
 were never meant to reach that high, but Monolith did, and this is what they came back down with. 
 It's sick, twisted and really, really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was actually my first game on the Xbox 360 when i bought it on December 2005 with Perfect 
 Dark Zero these two games set off the launch i would say. Condemned kicks off as a man named Ethan 
 Thomas who is an FBI agent who has been known to solve most cases using special instincts being 
 able to see more on the Crime Scene than anybody else. Im really terrible at this part since i havent 
 played this in a while but i think the villan in the Game i some drug addict that makes his gang 
 members crazy by drugging them making them Brutal, akso birds drop dead to strange eh.
  
  The Graphics: Graphics in condemned were very immpressive when i first played it the game has well 
 detailed textures and nice lighting although you dont seem to see much of it in this game.
  
  The Sound: Sound is Thenomanal It actually sounds like a true next gen experince with Surround 
 sound.
  
  The Cons: It is really easily to get lost in this game due to the fact that alot of corridors are 
 dull making it hard to find you way. Also combat can be a bit tough at some times
  
  Conclusion: Condemned is a great game but it does have some cons although if you own a 360 i would 
 reccommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely falls into that under-ground cult hit category. Reviews for this game have 
 been solid, but it surely wasn't loved by the press, but if you look around on the forums you'll 
 see that the game gets a lot of love from gamers, more so then games that got even better reviews 
 (similar to games like Killer7, Crackdown, Excite Truck, Godhand, etc.) .
  
  Why does it get so much love? I think mostly because the game is very immersive. If you play this 
 game with the lights off without any distractions you are going to totally get immersed into its 
 world. It has very nice graphics, particularly the environments, the music and sound effects are 
 down-right nerve-tingling, and the story is very good (what the hell is the gamespot reviewer talking 
 about) . It takes a lot for a game to get me hooked and this game did just that. My biggest criticism 
 is that the enemies were too similar. There weren't many different types, and many would look exactly 
 the same. For a game that is so immersive, it definitely hurts the believability of the world when 
 you see the same enemy character model over and over.
  
  It might also be too short for some with just 10 levels, but for me personally it was of decent 
 length, I don't like long games (because I never finish them) .
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and is something that needs to be experienced by all 360 (or PC 
 owners) . It has good graphics, good audio, a great story, and is quite addictive. It doesn't have 
 much replay value, but it does have some stuff to collect in each level (birds &amp; metal plates) 
 so it has some replay value. I got this game for $18 dollars at gamestop/ebgames, I am happy with 
 my purchase, but if you prefer you can also rent this game as it's definitely doable in a couple 
 of days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaBear421
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  There are so many things about Condemned that I truly loved but too many things the bugged me to 
 the point of frustartion. I truly enjoyed the unsettling, hair raising environments of the game 
 as well as the creepy as hell enemies. I also found the pacing of hand to hand combat to be a refreshing 
 change from the run and gun action I was used to. The story and characters also did a good job 
 of drawing me in. The issues I had mainly consisted of repetitive gameplay, which set in a little 
 to quick for a fifteen hour or so game. The other, more glaring issue, came from the fact there 
 was no explanation for some of the major plot points. So now I have to hope for a sequel with all 
 the answers. Bottom line is: Condemned almost hits a homerun, but misses the mark by a few feet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Combat
  
  Although the game is played entirely from a first person perspective (only broken for cut scenes) 
 it is not a traditional first-person shooter. Firearms are present, but are somewhat uncommon. 
 Unlike many other first-person shooters, though, firearms are especially deadly, often killing 
 enemies with a single shot. The guns that can be found, or taken from enemies, are only good for 
 as long as the current ammo in the magazine lasts; once this is depleted, the butt of the gun can 
 be used as a weapon. To complicate matters further, enemies operate firearms from the same ammo 
 reserve, meaning once the enemy has been dispatched, the player only gets what ammo was left over 
 from the fight. This encourages players to attack enemies with firearms quickly.
  
  The focus of the experience is on improvised m&ecirc; l&eacute; e, allowing players and enemies to 
 collect, or even pull, weapons from their surrounding environments, such as pipes, shovels, and 
 2x4s. The word often employed by the developers of the game to describe the combat is 'visceral'. 
 A Duke Nukem 3D style quick-kick is available for attacking without, or alongside, a hand held 
 weapon, and attacks can be unleashed in different directions and configurations, such as left to 
 right or overhead, but combat is notable for not utilizing a combo system, unlike similar titles 
 such as The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. In many cases, blocking is necessary 
 both before and after landing a successful hit.
  
  The artificial intelligence displayed by enemies requires the player to think on his feet a great 
 deal more than similar games. Enemies are able to flee and hide effectively, often surprising the 
 player by quickly appearing from a concealed spot. Enemies can also effectively feint, in order 
 to trick the player into blocking at an inopportune time, leaving themselves open for the real 
 attack.
  
  It should be noted that although there are sharp weapons in the game, one cannot stab or dismember 
 enemies. In fact, the player can almost never wield an actual knife or sword (the usual melee weapons 
 in first person games) , with the exception being in the School level, where you have brief access 
 to a meat cleaver. Some m&ecirc; l&eacute; e weapons fall under the class of entry tool, (like a 
 fire ax for a rotten door, or a crowbar for a locked safe) and act as keys in the gameworld, allowing 
 the player to access new areas or locked boxes.
  
  The player also has a taser gun which when used stuns the target, does some damage and allows the 
 player to seize the stunned enemy's weapon. Later in the game, it also becomes very damaging, causing 
 the enemy's legs to give out. Common uses for it are safely attacking enemies with guns (since 
 it allows players to stun them from a distance and then seize the gun while the enemy is incapacitated) , 
 countering an immediate attack since using the taser does not require the precise timing that blocking 
 does and obtaining the chance to make a free hit (a hit where the player does not risk being hit 
 first) . However it has to recharge between shots so it cannot be used to bypass the games system 
 of carefully fighting enemies.
  
  The entire game takes place in derelict urban environments, with minimum lighting. The player must 
 use their flashlight to navigate through the game's constantly darkened environments, while dealing 
 with frequent enemy ambushes.
  
  Near the end of the game the player loses both the flashlight and the taser. This means all strategies 
 which required the taser become impossible and the only personal light source becomes burning planks 
 which means carrying a gun reduces visibility. This effectively forces the player to rely exclusively 
 on blocking, hiding and evasion for defense and close range attacks for offense.
  
  Crime Scenes
  
  Condemned directly involves the player in crime scene investigations, offering 
 the ability to, at the press of a context-sensitive button, call upon a suite of forensic tools 
 to find and record evidence. The player character is linked to an FBI lab via his mobile phone 
 throughout the investigation, allowing (almost immediate) remote examination and analysis by his 
 support worker. Crime scene evidence can be used to solve puzzles, allowing the player to pass 
 previously impassable barriers, and provide clues to the overall mysteries of the story.
  
  Examples of evidence include fingerprints, footprints, fibers, fluids (such as blood or chemicals) , 
 particles, residues, markings/etchings, material, imprints, wounds, small objects, documents, and 
 body parts.
  
  Instincts
  
  The player character is gifted with the instinctual ability to detect when forensic evidence is 
 nearby, allowing players to bring up the detection and collection tools when appropriate. However, 
 the instincts of the character only vaguely highlight the area in which the evidence resides, it 
 is up to the player to methodically sweep the scene and catalog any findings.
  
  Plot synopsis
  
  In Metro City , disturbing events are unfolding: in abandoned areas, violent 
 crimes are increasingly prevalent amongst the homeless, addicted, and deranged. The police are 
 helpless and avoid treading within these places, both because they fear for their own safety and 
 because colleagues assigned to such locations seem to become increasingly violent themselves. Strange 
 localized audio linked to all this is also affecting birds, causing them to flock to the affected 
 areas and die of induced brain hemorrhaging.
  
  Prologue
  
  In response to a police call, FBI agent and protagonist Ethan Thomas arrives on a homicide crime 
 scene in an abandoned building. On-scene evidence shows a modus operandi matching that of the Match 
 Maker, a serial killer who abducts and strangles young women, posing them in twisted tableaux with 
 male department store dummies, their faces always partially disfigured.
  
  While Thomas collects evidence, which shows that the Match Maker is missing his right index finger, 
 after smelling cigarette smoke and later hearing loud shuffling noises it becomes apparent that 
 there is still someone nearby: the cops scramble to find him, but the man evades them and is also 
 able to take Thomas' firearm while Thomas is briefly incapacitated from an electrical short. Thomas 
 escapes immediate danger, but is later again ambushed by the killer, who spares Thomas for unknown 
 reasons. Before the fellow police find Thomas, the killer states: ... don't mess this up for us. 
 We are on the same path of righteousness. The killer then hears the door open and the cops shout 
 for him to drop the weapon. He does exactly the opposite, turns and fires at them then hitting 
 Thomas in the head and dragging him for a quick second to push him out the window and onto a car 
 roof.
  
  Subway station
  
  Later that night, Thomas awakens on his apartment couch after an eerie dream about being attacked 
 by a strange man-like creature. Standing over Thomas is Malcom Vanhorn, an old friend of his deceased 
 father, who warns him to flee the police: the two dead officers were killed with his gun and with 
 his disappearance from the crime scene, it appears that he was the murderer.
  
  Now wanted himself, Thomas flees to the adjacent metro station and finds evidence of the killer 
 showing a distinct interest in his Bureau career. Fortunately, Thomas' FBI lab worker Rosa still 
 trusts him and continues analyzing the evidence he is collecting on his quest to prove his innocence.
 
  
  Thomas traverses the station fighting off violent squatters and their ilk, all the way following 
 the real killer to his hiding place. Aware that he is being hunted, the killer manages to lose 
 Thomas, who continues investigating. He finds a second hideout supporting evidence found on the 
 initial crime scene, and also linking him to a Burnside department store.
  
  Department store
  
  Thomas is forced to visit the abandoned criminal-infested Department Store, 
 with evidence and a residual blood trail leading to another Match Maker tableaux. This time, the 
 dummy is female, and the victim male. The victim's facial markings match that of the earlier male 
 dummies and surprisingly is also missing his right index finger. As fingerprints confirm, the corpse 
 is the Match Maker himself.
  
  Library
  
  Puzzled by this, Thomas and Rosa surmise that someone is tracking down serial killers and murdering 
 them with their own methods, a killer of killers whom they name Serial Killer X . The two rendezvous 
 in the downtown library, currently closed for extensive repairs; intending to find an operating 
 computer terminal which they can use without fear of FBI monitoring. Evidence from the Metro hideout 
 suggests he concluded 7 out of Thomas' 9 serial killer cases: they assume the Match Maker to be 
 8, which leaves number nine, The Torturer. 
  
  There, Thomas is shown an addendum to his personnel file; in addition to superhuman bone and muscle 
 density plus a hyperactive brain serotonergic system, his chest x-ray has the esophagus and larynx 
 areas redacted, with the revelation that the redaction has its own special highly-classified and 
 inaccessible addendum. Shortly thereafter Rosa is kidnapped and forced to detail the Torturer's 
 Modus Operandi to Serial Killer X. When reunited, they link the Torturer's hideout to newspaper 
 reports of Mr. Tibbits, a recently-missing ex-teacher who provided information on him. Serial Killer 
 X is eavesdropping on their discussion and once discovered, flees the library, thus forcing Thomas 
 into a race to find The Torturer and Tibbits.
  
  School
  
  Thomas and Rosa identify the Torturer as Carl Anderson, a former student at a local secondary school. 
 Believing the school to be the Torturer's hideout, Thomas goes there to investigate. The run-down 
 school is infested with deformed, emaciated people, led by a huge and insane cleaver-wielding lunch 
 lady. Fighting his way past them, Thomas manages to find Tibbets hiding in a locker, with his lips 
 and right arm cut off; but still just barely alive. Before finally dying, the man manages to tell 
 Thomas that someone knocked out Anderson and took him away.
  
  At the crime scene, Thomas finds traces of a restricted pesticide, which he links to Serial Killer 
 X. Coupled with prior evidence, Rosa sends Thomas to the rural town of Brier, where an outlying 
 and dilapidated apple orchard uses the same item.
  
  House
  
  Thomas gets Vanhorn's help, who drives him to the orchard and drops him off at the main house. 
 Thomas finds scattered mysterious writings and is attacked by a strange man-like creature which 
 resembles the ones from his earlier visions and disappears when killed. Alerted by a heavy noise, 
 Thomas finally locates Carl Anderson, who has committed suicide by impalement on a fireplace poker 
 after being extensively mutilated. Before Serial Killer X can return, Thomas switches places with 
 Anderson and plays possum, ambushing the killer. Thomas battles Serial Killer X while chasing him 
 throughout the house, but after landing several blows is knocked unconscious from behind by Vanhorn. 
 The killer is revealed to be Vanhorn's nephew Leland. Vanhorn tries reasoning with Leland, saying 
 that he's not in his right mind but can be helped. Leland responds by strangling Vanhorn unconscious.
 
  
  Showdown
  
  Thomas wakes up to find himself at the mercy of Leland Vanhorn: he reveals using Thomas to find 
 serial killers, and then killing them by their own methods. As Leland speaks, on the rafters Thomas 
 sees a man-like creature similar to but significantly more mutilated than the one he fought earlier, 
 watching. Meanwhile, Leland taunts Thomas, then cuts off his left index finger with a combat knife. 
 Before Leland can harm Thomas further, he is suddenly jumped from behind by Malcolm Vanhorn, who 
 wrestles his nephew to the ground. As Thomas breaks free of his bonds, Vanhorn yells to him Quickly! 
 You must find and destroy 'It'. 'It' has caused all this madness. Go! Kill it now! 
  
  The creature taunts Ethan, telling him You belong to us Ethan. You have always belonged to us . 
 Thomas tracks the creature across the orchard, fighting off deformed freaks as well as a few of 
 the strange man-like creatures. Thomas finally confronts the main creature in the roof of the Orchard's 
 barn, and succeeds in killing it by ripping out its metal prosthetics.
  
  Ending
  
  Thomas returns to Malcolm Vanhorn and they drive back to town. Vanhorn tells Thomas that he can 
 never go back to the Bureau or his old life. He has seen the visage of hate. They are the ones 
 who drive people to violence and murder. Along the way and much to Thomas' dismay, he discovers 
 that Leland is alive and in the trunk of the car: the agent wishes to exact revenge from the killer 
 and the older Vanhorn protests, pleading that both Thomas and Leland still have a chance at redemption. 
 After Thomas argues with Malcolm, Malcolm pulls out a gun and several of the creatures from before 
 surround Thomas and Malcom and mutter things in the background. It zooms in on Thomas' face and 
 as a possible easter egg you hear a rambling that is not major to the storyline and is just a random 
 rambling. The voice says Power for life or Cower for life At this point the player is given the 
 option of taking revenge or showing compassion. If the player chooses to shoot Serial Killer X, 
 the scene ends. If the player chooses to spare him, Serial Killer X pulls out his own gun and aims 
 it around at both Malcom Vanhorn and Thomas. He then puts the gun to his mouth and pulls the trigger.
 
  
  Some time later Rosa confronts Thomas in a diner after the whole debacle, informing him that the 
 Bureau can link the whole thing to an ancient cult: Thomas finds the idea preposterous, but is 
 unable to provide any evidence to the contrary. While Thomas wishes to tell Rosa all he knows, 
 she warns him with a note that she's wired, so in the end Thomas says nothing. When Rosa leaves, 
 Thomas enters a bathroom. When he enters the lights flash a little and he begins a small cough. 
 He throws up all over the sink and moves in to wash his face, and as he does so one of the creatures 
 appears behind him in the mirror. The screen darkens for a second as Thomas brings his head up 
 slightly. The screen goes back to normal view as Thomas quickly turns toward the screen roaring, 
 revealing that his face has transformed into a mutated visage with a metal jaw, similar to that 
 of the creatures.
  
  Characters * Ethan Thomas: An FBI investigator with a highly successful record, due to his possession 
 of supernaturally keen investigative instincts. Thomas has psychic visions throughout the game, 
 and later in the game it is revealed that he has superhuman muscle and bone density, a hyperactive 
 serotonergic system, and something mysterious in his esophagus and larynx. Thomas' superhuman durability 
 is demonstrated several times throughout the game, such as recovering within seconds from electrocution, 
 a 2-story fall, being thrown from a speeding subway train, and by being slammed repeatedly against 
 the wall by mysterious forces. He is voiced by Greg Grunberg of recent Heroes fame. * Lieutenant 
 Rosa: Thomas' forensic investigator at headquarters. Thomas sends Rosa crime scene data electronically 
 using his data collection tools, and Rosa analyzes and interprets the data for him. She trusts 
 Thomas, and continues to help him clear his name after his is framed for murder by Serial Killer 
 X. * Malcolm Vanhorn: An old friend of Thomas' father, Malcolm assists Thomas at various points 
 throughout the game. He appears to know more about the mysterious phenomena gripping the city than 
 he lets on. * Serial Killer X: A serial killer who hunts and kills other serial killers, executing 
 them using their own methods. He has been following Thomas' career for some time, using Thomas' 
 investigation into serial killers to help him track down his victims. Thomas begins hunting SKX 
 after the killer frames him for the murder of two cops. SKX is eventually revealed to be Leland 
 Vanhorn, the nephew of Malcolm Vanhorn. Malcolm believes that Leland is not in his right mind due 
 to the influence of the creatures, and is not responsible for his actions. * Farrell: Thomas' superior 
 at the FBI, Farrell seems convinced that Thomas is guilty. Farrell makes occasional calls to Thomas 
 over his cell phone, at first trying to convince him to turn himself in, then later threatening 
 him and Rosa. * The Dark Creatures: Strange, mutilated man-like creatures with pieces of metal 
 protruding from various parts of their bodies. They wear torn black robes, and fight with long 
 metal sticks in a style based on eskrima. Thomas has visions of these creatures stalking him throughout 
 the entire game, and finally ends up fighting a few of them in the game's final levels. The game's 
 final boss is a creature with more metal piercings and mutilations than the rest. They are known 
 as Dark Watchers by their model names. Forensic tools
  
  Detection tools * UV Light - The UV Light's primary function is to detect traces of blood visible 
 and invisible to the naked eye causing it to stand out brightly if within the light range of the 
 device. It will illuminate the immediate area directly ahead of the device with a purplish light. 
 * Laser Light - The Laser Light device produces a relatively small cone of light that's greenish 
 in color. It's capable of illuminating latent pieces of evidence invisible to the naked eye, causing 
 it to stand out brightly if within the light range of the device. * Gas Spectrometer - The Gas 
 Spectrometer monitors the presence of a foreign substance in the air, displaying its concentration 
 in a meter. The player can use the meter to track down the pollutant's source such as fumes most 
 notably methane gas emitted by decaying flesh.
  
  Collection tools * Sampler - The Sampler evaluates the chemical makeup of a piece of evidence and 
 transmits that back to the lab for identification and evaluation. * 3D Scanner - The 3D Scanner 
 captures the three dimensional aspect of evidence and transmits the information back to the lab. 
 * Digital Camera - The Digital Camera is used to capture images that are transmitted back to the 
 lab for evaluation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsdavis6
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  i think this is a really good game, just gripping even if not the most advanced technology for 
 a game on the xbox 360. I played it in the dark and it certainly gave me one or two jumps if im 
 going to be honest. I eagerly await the sequel and just hope it can live up to what i consider 
 to be a reallu good game. Definately in my top 7 360 games. I personally would compare it to bioshock, 
 but go as far to say its better. Simple but effective and good value for money. Its got replay 
 value as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Condemend is a well made and fun to play game that combines elements of an fps with a good melee 
 fighting game with an excellent survival horror story. The game has a very creepy atmosphere and 
 the sound is also very eerie. The graphics are excellent. The story is top notch and the voice 
 acting is good too. The enemies have a pretty good AI and although the game gets a little repetitive, 
 it never gets boring. The wide variety of weapons keeps things interesting. There are some good, 
 and one very good jump scenes, and the creepy enemies lurking in the shadows are unnerving, especially 
 in the department store. The story leaves you guesiing at the end and looking foward to the upcomong 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok so whats great about this game? Actually a lot. The levels are creepy and have well placed noises 
 and scares. I enjoyed running around all over the place and looking for clues and fighting baddies. 
 However there was one little thing that made me borderline dislike the game. AMMO TRANSFER I mean 
 this if I have two identical 12g shotguns, one with 2 shells and one with 3 shells, WHAT IN THE 
 HELL KEEPS ME FROM COMBINING THE 2?! I will tell you what dumb programmers who are freaking morons. 
 That maybe the dumbest thing I have seen in programming in the last 3 years. Who does that?! And 
 dont tell me its suppose to be melee. F that! I will shoot someone whenever I want! Games are 
 better when they let you do what you want i. e. the GTA series. When they make the sequel lets hope 
 they fix the problem and maybe I will buy it. Also I dont want a max of 5 shells. NO respectable 
 shotgun worth its weight has less than 7 shells in it. And if you are going limit me to 5 I better 
 be able to carry more ammo than what I can put into the gun. What?! This joker doesnt have pockets? 
 Heck I think he has a man bag, lol! Give me a break and spare me an aneurism, I want guns glorious, 
 glorious guns to blast my enemies straight to hell if I choose to. Make melee combat an achievement 
 not a requirement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The game is very dark for Sega but it is a very good game. The graphics are great and when you 
 think your safe someone pops out of the corner. It is a great game to play in the dark cause trust 
 me you'll jump. Many people are renting this game but they should be buying it for how good the 
 game is. Anymore people just want achievements but they should play the game for the game itself 
 because it is a truly awesome game. All I have to say is watch the storyline closely and you will 
 see how great games are so play this game and have fun. This being one of the first games released 
 and still one of the best, and they are in the process of making a sequel, so play through this 
 one and I guarantee you will build up some hype for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  When my friend actually gave me his first 360 game he ever got, before he got a 360 i might add, 
 I almost couldn't take it. But when I started playing and beating guys senseless with blunt objects 
 and shooting them in the face, I loved it. This game seriously had an impact on how games' graphics 
 would look in the later years. For a 360 launch title, the graphics are still amazing. This game, 
 if you haven't played it before, will scare you alot. Guys jumping up through the ground and pulling 
 you down a floor, freaky The Ring-like girls bursting out of lockers, guys dressed up like mannequins 
 and scaring you **** The scares don't let up and neither does the action. This game features some 
 of the greatest first person melee combat ever, and anything that looks like it could hurt is a 
 weapon. Rebar, Locker Doors, Boards pried off walls, anything can be used to mess up the insane 
 **** who all want you dead.
  
  Pros: Graphics are amazing, Story is creepy and really cool, Scares abound, Melee combat at its 
 finest.
  
  Cons: Playing through it again ruins the scares and surprise factor, Can be a little hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is one of many survival horror games that have come out withen the recent years. I borrowed 
 it from a friend not knowing what I was in for. Luckily I was given a worth my time experience 
 that I won't nessisarily forget about, but in about a year I'm not going to say Thats so Condemmed 
 Criminal Orgins! The game sets you as a FBI detective who is investingating a serious of gruel 
 murders yada yada yada on to what you care about. The story is pretty well done and has one of 
 the most absurd plot twists in the history of games, Won't say much about that because you'll know 
 after you play it. The combat is all mostly melee focused and for the most part is pretty well 
 done. Although i could never get ahold of the art of blocking, I found the blocking to be a little 
 bit clunky. Also the A. I. is worth a mention, they are pretty smart and will run around and hide 
 and try to get the jump on you leading to some pop out of no where moments. Nothing to scray though. 
 The Characters are scary, from a prison con, to a seriously messed up killer, theres never a dull 
 moment. The game creates a creepy atmosphere and with some well placed sound effects, makes the 
 world almost seem real. Creaks from people running around, knocking things over, its a pretty frightning 
 scene. Although to step away from that I must mention that you use forensic tools to solve some 
 of the puzzles in the game. For such a cool idea, one would think you would have to use what tool 
 you thought you had to use for a specific situation. But, sadly, the developers thought that holding 
 your hand would be the best option. Sure wielding the tools is fun, but it seems thier walking 
 you through the game instead of you playing it. Overall The game looks life like, pretty good character 
 animations, the sound is impressive and as it should be for a game like this. I'm would warn you 
 people who want to jump into this game late into its release date, rent it. The game can be completed 
 in about, give or take 10-15 hours depending on your level of gamer skill. Its a no buy for me. 
 Its just a fun game in your cup of xbox 360 until other amazing games like Bioshock come out. Happy 
 Hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronjob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  For an XBOX 360 release title, Condemned is a good looking, enjoyable game with a simple but well-done 
 fighting system. The atmosphere is dark, engrossing and chilling. The graphics are decent as is 
 the audio.
  
  Sadly, the mature story line is far too short and falls apart at the end with an insane and absurd 
 twist. The 'interactive investigation' is nothing more than point and shoot with investigative 
 tools and the process is neither difficult nor interesting. Most importantly, the game is far too 
 short. I played through the entire thing in ten hours, only restarting from checkpoints a handful 
 of times. Even the final fight was incredibly simple. In fact, it was so easy that I didn't realize 
 I had beat the game, until I realized how long the cut-scene after the final fight was.
  
  I look forward to the sequel and hope that it is has a more complete story-line and more challenge 
 to it, but in light of the simple and easy game play and limited play-time, I wouldn't spend more 
 than $20 to buy this again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, the sound is top notch, the graphics are great (even though the first 
 levels look all the sames) , the gameplay is pretty interesting: you have limited ammo (when you 
 have guns) so 70% of the time, you have to defend yourself using anything you can handle against 
 maniacs living in many diverse emplacements (subway, school, library.. etc) trough out your investigation.
 
  
  The only thing that really bug me is your freaking flash light and the fact that it's almost always 
 pitch black.... a lighter could put more light into a room... because of those 2 elements, my fun 
 was cut in half. In some levels, my eyes were focusing so much that my head was hurting... At some 
 point, I was so frustrated that I blazed trough some levels as quick as possible just to get to 
 the other brighter level (so no achievements and no fun at all since you just want to finish as 
 soon as possible)
  
  The story is pretty awesome and its like a good suspense movie: you just want to know how its going 
 to end. And better, the story is set in the creepiest atmosphere i've ever encountered..... BUT, 
 at the end, you're left with too many questions, not enough answers.
  
  I give this game a 7/10, good game, get it if you see it on sale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighopp5451238
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Out of boredom I picked this game up a couple weeks ago for $17.99. Great decision! Just turn the 
 lights off the surround sound on a get ready. This game freaked me out more than a couple times. 
 It does get a little repetitive but trying to find the birds, metal and tv's are a nice distraction 
 from that. The story is entertaining and keeps you into the game. If you're looking for something 
 to play before all the games coming up pick this up. well i don't have anything left to say so 
 i'll kepp writing wordsa till i have 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaSod
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  OK I had a nice long opus written here but somehow when I looked at the final review it was all 
 cropped except for the first line.
  So let's go short and sweet:
  The Good:
  More plot than most xbox 360 games. The audio is good and there are some parts that feel scary 
 and very creepy. Melee combat feels intense.
  The Bad:
  Very short. No automap. All of the environments look similar, making it easy to get lost. Otherwise 
 lacking graphics as well. Firearms are almost an afterthought. You kill a hell of a lot of bums 
 and addicts, but you are only investigating a few specific people?
  
  In conclusion: If you love 'Bumfights' and the idea of killing a lot of people who look ill and/or 
 mentally disturbed, this is the right game for you.
  Also, if you are a cheapskate gamer (like me) it is a good value right now for under $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilferret87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Just finished the game, and I enjoyed it. Nothing wrong with brutal hand to hand combat. However 
 it is pretty much just the same thing over and over. I also wish that the story was fleshed out 
 some more. The graphics I thought were good a lot of the time, but other times they were really 
 bland. The main culprit here is the backgrounds and art design. I also thought that the characters 
 could have been better, especially in the cutscenes. The sound effects are second to none. From 
 the shattering glass to the contact of lead pipe against enemy, everything in this department is 
 almost perfect as far as I was concerned. The sound is what made this game genuinely creepy. As 
 for the story, It left me hanging with lots of questions unanswered. Definitely could have been 
 worked on more. Overall, It's a great rental game for a weekend, but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a tail about a serial killer. You are FBI agent Ethan Thomas who 
 is part of the serial crimes unit. You begin with an investigation into a brutal death in the bad 
 side of town you must get to the bottom of it and clear up the mess, you must investigate for clues 
 such as finger prints and foot prints. Soon you will find yourself in a major criminal investigation. 
 You will after deal complete and utter maniacs not to mention you have to solve cases on the way 
 you have forensic tools to help with the investigation, the killer leaves many clues behind so 
 you can track him down which is what he wants.
  
  Condemned as very impressive graphics and a unique style of hand-to-hand combat this is a game 
 you are sure to love especially if you like solving cases and pursueing maniacs plus the game is 
 very addictive and fairly spooky so i would advice you to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrophio
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  i had a great time with this title. if you like the horror/CSI genre, then this is the title for 
 you. gameplay is straightforward, graphics were nice, and the sound is superb. good game to play 
 late at night with the lights turned off and the sound cranked. great source of achievement points, 
 and fun to find all the easter eggs. the only criticism i have of this game is the inability to 
 have more than one weapon at a time. i understand that the developer wanted the gamer to use the 
 surroundings as a resource of weaponry, but are trying to tell me that the character has no pockets 
 to put a pistol in?? that aside, this is a pretty solid title, well worth the $40 in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. 
 I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played 
 the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and it rocked. I've only played the demo, and 
 it rocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Now this was one game that surprised me. I first played this game on an Xbox 360 demo disc. And 
 it was great. Then I decided to get the actual game. In my opinion, the game was cool, very ambitious. 
 But it lacked a good sense of shocks that flawed this game quite a bit.
  
  You play as FBI agent Ethan Thomas. Your assignment: catch a serial killer known as the Matchmaker 
 . The dude kills people, then sets them up as mannequins. Creepy. As you wander around the building 
 trying to get the matchmaker, you'll bump into the craziest motherf*****s that you've ever seen. 
 They'll try to crack your skull in with pipes, 2x4s and anything else that can be lethal (guns 
 as well) . No worries, you can do the same to them. Now that seems awesome, and it is. But the game 
 really fails at providing really shocking moments and a lengthy campaign. That sucks, because I 
 believe this game could've been way better if fine tuned. But hey, this game is still great.
  
  All in all, Condemned: Criminal Origins is by no means a bad game (god no) , but not a groundbreaking 
 game. Still a very cool, ambitious game. Who doesn't love to beat the hell out of a crazy person 
 with a 2x4? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Its been a time a horror-devotee like myself saw anything on TV that got my a** 5 feet up in the 
 air... and its been even longer, perhaps after RE 4, that I played a game I got nightmares about 
 in my sleep. Lucky me, I got my hands on Condemned: Criminal Origins...!!! Man, has a horror game 
 EVER been so good??? I mean look at what Monolith does with the presentation, you can't help but 
 put yourself in Detective Thomas' shoes, and when hell has been payed and you're back to reality, 
 you shout to yourself... Man, I never wanna be Detective Thomas again...!!! The presentation is 
 simply awesome and real-time events shake the rabbit-hole outta you... The visuals don't need to 
 be talked about as 80% of the game is played in 80% darkness, and 80% of the time you won't have 
 time to enjoy the visuals... If you know what I wanna say. Audio is great, the game is long enough, 
 could've been longer though with even more horror shockers thrown in, and I really thought why 
 Thomas would carry just one weapon??? :-/ Condemned is tough to be described in words.... The spell-bounding 
 surreal experience associated with playing it is more than worth to describe its shear magnificence. 
 Just one advice to Sega - Release Bloodshot with a punchline... ONLY FOR THE TOUGH HEARTED...!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  As much as I enjoy this game, I certainly cant say that its flawless, although my complaints 
 are largely minor. The character models dont look quite as impressive as the environments, and 
 the interaction points are a bit touchy. The game is a bit on the short side, and even after completing 
 it, I think some players will still have questions about the plot. But even with some complaints, 
 I have no qualms about recommending Condemned to horror fans grabbing a 360 at launch. It packs 
 some true scares, a fresh approach to its genre, great graphics, and fun gameplay mechanics. In 
 short, Condemned: Criminal Origins is the start of the next great horror series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Good game. Has all the creepy atmosphere thing going on. Hobos, bums, addicts, weirdos, freaks, 
 Mannequins and I was nearly expecting evil muppets to pop around the corner.
  Game glitches, developer code kinda leaked through on some of the gameplay for just a second or 
 so.
  Achievement system is glitchy too. I got two TV achievements by walking by their fireaxeable doors. 
 I got silver before the bronze. Although I collected all the metal pieces, I had to play through 
 again to unlock the reports. I'm still lacking one achievement and thats the first bird from the 
 first chapter. Just wont kick in. Played different discs and each has their own glitches.
  Every so often I would plunge into a world of floaty darkness. Had to power off my 360 and restart. 
 I feared a freeze over the spooky game play.
  Good game, I recommend it. I'd give it a higher score but I'm a unlucky one with all these glitches 
 I'm running into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterchrick
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Considering the time this game was released it's graphics were pretty good. The controls are fine, 
 the story line is a little rehashed but still interesting enough for some to enjoy... see i just 
 got the feeling they were trying so hard to have a plot and story line that it didn't amount ot 
 much, which is why the ending apparently is a one of those what you make of it type of endings. 
 I'll be honest I didn't completely finish the game but that's only because I couldn't stand the 
 repetitive and dark levels. The whole game is virtually played in the dark and that's where my 
 problem with the game lies. I'm sure some people love the idea however it was giving me a headache 
 and straining my eyes. It also made many of the scenes and levels kinda boring and monotonous. 
 If you like games that make you jump and beating creepy non human things up and killing them than 
 this game is for you but if you're like me and need some variety and don't like eye strain than 
 go for something not so dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a game that lets you investigate the story line using FBI gadgets. the story is basic 
 and the gameplay is basic. the games only feature is the campaign mode which is medium length but 
 as you progress through the game you start to notice that the game starts to get shorter and shorter 
 and a little freaky nearly just as freaky as the suffering ties that bind. the game features no 
 online modes. they should at least put in co-op mode. the game is not a game that should be worth 
 60$ it should at least be 30 because it lacks half the features most games have, online!!!! the 
 story mode is still awsome askine you to find different items like dead birds, metal pieces and 
 tv's. the game has a whole bunch of weapons to choose from like pipes to pieces of wood with bolts 
 and nalis in them to fire axes and sledghammers. there is noting else to add to this review so 
 its about done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthThatWas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I know this is an older 360 title. If I'm not mistaken, it's been around since launch. But this, 
 for me at least, is one of those rare titles you never trade in. I've played through it twice, 
 and intend on giving it a third go through before too long.
  
  I have little to complain about in regards to this title. It's short, for one. You can blow through 
 it in a handful of hours if you aren't concerned with finding all of the hidden items scattered 
 throughout. Aside from that, my only other gripe is with the use of the forensic tools. They are 
 nice touch, and definitely a rare application in today's world of mind-numbing shooters, but the 
 actual use of these tools leaves much to be desired. It pretty much entails pointing a shooting. 
 On-screen cues tell you when to use them, and which ones to use. Overall, it adds a modicum of 
 depth to the game, but I would have liked to have seen more. This issue, from what I understand, 
 will be addressed in the sequel. And so, on to the good. The developers of this game did an excellent 
 job when painting the landscape. The atmosphere is one that evokes a sense of claustrophobia, with 
 even the few moments you spend outside seeming to do little to sway the feeling that you are being 
 hunted. The settings are richly detailed, comprised of scattered and broken items that really add 
 to the sense that you are walking through the aftermath of a society gone mad. From an ancient 
 schoolhouse to a run down department store, there is enough in the way of variety to keep your 
 eyes entertained.
  
  The character models can be down right creepy at times, although it can be difficult to notice 
 when they're taking vicious swings at your noggin with 2x4's. A great amount of effort went into 
 each of the villains you will encounter, and though their is a lack of variety in them, they still 
 manage to get the job done. By and large, my favorite part of the game is the combat. Rather than 
 throw an unlimited supply of ammo at the protagonist, the developers decided to go a much more 
 interesting route: they crippled the gun play. There are a smattering of firearms in each chapter, 
 but over all you will find yourself engaged in hand-to-hand combat far more often than you will 
 find yourself blazing away. Your ammo is so limited that at times you will find the need to twist 
 the shotgun in your hands to use it as a club. The system itself is simple, and only consists of 
 parrying and striking, but it is still oddly satisfying. There is nothing like nailing some giant 
 madman with a chunk of extracted re-bar.
  
  In the white noise that FPSs have become, Condemned's attempts to rise above have succeeded. This 
 game rings out with a crystal clarity, and though it has its flaws, I believe that we will see 
 great things from the sequel. I would say that I would like to see many of the ideas housed within 
 this game applied elsewhere, but I believe that if everyone else got on board it would cheapen 
 Condemned's overall impact. All in all, this is a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer25
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  STORY
  You are a cop hunting down a serial killer. Your partners... well, they got shot. The killer stole 
 your gun and ran off (yeah, he plays with your mind like that) . But, he killed people with your 
 gun so the authorities think your a killer so they hunt you down. So, are chasing down a serial 
 killer and the authorities are chasing you down too. And to make matters worse, around the corner 
 are druggies, crazy lunatics, and crazy people that are trying to kill you!
  GAMEPLAY
  The Condemned can be most related to Dead Rising because of the weapons. Ussually, if you see an 
 object, you can use it as a weapon. This plays a big part of the game considering there are nutty 
 drug addicts around every corner, ready to kill you. Some of these weapons include: pipes, signs, 
 fire axes, sledgehammers, and plenty more. There are also shotguns and pistols every now and then 
 but ammo is so limited that you should just stick to melee weapons. When you stand over a weapon 
 you wish to pick up, you will see the stats of it. The stats of weapons are all different, so it 
 makes experimenting with different weapons fun. For example, a fire axe deals a lot of damage and 
 i good at blocking, but if you get a pipe it will be faster to swing but will take more hits to 
 kill the enemy. Besides killing and adventuring, the game consists of finding clues with forensic 
 tools to find the killer. These little segments are pretty nifty because they give you a break 
 from killing and give you some insight on the story. Also, the games scariness is... well, scary. 
 For example, you could walk into a new room and see a bad guy grab a pipe from a wall and run off. 
 You know hes somewhere in your area, but he'll hide and attack you from behind. It's that feeling 
 of not knowing exactly where he is that makes it spooky. But thisgame does get repetitive very 
 easily, just killing and... forensic. It's best to play in short bursts.
  CONTROLS
  The controls... well they're how most games for the 360 are: RT is to attack. That's basically it 
 because LT is to block but it doesn't really work a lot.]
  SOUND
  This is one department in the game thats pretty scary. The sound effects are perfect for its eerie 
 nature. You could be walking and here two psychos shooting each other with pistols and think: ah!!!. 
 Also, the music is just perfect too!
  GRAPHICS
  I just bought this game. But, The Condemned was supposed to be a game at the Xbox 360's launch 
 to show its capabilities. And boy, oh boy, did it do that well or what! The character models and 
 animations are spot on. The only downside is the environments aren't very um... open ended, they're 
 just rooms or corridors. But i guess its a plus and a minus because it give you the suspenseful 
 feeling of not knowing what's behind the corner.
  CONCLUSION
  If you want your mind blown by a really spooky, thrilling, game-buy this. But just don't expect 
 it to win game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithium411
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  graphics- they are great even on a standard tv, lots of different animations and fantastic settings
 
  
  gameplay- gameplay is brutal hand to hand combat, it doesn't really change and gets a little old 
 after awhile, but its still fun
  
  story- ok, its really scary but the ending leaves u scratching your head. 10 levels, giving u a 
 total of 10 hrs
  
  gamespots review pretty much says everything, and no one seems to argue with that. If you were 
 thinking about getting it, it takes 10 hrs to beat, so maybe its better to rent cause it really 
 has no replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Comdemned is one of those games that you have to just sit down and play. The story plot will keep 
 you wanting to play more, however, that may be the only reason why someone would play the game. 
 The games repetitive fighting sequence makes this game moderately boring. Its not the best but 
 it is something. The gameplay makes the game all worth while, though it is your typical horror 
 game... dark abandoned buildings and subway with drugged up fools who think they can kick some ass. 
 Another bad thing is the choice of weaponry... its all the same, nothing but pipes and blocks of 
 wood, and very few guns, which is something you dont normally see in the game. The story plot is 
 relatively the same as any other horror game as well... theres that duranged serial killer who kills 
 your partner and frames you. However, the game is definately worth playing, but there are its ups 
 and downs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skh447
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  You play as Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent. You are on the hunt for a serial killer, when strange events 
 start to happen. You have to find the cause of them. This game is awesome. You can use almost anything 
 as a weapon. You fight from hobos to zombie type things. The story is really interesting and the 
 game gets addicting. You can use guns, melee weapons, and your taser. The game gets pretty scary 
 at times. The environments are disturbing in a good way. It doesn't have multiplayer though. You 
 can collect dead birds and metal pieces for acheivements. This game is a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  This is truly a superb game and one of the best horror games ever. It's extremely creepy and you 
 will surely get scared playing through it. The environments are really scary and really dark. That's 
 the other thing that makes it creepy, the darkness. Sometimes you can barely see what's going on 
 the screen. It's very dark and you literally have to get closer to the screen to look at it and 
 then out of nowhere an enemy pops up and it just catches your breath. The AI is really smart, when 
 they know that they're in trouble they'll go hiding and they are going to go around you to attack 
 you from behind. But if they see that you saw them going around they'll turn around and hide behind 
 a wall. They're really smart. When you shoot someone they quickly know that they're in trouble 
 and try to run away, not that they'll have much of a chance. But if there's no place to hide, they'll 
 run wildly at you to attack. Most of the game is played with melee weapons, from Fire Axes to Sledgehammers 
 to Crowbars and so on and so forth. You really almost feel the pain when you drive your crow bar 
 through an enemy. All the weapons are extremely violent. Gun play does not play a big role in this 
 game. But the guns are here. All the standard guns like Pistols and Shotguns. You'd think that 
 in a game like this, where guns are not as important as melee weapons the gunplay would be sort 
 of broken, but it plays really smooth and can easily be compared to any FPS. The story is good, 
 but I don't want to spoil anything. All I can say is you're in a hunt after a serial killer. I 
 highly recommend this game, it's a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine1701
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I'm a year or two behind on the 360 because I took my time to get one. I'm finding myself 
 short on enjoyable games and with me not wanting to spend $60 on something I'm not sure is good 
 I'm sticking with the older stuff. So the other day I bought Condemned: Criminal Origins. So let's 
 cover the good: the environments are very well done and the story and ambiance seem to be well 
 done as well. I didn't find it difficult to jump right into the game and feel like an FBI agent. 
 The story has kept me going so far and I'm very pleased with the aesthetics. A crime thriller needs 
 to have a certain feel to it and Condemned pulls it off nicely.
  
  However, the maps tend to get a little dizzying and it becomes frustrating. Understand that this 
 isn't a shoot-em-up its a tactical/crime/FPS/... thing that's more along the line of Splinter Cell 
 meets Chronicles of Riddick. I've been playing the game in small intervals because eventually I 
 get annoyed with something and have to take a break so I can come back later for a fresh look. 
 As well as the creative side of things were handled, I'm not exactly pleased with game design itself 
 as a mechanic. More fluidity is definitely needed as after a tense moment I tend to spend five 
 minutes trying to find the next room I need to be in or I get hit from behind randomly and die 
 and get so annoyed I have to turn off the console.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a game that perhaps fits the launch title category. It shows off 
 the 360s power without really focusing on some of the more essential infrastructure that makes 
 a good video game... but for the $20 I spent on it I feel I got my money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superradchad13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. I played it one night for most of the night while I was at a friends 
 house when the 360 first launched. I remember thinking how good the graphics were (this was prior 
 to Rainbow Six: Vegas or Gears of War) . It scared my friend, but although I played it in the dark 
 I was not scared. It was very creepy and had a dark tone to it. I liked how you were able to grab 
 anything off of the wall and use it as a weapon. I had fun playing around and ripping pipes off 
 of the wall to hit people with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhearted
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  A game like Condemned leaves little to talk about. Players take the role of detective Ethan Thomas, 
 an FBI agent sent with another detective and a local cop to investigate what seems to be the latest 
 in a string of serial killer murders. Unfortunately, once at the scene, the three of them hit a 
 snag. The murdered reappears, grabs ahold of your gun, holds you at gunpoint, kills the two accompanying 
 officials, and leaves you. Now with the help of a mysterious onlooker, it's up to you to clear 
 your name, as the FBI links only you and your gun to the murders of the law enforcers. It's time 
 to run from the law as you track down this mysterious murdered.
  
  That, without spoiling anything beyond the opening sequences, is the plot throughout the entire 
 game, on which all of your actions are based. The combat consists entirely of picking up any weapon 
 nearby (occasionally a gun) , blocking enemy attacks, and beating him senseless with a brutal swing 
 (or shot) of whatever you're holding. This along with the finding of evidence, virtually all of 
 which is pointed out by the game, makes up the entire game.
  
  While what I've mentioned so far is good fun, it doesn't do much to fill up entire story mode. 
 The searching and killing are both very linear. You'll find yourself wandering many hallways and 
 rooms multiplae times killing seemingly the same enemies the exact same ways throughout the whole 
 thing.
  
  Technically, Condemned is very impressive for a launch title. The graphics aren't exactly pristine 
 Gears-esque HD, but the in-game real-time combat all looks and flows very well. There isn't an 
 awful lot of sound other than dialogue and the sound of a pipe hitting someone, but what is there 
 is quite good.
  
  The drawback of Condemned is the lack of content. Run, investigate, kill, repeat. That's the entire 
 game. While the combat is brutal and fun, more weapons, methods of killing, enemies and overall 
 more possibilities are all greatly needed. It's hard to single out any particular suggestions since 
 the primitive nature of the game leaves quite a bit to the imagination. But as a first-time title 
 on a new console, Condemned is some pretty harmless (or harmful) fun in the form of savage beatings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a different game from some
  Monolith have also created F. E. A. R. which is also in the scare factor.
  Condemned is a game that 
 makes you WANT to play as nervous as you might be your curiosity gets the best of you. Wherever 
 you are in the game you are not safe, you are contantly on the move. The Sounds in the game are 
 something quite marvellous giving atmospheric ambience to opponents coughing readying you for whats 
 round the corner. Most items or objects in the games fully interactive environment alows you to 
 use from shovels to locker doors, Revolvers to Sawn of shotguns. There are not many firearms in 
 the game and when you find them they are normally on a scarce amount of ammo round about on a shotgun 
 4-5 shots at the most but then you can eventually use the guns as melee weapons once out of ammo. 
 Melee combat is different as there are blocks but you have to time them. You cant just hold down 
 block to evade attacks, once blocked an attack you can make a counter attack on your enemy. Hitting 
 the enemy in different places effects them say for instance if you have a firearm and you shoot 
 someone in the hand they will drop the weapons there holding. With melee taking them out by the 
 legs knocks them on the floor leaving you to do 1 of 4 vicious finishing moves one is snapping 
 your opponents neck. You are normally attacked by Underworld Drug addicts which fight each other 
 as well as you, yet later you are attack by more nightmarish creatures, which are simply just frightning. 
 As well as having to fight this is not the only thing you have to do in Condemned. In order to 
 progress through the levels you must use your investigation tools. Some pick up smells, some find 
 traces of blood and liquids others pick up finger-prints basically things that couldnt be found 
 with the naked eye and need technology. The game is very atmospheric, sound effects are awesome 
 and graphics are pretty good, with dynamic lighting shadowing objects around you and creaks and 
 dripping around the areas you investigate. Parts are very jumpy and scary but its all part of the 
 fun. The game is relatively short and though it is ruined by a boss at the end and a rather challenging 
 final two levels.
  
  -ACHIEVMENTS-
  there are many achievments to get though i wont ruin the ones near the end. During the game you 
 will have the oppertunity to collect Dead Birds which are scattered around which are the easist 
 secrets to find in the game there are about 6 on each level roughly. On mostly ever level (on the 
 360 version) there are TV's and 360's which are activated which unlock achievments, these are one 
 of the hardest to find as there is only one. The most hidden ones are the Metal pieces which i 
 think are on every level.
  
  ENJOY and buy condemned its not as cheap now as it is check out www. play. com and www. amazon. co. uk 
 or .com to check out prices ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmanmotherf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Imagine you were in the FBI serial killer unit, that would be pretty che', but now add birds who 
 seem to make violent behavior come out of people, a serial killer shooting 2 detectives with your 
 gun and the FBI is blaming you, that is what the game is about. The game is like having a Se7en 
 type of Saw mix with a sci-fi element to it, and if in any game you should follow the story in, 
 this would be one. It is pritty cool being able to be the one who is actually investigating it 
 and the one who is at the same time lost in the story. The game play is fun, but there would be 
 a lot of waiting and searching through the game instead of just fighting. So if you like stuff 
 like that like I do, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The game has great potential, but I kept getting too many save corruption messages. I would complete 
 entire levels only to get a message saying that the game would not be saved because my save file 
 was corrupted. I have never had this problem with any other game and I have read several other 
 blogs discussing these issues. The game is a bit repetitive, but can be scary as hell with lots 
 of surprises. Too bad about the game save issues. I had to quit at the second level. I would have 
 assumed that the developer would have been aware of the save issue and provided an update to fix 
 this glitch, but I have not found one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  What a great game!!! I had never played this game til a month ago because all I heard was how terrible 
 this game was. Every magazine, site and review was bashing it left and right so I figured oh well, 
 i'll pass on this 1. 
  Not a smart choice!!! This game is amazing in a whole new different kind of way never done in gaming. 
 I am happy to see that people love the game now because they actually gave it a chance. Now I see 
 a lot of people rating it in the 8's and 9's. Its about time because the graphics are great, the 
 sound is spot on perfect, the gameplay is new and fresh, the storyline was gripping and the overall 
 presentation was nice and gloomy just like I like horror games. Go out and get it after all, for 
 $19.99 you can't beat that with a stick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphumax
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  After reading existing reviews and playing the demo for Condemned: Criminal Origins, I had a few 
 as-yet unanswered questions. Is it really that repetitive? Is it really set in nothing but a bunch 
 of dark, abandoned buildings? Is the sleuthing part of the game really as shallow as it seems? 
 If the answer to any of these is yes, will that ultimately ruin the game? These are important questions, 
 especially given anyone's quick first impression of the game. While the 360's power BEGS for creepy, 
 atmospheric, even horrific games, all the atmosphere and gore won't do a thing without the gameplay 
 to back it up. Luckily, having finished the game, I think I can answer the afformentioned questions 
 in a positive way.
  
  The melee is one aspect in question. It's clearly simple. Block and hit. Being a blunt weapons 
 specialist in Oblivion, I found it quite limiting at first. After all, if the only kind of action 
 is going to be melee, why not make it the best melee possible? I really had doubts at first. But 
 given time, you'll find nuances. Each and every weapon changes the timing and general effectiveness 
 of your attack. With particularly troublesome foes (or multiple enemies) , well-timed use of the 
 taser and -- surprisingly -- your kick can really determine how well you do. Nor is the gunplay as 
 shallow as one might assume. These sparsely strewn about weapons pack a serious punch, but as neglected 
 weapons left around in buildings full of desperate psychopaths, they can't be relied on entirely. 
 Sometimes strategy and necessity will demand that you leave a shotgun aside for later, or use it 
 once or twice as a melee weapon -- smashing, tasing and kicking lesser enemies so you'll still have 
 shells when the action gets REALLY serious. Back to the actual melee, when you've got these big, 
 mean Leatherface -type dudes and crazy mutant ninjas coming at you near the end of the game, you'll 
 find that simple block-and-strike won't cut it. That's when you'll impress yourself with some serious 
 moves and the game will impress you with what turns out to be deceptively simple melee action.
 
  
  So out of the simple comes something with more depth, eh? Yes, and this includes your locales. 
 While the game may seem to promise nothing but dark, abandoned office buildings, resulting in what 
 might become visual monotony, Condemned eventually gives you somewhat more. All the locales are 
 dark and mostly abandoned. That's kind of crucial to what kind of game this is. However, there's 
 quite a bit of variety within this framework. At first, it's run-of-the-mill abandoned buildings 
 with run-of-the-mill crazy hobos trying to take your head off, but the game eventually gets weirder, 
 creepier and more supernatural. From an ancient, decaying department store full of creepy mannequins 
 (some of which jump out at you) , to a rural farmhouse (Texas Chainsaw Massacre, anyone?) to a reform 
 school where a certain serial killer may have stayed, Condemned takes to to a variety of clearly 
 haunted places that are full of surprises. Yes, they're all dark. Yes, they're all abandoned (if 
 you don't count the things/people trying to kill you) . But they continually ensure your surroundings 
 don't become too tiresome or familiar.
  
  Same with your foes. Besides the fact that you're apparently after a messed-up serial killer, your 
 enemies may seem pretty pedestrian at first. After all, what's so creepy or horrific about angry 
 hobos? While initially unsettling, the hobos wouldn't have achieved the proper atmosphere on their 
 own, but you'll be happy to discover that there is more 2X4 fodder in Condemned than just plain 
 old psycho-hobos! Creepy, unsettling, mutilated, weird, horrific, mean, even strangely out of place 
 at times -- this game has 'em all. There are even a few characters that look like ninjas from hell 
 . . .and they fight like it, too!
  
  What about the sleuthing? With the laborious use of investigative tools showcased in the demo, 
 you might figure that this is simply an undeveloped aspect of the game that should have been improved. 
 This is not the true sleuthing, problem-solving or puzzle-solving that you might expect from Silent 
 Hill, Call of Cthulu, Resident Evil or even Half-Life. It actually became pretty clear to me as 
 the game progressed that the investigation aspect of the game, the forensic tools in particular, 
 is simply a device used to move the story along. Most of the time, using these devices results 
 in you finding out more about the story, where you have to go next or what you should look for. 
 In one particularly cool and unsettling part of the game, you have to use a UV light to follow 
 a trail of deranged writing throughout a building you've just entered, all the while aware that 
 you can get jumped at any moment. Accept it for what it is (a plot-mover instead of lame forensics 
 action) , and it'll be fine
  
  The sound, graphics and overall presentation and feel of this game is well-done. Some visuals are 
 nearly photo-realistic while a few things are slightly lazy/sloppy on the rare occasion. My overall 
 impression is really good. I think the game has replay value. I recently finished the game and 
 will be giving it a second shot. It IS a one-trick pony in ways, but there's more to the trick 
 than you might initially assume. It's often a slow-moving game, and it's not rip-roaring action 
 packed all the way through, so it may not be everyone's cup of tea, but as one of the 360's only 
 horror-adventures out there, it's definitely worth checking out and finishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedizsuck
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Condemned criminal origins is well and truely amazing. For a launch game it is surprisingly good. All 
 of the uproar caused by tabloids (cough daily mail cough) is probably justified as condemned is 
 hands down the scariest game ever made. The atmospeheric sounds, gritty graphics and terrifying 
 enemies help condemned beat such horror classics as resident evil and silient hill hands down. 
 You play as disgraced CIA serial killer agent Ethan Tohmas, framed for a crime he didint commit, 
 and now despeatly trying to hunt down a deranged serial killer to clean his name. You brave the 
 attacks of various phdychotic addicts to creatures with no names. The forensic minigames are fun 
 and give u a new insight to the game. All in all, everythong in condemned is great , its so freaky 
 me and my mate lucas had to edge throughthesecond eval sing the rocky theme song, so be prepared 
 for a thrill as it is incredibly freaky. Dont play it by yourself with the lights off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-money4000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best launch title for the xbox 360, it is one of the most brutaliest games i 
 have ever played. u play ethan thomas a cop and u must track down a ruthluss serial killer but 
 then u find him dead and u must find the guy who killed the two cops and who is now killing serial 
 killers. The best survival horror graphics to date the cel shading gets a little freaky at times 
 i like to call a first person whoop ass game the only flaw to it is that it gets a little repetitve 
 and guys can jump out of nowere and if u get hit like 3 times game over. But if u own a 360 head 
 out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naked_Shooter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I didn't play this game all the way through, but from what I've played, I can tell you that this 
 game is one of the most enjoyable on xbox360! It's very creepy indeed, and it has a very nice feel.
 
  
  The great thing about the game, is that it is not the every-day survival shooter. It really does 
 a good job of putting you into the shoes of a detective, who got tangled up in a weird creepy case. 
 You can tear pipes from walls, get blood on those pipes, and kill people with them pretty fast. 
 It's realistic, somewhat. The scripted first-person-view sequences are always cool and exciting 
 to watch. The game play might not be fps-fun, but it's all about the incredible immersion that 
 this game presents.
  
  The graphics are very solid, I wouldn't say they are amazing, but definitely impressive. I expected 
 worse from a release title. I would highly recommend this game to a person, that is into immersing 
 games. H*ll, I'd recommend it to anyone, who likes good games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Top notch voice acting, good achievements, weapons are fairly fun to use, plenty of scary moments, 
 keeps you guessing until the very end, Investigating with forensic weapons is a lot of fun.
  
  The Bad:
  Not a large variety of weapons or attacks, level design gets repetitive, where's 
 the remaining 30 points for the achievements?, guns don't have enough ammo to last you for a long 
 time.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  A lot of the gameplay involves investigating with your forensic tools to find evidence against 
 a serial killer called Serial Killer X since nobody knows his identity and the weapon combat is 
 mostly rehash of the same attacks. The game could have been a lot better with a larger variety 
 of weapons and attacks, the best things about the game are probably using the forensic tools and 
 the story.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics are nothing to drop your jaw at , but they are great launch title graphics and Sega 
 did a fairly nice job at polishing the character models and the environments to look decent.
  
  Sound: 9
  Rather then the story, the sound is probably the best part of the game. The voice 
 acting is excellent and each character has a very believable voice. You may recognize the main 
 character Agent Thomas' voice as Matt Parkman from NBC's Heroes, who plays a cop in the show as 
 well. The weapons hitting flesh sound fairly nice but could have been better, but the guns all 
 sounded nice.
  
  Value: 8
  A game that you'll probably want to play through another time just to see what you missed and earn 
 any achievements that you didn't get in your first run through the game.
  
  Final Words:
  Condemned is an excellent game with a lot of great stuff to be found, the story leaves you hooked 
 and pulls you in and doesn't let go until the very end. Once you get near the final hour of the 
 game you pretty much figure out what's going on, and because of that the ending of the game isn't 
 all too much of a shock.
  
  A surprise for me came that I'm not a big fan of horror games, but I gave this game a chance and 
 loved it. So if you're not even a fan of horror games you may enjoy this game fairly well. Condemned 
 runs for about only $20 now, so you'll do good with picking up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is game is beautiful and not in the pretty sense. The graphics for the time it came out are 
 awesome the gameplay is unique and the storyline sends shivers down your spine. The idea of hunting 
 serial killers is very good and the plot twist is shocking. I love horror games and this is in 
 a class of its own. The enemy AI is superb they run hiide grab whatever weapons they can get a 
 hold of and are on a mission to take you out. The very simple way to use the forsenic tools meant 
 there was no running around in circles getting lost all the time. I have completed this game several 
 times and never get bored of it. Can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Monolith, maker of the immersive popular game FEAR gives us Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
  What could you expect from a company who made FEAR? Thats right, a badass creepy game!
  
  Gameplay/AI:
 
  Heres where the game shines thru, the gameplay is fantastic, it brings something new to the genre 
 by using effective melee-weapons in a game like this, theres a wide variety of melee weapons that 
 are perfect for crushing heads with, the amount of range weapons are small, and different from 
 games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill, if you didn't have a nice shotgun, you're screwed, but 
 not in this game.
  
  Enemy AI is great to, enemies range from aggresive zombies to scared people, that are actually 
 out to kill you but are scared to, if you run up to scared zombies they'll mostly throw away their 
 weapon and cover their heads with their hands and start crying something insane, then when you 
 leat espect it, another aggresive zombie comes by and starts killing the crying zombie, its just 
 to crazy how the game turns out.
  
  AI attacks vary from aggresive to sleaky, if you hit somebody, they'll turn the back at you while 
 covering the spot you hit them, and then either pick three options: start begin attacking you directly, 
 start to stare at you like their in deep trouble, or they do somekind of backstabbing ninja attack, 
 like turn around while swinging their arms around, you're reflexes are tested in the game.
  
  Tho, blocking is easy, when big groups of zombies attack you they become less predictable and 
 you'll have trouble blocking each attack and trying to find a spot to attack.
  
  Graphics/sound:
  Graphics look great, the lightning in the game is just.. impressive, better 
 then any other game I've seen up to date, there are a huge variety of different coloured lights 
 in the game, so if you are in a dark claustraphobic room and only have a blacklight, you'll see 
 a blue/puprle glow over all the room, it works better when standing near a enemy, the detail in 
 them is really great, tho, you'll see the character designs alot but mostly with different clothing 
 on.
  
  Sound is great to, probably the best part of the game, its creepy to listen to zombies crying before 
 you even see them, just to warn you to be on the look out, zombie growls are realistic and the 
 sounds of metal to metal sounds incredibly good.
  
  Story:
  You are a detective charged for murder, you are out to take the real murderer out, mostly in the 
 game you'll be harrased by spooky flashbacks where you'll interact in by bashing more zombies skulls 
 in, the keyline in the campaign mode is searching for clue's, flashbacks mostly bring you to places 
 you'll be visiting in the game when it advances.
  
  Theres a certain pressure on powers you have, look at it as The Darkness, you'll have somekind 
 of powers like those, but with less snakes-out-of-the-shoulders powers.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Buy it, its one of the best games for the Xbox 360, it gives a new feeling 
 to the action-adventure FPS genre by using melee weapons as a main tool, the impressive lightning, 
 sound, story and gameplay makes this game a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is gritty, dark, and down right great. You'll control Ethan Thomas through dark hallways 
 and abandoned buildings to solve the mystery of all the strange happenings going around the town. 
 The game offers a great presentation, and an experience unlike many others.
  
  Condemned's combat system is quite simple, yet very effective. The left and right trigger will 
 be the game's main controls and they are used for the block and attack. You should not have a problem 
 jumping right into the game with a very short learning curve. One of the best parts of Criminal 
 Origins is the brutality, which is set off by great melee weapons. You'll be using weapons like 
 axes, crowbars, and rebar to smash your enemies. All of the weapons vary and each has a unique 
 set of stats. For instance, if you want something with a quicker attack time, you'll want to go 
 with a crowbar, but if you want to bash the enemy in less shots an axe would obviously be the better 
 weapon to wield. Firearms are also available in the game, but they are few and far between and 
 when you get one you'll only be given the bullets left in the magazine. The final weapon, which 
 will be given to you at the start, is the taser. To be honest, the taser is extremely cheap and 
 probably should have been eliminated altogether. All you have to do is tap a button and the enemy 
 is stunned for a good amount of time, giving you a chance to grab his weapon or just bash him while 
 he is paralyzed. The enemies in Condemned are quite impressive, and the artificial intelligence 
 will keep you guessing. Some of the things you'll see them do is pretty impressive like trying 
 to fake you out with jukes and hiding behind pillars and waiting to pop out at you. They'll also 
 wait around corners and jump out when least expected.
  
  Ethan Thomas has a strong psychological sense to determine clues around him. This sense is used 
 throughout the game, and you will be given a few investigative tools to track down the evidence. 
 The game pretty much walks you through most of the investigating, but it is a good break from the 
 combat. When you find the evidence you'll report it to your friend back at the police headquarters 
 and usually a flashback of what happens follows.
  
  Criminal Origins is really brought together by it's phenomenal presentation. The game is very dark 
 and it brings an intense atmosphere. The game's combat is instantly appealing and the whole game 
 looks great. It also sounds so right, like that's what you would think a crowbar would sound like 
 being smashed against another weapon or even someone else. The game also has superb voice acting. 
 Unfortunately, the game's graphics can be slightly repetitive, and it's easy to get lost in dark 
 levels. This still isn't enough to overlook how incredible the fighting looks. Condemned may be 
 classified as a horror game, but as the game progresses it becomes more suspense than terror, this 
 is partially because you'll be trying to uncover a murder mystery. The story does come off well, 
 but it isn't that deep and the ending leaves you wanting more.
  
  The game consists of 10 different chapters, all in different settings from a school to a subway 
 station. They'll take about a half hour to forty five minutes to complete each chapter. After you've 
 completed the game, which should take roughly seven hours, there really isn't that much afterwards 
 and there really isn't any incentive to go back through it. The achievement system may compel you 
 to collect all the things around each level, but it falls thin after that. Because of the low value, 
 Condemned may feel more suitable for a rental than an actual buy.
  
  If you're looking for a great game that'll offer some pretty intense fights and some good jump 
 scares then Condemned is right up your ally. It would have been nice to have seen the combat been 
 expanded and the game's length is a bit short, but it's presentation really overcomes it's shortcomings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good: One of the most amazing and rewarding fighting systems ever made, Down right creepy and 
 terrifying, very interesting story, nice variety of melee weapons and enemies, great achievement 
 system, can give you a nice challenge
  
  The Bad: Even though the combat system is great it can be repetitive, story teases more then delivers, 
 not enough weapons, story is way too short
  
  One thing that I must mention here is what makes Condemned so much different from other horror 
 games... and that's using realism to scare the living s**t out of you then made up monster and zombies. 
 With such a freakishly scary and creepy atmosphere Condemned made me jump and had me nervously 
 peeking around every corner. With the eerie bass driven music in the background and the creepy 
 sound effects I just couldn't help but be really scared. You'll be walking through a locker room 
 backwards to check what's behind you, then you'll run into an open locker door and it'll scare 
 the CRAP out of you and you'll look around for enemies. The combat is SOOO incredibly real I have 
 never seen melee combat done so well. On top of this the enemy AI is just phenomenal and you CANNOT 
 predict what the enemy will do. ON TOP OF THAT the animations are just so real it scares the hell 
 out of you. The violence is also so real and you wince with every blow you make. When you hit your 
 enemy with say a paper cutter blade you can hear the slicing of the flesh and blood flying and 
 if you hit him in the shoulder he'll grab his shoulder and yell in pain and run after you with 
 his steam pipe. Hit him in the face with a 2X4 with nails and you'll see his teeth fly out and 
 he'll spit blood out of his mouth. I played through this game twice and WANT to play through it 
 again just because the combat is so wonderful and satisfying. The story here is also TOP NOTCH 
 where Ethan (character you play) gets accused of killing two cops when it wasn't you. You run after 
 the serial killer who's been following you your whole life and you also have to find out why the 
 crime rate has sky rocketed and why every thing's going to hell. The story keeps you locked in 
 throughout the whole game, and while it's kind of short you'll play through it a few times trust 
 me on that. The last thing I have to mention is how Monolith makes you beg for light. Throughout 
 the whole game there is NO light everywhere you wind up going is condemned and just down right 
 creepy. You do see a hole in a roof here and there and just soak up the light because it'll be 
 the last you see for a few levels. No words can describe the beauty of Condemned JUST PLAY IT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adolfobaja
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins, which puts you in the shoes of agent Ethan Thomas in his struggle 
 against the FBI, strange addicts, and himself. Although the lack of any multiplayer component severely 
 takes away from its replay value, Condemned still delivers a bone-chilling adventure that shouldnt 
 be missed.
  The visual styles help develop the scary aura due to the high level of realism. All of the levels 
 are dimly light, making it necessary to check around every corner for any hidden lurkers. Almost 
 anything you see can be used as a weapon, including pipes, fire axes, shovels, locker doors, and 
 even a variety of firearms. Whenever you come across a new item, a menu will pop up in the corner 
 and compare it to your current one based on speed, damage, ability to block, and reach. For example, 
 a crowbar is fairly light but doesnt deal a whole lot of damage, while the sledgehammer is almost 
 guaranteed to kill in one hit but takes a while to swing.
  The best part about Condemned is exploring new areas without having a clue as to where you need 
 to go. Sometimes the game will have a random person appear for a split second or have someone run 
 across the screen real quick just to keep you on your toes. Soft, ambient noises are also haunting 
 and help build up on the overall intensity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_rush
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 27, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was an interestingly fun game, it had all of the elements of an essential horror game 
 varying from: dark environments to graphic beat downs and horrific sounds. This game was pretty fun 
 for the first 2 days, but after a while i found mysel using the same weapons and having to do the 
 same reaction over and over again, although watching the reactions were always entertaining. This 
 game really gets to you, i mean when you hear something you will be looking around everywhere and 
 then when no one is around, here comes an enemy from the shadows. I would recommend this to anyone 
 with a taste in morbid game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BustaSag
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  The main reason I bought this game was because of the low price &amp; it seemed like a creepy game 
 to start with. But I was hoping for more ammo whenever I came across a shotgun or revolver. The 
 weapons in this game were mostly resourcful objects. The first half of the game somewhat bored 
 me but once half through, I started to understand what the whole story was behind the main character 
 &amp; it drew me in until I finished it. The graphics very impressive. The sound was high quality 
 especially with surround sound. The whole look for clues thing wasn't my style but they pulled 
 it off. If you like playing clue &amp; beating zombies to death with foreign objects then yes, 
 this game is right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SexxiyGunzz
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  But Seriusly, this game is top of the line.... even for people who don't like survival horror, this 
 game adds an element to gaming that is amazing. and it troubles me because its incredibly under-rated. 
 The combat and story just flow pefectly. The game dosent result to cheap scares, but it sets the 
 envirment as eerie as possible to get the players heart pounding. There's no reason why someone 
 who begins to play this game wouldent like it. The story flows, and gradually twists and turns 
 through the game not only through cutscenes but through errie gameplay dialouge. Its hard to explain 
 but everyone should play this game, its honestly that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I was impressed to see that Sega has taken the thriller to the next level and created a new way 
 to play FPS.
  
  You play as detective framed for the murder of two police officer's by a cerial killer that is 
 obsessed with you. Through out the game your character gets flashes of the killer engaging in activities. 
 The plot is engaging, with plenty of twists and turns that will keep the player coming back for 
 at least a couple of play throughs. The voice acting is pretty well done as well and you can mistake 
 many of the voices for real life actors. The graphics are pretty well done and create a creepy 
 mood that keeps you on edge the entire time. The sounds add to the expierience even more with a 
 mix of gritty sounds that keep you guessing where the enemies are. The controls could be a little 
 more resposive but they are set up well with the A button mainly being the action button. The music 
 is great too. Over all the game has a cinematic feeling much like the movie Seven. As far as FPS 
 are concerned Condemed brings the ability of making just about anything into a melee weapon from 
 fire axes to locker doors. Guns aren't the main focus of the game but it does help when you have 
 one. The best part of the game is the detective work that you have to do when you come to a crime 
 scene. You get a wide variety of CSI type items to help you investigate. While I wish the game 
 didn't automatically tell you that you need to investigate a specific scene, if it was too open 
 ended then the game would be almost impossible for the casual gamer. On the harder levels it would 
 be best if it was more open ended for the more hardcore gamer. Overall Condemed borrows a lot of 
 items from other great horror/thriller games like Silent Hill, Resident Evil, and Eternal Darkness. 
 Plus it adds it's own flair to the genre. For the action/thriller/fps fan this is a must pick up. 
 It's not for the faint of heart because the combat is BRUTAL! But there isn't a bad guy around 
 every corner. For the more blood thirsty gamer this might note be the best game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Condemned criminal origins for the xbox 360 is a very scary game that is worth playing specially 
 if you like games like silent hill and resident evil, also FPS fans will enjoy the game as well.
 
  
  The gameplay mechanics of this title are very interesting and something new that had not been tried 
 before by other developers, the game is not about having big guns with a lot of fire power, it's 
 more about hand-to-hand combat by using axes, sledgehammers, pipes etc., anyway that reallly helps 
 creating what the game intends to.... A crude and terrific combat, when you hit an enemy you can 
 see sometimes the blood and teeth coming out of his mouth, the combat is pretty intense and is 
 the main atraction of the gameplay and it works pretty well, the characters have a lot of differente 
 rutines so the combat always keeps fresh from beginning to end.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice too, the game really looks like a next gen game specially if you have 
 a high definition tv, everything is very detailed, better than the graphics are the sound effects 
 and music, they are so very well done, and do their porpuse (making you feel the stress and tension 
 that the game wants you to experience) .
  
  the game won't last you very long though, I finish the game in about 9 hours, but I am sure they 
 are quality hours of gameplay, one thing I didn't like was the story, it feels forced and doesn't 
 make too much sense, putting that aside, the game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soerene15
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The introduction is stunning, exiting and very intens. This game appeals to your nerves which makes 
 you jump i the chair. The first person view is perfect and gets you close to your character, Ethan 
 Thomas  you can almost feel it when you are knocked down by a sledgehammer or a fireaxe. Thoug, 
 the storyline is confusing from time to time and the levelconstruction makes you get lost all the 
 time and it is a great weekness. When the storyline is completed you are looking forward to some 
 ekstra gameplay but there isnt any! Most other games have online posibillities and/or other minigames 
 and fun. Condemned new and original and this earns it some points. A good game thoug and worth 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins allows players to experience the unnatural, as they track down serial 
 killers and bring them to justice. Play as Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent in the Serial Crimes Unit 
 (SCU) , whose pursuit of relentless serial killers leads him through detailed urban environments 
 filled with sociopaths who lurk on the edge of humanity. Condemned maintains an intense, focused 
 pace -- Players can never be sure what waits around each corner. Meticulously crafted 5.1 surround-sound 
 will cue players to the location of offscreen enemies Next-generation lighting, mapping, and filtering 
 techniques provide for environments of unprecedented detail and visual quality a must own game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piaras007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  If you're not fussy about how long a game should be, just do yourself a favour and buy this game 
 now. Sure it will only last around 15 hours of gameplay overall, but what a 15 hours it will be!
 
  
  Condemned is a FPS survival horror game where the emphasis is mostly on using melee weapons to 
 brutally take out whatever drugged-up scum approaches you. Don't worry, the storyline is all there 
 and nicely told, I just don't want to get into the details. However, what does matter is the amount 
 of fun you are going to have smashing the local crack-heads with whatever you can grab; pipes, 
 sledgehammers, axes, 4 X 4s, mannequin arms..... the list is a long and enjoyable one. You can block 
 and hit with any melee weapon, and if you knock your opponent down you may choose one of 4 special 
 attacks, which look devastatingly violent, but are oh so satisfying.
  
  So, a short review for a short game. This game has a terrifying atmosphere and the enemies have 
 a fantastic A. I. Condemned does feel like a one trick pony at times, but I'm just delighted that 
 as a gamer who likes to try any kind of game, I can hold my head up high and say, Condemned, been 
 there done that, had a great time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gypsyHUNT3R
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Condemned is by far the greatest survial horror game, and the best X360 launch title. It has one 
 of the best stories I have come across in game. The sound and visuals are superb (althought the 
 cut scenes could have looked better) . The gameplay may not be groundbreaking, but it if hella-fun. 
 My only complaints are it is kind of short, no multiplayer ( it would have been my favorite game 
 of all time had it have co-op and the ending although great it is the same no matter what you do 
 at the final mision (i will not spoil what that is for you) . Now i am not going to recomend this 
 game as a purchase becuase of how short it is, but you need to play this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8: The gameplay in Condemned is for the most part really satisfying. The main action revolves 
 around you using melee weapons, and beating people to death with them, while having to time your 
 blocks just perfectly to be able to parry attacks. It's pretty intense stuff, and usually you are 
 pitted against several foes at a time. You can also use guns, but for the most part, the gunplay 
 in Condemned is fairly boring, but the melee action is a lot of fun. Even though the combat is 
 very solid, and satisfying, it gets a little easy and repeative really fast. There are points where 
 you have to use your dective skills on the crime scences, and some small puzzles to solve, but 
 even these aspects get repeative and don't really make the gameplay any better. The game's last 
 boss is also pretty much a complete letdown as it is fairly easy, and you may not even die your 
 first time fighting him. It is also a short fight and plays out just like every other fight in 
 the game. Despite these minor gualms with the gameplay, Condemned's action is usually really fun. 
 Graphics 10: The graphics in Condemned may not be the bes the 360 has to offer, but this game is 
 already more than a year old, and for that time the graphics were unmatched. The enviornments look 
 amazing, and the character models look fantastic as well. Sound 10: Condemned also sounds incredible. 
 The sound effects when you hit someone with a weapon sound excellet, and the combination of spectacular 
 scary sounds, and also the voice acting is done very well as well. Value 6: This is where Condemned 
 falters the most. While the game is great, it lasts almost no time at all. It may take the average 
 person no more than 8 hours to finish the game. And even after you do that, you can easily knock 
 off half the achievment points in 1 play through, so even if you're obsessed about getting achievments 
 you will still only need to play the game twice. Now with the game being like 25 dollars it could 
 be considered for a purchase, but it would still be best to borrow it from a friend or rent it 
 as the game can be completed in a few days. Tilt 10: Condemned does truly have a very scary, and 
 intriguing plot, that puts you on the trail of a serial killer, and makes you jump and get scared 
 through the whole ride. The plot is very intriguing and will still make you want to keep playing 
 just to see what will happen next. Overall 8.8/10 Despite some repeative and easy combat, and a 
 very short length, Condemned manages to overcome these faults, by the intense gameplay, and intriguing 
 plot. This game is certaintly worth playing for anyone who likes action or horror games, but again 
 it is very short, so a rental would probablly serve this title best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tab132
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Condemned is one of those launch games that happened to be rated m and looked brutally awesome. 
 It is probally sega's finest of the next-gen era so far (not much competition though, sonic the 
 hedgehog next gen for example.) , and its a very enjoyable expirence. But not as scary or creepy 
 as people claim it to be. It does have a few scary moments but comparing this game to persai System 
 Shock 2, Silent Hill series, Fatal Frame 2 (didnt care about the others much) , and heck i'd say 
 even Resident Evil 1 for the psx playing it now after all the many times you probally have, would 
 end up scary then this game. But what this game does make up for its failed attempts, is its presentation. 
 The graphics are so far the best ive seen from november 2005, the only challenger for that spot 
 id say would be Project Gotham Racing 3. The Sound is well generally creepy, voice acting is professional 
 and synched but dont really match up with some of the charactors. This game is not worth buying 
 for over 20 bucks, i bought it for a whooping 13 dollers and still have some regrets. There isnt 
 any online play (i think it would of been fun if they could make it not lag) , Collecting dead birds 
 is kinda stupid but i did it anyway the first time through the game, and theres not many new expirences, 
 no weapons unlocked if beaten, nothing. But i do have to give credit to the presentation. the graphics 
 look suberb and look the most next gen out of the launch games. i give condemned an 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luger_HK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  I liked this game actually, but just some of it was just plain rusty. I did not like how you could 
 only walk and then run, this was probably made to add suspense but I found that it just slowed 
 me down. Besides that the only other thing it did was make all my melee battles seem closer, but 
 when half of the game is investigating and searching for metal pieces and dead birds, just made 
 the game at the least an extra hour longer. I get that this was one of the first Xbox 360 games, 
 but it is really glitchy sometimes I would have a weapon shoot off on its own and after there would 
 still be the same ammo as before, and I had to collect even more birds and metel to get the achievements 
 than was needed. For one thing I am still one of those people addicted to achievements and when 
 the game glitches on those that just irritates the hell outa me. Also the games story could use 
 an update you get everything easily enough and keeps you guessing like a mystery story, but the 
 only one of the choices you make at the enidng makes sense with the ending because no matter which 
 you choose you still have the same ending. After though there are a few mysteries that they left 
 alone and the only way to solve that would be through a sequel, but that wouldn't make sense with 
 the ending (Im not going to spoil it) that happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kari_21
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying that the sound effects and graphics in this game are great. For me however, 
 graphics and effects are not everything, and this game lacks a lot. This game was made to scare 
 you, and there is no denying this game can get pretty creepy at times. However, by about the third 
 chapter I started to get really frustrated with this game. Now for the gamers who like to slash 
 people through an entire game great for you, than run out and buy this one, but thats not my idea 
 of a good game. The slashing ends up getting pretty old after the first couple of chapters. I think 
 that this is the most obviously repetitive game I have ever played. You basically find some evidence 
 than a few rooms later slash some druggies, this occurs throughout the whole game! It is like deja 
 vu times 10 chapters. Stupid me I listened to some other reviewers and the commercials and thought 
 this game was going to be a cross between CSI and the movie Seven. This game is far from it. The 
 CSI tools are used frequently, but there is no mystery in it. A 5 year old could work the evidence 
 part of the game. As for the storyline, it starts out decent, but then goes from bad to worse. 
 The idea the FBI would just find an agent guilty without doing an investigation and taking his 
 statement first laughable. This whole game was just way to unrealistic for me. If you are the kind 
 of person who likes this stuff then I am sure you will love this game. However, if you are unsure 
 or you are expecting anything more from this game than it being a creepy slasher please do yourself 
 a favor and at least rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungholio55
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  A must play for only $30. This game has great hand-to-hand combat and its scary as hell! But it 
 gets repetitive to fast. Also I do tend to get lost in every level. The achievements are kind of 
 boring. You have to search the entire level for dead birds and pieces of metal. Not my kind of 
 achievements. This game is so scary i was actually afraid to go around some corners! Every time 
 I sat down to play Condemned it made me jump. I wouldn't say this game is like Resident Evil 4 
 at all. In Condemned you don't use guns all the time. You have to tear a pipe off the wall or find 
 a loose 2x4 on the wall to use as your weapons. Ultimately this game is worth a rent or a purchase 
 for $30. Indeed, check your bargain bin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to know what it was like to smash some homeless guy's head in with a sledgehammer 
 then this is the game for you! Condemned to a hand-to-hand combat game with a few guns thrown in 
 to mix it up. You play a cop who must hunt down the real killer while the police are out looking 
 for him because they think he is the killer. Oh and there is some supernatural stuff, cults, and 
 just plain freaky crap going down in the city that you must solve as well.
  Most of the game... in fact all of the game you will be beating deranged people to death with every 
 kind of blunt object you can think of. If it is hard and you can carry it then it is a weapon in 
 this game. Plus there are some guns thrown in like shotguns, pistols, machineguns, revolvers, etc. 
 But they only last as long as the ammunition and you cannot reload any guns even if you come across 
 another one of it's kind. This is not a shooter. You will block, attack, and block some more as 
 a army of poor people attack you with a large array of weapons. There is also some crime scene 
 solving episodes that further the story but the game holds your hand through these and you have 
 no real freedom to investigate on your own. The atmosphere is dark and it instantly reminds you 
 of Se7en or Silence of the lambs. You will get sucked into the story which is not just a loose 
 purpose as to why you are killing hundreds of people but center of the game. In my opinion I would 
 rent it because the game is short and since there is no multiplayer the replay value is low. There 
 is no multiplayer at all in this game. However there is a leader board if that makes you feel any 
 better. But none the less this is a fantastic game and worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoGoose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the most terrifing, inmersive, inovative games i have ever seen. Condemned: Criminal Origins 
 is a great game you play the role as a Ethan Thomas a CSI who could be insane or couldn't. In the 
 begining of the game you come to a rundown Condemed building, a young woman has been brutaly murdered 
 by a serial kille. The beuro is calling The Match Maker . You are acompanied by a officer and a 
 ditective who eventuly leave you to go on a chase on who they think is the serial killer. Eventualy 
 you find a power box and you try to turn it on but it throws you back and your gun goes into a 
 hallway where its picked up by a man. So you are left with no weapons and this is where you use 
 the items around you as weapons. Later in the level you are walking through a recintley open door 
 and you get attacked from someone. He gets you at gun point and lectures you untill the ditective 
 and the officer show up they try to persuade the man that has you at gunpoint. But the man shoots 
 the both with your gun he hits you and throws you out a window into the street. That was just a 
 brief summerey of the game, This game has amazing graphics, sound, and story. Definetley one of 
 my favorites. This game is definetley not for people who are easley scared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Condemned is probably a more unnoticed game that slipped through most peoples hands. Its a game 
 that most people, like myself, play it for the achievement points. But, I was wrong. The game can 
 sell itself. Its scary and its the game version of CSI with a twist at the end.
  
  The gameplay is ok. I thought the game played like a hack and slash game and it was very repetitive. 
 The game is a first person shooter with mostly melee weapons with the odd gun. The controls flowed 
 well with the games speed and I never really had any problems with them.
  
  The graphics are very nice but a launch title but they could of been more. The faces are in depth 
 and the buildings are nice but theres not alot to really show off the 360's true power.
  
  The sound plays an important part in the game and its very well done. You should always be listening 
 to the pipe dropping behind you or the clunking of two metal pipes hitting each other.
  
  If you were to buy this game, I would pay $29.99 maximum. Its a great game but you don't get what 
 pay if you were to buy it for more. The game is 10-20 hours and maybe less depending how fast you 
 go through the levels.
  
  Overall, Condemned is a different game that most people should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  From start to finish, Condemned: Criminal Origins is utterly brilliant. The graphics are superb, 
 the story is as intricate as you could wish, the gameplay is innovative and its actually scary, 
 unlike most of the so called survival horror games released of late.
  
  Part of the reason for the fear factor in Condemned is the darkness of the environments and the 
 oh so creepy sounds in the backgrounds. Shadows glide past you on walls, items fall of shelves 
 as you brush past them and clang on the floor. The level of tension is tremendous because every 
 second you are anticipating that some crazed lunatic is going to jump out from behind something 
 and lunge at you with a lead pipe.
  
  This leads on to the combat which is extremely violent and very well animated. There are conventional 
 weapons such as pistols and shotguns but they tend to be very low on ammo, forcing you to resort 
 to ripping pipes from walls and grabbing whatever else you can find. The 1st person melee combat 
 is tremendous and definitely not for the squeamish. Hitting dudes in the face should never be this 
 much fun. The fact that the game is in first person also heightens the tension further as it creates 
 a sense that it really is YOU stumbling around in the dark searching for serial killers.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is an awesome game that anyone for loves horror titles should play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevenus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  For anyone waiting for a simulation of fighting tramps using a plank of wood with nails in it - 
 wait no longer. This is a very bloody and brutal game. The 18 certificate should be observed.
 
  The mood is relentlessly grimey and dangerous as you play from a first person perspective using 
 mostly melee weapons like floorboards and gas pipes to mercilessly beat leigons of mad degenerates. 
 The combat is quite simple being either swing, kick (not much use) , taser or block - at first this 
 seems clumsy and slow but as you settle into the rhythm of it you'll find timing your blocks and 
 blows is alot of fun. Your assailants babble expletives and react realistically as they run about, 
 hide behind things, and slug it out with you.
  
  The whole game is played out in dim to pitch black environments and it would have been nice to 
 have one or two brightly lit levels as contrast. There is a little bit of CSI sleuthing and gadgetry 
 but it's pretty inconsequential. It's a pity that the terrifying circumstances are undermined a 
 bit the main character who looks more freindly than intimidating and never really sounds that excited 
 or scared - although he does look a bit like an old bruiser (albeit a freindly one) and that is 
 a nice change from the usual.
  
  On balance this is a good game, I think I took around 12 hours to play though it and I'll do so 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phenix_down
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Taking hints from the masters of the survival-horror genre, Silent Hill and Resident Evil, Condemned 
 offers a good mix of both games. It is a psychological horror title with set in a first-person 
 view. It does not do anything new for the genre or try to take it to new heights; it stays firmly 
 planted to its roots. The story is that you work for the FBI as Agent Thomas and you are accused 
 of murder early on in the game of two cops, now running as a fugitive you begin to uncover some 
 of the secrets of your past. Much of the game is spent fighting hobos along with other creatures 
 using a system of blocking and attacking, similar to that of oblivion. The combat mechanics, however, 
 take more skill then one would think. As you can only block for a short amount of time, this leads 
 you to trying to perfectly time your blocks as well as knowing the right time to attack. This does 
 have another layer to the combat system as not all weapons have the same block and attack speed, 
 forcing you to adapt to new situations. The game emphasizes more hand to hand combat. Though there 
 are guns in the game, they have limited bullets and are few and far between. Pretty much everything 
 in the game can be used as a weapon and the ability to pull almost anything off the walls adds 
 to its immersive-ness.
  Other parts of the game play involve being a super sleuth as you hunt for evidence at various crime 
 scenes. Often it felt arbitrary and served as a way that could break up some of the fighting. Also 
 you are just handed the right tools right away which makes it feel less of a puzzle-solving part 
 of the game. Like I mentioned early in the review, the game is set in realm of the survival-horror 
 genre. It takes place in a gritty New York City like condemned buildings, including a construction 
 site, a train station, and even a library. A lot of the game is fairly well detailed in gritty 
 d&eacute; cor and trash filled rooms. The objects in this game, unfortunately, are not as varied 
 as I would have like to have seen and often the same objects are thrown into the setting.
  Being one of the early titles for the Xbox 360, it really showed the potential for the system as 
 it was displaying never-before-seen visuals, and a unique AI system that felt as if the enemies 
 had minds of their own. When attacking enemies you can actually see their teeth fall out and also 
 some of their skin, a nasty effect that just adds to the detail. The faces of the main characters 
 did look last-gen and didnt have quite the same wow factor as some of the lighting effects and 
 the environments. The sound is really something that makes this an exciting title as it is as gruesome 
 as it can get. When you hit someone with a 2x4, it sounds like they are getting hit by a 2X4. You 
 can almost feel the impact of every blow you place on the enemy; it can at times make you cringe 
 with its candidness. If you have a 5.1 stereo system, this game can really it to its fullest potential 
 as you hear the grunts and coughs of enemies from all angles.
  This game at launch kind of got swept under the bus as being mediocre when really it is far from 
 it. With such titles as Call of Duty 2 and Project Gotham Racing 3, it couldnt hold up for this 
 developer. Though Condemned doesnt add much to the genre it does take it into the next generation 
 of gamming and sets the bar at a reasonably high level. I feel this game is a noble attempt at 
 such a game and though the fighting mechanics and such can get stale, nothing is more satisfying 
 than actually blocking some of the attacks. Getting though the story can feel not as satisfying 
 as I might have expected, as many answers are still up in the air and are not fully answered.
 
  In terms of longevity, the game has much to unlock and includes behind the scenes footage and 
 more in depth information about the story though achievements in the game. Also, early builds of 
 the game can be seen though some footage, which is very different from the final project. You will 
 be hooked as soon as you pick up Condemned, a true underappreciated classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil, the same game that basically created the genre known as survival horror. You can't 
 really disagree with this, whether you hate the Resident Evil series or not. After all, the genre 
 did bring up other fabulous series such as Silent Hill and even Fatal Frame. Most of the time a 
 survival horror game deals with dark, gritty environments and a strange and bizarre atmosphere. 
 From 1996, the genre is in a league of its own now, and we can be safe to assume that it'll continue 
 to twine more and more as the future comes.
  
  After all this, you'd come to expect that Condemned: Criminal Origins is another game classified 
 as survival horror. That is a fact indeed, and it was also released as a launch title for the XBOX 
 360. So, what could it have done to make it stand out? Was it because it was a survival horror 
 game? Or perhaps it was developed by Monolith, the same group that developed F. E. A. R.? Whatever 
 the reason was, I can safely say that it doesn't matter what it was, because Condemned isn't the 
 great game that I'd had hoped for.
  
  Plenty of games out there are focusing more and more on fast paced action that gets straight to 
 the point. Condemned does the complete opposite, so instead of a fast paced full throttle game, 
 you're given a slow, unhurried game. Granted, the genre of survival horror is basically slow gameplay 
 as well, but it really differs from all the quick games that are being released as of late, which 
 is a change for better or worse, whichever pleases you. You can say that it is slower in comparison 
 to the Resident Evil franchise. With this, you can explore the area and surroundings, but in a 
 creepy environment, would you?
  
  You take the role of Ethan Thomas, another FBI forensic investigator who is attempting to track 
 down serial killers in a fictional town. Unfortunately, the investigation begins to deteriorate 
 as you are framed for a murder, and on top of that people are turning into monstrous creatures 
 that Mr. Thomas must take down. During your little investigation, you have access to forensic tools 
 like the Laser Light and you can use them to gather evidence left behind such as fingerprints and 
 residue.
  
  Condemned consists of pointing and clicking your way through the investigation. The game will tell 
 you what to do and where to look, which may sound great at first, but it isn't. The game relies 
 on holding your hand through most of the investigations, which defeats the purpose of investigating. 
 It may have been much harder without the holding your hand example, but a few general hints about 
 the area would have been better than a full fledged walkthrough. Just have it as a reminder that 
 you're tasked on doing this throughout the game, and it becomes more of a chore than a game. If 
 this was a job of a forensic investigator, I wouldn't find it very entertaining.
  
  Condemned gets a little more action oriented when you begin meeting these creatures. You are given 
 standard weapons such as the shotgun, but most of the time you're going to be using a melee weapon 
 to fight off enemies. Each of these weapons have distinct advantages over the others. Perhaps one 
 of them does more damage to an enemy, but that's for you to find out. Surprisingly, some enemies 
 won't just come up to you and begin attacking. Some may hide in dark, unlit areas and spring at 
 you when you're nearby. This brings up the element of surprise, which is always prevalent in survival 
 horror games.
  
  The game is played from a first person perspective, but calling it a first person shooter is incorrect. 
 It is not a shooter by any means, since you're rarely able to use guns. When you are able to use 
 guns, most of the time the clip you have is all that you're going to get. When you run out of ammo, 
 you can use the butt of your gun to smack enemies, as expected as that may have been. Given the 
 fact that Condemned gives that feeling of firing a weapon uninteresting, luckily you don't use 
 them most of the time. You can also kick and block your way to succeeding, and yet you can even 
 use a taser, which helps you in tight spots.
  
  Back to the enemy A. I., you can expect them to do tactical maneuvers to take you out. While some 
 do charge at you with all they got, others will take the safer way out. If an enemy is wounded, 
 they may flee from you to avoid being killed. Later on in the game they will work in packs, hide 
 in unpredictable areas, and do more than what you could think. If you want some great enemy A. I., 
 you won't be displeased with Condemned. Despite the excellent A. I., I had some instances where 
 they just stand around, oblivious to your location, and you had to hit them to grab their attention 
 in order to get a reaction from them, but that's a pretty rare occusion.
  
  All of Condemned's puzzles are not noteworthy at all, and I am not exaggerating. What really dragged 
 this game down was the simplistic and boring puzzles that came across. They are slow paced puzzles, 
 but there is nothing wrong with that. What they do though is detract from the experience that Monolith 
 could have easily improved on. As an FBI forensic investigator, you'd expect something challenging 
 and inducing, but you really get the other end of the spectrum. Pausing to complete each puzzle 
 seems like an easy chore, so I would hardly call it a puzzle if it is too simple, like in Condemned's 
 case.
  
  Looking at the dark and terrifying scenery in Condemned is a good treat to all. Some visual ideas 
 are borrowed from Monolith's F. E. A. R. game, so if you played F. E. A. R., you'll notice some similarities 
 visually. Character models look good as well, but enemy models provide an uninteresting feel to 
 them, possibly perhaps they keep showing up, looking like the same thing over and over again. Going 
 from area to area is visually appealing, but then again, some places feel dull and blunt and might 
 have you wondering, How the hell did this make it into the game? I can agree that overall the environment 
 is what it is, and walking into unknown territory definitely gives you the shivers, whether you're 
 man enough to admit it or not.
  
  What Condemned does best is its audio. The music you will hear throughout the game gives the ultimate 
 gloomy feel, hands down. Ambient noises will catch you off guard the first time. If you ever wanted 
 to hear what a creature infested city was like, Condemned is the game for you. The big fault here 
 is the voice acting. All I can say is that it's near atrocious. None of the characters grab the 
 feel of life to them, but then again, voice acting is basically essential for survival horror games. 
 If you can shun away from the voice acting, then the experience goes up tremendously.
  
  Once you tackle through the game, which should be about ten hours in length, there's frankly nothing 
 else to do. Sure, you can run through all the achievements if you are an achievement fanatic, but 
 that in itself only unlocks useless bonus material. It's really difficult to demand yourself another 
 playthrough except for the fact you'd do it just to explore more often and see the gritty scenery. 
 Other than that, Monolith offered no material that extends the gameplay, which is a shame after 
 the hard work of trekking through it.
  
  So, what has Monolith wrapped together? A fair, yet creepy atmospheric game that has its ups and 
 downs. While it hits the survival horror part dead on, the surrounding flaws vindicate that the 
 game really can't hold its own. Expect to be bombarded with boring puzzles, good but middling graphics, 
 and quite terrible replay value. What Condemned: Criminal Origins does right, it does it exceptionally. 
 Smart enemies and great sound are on this list, but that's all it can keep up for before losing 
 its steam. Survival horror fans may want to give it a shot, but don't expect an awesome experience. 
 Diving into the game with mediocre expectations will suffice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olgeir
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  i didn't expect a lot from this game until i found out that i was 8 gig than i got it it was a 
 hype at first but only until you realise that you have been doing the same thing over and over 
 again and 4 hours of my life were gone. you won't get a kick out of this game man i was happy when 
 i saw a handgun i thougt my close combat fights were over but noooo you only get a few shots that 
 don't do **** i shot an entier mag on this one guy and he sure die'd right after he stood up and 
 i had to chup his face of with a fire axe. the sound is ok. The gameplay i bad. and the game gets 
 boring very quick but its good if you play it for about an hour or two 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclean2988
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Condemed was a game that very much reminded me of another game I reviewed: Indigo Prophecy. I love 
 games like it, where it's all about you on the run from everyone, trying to figure out why everything 
 is happening to you, often with no idea what's around the next bend. It's sad then, that they never 
 seem to get the endings right; they usually crap out by tying everything up in a hurry, or giving 
 you some bogus cliffhanger ending that barely makes sense. Ah well, Condemned is still very much 
 worth playing, and I recommend it to anyone looking for an eerie good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomshakkalakka
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is, uh, scary. Now before I get into it, know this: I am a horror movie junkie. I don't 
 scare watching a film. Ever. I walk through haunted houses and point out where everyone is hiding. 
 But games, man. Games'll get ya. From the first time I played Resident Evil to the Suffering, I 
 have had some air time off the couch. But this game, it's eerie as sh*t. IF you haven't played 
 it, I'll give you fair warning: The mall. Watch your @$$. As a launch title, it still holds up. 
 The graphics are very Doom 3-esque, and the CSI element they throw in is a nice break from the 
 everyday FPS that's out there. The story has to be film bound. I've beat it a few times, and I 
 don't see me selling it anytime soon. Check it out. - B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAPK1NS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Its a disappointment that at launch, the Xbox 360 came with other big titles such as Perfect Dark, 
 and Call of Duty 2. Why? Because they made most of the gaming community blind to the true treasure 
 of the 360s launch. The treasure is indeed Condemned: Criminal Origins. Welcome to a world where 
 people smack each other with pipes, crazy addicts roam every turn, and the edge of your seat is 
 youre new home. You play as a man named Ethan Thomas. You are a well-trained FBI agent, and your 
 adventure starts with your pursuit of a freak people are calling the Matchmaker. This cute character 
 is killing innocents and posing them in everyday situations with department store mannequins. Creepy 
 stuff. The game flies from there. Once you are investigating the Matchmakers newest scene, you 
 are attacked, and ultimately framed for the murder of another agent and your leader Mr. Becker. 
 The rest of the game plays out as you trying to run from your friends back at base, clear your 
 name, and find both the Matchmaker and the man who has framed you. Let the hunt begin!
  
  Game Play
  ~Pros~
  + I dont care what you have played. Gears, Manhunt, whatever. THIS is the 
 most brutal game ever created. Guns are a hard thing to come across on the streets. Instead, improvise! 
 Use a locker door, a piece of wood, a paper cutter, or a mannequins arm! Anything is fair game 
 to kill the many crazies you will face.
  + Visceral, in-your-face violence. Watch as enemys teeth are smacked out of their mouth, they 
 are kicked in the face, and shot to death! The game has finishing moves you can perform on a dizzied 
 enemy as he drops to his knees. All of these are wonderfully awful, and you will squirm every time. 
 Folks, you have never seen fighting at this level of brutality. Wonderfully done.
  + Prepare to be terrified. Zombies, aliens, ghosts. Such scare gags are sure to run thin one day, 
 and Condemned runs from such a thing. The opponents you will face are all very lifelike. They move 
 with eerie realism, and are sure to make you poop at the minimum of seven times. The scares in 
 this one are heart-attack causers, 911 makers, and sure to make you run on home to mamma. + The 
 violence, scares, and atmosphere are come together in a really great way. Feels great to play, 
 and the controls are very solid.
  ~Cons~
  + You will use crime scene devises to help you progress through the game. These are a neat idea, 
 but whenever you need to use one, the game tells you when, where, and what button to press. Its 
 a good idea, but unfortunately thats all it is. More should have been done with it.
  + Rather short. Around 10 to 11 hours this one can be beat in one sitting if you know what to do. 
 However, the game does have some achievements to go after following the completion of the game.
 
  
  Graphics
  ~Pros~
  Great choices on the color pallet! The environments all feel creepy, and will keep you tense! The 
 different levels all look rather different too, unlike Monoliths other recent title, F. E. A. R..
 
  ~Cons~
  + Yuck! Muddy textures galore! Upon close observation, the game doesnt look too astounding (P. S. 
 Who cares?) .
  
  Audio
  ~Pros~ + Good lorddid I just smack someone in the face with a conduit? This games audio is suggesting 
 that I did! Lets face it, even if Monolith did actually harm other human beings to get their sound 
 clips, it sounds freaking amazing. I will never, ever, EVER tire of the sound of a locker door 
 being smashed downward onto someones head! Perfection, Monolith! Perfection!
  + The music (though scarce) is well done when it does make an appearance, and only serves to raise 
 the already high set bar of tension.
  + Awesome voice work! Both on the baddies and the other characters. ~Cons~
  + Shut up, there 
 are none.
  
  Storyline
  ~Pros~
  + Instantly engaging, from start to finish. You will be hooked on what will happen next, and the 
 game does a good job of keeping it all together.
  ~Cons~
  + Does get a little out of hand, and confusing in spots. You will probably become rather confused 
 a few times.
  + The game ends on a weird note, and sort of leaves a bad taste in your mouth. It suggests a sequel 
 that has yet to be announced, a bit frustrating. At the end of the day, Condemned: Criminal Origins 
 is one of 360s best. Its brutal, dark, sadistic, and I loved every second of it! The audio is 
 amazing in every respect, and the story (for the most part) is quite good. Not to mention the simple-yet-fun 
 game play is something that really sticks. Woo hoo for beating up homeless people! Final Score: 
 9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guest_1001
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I didn't quite know what to expect when I bought Condemned and, even after playing it for a few 
 hours, it was difficult to know how to judge it. Early on, the game does seem like a gritty, edgy 
 FPS which focuses on melee combat with anything that comes to hand -- crowbars, shovels, sledgehammers, 
 that type of thing -- and this is a dynamic that remains throughout the game. However, after the 
 opening level seems to set the game up to be action-filled, the game makes an immediate twist and 
 goes down the survival-horror route. For the record, that turns out to be a VERY wise move . . 
 .
  
  For one thing, it's actually refreshingly great to be scared of killers, addicts and, the main 
 focus of the game, serial killers in Condemned, as opposed to more unrealistic characters in other 
 games, zombies being the one that springs to mind. Although I should point out, without wanting 
 to spoil anything, the game does become more unrealistic and surreal as it continues, much to my 
 dislike.
  
  The story, for the most part, is the high point of the game. You play as FBI agent Ethan Thomas, 
 who has been on the trail of nine serial killers over the past few months. Seven of the nine trails 
 have gone cold, but the game starts at a crime scene of one of the serial killers named The Match 
 Maker , and the investigation starts from there. The story, as I said, is very good for the most 
 part. Everything to do with the serial killers of the story is told very well, being interesting, 
 disturbing, gritty and terrifying all at the same time. However, there are many supernatural aspects 
 introduced along the way and, while that isn't a problem in itself, some questions are raised that 
 are never answered. It's annoying to know that there's more to the story than what we're told. 
 We can always pray for a sequel to give us an explanation though, of course.
  
  The gameplay of Condemned is rather well executed, if rather unusual. While there are guns in the 
 game (and the unforgiving atmosphere and enemies in the game make you feel as though each gun is 
 a gift from God) , the melee combat is where the game stands out. Whether wielding a fire axe, a 
 power conduit or a lead pipe, all of which have varying statistics, the skill is knowing when to 
 block and when to attack. It's all about timing and, with the strength that the psychotic enemies 
 in the game have, timing is everything. Block at the wrong moment and you could be dead the next. 
 It gives a certain degree of technique where many other games, first-person shooters in particular, 
 would just give the option to succeed by circle-strafing and hammering the attack button. In addition 
 to any melee weapon you may be carrying, or a gun for that matter, you also have a Taser that will 
 soon become the most useful item in your arsenal. It isn't an exaggeration to say that you will 
 want to use your Taser on every enemy you come across, because of its ability to temporarily stun 
 opponents. The clever problem being, of course, that it takes a while to recharge, which is the 
 worst nightmare when confronted with more than one enemy at once.
  
  As well as that, given that Ethan Thomas is a detective, there are several crime scenes that need 
 to be investigated throughout the game. While there are only a few that are the scenes of murder 
 victims (which, let's face it, is what we really want to see in a game like this) , each segment 
 where investigation is required helps to break up the action sections. Gives you time to catch 
 your breath, in other words. However, many of the moments where investigation is required, particularly 
 if a trail needs to be followed throughout the level, aren't quite as forgiving and only adds to 
 the fear that you may need to switch to a weapon at any point.
  
  The sound is one of the areas where the game particularly stands out. While sound isn't something 
 that is particularly focused on, it's an important feature of any game and, personally, I think 
 Condemned gets it right at almost every point. While survival-horror practically thrives on tense 
 music and sound effects, everything is right about the way Condemned does things. The yells, the 
 screams, the dull, ambient, everyday noises that just occur when there is actually silence around 
 you. All of it is done excellently, right down to the voice acting.
  
  So, with good graphics, good gameplay and a good story, is there anything wrong with Condemned? 
 Yes, there is. As with many modern games, Condemned is just too short. While each of the ten levels 
 are very well designed and you'll be sure to proceed very slowly through each one, the game does 
 seem to be over too quickly. As well as that, there isn't really any reason to continue playing 
 after the game is completed, a particular hazard of some modern games too. Also, the lack of many 
 unlockables is a downside, although there is some pretty good concept art that comes with each 
 of the achievements you unlock (which is more than can be said for many games that seem to think 
 the achievements are enough) .
  
  The story is the main problem. As good as the serial killer side of the story is, the supernatural 
 segment is a letdown. I briefly mentioned this before and, although I can say for certain that 
 Condemned has one of the best plotlines of any game to date, the unanswered questions and, for 
 lack of a better word, hollow ending segments will leave a bad taste in your mouth. There just 
 isn't much to say about parts of the story that are unexplained.
  
  Having said that though, Condemned is definitely a great game, although don't expect to be playing 
 it for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Well this game is pretty good, sometimes can be hard in some point of the game. It can be difficult 
 at certain level, but still quite fun to play it. Something new and different for the 360 and can 
 able to use different weapons as well. The graphics are great and some parts can be scary in most 
 part of the game. The music is also pretty good too, the characters are unique and trying to figure 
 the case about this guy. So you trying to find clues to finished this case and able to solve it 
 as well. This was my first game for the 360, so I really enjoyed playing it, something different 
 from the other games that I have played in a while. This games have spooky factor in some way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSteve88
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  condemned: criminal origins gos from being a murder/mystery game to weird in a matter of minutes, 
 the graphics and gameplay are awesome and plus what's better than slapping someone in the head 
 with a 2x4 or sledgehammer. but the dark environments and creepy vibes to me offset the game, the 
 game is more supernatural than about profiling how a man becomes a killer. from birds dying of 
 mystery causes to people with messed up faces, this game could have been better in terms of police 
 work and stuff that make the game intresting, but sometimes even a game like this walks the line, 
 and than falls flat on it's face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSlideTail
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins takes the first person element and combines it with horror to create 
 quite an original game. At first glance the game looks like you standard FPS, but wait where are 
 all the guns? More on that later. You play an FBI investigator named Ethan Thomas who is trying 
 to track down Serial Killer X; a killer who kills other serial killers. It sounds like CSI doesn't 
 it? Well you will be required to use forensic tools to track down the killer. Using rather simple 
 button presses to gather evidence you relay them to your lab tech Rosa, who is helping you in your 
 investigation. The parts in the game that require you to use the tools seem to only help with carrying 
 the story along. So in turn the tools are pretty linear in their use, the game will tell you when 
 to use them and when you aren't required to.
  
  The story in the game starts out with you tracking down the killer throughout abandoned buildings, 
 subways, and other urban areas you wouldn't want to be at night. Around the middle part of the 
 game it starts to get crazier. Let me explain, in the beginning you fight crazy homeless people 
 and small time thugs. Something in the city is making people violent along with killing all the 
 birds in the city. You will start to encounter these addicts that are very thin and some crawl 
 on the ground. They are very frightening and it just gets more nuts the farther you get. There 
 is a level where you are in an abandoned department store, the mannequins in the store attack you 
 and the other thugs wandering around. Theres a school with these creatures in it that look like 
 something out of Silent Hill, not to mention a butcher that reminds me of something out of The 
 Texas Chainsaw Massacre. On the last level there are these big hulking guys that look like they 
 have been to hell for a day trip. My point is, the games enemies while pretty cool and varied just 
 get more and more supernatural without any kind of explanation. I found myself asking where are 
 they coming from and whats doing this to them. After the final boss fight you still don't know 
 why. Maybe there will be a Condemned 2.
  
  Ok so how are you going to kill all of these fun enemies? Well, along with your tazer, anything 
 is the answer. You will be dispatching your enemies mostly with melee weapons like; pipes, 2x4's, 
 concrete rebar, crowbars, sledgehammers, fire axes, and shovels along with countless other objects. 
 You will have limited access to firearms including a revolver, a .45, a shotgun, a sawed off version, 
 and an SMG. There are no ammo pickups and you can only carry one weapon at a time which to me added 
 to the fear of the game. The AI in the game seemed very smart. They will try to fight dirty, hide 
 behind objects, and fight you in groups. The enemies can and will also use weapons you drop on 
 the ground against you, so firearms are fair game for them as well. Let me just say, the enemies 
 for being crazed, have great accuracy. You can also perform finishing blows if an enemy is stunned, 
 characterized by trauma to the head or snapping of the neck. They are performed using the D-pad 
 and you get your choice, almost like a fatality.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. A lot of people think that there are too many repeated textures. 
 The first couple levels look similar but after them the level design is great. Every level is absolutely 
 trashed, debris and garbage everywhere with few working lights. Ah the lights, the lighting in 
 this game is great, something right out of a horror movie. It definately adds to the atmosphere. 
 I constantly kept double looking because of the shadows the lighting created. The shadows will 
 keep you second guessing, where the enemies are. In the one level, there is a door that shuts itself, 
 so that had me freaked out.
  
  The sound in the game is overall pretty good. The music in the game is your typical horror ambience 
 which suited the atmosphere in the game. The voice acting was ok, nothing great. The enemies do 
 make nice sound effects, coughing, shuffling, running, along with knocking things over. They really 
 carry the game.
  
  Condemned suffers with one real problem, theres very little replay value. Other than achievements 
 there really isn't another reason to play through again, the story is the same. There is only one 
 mode, the story and thats it. For a launch game, this game is great, a needed horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Story:
  
  You are in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, and average FBI guy who is called to investigate a crime 
 scene in an old warehouse. But as time goes by, he and some cops notice that there's a hella lot 
 of drug infested creeps going mad inside the warehouse. Thats where the game starts. Expect to 
 travel into several worn-down places like this.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Condemned can be classified as a first-person melee game. You walk around in buildings with a weapon 
 you can pick up from tables, walls, etc. Weapons range from pipes, planks, fire axes, sledgehammers, 
 shovels, and others. You will sometimes be able to grab firearms such as handguns and shotguns, 
 but they have limited use. So you'll mostly use weapons where you constantly hit people. Your enemies 
 in this game are the crazed, drug-infested, and sometimes disturbing looking, people that usually 
 run after you by trying to kill you. Your job is to kill them, but they also try to kill you to. 
 You will need to block many of their attacks that could deal a great damage on to you. Sometimes 
 when you injure a person so much, you have to option to do finishing blows that are violent, disturbing, 
 yet cool at the same time, such a final punch, crack their heads, or basically kick them out cold. 
 You'll have to heal yourself often, but health packs only come sometimes, so watch how you fight.
 
  
  When you're not killing those crazed guys, your job is to collect evidence of an infamous serial 
 killer in several worn-out drab buildings. You'll analyze data by using various gadgets that FBI 
 guys are given. You usually collect evidence from victims of the serial killer, or from important 
 items that involve the serial killer. They'd be transferred back to the headquarters for final 
 analyze. Sometimes you'd need to use the gadgets to figure out clues for yourself in order to proceed 
 in the level. When you're just walking around the level, there will occasional times when a weapon 
 is necessary to get through a locked door. All the other gameplay moments in this game come in 
 surprises and require you to figure out how to escape from them.
  
  This is a very neat set up for a survival horror game, but all this can get rather repetitive, 
 especially later in the game. Still, there's no doubt on the entertainment you'll get out of Condemned.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Condemned takes advantage of the Xbox 360's power quite decently, but not thoroughly. Some of the 
 textures, mostly the ones that don't get much attention, have very last-gen details, which is kinda 
 a down. But what Condemned makes up for that is worth seeing. The lighting used in this game is 
 truly amazing. Since this game is very dark, you'll need to rely on the light from your flashlight 
 or from fading light bulbs, which do a great job on how dim the lights can be. The character models 
 are also great, but not perfect. Since you'll be walking around in ugly areas such as sewers, old 
 schools and a closed department store, you'll get a feeling of gloominess and the drabness that 
 helps out in the creating that atmosphere. As a launch title, Condemned shows some good stuff visually.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The aural presentation in Condemned varies, but it all fits in a survival-horror game. Ambiance 
 is heard in the background when you're playing in the levels, which creates an unsettling feature 
 in your soul. But you won't be taking much notice of this anyway. The real treat of Condemned is 
 the voice acting and sound effects. The voice acting, while not common, does a great job on the 
 characters and the various crazed people that try to kill you. You will actually get interested 
 when something intense is about to happen, thanks to the nice performances. The sound effects actually 
 get a lot of attention, unlike many video games. Everything from walking, hitting people, to opening 
 doors, and firing weapons, are loud and make you jump occasionally. The Audio are very realistic 
 and effective overall, and you'll be enjoying in during your journey.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  There are a couple flaws to point out, sadly. This game can be rather repetitive for those not 
 interested in constant fighting or searching, but most people will hopefully enjoy the gameplay 
 still. Condemned also happens to be a little too short. It's long enough to tell the main story 
 very well, but you'll be wanting more once it's all over. There isn't much to do after, aside from 
 getting some achievement points in a 2nd replay. But in the end, the experience is thrilling and, 
 at times, creepy. So if there's any survival horror fans wanting to try a psychological horror 
 game with a neat gameplay concept should definitely give Condemned a go.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Creates a well-made creepy atmosphere.
  -Gameplay, while repetitive, can be exciting at times.
 
  -Cutscenes are very well made.
  -Great audio, with the voice acting and sound effects standing out.
  -Attractive designs for 
 a horror game
  
  Cons:
  
  -A little short
  -Pacing might be a little too slow for some gamers
  -Little to none replay value once it's finished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Im not really a massive first person game fan but since I first saw this game in the shops way 
 back before I even had a 360 I always thought it looked good and then I found out it was in first 
 person it made me re-think on whether I should get it or not when I got my 360. But I was still 
 determined to get it even though I dispised first person games I didnt wan't that to stop me getting 
 it. Iv had my 360 since september and I have finally got it and I havent been dissapointed. It 
 has great graphics, a great storyline and great first person melee action. Im a fan of silent hill 
 and that was another thing that hightened my hopes for it to be a good game because they looked 
 like they had similarities when it came to horror and making you jump and I think the scare factor 
 is one of the things that made silent hill so great. I like the way the game puts you in Ethan 
 Thomas' shoes (the main character in the game) because your looking through his eyes so you really 
 feel like youve been framed for murder and crazy people are stalking your every move you feel like 
 you are Ethan especially when Ethan has the things screwing with his head and the screen goes black 
 and white and then an enemy attacks you then you swing for him and then he is gone and then you 
 realise it was in his head. I also like the use of the forensic tools its very cool. I think this 
 game may have changed my outlook on first person games and I might try more of them out now this 
 game rocks I highly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  I won't waste your time re-writing what GS has already said about this game --
  
  Graphically, the game is pretty good. Fantastic lighting effects including those cast when using 
 forensic tools really adds a ton of scary ambiance to the game. Textures and character models do 
 seem as though they could have benefited from more work, but overall its a respectable showing.
 
  
  The game really has some fantastic sound effects. You'll turn around more than once in fear that 
 something is creeping up behind you (and in real life as well) . The game plays with your mind... and 
 it does so mostly by teasing your ears with crisp moans, grunts, screams, yells, scratches, whispers 
 and other eerie sounds. The music, while nearly non-existent and reduced to static tracks which 
 work to build tension, serves its purpose.
  
  For the most part, the game controls well. The run mechanic is the only aspect of he game's controls 
 which really feels out of place -- one must click the left stick inward to engage in a run... awkward 
 to say the least.
  
  As GS has said in its review, the game does settle for repetition. There were many places in the 
 game where I expected something really scary to come about only to find yet another jacked-up hoodlum 
 coming at me with a crowbar. More punch needed in presentation. The game does end on a pretty cool 
 note, though. In total, it's great fun and longer than I expected,
  
  To conclude, I was pleasantly surprised with Condemned, partly because I wasn't expecting much 
 from it. I wouldn't go so far as to say it's a must-buy, but it's certainly a fantastic rental 
 and an even better bargain buy if it can be found on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Condemned has some pretty memorable moments in it. Especially the ending but I wont give it away. 
 It plays pretty smoothly for the most part and the graphics are pretty nice although you dont 
 get to see anything other than what your flashlight will let you see. But thats not really a bad 
 thing it helps make it even creepier. You get to use some pretty neat weapons and CSI like tools 
 to help you along the way. Im a big fan of weird freaky games like this one and Im pretty picky 
 with games but I liked it was defiantly worth the money I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Solid first person elements combined with a little bit of CSI gadgetry. Well implemented 
 but the fighting doesn't seem as fluid or realistic as it could be
  
  Graphics: The best graphics of any of the 360 launch games, the texturing is nice but the physics 
 are over done and the blood effects are so over the top that they detract from the experience
 
  
  sound: the creepy music fits the mood perfectly and adds a nice atmosphere
  
  Value: worth picking up from your bargain bin if you plan on getting all of the Achievements
 
  
  Tilt: fun, yet a little lacking in some areas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you're gonna love or hate. First thing, if you don't have a widescreen 
 HD television with at least 5.1 surround sound, then you're only get half the game. The graphics 
 are supremely presented and the sound is so well integrated, you'll swear there are baddies in 
 the same room with you. And most definitely, as many other reviewers have noted: play this game 
 at night for maximum scare effect! I don't scare easy, but this game, especially early on, had 
 me jumping at every turn. The outstanding use of the flickering flashlight through dark hallways 
 is a work of art, better than DOOM 3 (which is a huge compliment.) But unfortunately, game play 
 takes a backseat to the slick presentation. You play as an investigator who must be on his first 
 day at work because every cool forensic tool he has is handed to him like he's a newbie, so investigating 
 with all this hi-tech equipment has no satisfaction because it's all done for you. This would have 
 been fine in the first level or so as a sort of a tutorial, but taking all the guess work out of 
 what tool to use saps what could have been a nice twist on the horror genre. So the game boils 
 down to exploring dark, dank hallways, searching for dead birds and metal pieces, while occasionally 
 smacking the snot out of deranged psychopaths. The combat is simplistic, but that's not a bad thing. 
 Stringing together a bunch of combos would have taken the visceral 'oh crap, I'm about to get cranked 
 in the face with a lead pipe' effect, so having a basic block, attack and foot kick work very well. 
 Surprisingly well actually. It's more than a little satisfying to time the block, tag the meathead 
 with a fire axe, drop him to his knees and ram his forehad with your own. Combat is worth the price, 
 but its too far and few between, and there really is no sense of why or what is going on at first, 
 or for most of the game really. Just a group of random creeps aiming to use your face for meat 
 tenderizer. And with the incredible environments and mood, the bad guys don't really have any real 
 scare to them . . . or at least when they actually show up. Hearing them approach however, and 
 frantically guessing which corner of the dark they're coming from is a practice in composure I'll 
 admit I didn't always maintain. There are several very real panic moments. The black-and-white 
 flashback/forward bit was creepy at first, but grows tiresome, and the mystery isn't all that exciting. 
 It would have benefited more from more action. And the sprint configuration is a little awkward 
 as it requires clicking the Left stick and pushing forward, which means steering is almost non-existent 
 while on the run (at least for me.) But that's minor. The stun gun is like a six-pack of POW, and 
 comes in real handy. So, I'm on the fence. I'm not quite finished the game, and I can't say I'm 
 not enjoying it. I truly like that there is not a map, which gives it a real 'you're there, figure 
 it out' feel, but the voice acting has all the urgency of a third-grade play and the silly +/- 
 rating for the myriad weapons are utterly superfluous. But . . . if you're looking for some true 
 next-gen graphics and make-you-sweat sound effects, give this a shot. The name is Condemned, so 
 loving it or hating it kinda doesn't matter. Its subtitle is Criminal Origins, so maybe there is 
 more to come. Sequel time, I'll definitely buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmruppert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I felt this game was worth paying 49.99$ for. It had twists and turns. It did get a little repetitive 
 in some levels. The only thing I was not fond of was the constant flashes and foresight. The eerie 
 images that constantly disappeared were a nice little touch. I felt the challenges were not as 
 challenging as I would like finding all the birds and the metal pieces makes up for the simplicity 
 of the games primary challenges. The sound quality could definitly use some work. I guess in the 
 end I have mixed feelings about this game. However I will play it through again. And I will purchase 
 the next one... if there is another one... I think there will be... you be your own judge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnocentWitness
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  As an FBI agent, you have to travel to the worse parts of the city to answer a call that might 
 had something to do with one of the serial killers you had been following. When framed for the 
 murders of two cops, Thomas must run for his life and find evidence to clear his name. With his 
 fellow forensic friend, rose, this game is good because it feels so real. Not only do you get to 
 collect evidence but you also have to deal with deranged drug addicts, mutilated bums, and out 
 of control firemen. The game is really intense, but i didnt find anything too scary because i tend 
 to scream in my mind as i charge like a crazy lunatic at my opponents. Thomas would probably wonder 
 who's crazier. There are several stages but for me the mall was quite creepy, especially with the 
 Xmas music playing downstairs. Condemned throws you into a world where anything is possible. It 
 feels so real until someone turns on the light in your room to remind you that you're just playing 
 a game. Pretty intense, but not the best horror survival out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  One of the scariest games of all time?? I would have Condemned: Criminal Origins in my top three. 
 With the amazing graphics and incredible sound effects, this game scared the crap out of me numerous 
 times. The one concern that I have is the action is intense for short periods of time. You tend 
 to go a while without doing any fighting and then you have a bunch of people to kill suddenly. 
 The gameplay works great and it feels like you are actually there. The story is pretty good also. 
 The part of this game that stands out is the sound. I had 5.1 sourround sound and I caught myself 
 turning around a few times, it was awesom. The creeks, and pings, and scratching are just the tip 
 of the iceberg. If you like games like Silent HIll this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Like I said it was fun at first but then it gets really boring for one there are so many greater 
 plus more scary games out there like Resident evil4 sure its not on the xbox360 but it is way better 
 than this. For starters it is great at the beggining of the game but then it gets slower and slower 
 and slower then there are those moments that pick it up a little bit but its still boring. The main 
 character moves soooo slow that it is not even funny the combat is alright but really could have 
 done a lot better. Also the game is really short so do't expect some long epic. All in all this game 
 is is not terrible but it aint great ether 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Taken from my article at openXBOX360. com:
  
  Introduction:
  
  In Condemned, you play as Ethan Thomas, an agent for the SCU, or Serious Crimes Unit. Recently, 
 there has been a crime wave throughout the city and a serial killer is on the loose. During a brief 
 encounter with the serial killer near a crime scene, you are framed for the murder of two police 
 officers, resulting in Ethans banishment from the FBI. Who exactly committed the murders is up 
 to you to find out. Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay-wise, Condemned fairs pretty well. Throughout the games short ten chapters, youll be 
 killing various addicts and creatures with an assortment of weapons. These weapons, which can be 
 found strewn around the environment, range from pipes and mannequin arms to heavier weapons such 
 as sledgehammers and shovels. There are also indeed firearms within this game. These firearms include 
 small pistols such as a revolver to guns like a shotgun or rifle. Ammo is limited however, so you 
 will be forced to place your shots accurately. In addition to these weapons, you have a taser at 
 your disposal. The taser is useful for stunning enemies temporarily, giving you the advantage to 
 either make the first blow, or disarm them of their weapon. To refresh you from the core gameplay, 
 youll be opted to search for evidence that will help advance the story. The forensic section of 
 the game is a bit linear though, since it consists primarily of using the same tool consistently 
 to search for either blood, or fingerprints. Busting the heads of your enemies can also get a bit 
 repetitive as there are a limited amount of animations, and a dull selection of weapons. Fortunately, 
 this repetitiveness is hardly noticed as the suspense, creepiness, and immersion of this game takes 
 your focus away from the small errors. Controls:
  
  The control scheme has been done well for Condemned. Like any other FPS, the right trigger is to 
 attack/shoot. Since this game involves mostly melee combat, the left trigger is to block an enemys 
 attack. There is no crouch or jump button, however. When you approach something that involves jumping 
 or crouching, an option is displayed on whether you want to crouch or jump. For example, if theres 
 a table in your way, you approach the table and press the A button when it opts for you to climb 
 over it. The A button is used quite a lot in Condemned, as it serves as the control for many functions. 
 Also, by default, your movement consists of walking, but there is an option to sprint if you need 
 to get away from an enemy quickly. Unfortunately, the default sensitivity settings are a little 
 too sensitive, but you can easily change that within the options menu. Graphics:
  
  Graphically, Criminal Origins is amazing. The different environments (which include a school, library, 
 and among others) are intricately detailed, enabling you to be immersed into the story far more 
 than you would imagine. The walls, floors, objects, and even blood all look excellent. The real-time 
 lighting, which adds a lot to the game, is also amazing. At times, the environments are very photorealistic. 
 The character models on the other hand, especially that of the main character, are sub-par. Agent 
 Thomas looks like a plastic doll; some cutscenes are just embarrassing. The enemies are much better 
 looking however, which is a relief because those are the only characters youll be seeing most 
 of the game. Story:
  
  The story of Condemned is very good. Like a well written novel, youll find yourself wanting to 
 progress so that you know what happens next. There are only a few moments that make you jump, but 
 most of the game youll be on the edge of your seat thinking, what the...? Contrary to popular 
 belief, this game doesnt have you just killing enemies such as bums and drug addicts. If you arent 
 looking for a game that includes weird zombie-like creatures, you may want to stay away from this 
 title. As you near the end of the game, you will encounter strange beings that arent zombies, 
 but people possessed to the point where they can no longer be considered human. Mannequins also 
 come alive, so youll be fighting those as well. Conclusion:
  
  Overall, Condemned: Criminal Origins can be placed among the 360 titles such as Call of Duty, Project 
 Gotham, and Perfect Dark Zero. Although not the best title for the 360 as of now, Condemned is 
 still worth a purchase, or at least a rent if you are not into survival-horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay051684
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Turn off the lights. Crank up the volume, and get ready to be scared
  Awesome game. Very creepy, Excellent way of integrating video sequences into the gameplay. I got 
 this game a couple of weeks ago and i've been playing it as much as I can, when its late at night. 
 Thats the best time to play it, when the room can be pitch black. Surround sound helps out a lot 
 too. The game can be really easy at times, and really hard at other times. But its an easy game 
 to learn. If ya like being scared, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_master04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  condemned was amazing the sound was great and the graphics were the best ... i loved that if you 
 grabed a weapon it had very little ammo so that made it more difficult and scarier.. and you had 
 to use what surrounded you for protection.. and what made it more scarier was that the enemies werent 
 monsters or anithing like that they were serial killers.. that just came at you with pipes, axe's, piece 
 of wood etc. and the sound was real scary to .. this game is one of the best action horror games 
 ive ever played .. and it is a great game to own it is worth all the money just try it out for 
 yourselfs.. good luck :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jhomie88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a not a game that tries something new, it's not even the best of its genre. But it 
 is definitely worth your time, mostly because it is good. The premise hits a little off the track 
 with a little too much eccentricity, but the game is kept on the track with enemies and environments 
 that will scare the everlivin' out of ya. Anything you don't expect to happen does, but later on, 
 you will be expecting it and the same thing happens, just as you expected. That makes it deathly 
 obvious that repetition is pretty much a subtitle for this game, and almost no one is a fan of 
 repetition. If you can get past that, though, this game will terrify and astound you with creepy 
 enemies and twists in the plot at every turn, along with top-notch graphics and a scary-as-anything 
 soundtrack. This game is worth your time and money. Another shortcoming is that it's a bit short, 
 but still worth the amount of money you may pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enginwolf04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Upon the first level, encountering the very first enemy, you realize the name of the game is quite 
 appropriate. Psycho killers abound in this game about trying to solve a series of grizzly murders 
 and track down the killer before the individual claims more victims. If you enjoy fun fighting 
 action, mixed with a small dose of gunplay for good measure, as well as using criminal investigating 
 tools to progress the story, this game is for you. The story itself is quite interesting and if 
 nothing else, original. Though convoluted as you reach the ending, it still makes for an interesting 
 premise that is surely from the depths of the most disturbed minds. As an FBI Agent trying to investigate 
 the murder of a woman related to a series of other murders from a guy with a serious M. O., the 
 game keeps you guessing about where enemies will come from, as well as forcing you to maintain 
 a good balance between equiping gun or melee weapons, as running out of ammo renders the gun quite 
 useless. Various melee weapons are available, from various pipes to planks of wood. Each weapon 
 has associated stats, such as blocking, speed and power. While mostly boiling down to preference, 
 the more powerful weapons are best by default. Similarly guns run the gamut from pistols to shotguns, 
 submachine guns, and more. The AI of the enemies does bear some mentioning, as they put up a good 
 fight, but the average gamer will get the hang of it after a couple levels. Different enemies do 
 use different tactics, but it all boils down to properly blocking and properly attacking. The cutscenes, 
 which use in-game graphics and models, are nice, but so few and far apart. It's a shame they were 
 not utilized more often, especially ones that could have had the same impact as when you surprisingly 
 get knocked down a set of escalator by an unknown assailant. Moments like these could have been 
 peppered throughout the game and kept things fresh. Personally, I don't regret playing this game. 
 As long as it lasts, and with some small replay value to find hidden bird corpses and hidden TVs 
 scattered throughout each level, this game is well worth devoting the time to experience. Bash 
 some psycho killer heads in for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Condemned starts off suddenly, but it doesn't take too long to get comfortable with the world inside 
 the game. You are Ethan Thomas, an agent belonging to the SCU [Serial Crimes Unit] hunting down 
 a killer known as 'The Matchmaker' who sets up 'dates' for people then murders them. One event 
 leads to another, and the killer has your gun, and he uses it to take down two officers. You are 
 blamed for the crime, and you are suspended from the force, and an APB is set for your arrest. 
 However, your lab assistant, Rosa, still keeps in contact and helps you along the way. Condemned 
 has a creepy atmosphere right from the start, the game is dark, the locals are beaten down and 
 spooky, and the excellent visual and sound effects only add to the eeriness of every corridor. 
 The graphics, running on the same engine as F. E. A. R. are very good, though not spectacular. The 
 effects and environments look great, though the characters have many rough edges and look blocky 
 and stiff up close. There aren't many 'monsters' [save for the final fight] in Condemned, though 
 some of the violent psychopaths look pretty damned ugly, which gives you the feeling that you're 
 fighting something much, much more terrifying than you really are. This adds to the experience. 
 The gameplay can get repetitious after awhile, but the games setting and story will keep you going. 
 The story is great, until the final level. There are many 'hallucinations' throughout the game 
 where you see strange things happen, and they all add to the mood, but in the final level they 
 instantly push you out of the frighteningly surrealistic world into a sudden place filled with 
 mutants and Pin-head esque bosses, that feel like they have nothing to do with anything else experienced 
 in the game, and this final addition to the story seems rushed and unexplained, which brings the 
 story to a sudden halt with many questions unanswered and an unsatisfactory end. It's a game with 
 a great concept, and the game has many great things to offer, though many of these concepts are 
 not fully fleshed out, and the game can get repetitive, but it's a great experience while it lasts, 
 and I'll be looking forward to a sequel or a game that expands on it's concepts. It's not perfect, 
 but it's definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very spooky atmosphere, great melee combat system, good story, unlike anything else I've 
 ever played.
  
  The Bad: Those who scare easily should stay away, no multiplayer, pretty darn violent.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In Condemned: Criminal Origins for the Xbox 360, you play as a federal agent working to hunt down 
 a serial killer, until you are framed for several murders and are looking for the guy who framed 
 you, and to stay away from the cops. This is a very spooky, first of it's kind first person action 
 game focused on melee combat. Basically, you can pick up items such as a lead pipe, a 2X4 with 
 nails sticking out of it and a crowbar and whack the heck out of any psychopath killers that get 
 in your way. You also use CSI style crime scene investigation tools to learn more about who framed 
 you and really killed those people. The game is played primarily in the dark, leaving you with 
 just a flashlights and your instincts for selecting ordinary items for weapons. There are select 
 areas that require a sertain item, such as a fire axe for breaking down a rotting door or a sledgehammer 
 for breaking a lock off of a door. This makes your item selection something much more strategic 
 instead of picking what you think is th best for killing serial killers. The graphics in Condmened 
 reminded me of another game Monolith developed (F. E. A. R.) but because of even less lighting than 
 in that game, it actually has a more terrifying setting. The sound effects also add a ton to the 
 game's overall fear factor, when a sound effect can mean the coming of a murderer, with a fire 
 axe in hand. The only bad thing about Condemned are the fact that is has no multiplayer and that 
 people who scare easily should avoid it, but other than that, it's an excellent use of technology 
 and a very creepy atmosphere and an overall excellent game.
  
  Gameplay: Melee combat is the focus here, and it works very well in Condemned.
  
  Graphics: 
 The visuals add a ton to the game's creepy atmosphere and storyline.
  
  Sound: The sound effects keep the player on their toes...
  
  Value: Because it's an older 360 
 game, I picked it up for under $20, but it usually costs $30 or so.
  
  Final Thoughts: Oh yes, there will be blood... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daffy101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  In Condemned you are a detective and start out at a crime scene. The rest of the story is kind 
 of down-hill from there. Theres not much to the story at all. You know that theres a lot of crazy 
 people running around the city (most trying to kill you) but it never explains why they do that. 
 In the beginning a serial killer kills your two partners with your gun, and the cops are now looking 
 for you too. Every now and then there will be a cut-scene with information on where youre going 
 to be headed next and stuff like that, but nothing really on why everything is happening.
  Anyway, from the start of the game youll get the spooky kind of vibe because the building you 
 are in is almost pitch black, old, and falling apart. In most of the levels in the game, youll 
 be in a building thats old, dark, and thrashed and sometimes youll find yourself wondering if 
 youve just walked down the same hallway 2 minutes ago. Deep down you always hope that your flashlight 
 doesnt go out, as it shorts out sometimes, creeping you out a little bit and making you hesitate 
 to move forwards. A few levels are different though, and change things up a little bit. One level 
 you are in a library and another one you are outside, which definitely mixes it up and makes it 
 a little more fun.
  Through various parts of the game, you actually get to be a detective, rather than just play the 
 role of one, which is unique and fun. Youll need to use different tools for different investigations, 
 but you wont find yourself lost trying to figure out which tool to use, because when you press 
 the button to investigate, the game conveniently gives you the right tool. Dont think its all 
 smooth sailing from there though, some investigations take awhile to figure out.
  Hand-to-hand combat never gets more intense than this. You can use a lot of different weapons ranging 
 from 2x4s to fire-axes. Dont get me wrong, there are guns in the game, but when you pick up a 
 gun, and the gun only has (up to) 6 bullets in it, thats all you have. You cant look around and 
 find ammo clips for your gun. Once your bullets are gone, theyre gone. So its obvious they wanted 
 you to melee most of the time. As for melee weapons go, you can pull 2x4s and pipes off the wall 
 for fast hits or you could use a fire-axe or sledge hammer for slower but more powerful hits. You 
 also have a taser that you can use. When you taser someone, the enemy stands unconscious and you 
 can get a cheap shot on them, or, steal their weapon from them and then get a cheap shot on them. 
 After you use your taser, a blue meter will pop up to charge your taser, when its filled up it 
 will fade and you can use it again.
  The enemies can have the same weapons (excluding the taser) , but in order to defend yourself, of 
 course you have to block. Easy right? To block, you cant just simply hold the block button until 
 you block off your enemies shot. You have to time it right, because you only put up your block 
 for a second, which is hard if you mess up the timing with more than one enemy. Sometimes your 
 enemy will fall to his knees rather than just die, so you can do a finishing move by head butting 
 or something else bone-crushing. The sound and graphics bring a lot to this game, as the graphics 
 are very well put together and detailed, and the sound is well put together also. So with the great 
 graphics, sound, and perfect gameplay, this is a must-play for Xbox 360 owner or action seeker. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Condemned, seems like an ordinary First Person Shooter with the standard arsenals that are commonly 
 seen throughout the mainstream, however the developers decided to make a twist, they took out the 
 Heads Up Display (HUD to be simple) thus adding realism and making the game more nerve-racking 
 as you are constantly checking your firearm to see if you have enough to kill any hosilities that 
 could crawl out of any corner...
  
  Sound is one of many key-roles in horror games, adding more suspense in the entire plot, condemned 
 is no exception... in surround sound, stereo maybe ideal, but to most hard-core gamers surround 
 sound is makes everything around you seem alive and making you think quickly throughout a situation...
 
  
  Condemned also made use to the weaponry throughout the levels, majority of the weapons are 2x4's, 
 pipes, and conduits. But there are weapons that help you get through most obstacles ( ex: crowbars 
 open safes, fire-axes breaks down door) . But because of this, you'll have to backtrack the level 
 in order to find that sledgehammer in order to break the lock...
  
  Gameplay is simple, fun, and intriguing. Timing your blocks is essential in order to survive, and 
 the mini-games where you have to take pictures, find fingerprints, and examine victims of serial 
 killers makes it feel like an episode in CSI ...
  
  Condemned however is really easy, the AI is really lacking any intelligence at all, graphics isn't 
 next-gen comparing it to Oblivion, and the ending to the game wasn't really satisfying to conclude 
 such a good game, regardless the game itself has terror written all over and should be played by 
 those who treasure survival horror... l, l... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Sweet gameplay, decent graphics, intriguing storyplot, and awe inspiring originality is what makes 
 this game one of the sweetest games ever!!! This game is a must have for you gamers out there whom 
 are looking for that game fix. Weapons are sweet, wish I could just carry an extra clip, but hey!! 
 Drop the gun pick up a 2 x 4 and swing away!!! Sweet, rockem-sockem game. Get this game! Don't 
 waste your time with other games, get this one. Stupid limit sorry now I am just ranting, this 
 game has left me speechless! Very, very speechless, well I am typing, not speaking, so I am type-less, 
 get it, lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman7934
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm gonna be blunt. This game scared the living **** outta me. I was constantly on the edge 
 of my seat. And I loved every damn minute of it. I loved the innovative hand-to-hand combat system, 
 in which it utilizes various objects used as weapons. And, of course, the occasional neck snap 
 and head ramming. Also, the stunning visuals in this game left me witless; I was really, really 
 scared. And thats actually very unusual for me, at least with movies and games. But damn, the visuals 
 ARE excellent. The only thing I hated about this game is the gun system. It sucked. They should 
 of just left them out altogether. All-inall though people, if you wanna be scared outta your panties, 
 play this game... Of.... DOOM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out strong, but then it really drags in the middle for 3 to 4 levels. The last 
 couple levels are outstanding though. The game actually has really good graphics and sound, and 
 if you are not creeped out at least once, then there is something wrong with you. You basically 
 melee the whole game, every once in awhile you get a gun or shotgun. You travel to lots of creepy 
 locations after seriel killers and you get to investigate crime scenes. Overall, I would rent this 
 game. There is no replay value in this game at all unless you want achievements. It has its moments 
 when the game really shines and your heart rate is beating out of your chest, but it just seems 
 to drag a lot. I thought it was good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is definitely my favorite genre of video game and that might have something to do with my 
 love for horror movies. The storyline for Condemned is definitely something that I would love to 
 see in movie form, but this was just as good. The storyline was definitely the best part of this 
 game, but the voice overs were excellent and fit the people you played perfectly. The graphics 
 were perfect, although some of the environments were dark to the point where I had to increase 
 the brightness just to see where I was going. The only problem that I really had with the game 
 was the fighting techniques. I enjoy the club techniques in a lot of the action games now a days, 
 but the requirement for blocking and that blocking not even being affective part of the time was 
 very annoying. That needed to be more consistent.
  
  Overall, I would seriously recommend the game and I look forward to any sequel that might be released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  este juego es bueno tiene unas graficas aceptables pero la verdad no es todo lo que puede hacer 
 el 360, es un juego k tiene una buena historia que conforme vas avanzado te mete dentro de la historia 
 queriendo saber mas, pero desgraciadamente el final es un tanto misterioso y te deja con el sabor 
 de saber que es lo que sigue mas adelante. Algo interesante de este juego son las armas ya que 
 puedes agarrar tubos o incluso quitar una varilla de la parede con todo y concreto eso es un punto 
 a su favor para este juego.
  pero en fin es un juego que la verdad no te puedes perder y lo tienes que jugar, By Ed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a really scary game. Basically the devs have gone for a more primitive fighting style in 
 Condemned. You'll pretty much be hitting nasty guys with different assortments of wood planks, 
 signs, crowbars etc. However the guns you do get have very limited ammo and will become secondary 
 for you.
  But the game has pulled off exactly what it was aiming for in my opinion.
  Everything seems so real and is damn scary. Be prepared for jumps and scares because i guarantee 
 your heart will freeze still in certain places.
  Graphics in this game are fine. Nothing special about them. Everything looks pretty refined and 
 smooth, however some close-ups of faces seem a bit last-gen. But honestly this doesn't take away 
 from the general presentation of the game. IMO the best part of this game is the storyline. Don't 
 want to spoil anything, but its damn twisty and will keep you interested. In fact it gets really 
 gruesome and left some nasty images in my mind afterwards. So in that sense the game was quite 
 memorable and really made an impression on me. So pretty much if you want a scary game, or just 
 wanna hit some junkies, this will not disappoint. Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I played through the entire game start to finish. The game starts out strong, but then it really 
 drags in the middle for 3 to 4 levels. The last couple levels are outstanding though. The game 
 actually has really good graphics and sound, and if you are not creeped out at least once, then 
 there is something wrong with you. You basically melee the whole game, every once in awhile you 
 get a gun or shotgun. You travel to lots of creepy locations after seriel killers and you get to 
 investigate crime scenes. Overall, I would rent this game. There is no replay value in this game 
 at all unless you want achievements. It has its moments when the game really shines and your heart 
 rate is beating out of your chest, but it just seems to drag a lot. Kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimi_man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Condemned, one game not to be played with friends, reason is is becouse it takes completely all 
 the horror out of it. This game is ment to played, at night, by yourself, with the sound turned 
 pretty high and with the lights off, a boom! you are awareded with top class scares!
  
  Ok to the gameplay, the gameplay, i found, was a little slow, mainly due to the short amount of 
 enemies in each level but, when the crazy homeless people do come up to play, its more satisfying 
 smashing a physco path in the face then playing dodgeball with cricket balls!. But theres more 
 to it then just killing hobos, theres forensic evindence to be taken care of, which reveals bit 
 by bit the story of whats going on. The controls are basic, right trigger attack, left block, A 
 to activate, B for flash light and you will get the hang of it soon, there are fire arms in the 
 game like the good ol' Sawn of Shotty, and the well known Magnum!, but you really dont use em that 
 often. But there are heaps of melee weapons around! including busted pipes, rebars, everything. 
 But not only is the pipe-to-hobo satisfying, its the sound that delivers top notch sound that really 
 adds to the atmosphere. When your knocking over and bucket or slightley bumping a shelf, its sound 
 amazing. But now lets hope along to the third segment of my review, the graphics
  
  The graphics, are overall, very good but when you get a zoom up on a charecters face, its looks 
 extremely dull, but from a meduim shot it looks really good. The envirmoment looks fantastic, the 
 gore on the other hand also looks great. Which adds more to the smash in the face, and known you 
 left a mark. Blood pours across the ground and over the wall and all.
  
  All in all, the graphics are masterpiece, except for the close up. The game is rather quite short, 
 but there is abit of replay value if you after achievments, and theres no multiplayer. So over 
 all, Condemned is a game that, works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Last November, Microsoft released the glorious Xbox 360, a powerful next-gen endeavor that raised 
 the bar on what games could be. A sadly overlooked launch title for the Xbox's successor, Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins is a scary, fascinating horror FPS from Monolith Studios.
  
  The story is straightforward, but still engaging. You play Ethan Thomas, an experienced FBI agent 
 with a mysterious past. There is a serial killer on the loose in the city, and you are sent to 
 investigate his latest offense. As you examine the evidence, the murderer begins messing with you 
 head. Smoke fills your nostrils, so you decide to investigate. The psychopath turns off the power, 
 and your frightened police chief sends you to find the circuit breaker. This launches you on a 
 horrifying journey through the city, full of twists and turns.
  
  The first weapon you receive is a handgun, a weak pistol with a nearly nonexistent ammo supply. 
 This is meant to suggest the entire premise of the gameplay; you will not be doing a lot of shooting. 
 Instead, you will have to keep an eye out for melee weapons, objects ranging from pipes to sledgehammers 
 to fireaxes to paper cutters. The game is a first person experience, but don't let the perspective 
 remind you of action-oriented shooters like Halo or Call of Duty. This is FPH, first person horror. 
 You roam through ten fairly linear levels, from a department store to a derelict school. The enemies 
 you face evolve as you progress. Initially, the main adversaries are just drug addicts and hobos 
 hyped up on some new drug. This is a scary setup, it's not too complex to make you question it. 
 The drug mostly just infests the users with uncontrollable rage, anger that will drive them to 
 kill each other and you. The most fascinating scenarios are ones that lead you to scenes of those 
 monsters killing one another. Just watching them kill each other ruthlessly, without consequence, 
 making your fight that much easier, you can't help but feel a little sad for the city and what 
 it's come to, even though you're scared out of your mind. Eventually you'll face off against living 
 manikins and creatures that crawl on the ceilings and walls and ambush you without mercy.
  
  That brings me to the selling point of Condemned: the shear amount of fear it injects into 
 your very mind. As you walk through narrow corridors though Agent Thomas' eyes, you examine every 
 possible crevice through which an enemy could sneak up on you; still, with their intelligent AI, 
 they get the better of you every time. The combat is solid, and certainly original. You obviously 
 press the right trigger to attack with whatever weapon you have equipped. The left trigger initiates 
 a temporary block, which requires precise timing to be of any use. A helpful tool you possess is 
 the taser, which stuns and damages a single enemy, and then it must recharge. This proves especially 
 necessary as the enemies grow more vicious. You also seek evidence along the way. Several unique 
 tools aid in the quest to uncover the mystery behind Serial Killer X, as the murderer is so named. 
 From investigating hand prints to taking pictures of the results of intense torture, this adds 
 a nice tilt to the gameplay. The game does tell you pretty much whenever you need to use a gadget, 
 except for a couple of optional scenarios, and this takes away from the intensity of the segments. 
 The graphics are nice. The environments tend to be bland, but the character models and animations 
 are solid, and the lack of hardly any other problems makes up for any generic feel. The blood is 
 well designed, and the physics associated with beating addicts to death are just wonderful. Not 
 much more could be expected from a launch title.
  
  The sound is also magnificent. Weapons clashing with flesh and bone chill the player's very spine, 
 and terrifically scary effects immerse you to the point of madness. The voice acting is also superb, 
 and the great dialogue is stated with conviction. The lack of hardly any music is disappointing, 
 and bogs down the score just a little, but overall, this horror game delivers in the sound department 
 as well.
  
  The MSRP of a new copy of Condemned: Criminal Origins is $39.99, though you can find it for $24.99 
 at EB Games, and perhaps even less elsewhere. With only ten levels (though generally fairly long 
 levels at that) , the high price tag is iffy, but the used price is sufficient. What makes the game 
 worthy of your money is its ability to scare you to death and engage you with fairly intuitive 
 gameplay. Fans of horror games will walk away satisfied, after eight to ten hours of play. Even 
 those who generally shy away from games of a scary nature, like myself, will have fun here. 50 
 challenging and fun Achievements prolong the game's life, encouraging replay.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great, terrifying Xbox 360 game. Anyone looking for an action-packed, 
 bloody romp should check out this game, regardless of what genre you generally prefer. At the end 
 of the day, after a fairly short FPH , you'll go to sleep satisfied, only to face mind-bending 
 dreams as a result of Condemned. Hell yes, I say! Hell yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This was the very first 360 game ive ever got, and ive only had my 360 for about 2 weeks now. Ive 
 played this game quite a bit, and I think its a fun gory horror game. But you definetly shouldnt 
 buy this game for kids, or for people who get scared easily because this game can be very scary 
 at points. This game is definetly challenging because you have to use melee weapons for the majority 
 of the game because guns and ammo are very scarce in the game. Since this game is only around $25 (which 
 is how much I picked it up for) you should pick it up if you think that this is your type of game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Condemned is the first game I bought and played on my Xbox 360. If I didnt buy any other game for 
 the Xbox 360, this game itself would justify the purchase price of the system.
  
  + Combat is very fun, with very satisfying Finishing Moves 
  + Surround sound is amazing, footsteps 
 running around in the dark etc.
  + Creepy atmosphere achieved, feels like you are really in the environment
  
  - Game is somewhat 
 short
  - Story could have been developed a little more in the game
  
  One of the best horror titles on the market, and a true showpiece for the 1080i graphics obtainable 
 on the Xbox 360. If you have a Xbox 360 and love horror games / movies, you owe it to yourself 
 to buy this game!
  
  PS: Play at night with the lights off. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  In Condemned, you play as a detective on a serial killer case. You search abandoned buildings in 
 search of clues to patch together the facts to nail your guy. As you progress in the story, you 
 realize that there is someone or something following you, stalking you. You travel to different 
 creepy areas including a library, school, and a mansion. Each environment looks different, but 
 feels the same. A huge problem with the game is that it gets pretty repetetive. Youll end up lurking 
 along the dark corrdiors for hours due to poor level design. Another flaw are the constant inconsistencies 
 of getting the right weapon to continue, for example, you need a fire axe to open old doors, sledge 
 hammer to break locks, and crow bar to break through some doors. It gets really tiring searching 
 for the right weapon and is a big inconvenience. The gameplay for the game is very sleek. Hand 
 to hand combat is really fun and easy to use and controls work great. There are different weapons 
 to use, from shovels to pipes, Condemned is littered with gruesome and violent weapons that add 
 a real gritty feeling to the game. There are also some fire arms in the game but they tend to be 
 pretty useless. Sawed off shotgun, revolver, sub machine gun, a rifle, all extremely powerfull 
 but are usually packed with only enough shots to kill a few crack heads. Speaking of crack heads, 
 they are the main enemy. Drug addicted freaks who stalk you in the dark, the AI really makes this 
 game stick out. The enemies will stalk you in the dark to attack you when your vulnerable. They 
 will run away and run from behind a wall to attack you and makes combat a real rush.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. They look beautifull when your walking around, mainly because its 
 almost always extremely dark in the levels. The character models are alright, but the faces are 
 very un realistic and look like a good xbox game at best. The weapons all look great, they are 
 all realistic and look very sadistic. The sound for the game is amazing. The sound effects are 
 very realistic and add a huge realistic mood to the gameplay. When you walk into a bucket it wont 
 only move, but it will make a realistic sound. Walking on glass, on trash, the whole environment 
 has a sound. As you walk around, you can hear the enemies breathing and moaning. And when they 
 attack they all grunt and scream very realistically. All the voices sound great, especially your 
 character when he attacks. There isnt alot of music playing, but it all combines perfectly.
  
  Overall, this game isnt that long, but it has some replay value. If you dont go for the achievements, 
 after you beat this game youll be done with it. Its worth a rental, I dont recommend buying unless 
 you want to show your friends to scare the **** out of them. No multiplayer, but it is a gaming 
 experience you cant get anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  this game has alot of great qualities 1. a great melee system and its scary as hell the story is 
 very fun and intersting but its short way too short thats what ruins it but i kno they could have 
 made it a little longer but otherwise this game is very fun and scary its sounds so amazing when 
 you hit them it sounds realistic and it looks great one of the scariest fp games out and 1 of my 
 favorites its very fun if like scary fp games with alot of gusome action and lots of fun stuff 
 then i prefer u get this game its only 24.99 its well worth it trust me go get it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belisarius118
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  The first ten minutes of the Condemned pretty much set up the rest of the game, you are alone, 
 confused and constantly assaulted by people who look like they haven't bathed... ever. With that 
 said, Condemned Criminal Origins, with its intense and fast paced combat, great AI, and excellent 
 graphics really set the trend for good things to come for both the 360 hopefully, the series.
 
  
  The main draw of Condemned is both its story and its fierce combat, which unfortunately gets a 
 little repetitive by the end of the game, but as a whole is refreshing and unique. You begin the 
 game as Detective Ethan Hunt, an unusually successful detective who haplessly stumbles into something 
 greater than it seems. I don't want to reveal to much here, as one of the best parts in the game 
 is juts seeing what happens next. With that said, a lot of the games environments are heavily influenced 
 by movies like Se7en and Silence of the Lambs, which for me was a real thrill.
  
  To be totally fair, I probably would not be writing this review if something about the game did 
 not impress me, and that was the combat. First off, the weapons are simply amazing and brutal. 
 Every weapon you use, whether its a shotgun or a crowbar, feels like it can do serious damage to 
 those on the business end. The majority of combat in the game will be hand to hand, very up close 
 and gory. The best part about this, which is also the reason it is a step of from Riddick's Butcher 
 Bay, is that combat is more asymetrical and more true to form. When you swing or block, Hunt's 
 body actually shifts his weight to hit your opponent with your weapon. Combat ends up being very 
 fast and very confusing, in a good way. The AI doesn't necessarily work together, but they all 
 work against you, enemies will literally lunge at you from different directions, hide in areas 
 you have previously explored and try to bait you into attacking by feinting. As great as combat 
 is, it does get a bit repetitive towards the end, which isn't really an issue because of how close 
 you are to the end. Overall Condemned is a fantastic game, and in my opinion beats out Call of 
 Duty 2 as the best launch title on the 360. Sega really did an excellent job in making such an 
 ambitious and fresh series. With some minor improvements to both the story and the combat mechanics, 
 the series will be well on its way to becoming a survival horror staple among gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nordicwonder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Picture this, you play as Ethan Thomas, an FBI Agent investigator that is called in to investigate 
 a murder scene. While investigating this scene, another officer smells cigarette smoke and you 
 go to investigate, finding out the killer is still in the building. You and the other officers 
 try and track this punk down. As you split up, you are now alone walking through an abandon building 
 that is trashed and looks like it would be filled with junkies and bums. Not just any junkies or 
 bums. These guys and girls look like they are hyped up on some seriously dangerous drugs. Some 
 still look alive like people hyped on drugs and others look zombie-ish and practically dead. Once 
 you get close enough to this killer, he gets the upper hand on you and gets your gun. Without giving 
 too much away, he ends up killing the other two officers with your gun and the FBI holds you responsible. 
 From this point on, you are literally on the run to clear your name and the only way to do this 
 is to not only find the killer, but find clues that lead to much more than you could ever conceive. 
 A serial killer that stalks other serial killers and tortures them the way they did their victims. 
 A serial killer of serial killers if you will. The Alpha Male of Alpha males. The story is complex 
 but easy to follow and immersive.
  
  The game play has its limitations but not many. For what you can do, it is enough to get through 
 the game rather easily. However, being able to jump would have been a cool addition to the game 
 play. I kept finding myself getting hung up on debris when fighting. Lighting is limited to mainly 
 your flashlight but you can see what is coming up ahead but seeing isn't always believing in this 
 game. Things are not always what they appear. Enemies can drop from the ceilings or come up behind 
 you while you are grabbing some health or turning a crank. Some times you don't even see anything. 
 You just hear them cursing at you and challenging you to come get them.
  
  You will not get through this game without being scared or horrified at least once. This game has 
 some intense stages when enemies will just creep you out. I let me girl play while I was fixing 
 dinner and within 60 seconds, she screamed so loud I was sure the neighbors heard and she came 
 running into the kitchen shaking and needing me to hold her. I couldn't stop laughing because I 
 know how much she is into zombie games and plays Resident Evil and Silent Hill games religiously. 
 So if this game creeps her out, I am sure it will get you too! Plus the game is mainly focuses 
 on melee weapons, which makes it more challenging and somewhat of a guilty pleasure to bash some 
 one's head in over blowing them away! You can even snap necks which is a sweet little tidbit that 
 adds to the intense action! My only complaint is the game wasn't long enough. I will play it again 
 for the remaining achievements but I doubt there is much more I can do with the game. I do recommend 
 that everyone should experience Condemned. Pick it up or at least rent it. After trying it once, 
 you won't feel satisfied until you go through the entire game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xOMICRONx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  It's a refreshing feeling to find a game with such a depth of atmosphere as this first-person action 
 game. Its the type of game that grabs a hold of you and doesn't let up, it's just too bad that 
 that feeling only last for 8-10 hours at the very most.
  
  You play as Ethan Thomas, and FBI Agent investigator who, at the beginning of the game is pulled 
 in to investigate a murder scene, but finds that the murderer is someone who is being stalked by 
 a murderer himself. A serial killer who stalks and tortures other serial killers. It's an interesting 
 and complex story that teases you nicely with clues along the way.
  
  Besides the story, what I really found was surprising was just how good this game looks. For a 
 launch Xbox 360 game, it certaintly holds its own, even to most games a year later. The sound is 
 just as nice, with tons of creaks and clangs. The enemys will scream at you, most of the time when 
 there in another room or hallway, which adds a lot more than you'd think to the game's creepy feeling. 
 All of the various weapons, from the crack of a pistol, twang of a steel pipe, and slap of a 2x4 
 (complete with the rusty nails) all sound amazing, which they should, given that the game has few 
 other major noices.
  
  Condemned isn't without its faults though, mainly in the length of the game. On my first play though, 
 I was able to beat it in about 8.5 hours, and with nothing more than the single player, all you 
 can do is play through it again, which is probably best, because a multiplayer mode would have 
 been horrid with meelee weapons as your main line of attack. Still, because of this, a longer length 
 would have really improved the game. In addition, the gameplay did start to wear thin, but thankfully 
 not until almost the very end of the game.
  
  One of the most, if not the most over-looked and underappreciated launch title, Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins definetly delivers in both its story and presentation, it's just too bad that the incredible 
 experience couldn't have lasted longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  After renting and completing this game at a friend's (that's why there's no history of it on my 
 Gamertag) I decided to write up a review for this game. My reviews are based on several factors, 
 including lasting appeal, graphics, and sound, etc. Each section will be graded out of 10.0 points 
 at the end of the write-up, and an overall score will be presented as well. So... without any more 
 delay, I give you.. my Condemned review.
  
  **Introduction**
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is the first installment in a new series of horror games from the criminal 
 masterminds at Monolith Productions. Published by Sega, Condemned sets out to revolutionize the 
 horror genre by featuring photo-realistic graphics, creepy ambience, and an engaging storyline. 
 The game manages to succeed on many of these aspects, but, unfortunately, suffers from some rather 
 hampering issues. Condemned follows the story of FBI agent Ethan Thomas, who is investigating the 
 case of a serial killer who has recently run rampid through the streets of the city where the game 
 takes place. And my, what a ride it is.
  
  *Graphics**
  
  The first thing you will undoubtedly notice about Condemned is its absolutely stunning graphics. 
 And when I mean stunning, I mean gorgeous. Condemned takes horror to the next-generation level 
 with non-repeating textures, incredible lighting effects, and beautiful environments, in a very 
 creepy sort of way. The most terrifying thing about this game is, by far, the extremely detailed 
 environments, which range from subways, to abandoned department stores. Stripped wallpaper lines 
 the walls, trash and debris litters the floors, and dried blood splatters adorn many of the weapons 
 found in the areas. Blood flies up with each strike, teeth and hair are knocked out with hits to 
 the face, the attention to detail is grisly, and adds to the overall visceral and raw feeling the 
 game evokes. One thing definitely worth mentioning is the grain effect that haunts Thomas' visions 
 he has with each encounter with new evidence. The filter acts as a great way of adding even more 
 creepiness to the overal investigation.
  
  **Sound**
  
  Condemned's sound is even more stellar than its graphics. Condemned takes full advantage of the 
 Xbox 360 hardware and utilizes Dolby Surround Sound to the maximum effect to create incredibly 
 terrifying ambience that echoes with disturbing reverberation. Without a doubt, Condemned's main 
 scare factor comes from the sound is this game. Small things like cans falling, or paint cans rolling 
 in front of you as you turn a corner just sound dead-on, and really just alert you to the up and 
 coming enemies that are lurking in the shadows. The environmental sound is especially well done, 
 with very appropriate noises accompanying each area. The department store area has a creepy, old 
 mall-like tune echoing through the halls of each display room. Another thing that really steals 
 the show is the voice-acting. Each character delivers a very convincing, realistic voice to each 
 situation. No cheesy lines here.
  
  **Controls**
  
  The controls in Condemned are, thankfully, fairly simple. Blocking and hitting with melee weapons 
 is made easy with the Left and Right Triggers, respectively, and collecting evidence is cleverly 
 mapped to the X button and the Right Trigger. Something that does get frustrating later on in the 
 game however, is the stupid placement of the sprint button, which is the Left Thumbstick (pressed 
 in) . It's not impossible, but it is annoying to press the Left Thumbstick in WHILE moving around 
 the environments. Other than that, there really isn't much else to control, A button is assigned 
 to context-sensitive actions, B button is for your flashlight, and Left Bumper is for your taser. 
 It's all very simple, and really becomes second nature after about half an hour.
  
  **Singleplayer**
  
  The storyline in Condemned is excellent grade A stuff. A riveting criminal 
 investigation takes you down a path of CSI-like actions that really pack nicely with the whole 
 horror theme. You'll find yourself following paths of blood or photo developer fluid with your 
 investigation tools such as organic scanners, lasers, cameras, etc. You follow a linear path through 
 the game, but that's for the better really, otherwise the game would have been ridiculously hard 
 to follow if it had been open-ended. Unfortunately, even with the linear path, the environments 
 you find yourself in tend to be very similar looking in terms of rooms, so you will most likely 
 find yourself getting lost in the vast areas several times. An implementation of some sort of map 
 system would've alleviated this hinderance to the gameplay. Overall though, Condemned singleplayer 
 story mode is very well-written, and is something you will find yourself really getting into, and 
 should last you roughly 10 hours.
  
  *Multiplayer**
  
  There's only one thing to say about the multiplayer in Condemned. Where is it? There is no multiplayer 
 whatsoever in Condemned, which is understandable, but surely Monolith could have come up with something 
 unique and new to the scene to add some lasting appeal to this game. Unfortunately, Condemned is 
 strictly confined to its singleplayer mode, which while interesting, doesn't last very long.
  
  **Presentation**
  
  Condemned's presentation is well-done, but nothing spectacular. It's 
 not really a highlight, but at the same time, it's certainly not a downpoint. Easily navigated 
 menus are simple enough, but there's really only two menus. The pause menu, and main menu. Not 
 a whole lot of content to go through. However, the overall deliverance on the idea behind the game 
 is perfectly executed, and definitely deserves some recognition for its accomplishment there. So 
 although there isn't a whole lot of content or anything else besides the actual game (very few 
 unlockables/extra content) , the game certainly nails the idea.
  
  **Lasting Appeal**
  
  This is where Condemned's shortcomings really shine through. Condemned is one of the few (or maybe 
 the only one) Xbox 360 games to feature absolutely no multiplayer. While this is understandable 
 given the content and circumstances of the game, this really doesn't make for much replayability. 
 You can only go through the game on 3 difficulties, with no Achievements for completing it on different 
 difficulties, so there isn't any incentive to really do so. There are some collectables and unlockable 
 things to go around the areas searching for, but these are fairly easy to find, and really don't 
 warrant a total replay of the game. However, Condemned does feature a simple leaderboard system 
 that shows who's put the most time into the game and who's killed the most enemies. It's just... there, 
 it doesn't really serve much purpose. I was really hoping Monolith and Sega would develop some 
 unique multiplayer aspect for the game, like Splinter Cell did, but then again, it's understandable.
 
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  Condemned features an engrossing, terrifying rollercoaster ride of a story mode, but suffers from 
 a complete and utter lack of any multiplayer features. The story mode is enjoyable, but it's short 
 length will leave most people hanging with little to do after the game is over. All in all, if 
 you take Condemned for the game it is though, it's an amazing experience, but an experience that 
 is worth a rental at best.
  
  Visit my blog for more reviews, news, and other cool stuff!
  
  http://infamousanarchy. blogspot. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  In this era when games are largely becoming bigger, longer, and more complicated, there's something 
 refreshing about a title that focuses on doing one thing, doing it extremely well, and ending before 
 it overstays its welcome. Condemned: Criminal Origins does just that, providing a short but extremely 
 visceral and atmospheric first-person melee combat experience.
  
  The plot of Condemned is so bad, it's scary. This is all the more disappointing because it starts 
 out with a rather promising premise. You play as FBI agent Ethan Thomas, who, as the game begins, 
 is hot on the trail of a serial killer with an unusual agenda. Things quickly take a turn for the 
 worse, though, and before you know it Ethan's been framed for murder on the flimsiest evidence 
 in history, yet for some reason the Bureau seems convinced he's guilty. He goes on the run to prove 
 his innocence and catch the true killer, setting up the rest of the game. You'll need to suspend 
 major amounts of disbelief to swallow any of this; not only is Ethan's set-up totally flimsy, but 
 for someone who's supposed to be one of the most brilliant investigators in the Bureau, he seems 
 pretty clueless. It's totally apparent, for instance, that someone who shows up early on to help 
 him isn't exactly what he appears to be, but Ethan readily accepts his assistance anyway. Before 
 all is said and done, the plot takes a few more outrageous and pointless turns, as well. Thankfully 
 the experience of playing the game is more than exciting enough to make putting these concerns 
 about the story aside easy, but considering the amount of emphasis the game places on atmosphere, 
 a more satisfying narrative certainly would have helped make it all the more immersive.
  
  The game quickly and skillfully introduces you to the different gameplay mechanics you'll be using 
 throughout, starting things off easy with a sequence in which you use some forensic tools to examine 
 a crime scene. Each level has a few sections that require you to bust out some of these devices, 
 but since you can't fail with them, these moments only serve to provide moments of relief from 
 the otherwise constant violence. Speaking of which, the game quickly tosses you into combat, and 
 before you know it you're wandering the halls of a condemned building, picking up two-by-fours 
 or tearing pipes off the walls to fend off all the homicidal maniacs that come after you. 
  
  In practice, combat is relatively simple. There's one button to swing or fire your weapon, 
 one button to block, and one button to use your taser. The taser is, perhaps, a little too useful, 
 letting you shock enemies as they approach and then disarm them before they can wallop you. Still, 
 despite the simplicity and the relative ease of it all once you get the hang of it, the top-notch 
 presentation keeps things involving. There's a real sense of impact to the combat, and the enemies 
 do a great job of hiding behind pillars or furniture and leaping out at you or getting the drop 
 on you and whacking you in the head from behind, which continues to be scary and effective throughout 
 the game's brief duration. 
  
  Almost the entire game takes place in, as the title suggests, condemned buildings. Each one creates 
 the illusion of an environment to explore, but in fact they're all entirely linear. Sometimes the 
 level design is a bit clumsy in terms of how it keeps you on a direct path from point A to point 
 B. For instance, sometimes you'll approach a barrier that, with a press of a button, you'll duck 
 under or climb over, or some sort of obstacle you'll be able to shove aside. At other times, though, 
 you'll encounter barriers that appear every bit as easily surmountable as these others, but you 
 won't be able to get past them, simply because the game doesn't want you going that way. It's just 
 one more thing that, like the story, interrupts the sense of immersion in what is otherwise an 
 extremely engaging experience. 
  
  Visually, the game strives to create a sense of pervasive gloom not unlike what we've seen in films 
 like Seven, and it's incredibly successful. All the environments, from the condemned apartment 
 building to the condemned department store to the condemned high school, are richly detailed and 
 very creepy. You'll encounter a few too many enemies of the same type, but they're all quite fearsome 
 and they all animate nicely. The way your head gets knocked around from the force of an enemy's 
 impact really helps pull you into the experience, as well. Occasionally you'll see a bit of graphical 
 weirdness, like an enemy's face popping through some piece of furniture they're hiding behind, 
 but these moments are rare, and on the whole the game is extremely impressive to behold. 
  
  The sound is mostly excellent, as well. The sounds of wood and metal colliding with skulls 
 all sound genuine and very painful. Particularly effective are the guttural, indistinct mutterings 
 of the psychos you constantly encounter. And in the old department store, you'll hear off-key Christmas 
 music still being piped over the sound system after all these years. Seriously, is there anything 
 creepier than off-key Christmas music? A few of the cast members ham it up a bit too much, but 
 Ethan himself is voiced by Greg Grunberg, now seen on TV's Heroes, who manages to deliver a decent 
 performance in spite of the horrible material he's given to work with.
  
  Condemned is a short game, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. It provides a memorable experience 
 that's ideal for plowing through in a weekend rental and ends before its simple but effective gameplay 
 becomes tiresome. Achievement hunters may want to go through the game a few times to unlock all 
 the points, but other than that, there really isn't any replay value to be had here.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins may have a lousy story, but it's quite brilliant at creating a mood 
 and at providing some of the most hard-hitting first-person combat delivered by any game yet. If 
 the thought of whacking homicidal hobos with two-by-fours appeals to you in the least, you owe 
 it to yourself to spend some time with this brief but very memorable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da1ShrpSh0trGrl
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  **SPOILERS ** This game storyline follows a FBI detective who investigate a series of murders. 
 Some of them of which he is accused. There is more to it than just murders, there is a dark side 
 that has been released all over the city and cant be really explained. Dark side you will discover 
 as you investigate, collect evidence and face another kind of evil. With that said the storyline 
 will get you involved. The game is kind of scary at first but on my personal experience, eventually 
 you will get a bit desensitized and used to your opponents. Unfortunately, as you get used to them, 
 they get used to you Some of your enemies will become smarter and stronger but so will you (smarter) . 
 Evidence collections, twisted turns on the story line and facing different enemies will trill you 
 to wonder whats next. The game does allow you save frequently so it is an advantage that will 
 help you move thru levels a bit faster. There is about 3 checkpoints (saves) per level (chapter) 
 and a total of 10 levels (chapters) . Graphics and sound are just awesome on this game. Take advantage 
 of the great sound effects by maybe using 5.1 if able to. This will take you deeper into the game, 
 and you might jump or scream. There is also the fact that the game it is scary but still not as 
 much as many people say. The scarier thing for me was my co worker telling me how scary it was 
 and how it does get worse. Do not listen to that and make your own opinion as some people might 
 not thing is as horrifying as they read. Achievements in this game are not as hard to complete 
 as long as you find a good guide to the dead birds and hidden investigator badges and XBOX 360s 
 throughout the game, which are available on this site under cheats and hints. If not you always 
 have the choice of taking your type to look around or playing the board over as many times as you 
 will like to. You will be able to set your difficulty level to your preferences and this will not 
 affect your achievements. Even on the Easy difficulty you will find some challenges. There is 
 a wide range of weapons to choose form melee and firearms. A big heads up, when playing the game 
 grab every single type of weapon, melee (objects such as pipes, sings, wood sticks, anything you 
 can grab and fight with) and fire arms (anything you can shoot with) as there is an achievement 
 for grapping every single melee and firearm on the game and it will not be nice missing one weapon 
 and trying to go back to figure out which weapons was it. Overall really good game. The only problem 
 was that I felt the storyline was left a bit open or maybe I just didnt catch on something. Another 
 hypothesis I have is the chance a sequel. Which I will definitely will look forward to. I will 
 even say that this game a bit more than rental material. One more thing, the only thing this game 
 will allow you to do online will be download one update when you first insert your disk on your 
 XBOX 360 and to display your achievements. No online gaming available. Your feedbacks and inputs 
 to this reviews are always appreciated. Please vote Y or N on this review and ENJOY your game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdking
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is vastly underrated. It generates massive hate for no reason other than it's short campaign, 
 but outside of that, Condemned was THE game at launch for everyone that bought it.
  
  The good: Fantastic story. This game is so creepy it leaves a bad tast in your mouth. Pretty much 
 adds a new flavor to FPS.... teh stick beetang! Kind of like Silent Hill in the sense that there 
 are NEVER any bullets, but plenty of fire axes and lead pipes (which isn't bad) . Did I mention 
 this game was creepy?
  
  The bad: Graphics could have used some more work, steep learning curve. A little too hard for the 
 newbie player. Sometimes... too creepy.
  
  The excellent: The first time you smack some dude with a 2x4.... watch him stagger... and spit out 
 his teeth.
  
  Awesome experience. This is a must buy if you're into hard, frantically paced games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Price is right for this title. A definite must have for fans of this genre and 360 owners.
  
  Gameplay - can't really complain, it's decent and user friendly. You're a detective, so the 
 availability of various weaponry is what it is. You certainly have a lot of options that's for 
 sure. Grabbing a simple pipe of the wall or spiked 2x4 off the floor will do the trick often. I've 
 realized this about games in the whole horror genre, it's supposed to be difficult. The idea is 
 to put yourself in the shoes of your character. If it were too easy, would you be satisfied. You've 
 gotta embrace a challenge. This game provides this all too well (at times) .
  
  Graphics - Excellent graphics, though expected a little more for 360 potential on the character 
 models and movement. Regardless, it's eerie as hell (literally) . This game delivers the chills. 
 If you can't handle entering darkened spaces and guys creeping up behind you, this ain't for you. 
 The use of lighting or lack there at times is quite well done. You'll find yourself approaching 
 doorways or heading the down stairs into nothing but blackened spaces with a lot of apprehension. 
 Sound - Crank the sound up and turn the lights down. Very well done,. Again, it's creepy. Excellent 
 use of 5.1. Has the potential to scare the living piss out of you, if you want the truth. Granted, 
 you do get use to it; but wow, it delivers. The voice acting is pretty decent too. Value - great 
 value and easily worth the price of admission to this fun park. You could definitely pick this 
 up again down the road. Tilt - This game simply delivers everything it intends to - THE THRILLS. 
 Maybe I'm going overboard with that; but personally, it made a great impression.
  
  Condemned is a definite addition to your collection, IMO. Especially considering if Konomi does 
 actually confirm the release of yet another Silent Hill, I've read they're leaning towards only 
 bringing it to the PS3. That won't last though, it'll probably be the usual 1 yr later wait period 
 for Microsoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martini78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is an impressive title. The first person POV is kind of neat in survival 
 horror. The graphics are very good on my HD TV. Scenarios are life-like and spooky. Good audio 
 effects add to the settings and scenarios. Gameplay is easy to learn and the story line is decent. 
 It provides the gamer with the same feeling of suspense as a Resident Evil game of the past.
  
  My only gripe on this one so far is the fact that all the enemies look pretty much the same. 
 Sure, there are a couple different types (thugs, zombified railway workers, male zombies, female 
 zombies) but all of the female zombies look identical... all the male zombies look identical... 
 all the railway workers look identical. It isn't that big of a problem, but by today's standards, 
 some randomization of haircuts or skin color or facial hair would have gone miles.
  
  All in all, this is a keeper, especially for $30. I don't see much re-play value, so if you beat 
 games quick, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  I recognize several games in this game...
  
  - Still Life (in this game you use forensics too to investigate the area's for evidence)
  - Cold 
 Blood ( in this game you have the darkness, the thrills and the horror)
  - Land of the Dead... (the zombies)
  
  If they had kept out the zombies, it would have been 
 a better game... A more realistic game...
  
  You wonder yourself in an environment with lots of darkness... A bit too much, but this game just 
 sets itself in this case... Too keep it thrilling... You hear footsteps, breathing, growling... 
 Danger all around you, when you don't expect it, but knowing that when you turn around and again, 
 somebody stands before you to try to break your head and unleash your trapped brains...
  
  Artificial intelligence... Well... If you zapp somebody and take away their weapon, they can do 
 two things... - Run away and find a new weapon and return to regain their goal of killing you...
 
  - Jump upon you to head-bang you or to throat you...
  
  Sometimes they kill eachother... That's amusing... Like in Quake 2, I remember, a counter-action 
 when one baddie hits his weapon on the other baddie, the other will turn and gets it on to the 
 other, while you can run away or wait untill he is finished and returns back to you while you can 
 only give him the bash of mercy... :-)
  
  It's a simple game when you know what to do... Zapp, take off the weapon, kick, walk back and zapp 
 him again and give it a blow or a shot... You can only hold one weapon... And some weapons you 
 need to open certain doors like a shovel or an axe or a lifter... Making this game even more difficult... 
 Some weapons become useless like wood... The enemy changes also when you hit them... More blood, 
 face off, etc... If you have loads of agression in yourself, this might be a good game to unleash 
 it all... But I say it again: They had to keep the zombies out... Or were they zombies??? And if 
 this game is made by the same engine of FEAR... Maybe one girl of this game CONDEMNED survived... 
 You will encounter her back in FEAR... Maybe Condemned is the prequel of FEAR... I don't know, 
 over a month I will buy FEAR and maybe then I will reconfigure my beliefs...
  
  Greetings,
  Sardax (a. k. Vantazzy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadian_Merc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is only going to be a short review but Condemned is a great game. The atmosphere is intense 
 and this game will grab some scares out of you. The combat is satisfying and the forensics are 
 well done. They arn't to hard to figure out and still have some depth which is great. The story 
 mode is about 7-10 hours long but to get all the achievements you'll need to play through it a 
 second time at least. In conclusion although this game is a launch title it is still a great game 
 and worth a weekend rental to play through the game its one you'll remember for a while to come 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaz70
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  ignore my older review this game isnt that bad i tried it again and i turned the gamma up so i 
 can see and its not that bad i mean it looks pretty fun and scares the crap out of me alot at that 
 part at that old school. and melee was pretty fun to. im sorry about my other rating i guess i didnt 
 liked it before but now its pretty fun. just in case rent it if the place you rent it from is cheap 
 you might like it or might not but it is pretty great game and it have some cool horror sequences 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Monolith has developed some great first person shooter games over the years. Ranging from hits 
 like Blood to Alien vs. Predator 2 to the spectacular FEAR. But never has it tried anything quite 
 like Condemned.
  
  Condemned really doesn't do much in terms of new , but it takes several conventions of a few different 
 genres and combines them to deliver one interesting and entertaining experience. I'm going to say 
 this from the start of this review: this is not a first-person shooter. It's in first-person and 
 you do use weapons, but this is primarily a survival horror/adventure game.
  
  You are thrown into the role of FBI Agent Ethan Thomas, and the game kicks off with you called 
 to a brutal murder in the bad part of town. You walk through a derelict building to reach the crime 
 scene, which is very atmospheric and works well in setting the tone for the player; Tension and 
 uneasiness. After a little bit you come to the body of a woman on the floor, and a creepy mannequin 
 sitting at the table above her. Without spoiling much, things soon turn a take for the worst and 
 you get framed for murdering your fellow police officers. Ethan then has to hunt down the real 
 killer and clear his name, while occasionally fighting drug addicts and hobos that get in his way.
 
  
  The gameplay is presented in a traditional First Person Shooter interface, with the exception that 
 this game emphasizes melee combat over gun combat. The world is surrounded with plenty of weapons 
 to choose from, ranging from logical object-weapons like sledgehammers, axes and crowbars to unorthodox 
 object-weapons like desk tops, drawers, and even dismantled paper cutters, amongst others.
  
  While you're playing Condemned you'll be notified of goals on the screen and you must complete 
 them in order to advance further in the area. Which consists of traveling from room to room, putting 
 down a few enemies, find a few clues (more on that in a minute) , travel around again, find a weapon 
 you need to progress, and repeat. While it sounds repetitive, and it is, the game immerses you 
 so much with its story and brutal combat you hardly even notice. The level design is also well 
 done, and you very rarely get lost as most areas have their own distinct look.
  
  Sometimes in certain areas you'll have to use your forensic tools in order to find clues to continue 
 throughout the game. This can involve lots of things like scanning for hand prints, DNA, newspaper 
 clippings etc. Breaking up the combat slightly, and giving an interesting CSI feel.
  
  Let me first state that most of the graphics in the game are excellent, it's the little things, 
 however, that drop my rating down a point. First off I loved the lighting in this game. The shadows 
 help give the game a very dark, noir feeling. It really looked great with the reflections off water, 
 rays of light shinning though shutters, and excellent fire graphics. However some of the wall and 
 floor textures are rather dissapointing, as are some of the character models. Sound in condemned 
 would definitely be the highlight throughout, the euphoria of hearing a skull crack beneath your 
 crowbar is indescribable. Everything sounds as it would in real life, grass crackles beneath your 
 feet, wood snaps as floorboards give way and teeth shatter as metal pipes connect. There is no 
 background music yet it is definitely not missed. How else would you hear the vital gunshot or 
 scream alert you to the threat in the parallel room. Children's laughter in abandoned schools creates 
 chilling atmosphere and really immerses you in the world. Voice overs are all done exceedingly 
 well which is a welcome change from most survival-horror games. This game is very short, around 
 8 hours. Although the game gives you numerous reasons to replay it, such as finding birds and metal 
 tags, as well as 50 achievments, overall the rewards aren't that satisfying.. The enemies also 
 remain in all the same locations if replayed, so unless you choose a harder difficulty, there is 
 nothing new to it a second time around.
  
  This game is something to be admired. Some people won't understand this game, it happens to all 
 good games usually. But if you're willing to take the time to see the detail on all aspects of 
 this game, you will be impressed. But it will end before you want it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I was in awe. It looked awesome, it had a sort of interesting 
 story (not what I am used to in video games at least) and unlike Doom 3 it had a flashlight I could 
 use whenever I wanted to. The first thing that grabbed me when I started playing this was that 
 it was a lot more realistic then games like Resident Evil, Doom and F. E. A. R. It is about murderers, 
 although later on the story gets interesting, but this is best described in parts so I shall begin 
 my normal method of review.
  
  Gameplay: Well for the most part this game is pretty good and the melee combat system is actually 
 quite good. In fact, it is a lot easier to go through the game with just using melee rather then 
 using the few guns that you are supplied with throughout the game. The controls are good for the 
 melee although sometimes the walking movement, although fairly realistic, can get annoying sometimes. 
 The game is pretty much very linear and the use of the forensic tools is almost automatic so it 
 doesn't really make you think. Puzzles are not that complicated either. Even though the game is 
 linear, Monolith managed to make it interesting throughout the game so that it is actually quite 
 enjoyable throughout. That also leads to the story. Frankly speaking the story had great potential, 
 but by the end of the game you realize not enough questions were answered, although by the time 
 you reach the end you will realize the story was actually pretty good. They just needed to tie 
 up some lose ends I think. Overall this game is very fun, but the fact that as far as making you 
 think and work for a goal, it is lacking. The only working you have to do is the fighting, which 
 is fun don't get me wrong, but there should be more then just that.
  
  Graphics: As a launch game, this actually looks pretty darn good. The only thing is that sometimes 
 the character models can look a LITTLE off and some of the environmental details can be a little 
 too simple. I am especially fond of the lighting, although not perfect, it gets the job done effectively. 
 For the most part though this game looks good and it is good that it does, since it makes it that 
 much more scary.
  
  Sound: The sound is actually very good. The effects are top notch and so is the ambience, music 
 is there in the right times too. The voice acting is pretty good too, but there is one problem 
 with it, that prevents this game from getting a perfect: when you are fighting, a lot of the lines 
 from the 'bad guys' are all recycled over and over again and it starts to get really annoying. 
 Besides that though, this would be a GREAT game to take advantage of a 5.1 or 7.1 system with.
 
  
  Value: Ah, this is what made the difference between a GREAT game and a GOOD game. First of all, 
 the game is FAR too short. Another problem is that the achievements can be a little buggy sometimes. 
 I have unlocked all but one achievements on my two playthroughs so far, and one of them I should 
 have unlocked but the game didn't register it for some reason (this is a known issue, not just 
 me, why Monolith/Sega doesn't make a simple patch to fix this and finalize this game is beyond 
 me) . The achievements are the only reason to come back and play this again but the problem is that 
 once you play through the whole entire game and realize it didn't unlock an acheivement you fulfilled 
 the requirements for, it can be quite frustrating. Other than that, there is no real reason to 
 come back to this game, the unlockables are not all that great and there aren't any extra stuff 
 that I have become accustomed too like a secret boss (FFX) or extra missions (Ninja Gaiden Black) . 
 The only unlockables you get are a bunch of art and stuff that constitutes a sort of 'Making of' 
 type of deal. Too bad, since this game would have been GREAT if it had some extras. Multiplayer 
 would have been nice as well but the fact that it was all Single Player wasn't bad, it is a good 
 Single Player experience.
  
  This game is a fun game and most definately is worth playing through at least once, but is it worth 
 your money in order to purchase? I am not so sure about that, you could get through the game in 
 a rental time period and even unlock all of the achievements as well. If you like scary games and 
 FPS melee combat then this is worth a buy if you can get it under 40 bucks, if not, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The GAMEPLAY is pretty simple. The control scheme is almost EXACTLY what you'd expect it to be 
 in relation to other games of this type. Other than that, just be prepared to drop your controller 
 once or twice when you jump due to some crackhead jumping at you out of the darkness! I know that 
 so far I've jumped... A LOT. Also, it's nice that they added forensic work in this game. It's a 
 refreshing twist... The game stay interesting and Scary As Hell all the way to the end!
  
  The GRAPHICS are truly amazing! As soon as I started playiong the game I was in awe. The world 
 inside the game comes to life very well due to the 360's impressive graphic abilities. The SOUND 
 of the game adds to the intensity/fear. Nothing amazing, just regular horrofic music.
  
  I have to HIGHLY RECOMMEND this game, but not for the faint... This game is sure to Scare The Hell 
 Out Of You no matter man, woman, old or young. I'm a HUGE fan of the few GOOD horro movies out 
 there, and none have ever made me jump like this game. It's so nice to see a GOOD storyline on 
 a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50centsteelers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is the scariest game I have ever played. I have Doom 3, Darkwatch, and Painkiller. Those games 
 did not scare me at all, but Condemned really does. It is also inspiring me to get other horror 
 games, especially with the high-definition graphics on the 360. I gave it 9 for gameplay because 
 it is a little short and it has no online multiplayer -- but how could it with its genre? Although, 
 it does have a scoreboard with rankings -- someone played this game for over 600 hours, according 
 to the leaderboard. 600 hours!!! The forensic investigations are a really important feature in 
 Condemned. Some games could use them too much, not enough, or in the wrong situations, but condemned 
 got them just right. There was a very twisting storyline that went through a variety of environments 
 like the department store, the office building, the subway, the orchard, the sewers, the school 
 (the scariest level) and the farm, and they were all very realistic and scary as hell! As far as 
 the graphics, they are amazing. And when you step on a bottle, it makes a noise and it moves, adding 
 another dimension to the scariness of this game. I also really like the black and white screen 
 feature when something weird is going to happen. The 10 tilt was to give it a 9.4, which I think 
 it deserves. I said 8 is an insult because not only is this the best xbox 360 action game to date 
 (after almost a year) , but it was a LAUNCH GAME!!! That really says something. Great job by Monolith. 
 I think I am going to look for other Monolith games so I can get them. If you like to be scared 
 or you are looking for a great and unique action game for the xbox 360 with amazing graphics, get 
 Condemned. NOW IT IS ONLY $30!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game offers some jumps and just plain edge of seat anticipation that is hard to come by. I 
 really enjoyed everything about this game, except for the poor twist of the story at the end. It 
 had so much going for it. Aside from that though, the controls are tight, and the game play is 
 unique. It was a change up, and sucked me in from the start. Condemned is best played with the 
 lights off obviously, and ammo rationing provides a great emphasis on blocking. The anxiety I went 
 through on this game, made it a great experience. There are times where it is creepy, scary, or 
 just takes the easy scare tactic or jump, but it all ends up coming together. The levels are some 
 that are truly ones to remember, and made the experience that much greater. This game should be 
 played by all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I just bought CONDEMNED last night, but I played it for about 4 hours straight. I'm VERY impressed.
 
  
  The GAMEPLAY is pretty simple. The control scheme is almost EXACTLY what you'd expect it to be 
 in relation to other games of this type. Other than that, just be prepared to drop your controller 
 once or twice when you jump due to some crackhead jumping at you out of the darkness! I know that 
 so far I've jumped... A LOT. Also, it's nice that they added forensic work in this game. It's a 
 refreshing twist... The game stay interesting and Scary As Hell all the way to the end!
  
  The GRAPHICS are truly amazing! As soon as I started playiong the game I was in awe. The world 
 inside the game comes to life very well due to the 360's impressive graphic abilities. The SOUND 
 of the game adds to the intensity/fear. Nothing amazing, just regular horrofic music.
  
  I have to HIGHLY RECOMMEND this game, but not for the faint... This game is sure to Scare The Hell 
 Out Of You no matter man, woman, old or young. I'm a HUGE fan of the few GOOD horro movies out 
 there, and none have ever made me jump like this game. It's so nice to see a GOOD storyline on 
 a console again!
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game was the creepist thing that I have ever come across. I played it first last year. Took 
 ages to finish, really great fun. Now that there aren't any really good games out that I haven't 
 played, I've decided to come back to this and review it. I say this everytime I review something 
 and I only ever review the really good games, if you are yet to play this game, do so ASAP. You 
 may be shocked and or disturbed, I know I sure as hell was but that's what next generation gaming 
 is all about. I hope some journalist reads this and hopes my writing style is good and contemporary 
 enogh for me to be hired. I just don't know why it is ranked 81 out of all XBOX360 games. It should 
 at least be in the top 10. Right up there with DR, GRAW, Halo games and SCDA. Some of my favourite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games where you will always remember where you first sat down and delved into 
 the strange, often hideous and very violent world of Condemned Criminal Origins. This game certainly 
 follows other classic games like Silent Hill and Resident Evil as you play an FBI agent hellbent 
 on saving his butt after being framed for murders he didnt commit. This game gives you the creeps 
 after just 5 minutes of gametime. Although very short, the game plays out at just the right length 
 as you feel tired after your journey through this psychotic game's story line.
  
  You begin the game as agent Ethan Thomas investigating another murder involving a serial killer 
 known as the Match Maker. You meet up with some local police officers at the crime scene where 
 things quickly turn bad. It seems the posible serial killer is still in the building. Per the norm 
 in scary games like this, of course you split up. After searching the building a while, you run 
 across the madman who spares your life, but apparently takes you gun and kills the two officers. 
 YOu have now been framed and your mission, which you have no option to not accept, is to discover 
 who the real killer is and exonerate yourself. Sounds easy right? WRONG!!
  
  This leads to the meat of the game which is the action parts. This game is mostly played melee 
 style. The god thing is there are lots of very bad instruments of hurt available for you to whack, 
 slice, crush and maul your way to the end of each chapter. The bad is that all of the enemies get 
 the same weapons and they are hungry to use you as a pinata. There are guns, but ammo is very limited 
 and most enemies can be taken out with melee. Blocking is very important in this game since most 
 of the baddies are psycho homeless people who for some reason are hell bent on laying waste to 
 anyone named Ethan Thomas. Its to bad the game never explains exactly why this is the case.
  
  That leads to the story here. As well all know, Capcom games are not known for their picture 
 perfect storylines in video games. This one is no different. I dont want to give anything away, 
 but there are some awful moments of dialogue, unrealistic scenese that dont make sense, and lots 
 of questions that could have been answered before the ending comes to a close. Some of the characters 
 are intentionally mysterious, but perhaps to much so. This is not to say the story does not have 
 potential and with the obvious making for a sequel, lets hope that Capcom gets the story right 
 the second time around.
  
  The best aspect of this game is the creep factor. From the minute you sit down you experience fear. 
 You constanly hear things crawling around you, but cant always seem them. The crazy hobos can run 
 up from anywhere and due to the FPS perspective you dont always see them until its boffo time. 
 THe bosses are plain crazy looking with weapons that instill fear. I love the visuals and audio 
 presentation here. Its well done and helps immerse you in this sick violent world that by the end 
 has you saying phew .
  
  Overall Condemned is a short but intense action thriller in the mold of RE and Silent Hill. Lots 
 of melee action make for some gruesome fight scenes and while the story doesnt make complete sense 
 at times, the game is well worth playing to the finish. I definitely recommend this for those who 
 like a good video game in the dark. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomixmax
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  What is the first thing comes out to your mind when you hear the words Survival Horror game ???? 
 Well before playing this game I thought about Resident Evil , Silent Hill, etc, but after playing 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins my whole concept of Survival Horror changed...
  
  In condemned you are Ethan Thomas , a FBI agent on the hunt in this gripping and sickening hunt 
 for serial killers. The game is played in first-person perspective, and with the use of the Havok 
 3.0 physics engine and other advanced techniques, players can utilize anything in the area as a 
 weapon when they've been cornered by their prey.
  
  However, don't think that Condemned is a Halo type shoot-em; if anything, Condemned is better described 
 as a first person **** You're confronted with a claustrophobic atmosphere, something the perspective 
 enhances much to your discomfort. Add to that the often pitch black environment, and a solitary 
 flashlight and you have the perfect ingredients for an scary gaming session. Incredible graphics, 
 incredible atmosphere, great storyline, ingenious and refreshing gameplay all make for a great 
 game, Condemned is an obligated buy for all the people who owns a Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  A few of the Xbox 360 launch games were very over-hyped (the Rare titles, for instance) , but Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins (C: CO) certainly wasn't one of them. While the game isn't revolutionary in any 
 way, I haven't played a game that just drowns you in a creepy atmosphere like this in a long time. 
 Not only that, but it also has a great storyline, impressive visuals, and brutal first-person melee 
 combat.
  
  Pros: Very nice graphics; excellent presentation; amazlingly creepy atmosphere; insane first-person 
 melee combat; lots of cool weapons to pick up; great storyline that will keep you interested &amp; 
 guessing until the end; enemy AI is the best I have seen in this kind of game; nice placement of 
 checkpoints; aboslutely amazing sound effects and what little music there is here is great and 
 timed perfectly; voice acting is top-notch; collecting evidence is a fun little change of pace; 
 the game will scare the crap out of you at times; will leave you screaming for a sequal.
  
  Cons: The game is too short; opening credits (while being cool) are a obvious rip-off of the movie 
 'Se7en'; addition of guns in the game feels kinda pointless; not much reason to play it after you 
 beat it; enviroments get very repetitive during the middle part of the game; the lead character's 
 head looks very strange; while the tazer is handy, the game gets overly difficult when there are 
 multiple enemies attacking you.
  
  As you can see by my comments, I really liked this game. I must admit that C: CO surprised me. I 
 read reviews about it, but I didn't expect the game to be as good as it turned out. I certainly 
 hope Monolith &amp; Sega are teaming up to make a sequal so we get to see where the storyline takes 
 us. Because if it's anything like this game, it would be a wonderful ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clownofpoetry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Even if you beat this game and get all of the game's accomplishments, you will never fully understand 
 this story. However, you will get a brief glimpse into what the story could be. Much like the Silent 
 Hill games before it, Condemned is a very brutal and intense game with a story that you want to 
 get behind. Much of the game relies on your instints and how you use them. Guns are used very rarely 
 and you got to stay on your toes. Condemned takes itself farther than what Silent Hill does in 
 terms of investigating tools. You must use the tools that are given to you in order to continue 
 on with the story. These tools are chosen for you when they are needed. Much to everyone else's 
 dismay; however, I must say that I prefer that over than free range investigating. So, that you 
 never use the wrong tool at the wrong time. The bad parts of this game are that a lot of the beginning 
 areas look the same, and you don't know where you are going and the game isn't very long but the 
 accomplishments and the story will bring you back for more. I hope for a sequel so that I can continue 
 to search for the truth behind what's going on in this bizarre world of Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins marks the birth of next-gen action/horror games with its release on 
 the Xbox 360. The game comes to you courtesy of Sega and Monolith who were responsible for the 
 PC hit FEAR. As a launch game for the Xbox 360, Condemned is a very solid offering, but a few problems 
 hinder the game, keeping it from being truly ground-breaking.
  
  In the game, you assume the role of Officer Ethan Thomas, who has been sent to investigate the 
 aftermath of the work of a serial killer. Early in the game, Ethan is confronted by a psychotic 
 individual known as Serial Killer X who kills Ethans fellow officers. But what really gets the 
 tension going is that X killed them with Ethans gun, and as a result, Ethan is blamed for the 
 death of his comrades. From there on, Ethan must avoid being captured and arrested by other police 
 officers, but must brave himself against other serial killers along the way.
  
  Condemned is like a mix between a first-person shooter and action game. Throughout the majority 
 of the game, youll be using melee weapons such as fire axes, two-by-fours, sledgehammers, and 
 locker doors just to name a few. However, you will have the opportunity to use firearms such as 
 pistols and shotguns, which can take some pressure off your hands for the time being. But youll 
 want to use these armaments wisely, as they scarcely appear, will have limited ammunition and can 
 break easily when used as melee weapons. Not only that, but youre only able to carry one weapon 
 at a time in the game, so youll often be torn between damageable firearms and invincible melee 
 weapons.
  
  The combat in Condemned isnt terribly deep, but it doesnt need to be when youre dealing with 
 what seems like an endless army of murderers. To attack, all you need to do is press the right 
 trigger and blocking simply requires the tap of the left trigger. However, youll need to time 
 your blocks right since you wont remain in a blocked position even if you hold down the left trigger. 
 You are able to use the guns in the game as a melee weapon, but theyre much less effective that 
 way than say a tough sledgehammer. Another touch to the firearms is that the amount of ammo you 
 have isnt permanently displayed on the HUD. Instead, youll need to press a button to check the 
 amount of ammo you have left which will only appear on-screen for a few seconds. With that in mind, 
 youll need to plan ahead when youll be using your current weapon. But if the going gets tough 
 and you want to conserve your ammunition, you can always dish out your handy taser to temporarily 
 paralyze anyone who gets in your path and even steal their weapon. Its a bit cheap, but it helps 
 to take a bit of pressure off your hands, especially when youre an inch from death.
  
  Now, you wont just be beating the living daylights out of murderers for the entire game. There 
 will be moments that youll get to use forensic tools to investigate the area around you. Among 
 the tools youll get to test are a black-light, odor-detector, and camera. Once you gather a sample 
 youll automatically contact your partner Rosa who will tell you about the sample. While this may 
 sound boring, the use of forensic tools actually helps to break up the monotony of killing thugs. 
 In fact, the use of these tools works so well, that at times youll think that youre in an episode 
 of CSI rather than just a horror movie. Speaking of horror movies, Condemned feels just like one, 
 and a really good one at that. The game has a very dark atmosphere and an unsettling feel to it, 
 which really helps immerse you into the game. Just the thought of walking around a dark, abandoned 
 shopping mall knowing that there are an unknown number of psychos waiting to kill you is very terrifying 
 to say the least. And this is what Condemned does best above anything else in the entire game: 
 providing a scary, thrilling experience that sucks you right in.
  
  A big part of what helps Condemned achieve this level of horror is the impressive visuals present. 
 Being an Xbox 360 game, the least youd expect out of Condemned are some good graphics. And Condemned 
 doesnt just look good; it looks fantastic, even for a launch title. The strongest attribute of 
 Condemneds visuals is easily the amount of sharp detail put into the environments. Whether youre 
 traversing a mall, school, or old house at night, the sheer realism of the environments will stun 
 you till your eyes bleed. The character models also look quite impressive, except in the cutscenes 
 they tend to appear rather smudgy, but other than that they look just about as fantastic. One small 
 quirk with the games visuals is that the environments get repetitive after awhile and may result 
 in some unnecessary backtracking for some parts. Despite these couple shortcomings, Condemned still 
 looks amazing and is still one of the best-looking Xbox 360 games you can find.
  
  If theres anything that brings the realism of horror to life better than Condemneds visuals, 
 it would have to be its sound and audio. One of the first things youll notice with the games 
 audio is that the use of slow, creepy music fits the mood quite well and helps add to the horrific 
 tone of the game. Another is the voiceovers of the murderers you encounter; they not only sound 
 authentic, but theyre so effectively used, that youll literally think that youre dealing with 
 actually serial killers. This combined with the music and freaky ambience of the game itself helps 
 to make Condemned one of the most realistically freaky game experiences ever created. Not only 
 that, but the main voice-actors do a good job as well, especially Serial Killer X, who helps make 
 for a few of the games more memorable moments.
  
  However, just when you think that you almost couldnt beat a game like Condemned you eventually 
 find out one thing: its very short. At most, Condemned should take only about eight to ten hours 
 to beat the first time around. And really, the first time you beat the game will likely be your 
 last since youll have seen just about all there is to see for your first trip through the game. 
 Another factor that contributes to the lack of replay value is that other than collecting birds 
 and metal pieces for achievement points, theres no incentive encouraging you to go back. And with 
 the lack of any form of multiplayer; both online and off, youll find that Condemned isnt worth 
 much more than a rental.
  
  When it comes to it, Condemned is a solid game that provides a truly extraordinary experience thanks 
 to an incredible sense of realism which is realized by terrific graphics and disturbing sound effects. 
 Unfortunately, the game just doesnt manage to make itself worth more than a weekend rental. So, 
 if youre looking for a game thats guaranteed to send shivers down your spine and provide a truly 
 freaky experience that youre more than likely not going to be able to experience elsewhere; all 
 delivered in a rental period, then Condemned easily fits the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_BlackBird_X
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for a total of about 3 hours, and i think that it has fairly good graphics, 
 it is creative, and original. The overall game sadly just keeps feeding you the same thing over 
 and over again. The weapons are the same mostly all through out the game and the people pretty 
 much do the same things. The stupid scanner needs to be directly on the stain for you to move on 
 in the game, and it is always really dark! People are hiding in the dark and you can walk into 
 a room in the game and say, Wow... i wonder what is going to happen? and then boom a guy runs across 
 the room, and you just dont care. This game did not keep my interest and i wish that i could say 
 better, and i do give credit to the makers for there outstanding originality! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattblubaugh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Story It was just another day for FBI agent Ethan Thomas. A crime had been committed and he and 
 his Serial Crime Unit were called to the scene. Things seemed unusual from the get-go, and why 
 wouldnt they be? Ethan has gotten a lead on a nefarious serial killer and may have him trapped 
 in the confines of an abandoned building. Radio communication has led him to believe that the killer 
 is on the roof. Upon searching the rooftop of the building, he finds nothing. That is until from 
 out of nowhereand as if to be a prelude of things to comeEthan is clubbed in the face and knocked 
 out cold by the suspect. Ethan finds himself at the suspects whim moments later and things start 
 to heat up when backup is about to arrive. The suspect has taken his gun and things are about to 
 go terribly awry. Bursting from behind the door is backup only to be shot dead, with Ethans gun, 
 by the suspect, who then makes his getaway. But things will be okay, right? No one would think 
 Ethan committed such a heinous act? Thus begins your trek for justice, unearthing a forgotten past, 
 and ensuing endeavors of criminal origin.
  
  Graphics With the advent of next generation consoles hitting the market, you expect a leap in graphical 
 quality, and Condemned follows suit. The game delivers an atmosphere that is dank, dilapidated 
 and intoxicatingly dark. All of this is accomplished through crisp textures, sparse lighting, and 
 a convincing first-person perspective. The feeling of the unknown and the anticipation of what 
 might be lurking about are marvelous for the player. Locales range from an underground subway system, 
 a mall littered with mannequins, and a midnight-hazed grassy farmland. Each area is stunningly 
 recreated: subways provide legible signs indicating would-be departure times, malls have expensive 
 items shielded behind breakable glass cases, and tattered wood makes up the foundation of broken 
 down farm houses.
  
  Gameplay Gameplay consists of deciphering clues with your forensic equipment, and methodically 
 tip-toeing through the darkened areas with a dingy flashlight. The investigative portion of the 
 adventure acts as a nice departure from the melee combat that makes up the majority of the experience. 
 Investigating is limited to specific areas and tools are automatically selected to examine evidence. 
 This prevents the potential of mindless, frustrating gameplay. All of these clues help to reveal 
 something very wrong. Will you be able to find the light at the end of the tunnel, or will you 
 and your environments continue to be shrouded in darkness? Youll need that aforementioned flashlight 
 to better traverse the areas and discover the games deranged and ludicrous enemies. These enemies 
 may look human, but their actions are clear indicators of lunacy. Wooden planks, steel pipes, and 
 rebar and concrete run the gamut of weapons which will be most common to their arsenal and yours. 
 Armed with one of these weapons, an enemy will flail wildly, haphazardly attempting to bring you 
 to your demise. You have to fight back. Landing a blow with a wooden plank to the face of an enemy 
 is brutally satisfying. Their faces bruise and deform in a grotesque manner, and as if that wasnt 
 enough, the occasional spewing of blood and teeth wraps up the package. But perhaps most disturbing 
 is the determination these assailants have to see you dead. They combat you with a gratifying sense 
 for their lives. Its pretty safe to say that if you were smacked in the face with one of these 
 weapons youd lose your balanceif not fall to the floor or die instantly. A successful blow will 
 knock your enemy off balance to where he is staggering and has his back turned. Hell instantly 
 retaliate with a blind swing or two while clutching his battered skin. This creates a sense of 
 urgency and awareness that is unparalleledespecially when a blow or two can render Ethan incapacitated 
 just as easily.
  
  Audio You may find yourself giddily subjecting Ethan to a blow or two just to hear the gruesome 
 attention to detail in the sound effects. Thwacks, cracks and smacks would be hard pressed to sound 
 more realistic. If a willing person subjected himself to these contusions, lacerations, and fractures, 
 youd probably hear what you hear in this game. So, if youve ever needed to scratch that masochistic 
 itch in a lawful way, and youve wondered what it sounded like to break a persons jaw with a steel 
 pipe, then look no further. The music in the game provides the same haunting and jarring qualities. 
 The expected cacophony of uncomfortable sounds and thunderous reverb are in full force. Musing 
 melodies help create an artificial calm in the players mind. A calm that is quickly nullified 
 as this is usually an indication of impending doom. Becoming familiar with this old trick places 
 you on the edge of your seat at all times. In conjunction with a surround sound system, be prepared 
 for a terrifying experience in which you cant shake that ominous, looming presence.
  
  Closing Comments Condemned: Criminal Origins is a game that convincingly pits you into a nightmare 
 of survival, conspiracy, and mystery. The visceral combination of psychological terror and grotesque 
 first-person melee combat isnt for the faint of heart. But for those of you looking for an experience 
 that will always be screaming in the back of your mind, youve been informed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reilly86
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  A brutal game that takes survival horror into the Next Generation.
  
  The game Condemned is at heart a survival horror and delivers frights as well as the amazing ability 
 to unnerve the player even when there is nothing there. Even if you have played every Resident 
 Evil or Silent Hill game, there is something new to be found in Condemned Criminal Origins.
  
  StoryThe story is an original one although it is a little far fetched but easy to follow, 
 basically there is a increasing number of murders happening in the city but the murders are getting 
 more and more violent each time. Enter Ethan Thomas a detective for the Serial Crimes Department 
 who goes to investigate the gruesome discovery of a womans body in a condemned building. When 
 he arrives there is only two polices officers, (if this was in real life there would be dozens) 
 after taking notes from the body the lights go out and Ethan sets off to find the fuse box, later 
 on while searching for the fuse box, Ethan looses his gun to a unknown person, later on in the 
 same level the unknown person shows his face, and shoots the other two police officers dead, naturally 
 as Ethan is the only survivor and it was his gun that delivered the fatal shots the FBI soon come 
 look for him, so begins the game
  
  Game playthe game plays in a first person perspective and has limited hud display which is health 
 and stamina. The stamina is only used when running, but most of the game is spent walking. Sadly 
 this is a big let down for the game as it slows the pace down and can even become boring when walking 
 down long corridors, sadly the running doesnt improve this as it is only a fraction faster then 
 walking.
  The controls are easy to master and feel right, there is the top triggers for firing and defending, 
 the L1 for the stun gun which can be very useful when the enemy has a gun or strong weapon. There 
 is no jump action in this game but it isnt needed anyway.
  An interesting feature of this game is the use of forensic tools to help solve murders, find a 
 trail and collect proof that you are innocent. There are six different forensic tools to be used 
 which range from a UV light to pick up blood on the floors to a camera to take pictures of any 
 bodies or evidence.
  The level designs are all similar to each other in the way that they all dark, damp and abandoned 
 apart from a few drugged up violent gangs who seem more interested in smashing your head in then 
 running and hiding away in a cupboard. The levels range from an underground rail network, an old 
 school for troubled youths and even to a hillbilly farm were strange freaky mutants seem to roam, 
 and all offer a different set of tasks and hidden items like dead birds to be found. The dead birds 
 are what unlock achievement points as well as extra in the main menu. As well as birds there are 
 pieces of metal (three for each level) and hidden Xbox 360 hidden in some levels.
  But getting back to the levels, it is almost impossible not to get unnerved by the themes and what 
 could happen. It can be from dead bodies in school lockers, to the basement of an old house, but 
 most of the time its just a gang member holding a 2x4 who jumps out from behind a pillar and sadly 
 never offers much more in scares. But people playing for the first time will be on the edge of 
 there seat wondering what could happen next as it never gives any clues to what is going to happen. 
 Good examples of this (spoiler) is when you find the dead body in the school locker, and then have 
 to take a picture of his face, which at this point he jumps out and grabs your arm, but sadly this 
 fear is lost when playing for the second time. The game looses all the qualities that made it great 
 the first time through. Most of the game requires the use of a torch but thankfully, Sega got it 
 right, the torch is always on no matter what weapon you have but best of all it lights the whole 
 screen and not just a tiny little circle like in Quake 4 or DooM3. There are many different weapons 
 to use from pistols to a double barrel shotgun but only have a limited amount of ammo which is 
 about five bullets. Most of the time melee weapons are used which can be from a mannequin arm and 
 lead pipe which are fast but weak, to sledge hammers and fire axe, which are slow but very powerful. 
 Graphicsthe graphics are fantastic and give a good indication to what the Xbox 360 will be able 
 to do in future games. The characters are well detailed but up close look a little square and not 
 so detailed, a good example of this is on the train during a cut screen when Ethan sees the shadow 
 people. The light and shadows are perfect which both help to deliver an unsettling mood all the 
 way through the game. The enemies may all attack pretty much the same, but the further through 
 the game you progress, the different appearance they gain, from mad druggy to people dressed in 
 Christmas suits to strange thin creatures rapped in bands. They are all amazingly done and animated 
 well. They attack in a realistic manner and when they are hit, blood covers that area.
  
  Soundthe sound is a great part of this game. The music really helps to put a creepy feel to every 
 level and always provides a great horror theme. The speech isnt great but it is clear, and always 
 easy to understand. The sound effects are well chosen for each weapon and sound perfect. The environment 
 sound effects are great well put together and sound right, sounds like gas leaking from pipes to 
 splashing out water.
  
  Value the game may be good, but at 50 it is far too short to justify the price tag. But if you 
 like survival horror games, then this is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The horror market for gaming has always seemed to be a hit-or-miss affair, with most of the genre 
 being held in tact thanks to Capcom's Resident Evil series. Condemned: Criminal Origins is a refreshing 
 change of pace from killing zombies in mansions and towns, and with Time Warner partnered with 
 SEGA for the release of this movie-esque Xbox 360 thriller, fans of the horror genre won't be disappointed.
 
  
  Condemned puts you in the eyes of highly-recommended FBI Investigator Ethan Thomas during a particular 
 investigation that turns sour very quickly. Within 10 minutes, the player finds themselves in the 
 middle of a murder scene that they must solve in order to save their name - and their life - from 
 the FBI. The story in and of itself seems fairly typical of the thriller genre from the start, 
 though thanks to a special "gift" that plagues the main character, it quickly turns into a thrilling 
 and truly creepy first-person adventure that makes those standard horror films look like child's 
 play.
  
  Throughout the game, the player will control their character through his eyes, making Condemned 
 resemble a first-person-shooter. The fact that a majority of the time will be spent without a gun 
 in hand, though, makes it clear that the game isn't trying to be a scary version of Halo, and rather 
 makes it fit more along the lines of an immersive horror film that the player has complete control 
 over. The player will occasionally use a variety of forensics tools to discover clues to various 
 crime scenes, though a majority of the time will simply be spent exploring the dilapidated buildings 
 and streets with one of many various melee weapons in hand to defend themselves with. Firearms 
 are scarce in the streets of Condemned, and the few that are found have so little ammunition inside 
 of them that the player is generally better off holding onto their favorite melee weapon to kill 
 any opposition with.
  
  And, speaking of opposition, Condemned has plenty of it. Most of the time, players will be fighting 
 a variety of street thugs that are generally so addicted to whatever drugs they're on that they 
 become extremely violent and hard to kill. The combat system is simple, but it works, and the block-attack-block 
 method that players will quickly learn will need to be thoroughly used later in the game when the 
 more advanced enemies start appearing.
  
  Condemned is a fairly short game when running straight through - 10 missions that range from 15 
 minutes to an hour or so in length - but thanks to the exploration element of having various collectibles 
 that are extremely well hidden in various missions, players will have plenty to keep themselves 
 busy with, making the replayability fairly high.
  
  Graphically, Condemned is at the top of its game. The character models all look great, though the 
 true star of this game is in the environments - each area looks just as creepily detailed, right 
 down to the blood spots located along the walls to the various trash that piles into the corners 
 of every nook and cranny, as the next big horror film. Lighting effects top it all off, providing 
 shadows and dim lighting conditions for the players and enemies alike to slink through.
  
  Sound-wise, Condemned does everything one might expect in the horror genre, whether it be a video 
 game or movie. The only music that will ever be heard will be during cutscenes and while exploring 
 shops in a run-down shopping mall, though the rest of the time there's generally a spooky ambiance 
 that floats around the player, complete with whispering voices to truly freak the player out. It's 
 recommended that this game be played via 5.1 Surround Sound to truly appreciate it, though a good 
 pair of headphones is equally satisfying.
  
  All in all, Condemned is a fantastic piece of work in the horror genre of games. SEGA and Time 
 Warner go all out with details in graphics, sound, and overall presentation to bring one of the 
 few truly creepy and cinematic games currently in existance to players at home, providing a nice 
 break from Capcom's Resident Evil series. If you're a fan of anything horror, Condemned is highly 
 recommended for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  An insane and cinematic beginning, you thought it was awesome. But after awhile, the suspense of 
 what you find gets worse. Tons of signature and should-be- trademarked moments, Condemned looks 
 like the best game on the 360..... No? The graphics are not at the standard of the 360's capability. 
 The face graphics aren't that nice. Only on some of the enemies. But the environmental graphical 
 structures are well designed by Monolith. The controls a little messed up. I don't want to mess 
 up my sticks by clicking on them all day, to block or sprint. But ripping a pipe off of the wal 
 and beating the crap out of some guy is what made me like Condemned. The story is deep and intense. 
 A guy is tracking you down. But after awhile you have to track him down leading you through sewers, 
 subway outposts, and condemned structures with enemies beyond your dreams. These places contain 
 enemies like psychos, skinny animal-like creeps, and drug-dealing prison/asylum escapees. Beware 
 and play at your own risk. Hi-def picture and sound hurts worse than standard def.
  Final- 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins reminds me a lot of the movie Halloween. Although they are two completely 
 different things, they both have the same feeling. Halloween built up suspense throughout the movie 
 with stalk scenes and the feeling that pure evil could be lurking just around the corner. This 
 game feels the same way. I found myself checking every nook and cranny of nearly every room just 
 to make sure that nobody is hiding and waiting to smack my brains out. It is a terrifying feeling 
 knowing that you never know who's watching and waiting to kill you. You are an FBI agent investigating 
 a murder scene and you soon realize that there's more to this certain predicament than what's on 
 the surface. This is how the game starts and basically it's how it ends. There are a few twists 
 and turns every now and then, but the story really isn't all that deep or revealing overall. But 
 regardless, the game is still down right scary. I haven't been so creeped out by a game since the 
 original Fatal Frame.
  
  The gameplay is terrific at the beginning of the game. You are armed with basically anything you 
 can find in the environment. You see that pipe on the wall? Rip it off. See the plank with nails 
 in it? Pick it up. You can grab various weapons of that ilk, including sledgehammers, shovels, 
 etc. There are hardly any guns in the game, but this is why the game is so effective. You are forced 
 to run towards your enemies and engage them in hand to hand combat. You must time your blocks precisely 
 and do a swift rebound attack or you will be killed, simple as that. Sometimes however, you will 
 find a gun. In other games, it's usually more comforting to know that you have a huge arsenal stock 
 full of ammo. Well in this game, when you find a gun with 4 bullets in it, it feels the same way. 
 I never thought I'd be so happy in a video game to only have 4 or 5 bullets, but I certainly did 
 in this game.
  
  Condemned also has you looking for clues with your tools. Sometimes, you will be using a black 
 light to find liquids or fingerprints. Sometimes, you will be using a scent detecting tracker. 
 Other times, you will be using your trusty camera to photograph the evidence. Every now and then, 
 you will have to find clues off of dead bodies. This is often intense because you will be looking 
 around making sure nobody is sneaking up on you, while also making sure the person is actually 
 dead to ensure there is no cheap scare coming your way. Unfortunately, this is all the game offers. 
 There is nothing else to the gameplay outside of these three simple mechanics. It gets very repetitive, 
 but when you have a game that is as scary as this one, it's forgivable.
  
  The graphics were absolutely gorgeous. When older games try to be scary, it can still be very effective, 
 but when it looks unrealistic, it takes away a lot of what it had going for it. Well, this game 
 looks incredibly realistic, therefore making it that much scarier. The environments look grungy, 
 disgusting, and torn apart, which in this game is a wonderful thing. It really makes you feel like 
 you're abandoned and alone. The character models also look very well done, which they pretty much 
 have to since you're almost always close up and smacking the crap out of them. My only real complaints 
 in the graphics area is that the enemies are used over and over. Those crazy psychos must have 
 a lot of twin brothers and sisters because they are everywhere. Also, every now and then you will 
 see some enemies clipping through the walls, which takes away the scare since you know where they 
 are. Other than that though, it looked beautiful.
  
  The sound was superb. It was perfect in every way, shape, and form. The voice acting was well done 
 and helped the story along. Some of the dialogue was kind of cheesy, but that is hardly the voice 
 actors fault. Even with the dialogue being somewhat ham fisted, they delivered it wonderfully. 
 The weapons also sounded well done. The guns sounded exactly how you'd think they would, but the 
 best part of the weapons is when they would smack into your enemies faces. Every contact sounded 
 bone breaking and disgusting, exactly the way it should sound. The best part of the sound however 
 was the creepy things you'd hear behind you, only to turn and find out nothing is there. When the 
 psychos would be muttering to themselves or to you, it sounded terrifying. Couple this with the 
 amazing visuals and you have an ambiance that creeps you out and truly immerses you into the game. 
 The sound was perfect all around.
  
  All in all, this game was superb. I only own three Xbox 360 games so far, Perfect Dark Zero, King 
 Kong, and Condemned. I can say without hesitation, that Condemned is the most satisfying of them 
 all. It creeps you out to the breaking point. You might find yourself needing to take breaks every 
 so often because you're just so drained from the intense, disturbing, and down right scary feeling 
 of the game. Good horror games really don't come by too often, but Condemned: Criminal Origins 
 is a must play for any horror fan and an excellent game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darwin-Jay
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Dark - Sometimes you can't see anything, even with a flashlight
  
  Repetitve - Most levels look the same.
  
  Buggy - there are times when you'll walk into a room 
 and see nothing but black, yet, you'll be able to see through the walls of that room into another. 
 This can be ver misleading because you'll think that you'll be able to just walk on through but 
 can't. I find this frustrating.
  
  Boring - Not much of a selection of melee weapons, needs more guns and ammo in my oppinion.
  
 
  Also, the story is downright weird. You character is being lead around by the hand by some dude 
 that claims to have known your father from upteen years ago, yet never has time to really explain 
 what is going on. The concept of somebody on the inside helping you out is also getting a little 
 old.
  
  this game is only worth renting 2 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darrogamer06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a first-person action game brought to you by Sega and Monolith Studios, the same team 
 that brought you the hit PC game, F. E. A. R and if you have played that game then as you play this 
 game, you see some certain similarities with the spookiness and craziness that occurs as you progress 
 through the short but fairly enjoyable 10 chapters.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins to give it its full title sees you play the part of a federal agent 
 known as Ethan Thomas who is somewhat on the run after being framed for the murders of a fellow 
 agent and an officer that he accompanied while investigating a crime scene in this crummy, run 
 down building that you are at in the beginning of the game. The reason he is framed is because 
 the murder weapon was his own gun but it was someone else who did it and this person is sort of 
 the main villain of the game as you follow him and track him down throughout the game and eventually 
 you do. The villain is known as Serial Killer X although near the end of the game, you found out 
 his true identity.
  
  There is another side to the story as well as there is somewhat an outbreak of these strange people 
 around the areas that you visit and kind of have a similarity in a way to the Los Illuminados from 
 Resident Evil 4. They attack you on sight with various types of melee weapons, which will be explained 
 in just a bit and at times, firearms also. Ethan comes across these people and also has strange 
 visions of freakish creatures that haunt his mind and you find out a bit more about this as you 
 progress but maybe not as much as you would like.
  
  The gameplay of Condemned sees you in a first-person view and at first glance, you may think this 
 will be another bog-standard first person shooter and the fact is, it isn't. Firearms come into 
 play in the game but they are not the main attraction. What the main attraction of the gameplay 
 is that you use melee weapons from pipes and 2 by 4s to sledgehammers and fire axes and the unique 
 thing is that each weapon has its strengths and weaknesses. An example is that a sledgehammer is 
 strong but is slow while a pipe is fast to execute but weaker than some of the other weapons.
 
  
  You use these melee weapons to take care of these so-called psychopaths as you progress through 
 the 10 chapters of the game but there is also firearms included but they are not the main focus 
 because when you obtain one, you have a limited number of bullets in each weapon and once used 
 up, they are pretty much useless although you can also use them for melee attacks but are quite 
 weak compared to other melee weapons.
  
  The game is not all about action now as there is another side to the gameplay in that you go around 
 and actually get evidence using the different forensic tools that are at your disposal and usually 
 most of the clues that you obtain are the same. Examples include photos, blood stains, track marks 
 etc. This is a nice little addition to the game anyway although sometimes it is not entirely relevant.
 
  
  The action in the game is nice although once you get past the first chapter and believe that there 
 will be different aspects of gameplay, you will find yourself disappointed because that is all 
 that the game offers and just goes on and on for 9 more chapters and that you will get bored at 
 times, as you use some of the same old weapons to progress further on in some levels.
  
  The graphics in the game are good although some things in the game could have been done a lot better. 
 The models themselves are very nicely detailed and you encounter different type of freaks although 
 they do get repetitive as time goes on. The different melee weapons and firearms available in the 
 game are good to look at but maybe could have a bit more work into the game to really show off 
 the 360's power but are detailed fairly good to make you appreciate them each time you use them.
 
  
  The environments in the game are somewhat repetitive, mainly because most of the time it is quite 
 dark but that is what the game is going after, dark and spooky and for that, it hits the nail on 
 the head and some of the environments have detailed items and can walk around each chapter and 
 appreciate some of the finer items on display.
  
  The sound in this game is what makes this game worth playing as from the good voice acting to the 
 superb sounds of the weapons available, you will find out why the sound in this game is the best 
 feature of all. The sound is delightful to listen to when you first whack someone with a melee 
 weapon because you just feel the noise of the impact on the enemy and it is a pleasure to listen 
 to over and over again and for me, it never got old as I played through this game. The firearms 
 and forensic tools have good sound also but you would keep using the melee weapons just to hear 
 the different impact sounds.
  
  Is the game worth the purchase? Well, in my eyes, no. The reason fpr this is that you can just 
 fly through it in about the 8-10 hour mark and really no good reason to go through it again unless 
 you want all the achievements in this game that you missed out the first time round. There are 
 50 achievements overall if you are the kind of guy that likes their 360 points and some of them 
 consist of getting the different items hidden throughout the game (birds and metal pieces to be 
 exact) and completing the levels and game only using melee weapons.
  
  In the end, Condemned is worth a rental at best but although it is enjoyable at times thanks to 
 the different weapons and excellent sounds, it is too much of a one-trick pony to make it essential. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The character models are superb, but after you find every type of enemy it can get a 
 little repetitive fighting the same guy over and over. The environments, while linear are total 
 eye candy, the rundown places in condemned are great looking and keep you tense, awake and on edge. 
 The lighting is some of the best available, so some of the dream sequences and hallucinations can 
 pop and keep the action intense. When you jab the bottom end of a sledgehammer or fire axe into 
 an enemies face, it is very nice to look at him yell, scream, walk around trying to get steady, 
 spit out teeth and so on. The A. I is great too. Enemies will pull signs, pipes, and anything off 
 the environment to take you out. If you drop a good weapon the enemies will pick it up and use 
 it against you. They will run away and hide, if they are hurt. When this happens it can be shocking 
 to play cat and mouse with a psycho to find, then out of now where the addict you were chasing 
 pops out from a corner and hits you. But that is about the only thing that can scare you in this 
 game unless you are scared easy (like me) . Gameplay: The melee combat is great because its simple 
 and original. Perhaps the gameplay is too simple and slightly repetitive. The slightly repetitive 
 melee combat is revived by the amount of blunt/everyday weapons you can wield within the game. 
 Throughout your investigation you will be advised to look for evidence with your detective equipment 
 to break up the action and more importantly move the story forward. Also while your smashing faces 
 in, you can finish off a target by bringing them to their knees and perform one of four satisfying 
 finishing moves. In condemned guns are hard to come by, and the few guns you do find, have only 
 like 3 shots in the gun when you pick it up. So you are forced to use any objects you can find 
 in the environments.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is atrocious, visceral, and sometimes downright frightening. The 
 sound of different metals and woods hitting each other is done perfect and each of the weapons 
 (there are more than 35) sound like real objects. The grunts, shouts, and moans of enemies whether 
 close or distant is clue full to where they are, such as a hiding enemy muffling their cough while 
 hiding. The sound is not contested by many games and is the best part about this game. Value: The 
 value in this game is very limited. It depends how much you like the genre and games in general. 
 If you like action/horror or Fps games you will find some fun to be had. If you arent the type 
 of person that goes through your games 2 or maybe 3 times, then this game is only worth a rental. 
 Sadly, this game is only between 6-10 hours long your 1st time through. Which is a length that 
 doesnt warrant a purchase unless you go through a couple of times or get a good price for it. 
 You can also go through on harder difficulties and find hidden items in the game that unlock concept 
 art, behind the scenes video footage, and achievement points. The plot while confusing is very 
 intriguing and when you understand the story as a whole, you will think wow that was crazy.
  
  Tilt: This game has an excellent story and is worth a play through. Although to most players 
 its a rental. It has an original gameplay setup, great looking environments, and some of the best 
 sound. With a few short comings from the value department and some repetitive features this is 
 still one of the best games on the Xbox 360 and fans of condemned will be begging for a Sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is the second game I bought for the 360 but the first one I've had 
 the chance to beat. The game came at a time when I was swamped with RPG's to play, so this was 
 a much needed break from those.
  
  The story places the lead character as an FBI agent that solves cases involving serial killers 
 and has a back story of some kind of maddening outbreak that drives crimes up and also happens 
 to kill birds in the area. Hot on the tracks of a serial killed dubbed The Match Maker, Agent Thomas 
 shows up at the latest crime scene which serves as a tutorial for the game. Quickly things get 
 out of hand with strange visions, a mystery man and two dead cops whose murders are blamed on Agent 
 Thomas. Without giving too much away, what ensues is a surreal tale of murder, justice, redemption 
 and quite a few super natural moments.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and can only be pulled off thus far on a 360 or a good gaming PC. A 
 ton of detail went into the environments and character models. Each character moved realistically 
 and had a plethora of attacks, recoils and counterattacks to add to the mix. The environments were 
 sometimes a little bland and repeatitive but for the most part I was impressed with the scenery. 
 There was no slowdown that wasn't meant to happen, and gore splattered wonderfully after each blow. 
 The sound was also great with good voice acting, creepy background noises and a very fitting soundtrack. 
 I would really have nothing bad to say in this department if it weren't for the dialog. At times 
 the writing just seemed a bit cheesy but overall it was good.
  
  Now for the low part. The game was pretty short but that's a bonus when the gameplay is beat and 
 rebeat. I would like to say that the number of foes keeps the fighting interesting but towards 
 the end, it really doesn't help much. That's not to say that the combat engine isn't satisfying 
 in small doses. The forensic tools also seem to play a very minor role in the grand scheme of things. 
 Another small break from the combat are entry weapons, which are weapons used to open doors, safes 
 or gates. It gives the game a sort of puzzle element but it's nothing to cheer about the way they 
 are implemented.
  
  I think that's about it. Condemned had me occupied for about 12 hours with it's good story, visceral 
 images and I thank God the gameplay didn't last any longer than it had to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grayham3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  One Of The Most Gruesome And Most Scary Next-Gen Games. The Story And Gameplay Will Keep You Going. 
 One Of The Best Games Out There Full . The Fight Scenes Are Some Of The Most Grusome You Might 
 Ever See. This Game Easily Earns Its 18 Rating. Everybody That Says This Game Doesn't Deserve A 
 10/10 Is Wrong. You Should Buy This Game........ If You Can Stand The Horror......... If You Think 
 Your Nerves Can Take It ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Moni
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok people, I had been playing First Persons games since a very long time, although Condemned is 
 not a real shooter per se, it offers you one of the scariest moments ever, The story is well written 
 and catchy, the grphical aspects of the game are terrific, but the gold goes to the immersive sound. 
 That's a great combination for this horror based game and makes it incredibely scary sometimes.
 
  
  The eniviroment is great, so well captured, that anxious feeling in being in a dark place alone 
 with a bunch of crazy and hideous people that you just don't know what they will do, hiding from 
 you, making you want to go slow and turn carefully in any corner, sometimes you just want to end 
 the level to get a little bit of tranquility before you go to the next one.
  
  If you like scary games, good graphics, great sound and an immersive story, then this is difenitely 
 a chance that you shouldn't let pass, I can guarantee you a really great time busting these freaks, 
 breaking their teeth with a steel pipe or slashing them with a paper cutter.
  
  So people, give Condemned a chance to scare the hell out of you, this is one of the best games 
 for Xbox 360.
  
  "Currently Playing Prey" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Condemned For XBOX 360.
  
  Condemned was recently released at the launch of the X Box 360. It is a highly underrated title 
 and deserves much more credit than any other game at launch. It is unique, innovative, and gripping... a 
 Masterpiece.
  
  Condemned puts you in the shoes of FBI agent Ethan Thomas in a first person shooter (FPS) for a 
 CSI meets old school horror game that is thrilling from start to finish. The only things stopping 
 it form perfection are so minor that they really aren't worth mentioned. The game starts with you 
 investigating a murder along with two police officers. Pretty soon the killer takes your gun and 
 kills the officers with it, framing you. You are now on your own to stop the killer and claim your 
 innocence. DISCLAIMER
  Due to the intense nature of the storyline, I will not reference any scene or event in the plot 
 because I don't want any new players to have anything spoiled for them.
  DISCLAIMER
  
  Gameplay : This game plays like a typical first person shooter, although guns aren't your main 
 weapons in the game. While there are several types of guns to find, their ammo will never be more 
 than a few bullets and the amount of time you will spend with them should be significantly less 
 than the time you spend using the game's various melee weapons. You will find an assortment of 
 pipes, 2x4s, and other swingable objects that will be used as weapons. There are also several specific 
 weapons that are also used to open things throughout the game. The crowbar is used to open safes 
 and some gates, the fire axe is used to chop through certain doors, the shovel is used to destroy 
 wiring for electronic locks, and the sledgehammer is used to bash off padlocks. The combat is very 
 violent and gruesome. The hits you give and take feel slow or quick depending on the weapon and 
 all hits have a savage feel to them that make you grimace a little at first. There are also 4 finishing 
 moves that you can employ on nearly fallen enemies. You are also equipped with a tazer that will 
 stun your enemies and allow you to steal their weapon or just give you enough time to take them 
 down.
  
  The game is different from a FPS in that the movement is much slower. This is no fast paced shooter 
 or beat em up, this is a slow paced methodical investigation. You have a run bar which allows you 
 to run, but it runs out somewhat quickly and it still doesn't make you move that fast. The main 
 gameplay feels very intense and atmospheric. Never have I realized the atmosphere so much in one 
 game. As you move, you will be conscious of every corner and door. You will check every room and 
 path to look for clues and to make sure no enemies are waiting for you to turn your back. It is 
 a very deliberate game that forces you to take your time when exploring. The investigating parts 
 are not hard to do, in fact they may be a little too easy, but they never get in the way and they 
 only add to the game.
  
  One of the greatest features of the game is that you can find weapon within the environment. A 
 random pipe on the wall can be yanked off and used to club the enemies. You can even use a gun 
 that is out of ammo as a melee weapon, but be careful because the butt-end of these guns can break 
 after a few blows. Another good feature is that a gun found in this game does not have a lot of 
 ammo, which is more realistic. In other games you can walk through a level killing all the enemies 
 with the same shotgun you had in the beginning. A great weapon to use is the taser gun. This 
 will temporarily put a hold on the enemy giving you a few valuable seconds to get a better shot/hit 
 on him or to get away.
  
  Graphics : The graphics in this game are definitely next generation worthy. The presentation won't 
 seem as bright and beautiful as some other games, but that's because it is a dark game from the 
 start. Lighting effects and shadows play a large role in the game and are implemented perfectly. 
 The environments look so real, you will feel like you are actually in a rundown building, which 
 in turn heightens the tension while you are playing. The only problem that I had with the graphics 
 are the character models. For the most part they look really good, but at times they can look a 
 little warped. This really doesn't take anything away from the game experience in any way, but 
 I thought that I should point it out. The graphics are amazing. Your character is submersed into 
 a world where every turn leads him into another dark and dilapidated room or hallway. The only 
 escape from the dirty, dark, and creepy setting is when you turn the game off. The dark lighting 
 with the low illumination of your flashlight adds further to the setting. Clues of people hiding 
 behind a pillar are seen in the edge of a 2 x 4 sticking out from the edge or maybe the light shadow 
 etched along the ground. The characters look extremely realistic and so do the enemies. Without 
 the usual alien, this horror game takes a painful uncommon twist to realistic horror for the most 
 part. I believe that this makes it all the more scary because it is easy to find a made up boogeyman 
 laughable, but it is another story when a blood crazed drug addict/murderer appears behind you 
 and swings his fire axe at your head. The realistic graphics, lighting, and the setting set you 
 up for most of the scary events. You would not be scared if a man was chasing you in a clean room 
 with lots of light and people. Sound : The sound in this game is easily one of its strongest suits. 
 There is an obvious lack of music, which at first will make you think that the game is lacking 
 something, but it will soon become apparent why that was necessary. Throughout the game, enemies 
 will come after you from real places (there are no spawn points) . This means that unless they come 
 from the same path you are walking, they have to break something down, knock something over, or 
 make some kind of noisy entrance. The absence of music allows the player to listen for these entrances. 
 Believe me, the first time I heard some enemies I thought, that sounds like something climbing 
 a fence. Sure enough I turned around to see a couple enemies climbing a fence I had just passed. 
 The sound effects and voice acting is some of the best I have ever heard. Ethan is constantly talking 
 to Rosa on the phone as she helps him sort out his CSI clues. Whenever you investigate a crime 
 scene the clues you find are transmitted to Rosa (who is still helping you because she believes 
 you were framed) to get data relevant to the storyline.
  
  The story in this game is amazing. That pretty much covers it. For those wondering why, I'll explain. 
 The plot is spectacular and is not always revealed through cutscenes but rather through your investigating 
 and processing of clues. It really feels like you're playing a CSI meets Silent Hill game. There 
 are a bunch of plot twists and information that make the game seem even scarier than when you started. 
 I don't want to ruin anything so I'm not going to give any particulars, but it really is a wonderfully 
 designed plot that will make you think and will leave enough stuff unexplained to make your head 
 churn in an attempt to put together exactly what happened, while also giving you enough information 
 to feel satisfied once you have beaten the game.
  
  I gave this game a very high tilt because it is so original and innovative that you must play it. 
 There are enough generic games out there and enough highly anticipated sequels to make your head 
 spin. Condemned is very different and it takes some chances. This is a game I would recommend to 
 anyone. It does not have that much replay value other than some exploration achievements. There 
 is no multiplayer and once you know the story and the levels a lot of the atmosphere will be less 
 tense.
  
  This is easily one of the best games I have ever played. It is perfect in so many ways. The feeling 
 you get when playing is remarkable. You are so on edge and ready for anything as you slowly make 
 your way through rundown buildings and sewers. The tension combined with brutal combat make this 
 a violent and yet cautious game. I would recommend this to anyone that is or isn't a fan of gaming 
 in any genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Another first-in-series game that came out on the 360 that is highly addictive and suspenseful. 
 The graphics are amazing and although the gameplay was original and difficult to grasp at first 
 (I don't think anyone is very familiar with first person melee) , it became very fun once I mastered 
 it and I found myself looking for psychopaths to beat over the head with my steel pipe. lol. Anyway, 
 the game has multiple endings if your into playing a story over and over, but other than that, 
 this game has no replay value or multiplayer. But if you can find it cheap or if you have the money 
 to blow on a wonderful storyline and suspenseful thriller of a game, buy condemned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capthavic
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the first Xbox 360 titles. In the game you play as FBI agent 
 Ethan Thomas who is investigating a series of murders by the "Match Maker". But while examining 
 the latest attack, two cops are killed and Ethan finds himself framed for their murder. The rest 
 of the game has you trying to catch this elusive murderer and clearing Ethan's name. The game takes 
 you through a bunch of dark and disturbing locales. Even though you visit such places as an abandoned 
 school, subway system, and alleyways; the levels are very dull and recycled. It very easy to get 
 lost especially with no map for reference. You will use a variety of forensic tools to track the 
 killers trail of blood, sweat, and other disgusting stuff. These clue moments are fairly easy and 
 simply require you to press X and get the evidence centered. They are used to drive the story and 
 break up the action. Combat consists of attacking and blocking with the occasional gun play. The 
 best part of Condemned is how it sounds and feels. It truly draws you into this world of crazed 
 vagrants. The sound of the weapons is top notch. As the game goes on you will start to question 
 Ethans sanity with numerous disturbing visions. All in all it is a satisfying experience that any 
 fan of mature games should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaConArtist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing! This game really has everything you would want: scares, action, 
 amazing storyline, and bashing crackheads! This game of course would have to be played on surround 
 sound but it doesn't mean you won't get the chills. During the first hour of me playing the game 
 I must've jumped at least ten to fifteen times. Now besides the scare, the controls in this game 
 are fairly easy and very well thought out. When grabbing a weapon you can either attack or block 
 the throws the crackhead tries to hit you with. Not to mention the fatalities in the game. When 
 you knock down someone onto their knees, your D-pad will appear and ask you which fatality you 
 would like to do. You can either snap their necks, punch them in the face, head-butt them, etc. 
 The storyline is very well thought out. Although a couple of parts that I did not agree with in 
 the beginning, the rest of the story is great. It really makes you feel like you are in the game. 
 You get so into this game that you actually start playing as if you are a real detective. Even 
 though you are playing as a detective being framed, but it really makes you feel like you actually 
 have to prove your innocence. This game is very challenging because you have to look for clues 
 and such as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeppelin360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins isn't a long game and it only has one game mode, but it's an unforgettable 
 experience. At no point in the game will you be calm or feel comfortable, and that's the best part 
 about it. Even if you're squeamish, be sure to play this at least once at night with all the lights 
 off and by yourself and you'll understand just how frightening it really is. The graphics, animations, 
 enemy behavior, and utterly unnerving sound make this is easily one of the most immersive and atmospheric 
 games I've ever played. I honestly yelled out loud at certain points, and was getting goosebumps 
 on a regular basis. Though the forensic investigation sequences and level designs are almost painfully 
 straightforward, the game manages to excel despite them. If you're looking for one of the Xbox 
 360's most unique and thoroughly disturbing titles at launch or you're a fan of any kind of horror 
 media, you should definitely pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is an absolutely stunning game and I think everyone that either enjoys suspense, mysteries, 
 horror, and resident evil-like games will most definitely enjoy this title. It has crisp graphics 
 and awesome gameplay, I couldn't tell you a flaw unless I were talking about the game overall, 
 and what I mean by that is that the story is a little to short and there are no other game modes 
 (no online, multiplayer-co op, etc...) . If you're a person that occasionally rents games then I'm 
 telling you that's your best choice as it doesn't take too long to beat and after you beat it there 
 isn't much else to do. Unique game that shouldn't be overlooked by video game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Condemned throws you into the role of a rather uncharismatic and frankly rather dull guy who has 
 the un-happy task of investigating serial killings. The game begins with you entering a "Condemned" 
 building (from which the game presumably takes it's name) on call to a crime scene but little do 
 you know things are rapidly going to get out of hand. Condemned throws you on a race to prove your 
 own innocence for a crime and in doing so takes you through some of the more unpleasant parts of 
 a city taking on junkies and other psychopaths in an thrilling story that twists and turns a great 
 deal.
  
  Gameplay:- The main bulk of gameplay in Condemned takes place with you wandering through dark buildings 
 with only a torch for company and occasionally investigating crime scenes (for fingerprints and 
 the like) with forensic tools. The wandering is punctuated by brief battles with armed goons the 
 majority involving melee combat where you block and parry with the variety of improvised weapons 
 the game has to offer. While this may not sound too thrilling on paper it actually all goes together 
 really well, the different parts of the game breaking each other up nicely to avoid repetition 
 combined with story cutscences that drive the genuinely intriguing plot onwards. While I believe 
 your opponents are meant to be human they tend to become less so as the game progreses with some 
 dashing at you on all fours like animals or just not looking particularly human in the first place. 
 The AI of your opponents in the game is also one of it's strong points as the enemies will look 
 for weapons to use (after you disarm them at times) , hide from you when weak and even lay in ambush. 
 The game also is rather atmospheric with some fairly scary moments to begin with.. but as you progress 
 you kind of get used to "things" jumping out at you so it loses it's atmosphere somewhat by using 
 the same tricks too much. While "scary grainy looking corridor effect with moving shadows" is scary 
 the first few times, around time four or so you tend to pretty much ignore it.
  
  Graphics:- Truly amazing, the most impressive game visually I have played since Oblivion. Perhaps 
 a few better textures could be used here and there but otherwise it is just stunning and truly 
 felt "next-gen" to me visually.
  
  Sound:- Again, spot on. The atmospheric sound is very creepy (although I eventually turned it off 
 as I always get bored of sound) and the voice acting is professional and spot on. High quality.
 
  
  Value:- Takes about 10 hours or so to play through and you can unlock most of it's achivements 
 on your first run. Unfortunately the game is pretty buggy when it comes to achivements and can 
 be immensly frustrating for those wanting 100%. Theres probably about 15 hours of gameplay here 
 for those who want to unlock everything. A decent amount.
  
  Condemned is a good thriller with a slight horror element thrown into the mix and well worth checking 
 out. A few minor annoyances and slightly boring bits make the game somewhat less as good as it 
 could have been and I feel it has perhaps wasted a fair bit of extra potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majormario
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was a scary game and was able to deliver a lot of suspense, and the sound amazing and 
 the graphics were good for a game that was launched with the 360. this game i worth playin but 
 it's a 1 time play (unless u want to play it again to unlock achivements) because after u beat 
 it once you'll know where all the enemies are and where they sneak attack you from causing the 
 game to lose it edge and the sense of fear. If they AI were smarter each time you play the game 
 there would still be suspense and an element of fear, and I was also disappointed that there were 
 only 10 levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_and_Spicy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't really expecting much from this game. I thought it was going to be just a crap game, that 
 is until I picked it up.
  
  This game is one of the best games for the 360. The story mode is really awesome. With the sound 
 in 7.1 surround sound, this game makes you want to crap your pants. Also if you have an HDTV, this 
 is even more so why you should pick this game up. Really, this game desereves so much better. Its 
 a shame no one really picked this game up. If you are looking for a good scare, this game really 
 delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duflont
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Okey, I just played through the game now. First I really liked the game, the whole fighting/horror 
 thing was well done, I especially liked the way you fighted, it fellt cool and when you hit someone 
 it fellt real
  
  The game was actually kinda scary, much more than I thought it was gonna be. After playing Doom 
 3 I tought the whole horror genre was dying. The popup monsters actually scared me this time.
 
  
  But there are two things that bothers me, two big things. One the game was way to short, I played 
 it through in one six hour sitting, that was far under my expectations. And second WTF what happened 
 to the story?
  
  If you find it in a Bargain Bag buy it, i just got it for a reasonable price tag and it was worth 
 a play through, maybe just a rent. Not much of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  when i first reserved my 360 at gamestop i also reserved condemned because from what i saw this 
 game looked so cool. when i first started to play it i was really creeped out. the reason is because 
 the atmosphere was really good and creepy so this is the main reason you will be hooked on this 
 game. which the games story is a really interesting and you just beg for more but to know the truth 
 you have to collect lots and lots of metal pieces and dead birds which is a good idea but the levels 
 are big and its really easy to get lost and skip the collecters so its good and bad. and just to 
 add the blocking system can really get fustrating in the later levels because if you block to late 
 you will die! but on a lighter note this game is fun and scary so you should check this game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games that are as violent and audacious as Condemned: Criminal Origins. Putting 
 you in the role of an investigator hot on the trail of a sick and sadistic serial killer, this 
 is a game that youll definitely want to play with the lights off, the sound up, and the door locked. 
 And on next-generation hardware, Condemneds first-person action gameplay (which resembles the 
 melee portions of last years fantastic The Chronicles of Riddick) is punctuated even more from 
 its first-class presentation, as well as its no-holds-barred content. It can be a little repetitive 
 at times, and things cut off a bit abruptly at the end, but Condemned is a great game that is absolutely 
 worth your time and money, all things considered.
  
  You are Ethan Thomas, a federal agent whose specialty happens to be serial killers. As we join 
 the action, Ethan is just being taken to a fresh crime scene of a killer referred to as The Matchmaker, 
 who kills young woman and poses their bodies alongside scenes made up of mannequins. Yeah. Anyway, 
 as you enter the crime scene, youll get a crash course on the vagaries of how to use your forensics 
 tools to take print samples, sample fluids, and so forth. You get some mildly amusing interactions 
 between characters in this scene, but its probably for the best that you dont get used to it 
  in very short order, you will lose contact with nearly all friendlies, say goodbye to sunshine, 
 and embrace the darkness for the next ten-or-so hours. Welcome to Condemned.
  
  Although the story has a fair amount of moments that youll definitely want to experience for yourself, 
 it is worth noting that it doesnt really go anywhere throughout the course of the experience. 
 It seems like its building up to something good toward the first half of the game, but  after 
 a clever twist  the game kind of just explores an entirely new plot venue all together, and quite 
 a few things just plain dont add up in the end. Its a confusing conclusion overall, though its 
 one that will also likely have you thinking.
  
  Anyway, its really all about the space between the beginning and the end, right? Right, and thats 
 where Condemned doesnt disappoint. As aforementioned, Condemned plays a lot like the melee combat 
 sequences from The Chronicles of Riddick  you use the right trigger to throw your punches, and 
 the left trigger to defend against an enemys strikes. If that sounds simple, wellit is. But there 
 are a few factors that bear explanation.
  
  For starters, you cant just lay down on the block button. Blocking is a quick act and only protects 
 you for the better part of a second, so youll need to time your defenses immediately before you 
 character would be struck, lest you feel the pain and watch with cringed teeth as a bloodstain 
 spikes the camera as your neck snaps to the side. Needless to say, thats a very bad thing, and 
 youll want to get the timing of a good block down pronto.
  
  It also bears mentioning that theres no bear fisticuffs in Condemned  all of your combat will 
 be handled with a vast array of melee weapons, as well as a few firearms thrown in there for good 
 measure. Aside from the ballistics weapons on hand in the game, your weapons are entirely makeshift 
  see a two-by-four lying on the ground in the corner? Pick it up and get ready to brawl. See that 
 paper cutter over there? Tear off the blade and the handle, and youre ready to roll. The weapons 
 are as plentiful as they are gruesome, and youll definitely get a guilty pleasure out of ending 
 your drug-crazed enemies lives with them. 
  
  The handguns in the game pack a mean punch, but unfortunately cannot be restocked with ammunition 
  youll just need to make due with whats in it when you pick it up. Nevertheless, they can get 
 you out of some tense situations, and youll find yourself occasionally enlisting their help. However, 
 since you can only carry one weapon at a time, youll probably deduce that a melee weapon is a 
 more effective means of weaponry.
  
  You also get a taser, which youll be using a great deal throughout the experience. When a perp 
 is vaguely in the center of the screen and within a fair distance of you, launching a taser will 
 shock and damage the enemy for several seconds, giving you some leeway to maneuver yourself into 
 a more favorable position. Of course, you could just charge the immobilized enemy and give him 
 a good smack without fear of retaliation. Or, to add insult to injury, you can actually grab an 
 enemys weapon right out of their hand, and use that to bludgeon them. Cool.
  
  There are a few extra frills and set pieces added to fatten up the gameplay. For starters, there 
 are a few sequences where youll need to use a tool like a UV light to follow a fluid trail through 
 an area, while there could be an enemy at any corner, or behind any obstacle. It then becomes a 
 matter of managing your forensics tools and your weapons as you fight your way to your next lead. 
 The games final sequence has you fending off waves of bad guys without your taser, a feeling that 
 takes more than a little getting used to. These sequences arent particularly clever or inventive, 
 but they do further the games main goal of pushing you outside the boundaries of your comfort 
 zone.
  
  Therein lies the rub, however  with such a dearth of variety in its gameplay, Condemned has the 
 potential to get a little stale at points, especially during a few sequences of walking around 
 an ominous area, only to find absolutely nothing. The fact that you can walk around feeling creeped 
 out by a dark environment is a testament to the games mood, but its not all that exciting from 
 a gameplay standpoint. With so many great scares throughout the course of the game, its a shame 
 to think about how some potentially scary moments were squandered.
  
  Luckily, the visuals in Condemned pull no stops in seeing to it that youre thoroughly seeded into 
 the gameworld, and by far the single most important aspect of this game is its graphics (luckily, 
 it looks fantastic with or without an HDTV) . The game has a depressingly washed-out look throughout, 
 and the game utilizes a variety of filters  from heavy film grain to black and white to focus 
 blur  to heighten suspense. It works. Your weak flashlight fights its way through the darkness, 
 showing just enough of the scene to unnerve you. But its more than just doom-and-gloom ambience; 
 the animation is where this game really shines. When an enemy lays one on you, it really feels 
 like youve been smacked across the head. Likewise, when you lay a blow on an enemy, it truly looks 
 like youve just struck him with all of your force as he lunges backward on spotty balance, regains 
 his composure, and counterassaults. The more otherworldly enemies look superb too, as they scuttle 
 around the floor and contort their bodies in disturbingly unnatural ways. Throw in a very solid 
 framerate, and you have one dynamite looking game, with only some strange-looking character models 
 in the cinematics nudging you out of the experience.
  
  The sound fares just as good as the video, too. The entirety of Condemned has this sort of pressurized 
 pulse to it, and this constant white noise works with the gloomy atmosphere. Theres virtually 
 no music here, so this is a game that relies entirely on its sound effects, and theyre excellent, 
 from the pipe creaks that will put you on edge to the brutally realized slice of laying a paper 
 cutter blade into your opponent. The voice-overs in the cinematics do a decent job, but the grunts, 
 yelps of pain and battle cries from the opponents are truly well done, and will certainly stick 
 out as one of the more memorable parts of the game.
  
  Condemned is an excellent game that, despite its fantastic presentation and spooky, viscerally 
 satisfying action gameplay, ends up being less than the sum of its parts thanks to an overly vague 
 story and lack of variety. But dont let that deter you from playing the game, as the unnerving 
 pace, intriguing premise, and memorable enemies will have you hooked to the end, with only a few 
 nagging problems to get in the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jobie111
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the human emotions, I think fear is the most difficult one for movies, games, etc. to 
 elicit from its audience. Making someone fear for the life while being detached from the person 
 actually in danger is no easy task. Condemned: Criminal Origins does it, and at times makes it 
 look easy.
  
  The game immediately puts you into a very disgusting crime scene. Shortly thereafter the scariness 
 begins. You'll immediately realize that this isn't your typical horror-survival game. Right when 
 you start exploring the first level an enemy tells you to shut the **** up. Awesome. Later on in 
 the level an enemy throws a chair when you enter a room and then runs out. Quite possibly the coolest 
 animation ever. The enemies in this game are really intelligent. They'll hide behind columns and 
 ambush you then run away and wait for you again. 
  
  This makes combat really interesting. It takes a while for you to get used to combat. There are 
 tons of melee weapons around and each one has its own speed, power, etc so learning each ones variations 
 will take a while. Also, blocking is incredibly important. Unlike most games, you can't just hold 
 block waiting for the enemy to attack. You have to time it with their swing or you'll get nailed. 
 There are guns but they are few and far between. Even if you happen upon one, chances are it only 
 has a few bullets in it. A lot of people say the combat is repetitive but to me it isn't at all. 
 Even with the weakest of enemies it is a challenge and taking some enemies down can turn into a 
 long bout of exchanging swings and blocks. It is no more repetitive than pointing and shooting 
 in a regular first-person shooter and is a lot more entertaining. To me the combat is similar to 
 that found in Oblivion but is better and much harder. 
  
  Condemned does not rely on cheap tricks to scare you. It really immerses you in the environment 
 surrounding you and uses it to advantage. The scare tactics used are similar to F. E. A. R. and the 
 movie "The Shining" in my opinion. The environments are one part of the game that get really repetitive 
 howerver. There is no color here, everything surrounding you is black, white, gray and with no 
 light except your flashlight. It is cool for the first few levels but by the sixth buildings you'll 
 get bored of it quickly. They all just become "generic worn down unlit addict filled building x." 
 The last level changes is it up a bit and is pretty cool
  
  Achievements in this game mostly involve you collecting metal pieces and birds in each level. To 
 get all the achievements you will have to play through the game at least one more time. As fun 
 as the first go through is however, it isn't worth a second trip. Without the scary ambiance to 
 effect you the game isn't nearly as fun. If the achievements are worth a lot to you and you don't 
 mind collecting things so much it won't be a major chore for you to go through it again, but I 
 won't be bothering myself. 
  
  This game is definitely the best title the 360 had at launch and still is one of the better ones 
 for the system, especially if you're looking for something different. It is a great game with a 
 few flaws. Hopefully if there is a sequel they can fix those and fulfill its potential. I would 
 definitely suggest picking it up, at least as a rental. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disengage12a
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Truly shows off the power of the Xbox 360 by taking advatage of advanced lighting tchnologies 
 making an even more immersive experience. Characters models and level design are top notch giving 
 each level it's own unique feel. Too bad there were'nt more character models because the ones they 
 have you'll fight many times in the game even though they like absolutely superb. Also the framerate 
 stays rock solid throughout the entire game which is good because when you're fighting six freeky 
 corpse walker things with only a lead pipe you reaaly need to see the excitement in this game.
 
  
  Sound: Also absolutely superb. Most horror genre games really need a good sound engine to keep 
 you on edge and Condemned doesn't disappoint at all. Hearing footsteps getting louder and louder 
 coming towards you is really frightening and absorbs into the Condemned Mthos. Not to mention being 
 able to somehow hear where noises are coming from in certain directions is really neat and helpful.
 
  
  Gameplay: With tons of imaginable weapons and a plethora of phorensic tools on your side you'll 
 need to go into the dark heart of the city on the trace of a serial killer who's framed for the 
 murder of two cops. With an awesome fighting system and tons of weapons scattered throughout the 
 level, Condemned achieves something great, a game with a good horror story AND a good combat system. 
 The 10 levels you explore a big but not very massive so needless to say you can finish the game 
 in 6-8 but chances are you'll want to play it through and find all the hidden achievements. I had 
 high hopes for this game when I read about around a year before it even came out in Game Informer. 
 Needless to say I was blown away that it was even better than I thought. Action and horror fans 
 need to do themselves a favor and go buy this right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  In Condemned you must track down the must vialont criminals in the world to clear your name!
  
  GOOD- Its dark and creepy; it keeps you on the end of your seat; meele attacks are better than 
 guns; tracking evidence and using phorensic devices to track down the criminal
  
  BAD- Its way to dark to see anything; the game is linear; basic level designs.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  This is the FPS that uses tools that phorensic devices to track down criminals like taking photos 
 and using devices that sees chemicels and many more, The game uses alot of mellee weapons wich 
 are fun to use seeing as the enemies have great AI so you have a great battle with them
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Tho the game is very dark you can still se the great details when you flash your torch 
 at somthing, there very good and the shading is also great, it would've been alot better if it 
 was'nt so dark!
  
  SOUND:
  TBH the sound is great, its has good voice acting and the sound it makes when your 2X4 w/nails 
 hits somone round the head, that sounds SO, satifing!!
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  Its a dark spooky game which story will pull you in to figer out what happens, its a wonderful 
 game, the only probblem is that its Very Dark! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superkoolstud
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game puts a new twist on FPS combat. Using a new melee combat system you can go up against 
 baddies in toe to toe combat with a lead pipe or 2x4. Gameplay takes another twist in it adds RPG 
 elements where you must investigate crime scenes using forensic tools. The games story is very 
 mysterious and level design is really good. Taking the survival horror genre to the next level 
 you play in run down creepy environments, some of these levels have no light except for your flashlight. 
 The story starts with you as a wanted FBI agent framed for murder and throughout the game you must 
 prove your innocence. You go through 10 Levels with lots of side stuff to do and things to discover. 
 The sound is amazing and is what makes this game sound so good, whether it is the creepy sound 
 of someone climbing through the wall, or the pitter patter of feet, or the sound of someone getting 
 smacked in the face with a crowbar, it is great.
  
  Condemed is a must buy and I give it a 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootamaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  From start to finish this game will have you on the edge of your seat. The plot is amazing and 
 makes you want to keep playing to see what happens next. It's like reading a good book. But because 
 of the game's fear factor this game isn't for everyone. The audio in the game is perfect and adds 
 to the fear factor by adding a very scary ambiance to the environment around you.
  One problem that i had with the game was the blocking. It was more effective to not block at all 
 and just back up then to have to time and deal with the blocking system. If you missed the block 
 then the enemy will just have a free shot and will have a time with you.
  But other than that the game is immersive and is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  While I would classify Condemned as a FPS, there is very little, if any, shooting. The entire game 
 is based around using your environment to your advantage, as well as solving a mystery as to what 
 is going on in the town. While trying to clear his own name, the main character moves throughout 
 the city using forensic devices to find evidence, slowly proving his innocence. This is a game 
 that is not to be missed.
  
  Gameplay- Using anything from a crowbar to a fire axe to a large piece of wood, the player must 
 engage in close combat to kill enemies. Blocking is crucial to surviving, which must be timed properly 
 as to not get hurt. The story is engaging, although each environment, while different in some ways, 
 almost feels the same as the last level played.
  
  Graphics- As a release title for the 360, the graphics are up to par with the other games that 
 came out at the same time. Humans look a little weird, but enemies are artistically designed and 
 look fantastic. The textures found in each level, from the weapons to the grass to the wood making 
 up the walls are some of the best I've seen in any game.
  
  Sound- 5.1 Surround is needed to get the most enjoyment out of this game, as it is a survival horror 
 game. Sounds come from all directions, creating an even scarier environment to be immersed in.
 
  
  Value- After beating the game, there really isn't much to do. It is possible to play it at a higher 
 difficulty, but most of the game is good due to the surprises and the make-you-jump-out-of-your-seat 
 events, both of which are already known by the player the second time through. The achievements 
 add a little to the game if the player wants all the points from the game. They are some of the 
 weaker achievements, however, as most of them involve searching for random items such as dead or 
 dying birds, TV sets with 360s hooked up to them, and metal pieces (?) .
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I absolutely loved this game. My friends enjoyed watching since it is as exciting 
 as certain survival horror movies. Even with the lack of replay-ability, I still think this is 
 one of the best games I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcryan71
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, the game is exactly what you expect it to be. And better. The best use of sound I've 
 ever heard in a videogame. (Runner up would be Resident Evil 4 for the Gamecube.) Dark and scary... but 
 not TOO DARK (take a hint, ID) - Good variety of weapons and bad guys. Interesting, engaging and 
 ever-changing level design. And as for the art... DECAY HAS NEVER BEEN MORE BEAUTIFUL. I really 
 loved this game and enjoyed every time I jumped when a bad guy would leap out from behind the corner. 
 Great sound design. Great editing and effects. Interesting, yet a bit confusing story... but who 
 cares. -- My few gripes: Wider range of weapons. Better use of (less "guided") forensic tools. 
 Hit detection is "iffy" - really... the guy was 5 feet away from me... and he STILL hit me? I would 
 have loved to be able to do a manual save OUTSIDE the checkpoints. How about online multiplayer 
 for the sequel? -- Great game, check it out and play it with the lights out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I've expected better than what I got out of this game. I've been waiting a while to play this game, 
 and now I regret it. The game has a vague storyline; you're investigating a murder and the criminal 
 takes your gun and kills your partners, now the cops are after you. So you have to find the murderer 
 and gain evidence that he was the one that killed your partners. Along the way you have to kill 
 hobos, and others to get to your objectives.
  Once you get close to the ' Match Maker ' he slips away. Anyway, the graphics are good for a 360 
 game, the controls are simple. But the problem is that your character can hardly run, it says he 
 sprints but he's more like fast walking. He can only block for 2 seconds which is worthless.
  The game needs to give you a better variety of weapons, even though you can use an axe. You'd would 
 also think that in real life a person can swing an axe or hammer quicker. 
  Overall this game isn't very realistic for the combat, and the story line kind of sucks. Also, 
 all you do is scan evidence and kill hobos, drug dealers, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Never before have I played a game and gotten so immersed into it. It keeps you wanting to see more 
 as the game progresses and only gets better and better. It is also the creepiest game I've ever 
 played thanks to the next generation graphics and lighting effects. This game isn't as disturbing 
 as Silent Hill, and doesn't have the shocks of Resident Evil, but it does keep that chill up your 
 spine going in anticipation and only makes it grow and grow until you have to turn your light back 
 on. There were a many a time that I had to stop in my tracks and ask myself, "what did I just see" 
 and have second thoughts about going further with playing the game. It was an effort playing the 
 game without having to take those short breaks so to break off that feeling up my spine. 
  
  This is also the most violent game I've ever played in terms of just throwing everything right 
 in your face. Just wait till you see how you kill the last boss in the game. Might not like the 
 ending though. It has a traditional movie-esque twist to it, but with that and everything else 
 that happens in the game, its like never forgetting all those great memorable parts in a movie. 
 You definetely won't forget the ending.
  
  Gameplay is tremendously original, and I haven't seen a game take the first person perspective 
 in this way before. You really get a sense that you are having a real physical conflict with the 
 enemies and have to be on your toes to survive, not to mention give them alot of pain. Also, the 
 game is as much of a movie as it is a game (you interact with everything that happens of course) . 
 Maybe Sega's partnership with Warner Bros. helped that for this game.
  
  I didn't like the fact that the game had too much repetition in its gameplay. The first time through, 
 you don't notice how much the repetition hurts the game because you are being progressed through 
 the game by the storyline, in which the game does very well, but after you beat the game, you will 
 have second thoughts about playing it again.
  
  You get almost 1000 points on your Xbox 360 Gamerscore from this game and score more than half 
 that by just simply playing the game and making sure you find all the secrets (which wasn't hard 
 at all) .
  
  I would highly recommend to rent this title and play it, but unfortunetely it will be hard for 
 someone to play it a second time around due to the repetition in the game that I described above.
 
  
  Going to be a personal favorite of mine, but wierd enough, I can't get myself to buy it and/or 
 play it again, but I won't ever forget this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nynthninja
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is definetly a game to have in your collection, I really enjoyed they story, ambiance, and 
 voice acting wasn't complete s***. Condemned is one of those games to own when theres a gap between 
 new releases and nothing to play, just pop in condemned for a few hours and your all set. Although 
 its set on a linear story, its still fun to bash a homless addict's face in with a shovel, texture 
 are great as well character models on the other hand a kinda poor. I think the enemies were better 
 than the main characters.... but that aside Condemned rest comfortably next to my Silent Hill and 
 Resident Evil collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is the scariest game ever!!! The whole game is in the dark so some of these **** jumped 
 at you with a pipe or a piece of wood !!! there 's a great choice of melee weapons and a small 
 choice of guns. the game play is really easy for all the option there is. the graphics are amazing, 
 most of the game i buy them cos the graphic is great!!! in this game i love the blood. The sound 
 sound real !!! The value is great, and even better with the flashlight !!! 
  
  This game have violence most of it and search evidence !!! Buy this game and play it in the dark, 
 alone and the the stereo on max, some level will make jumped. If you havent buy it do it now, its 
 pretty chip now !!!
  
  And he achievement are easy, take a while and take some searching !!! I have finish the game twice 
 with 50/50 achievement!!! it took me like 30 hours to finish it but did it in 3 week because I 
 was playing other games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  once again, the 360 exhibits it graphical power with condemned. using makeshift weapons is a blast. 
 honestly, i wish there were more common firearms. using the detective equipment is a very unique 
 experience, but after the first couple times, seems kind of bland. i really wish there was more 
 content and/or unlockables that would've really locked me into the condemned campaign experience. 
 but the gameplay is pretty fun and stays exciting throughout the game. sound effects are decent 
 and they will give the softer gamers some chills every now and then. not an extremely difficult 
 game once you get the basic attack and defend mechanic down, but a solid title nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoonROBOT
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  "You MUST play this game!"
  Condemned was recently released at the launch of the X Box 360. It is a highly underrated title 
 and deserves much more credit than any other game at launch. It is unique, innovative, and gripping... a 
 Masterpiece.
  
  Condemned puts you in the shoes of FBI agent Ethan Thomas in a first person shooter (FPS) for a 
 CSI meets old school horror game that is thrilling from start to finish. The only things stopping 
 it form perfection are so minor that they really aren't worth mentioned. 
  
  The game starts with you investigating a murder along with two police officers. Pretty soon the 
 killer takes your gun and kills the officers with it, framing you. You are now on your own to stop 
 the killer and claim your innocence. 
  
  DISCLAIMER
  Due to the intense nature of the storyline, I will not reference any scene or event in the plot 
 because I don't want any new players to have anything spoiled for them.
  DISCLAIMER
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  The graphics in this game are definitely next generation worthy. The presentation 
 won't seem as bright and beautiful as some other games, but that's because it is a dark game from 
 the start. Lighting effects and shadows play a large role in the game and are implemented perfectly. 
 The environments look so real, you will feel like you are actually in a rundown building, which 
 in turn heightens the tension while you are playing. The only problem that I had with the graphics 
 are the character models. For the most part they look really good, but at times they can look a 
 little warped. This really doesn't take anything away from the game experience in any way, but 
 I thought that I should point it out.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  The sound in this game is easily one of its strongest suits. There is an obvious lack of music, 
 which at first will make you think that the game is lacking something, but it will soon become 
 apparent why that was necessary. Throughout the game, enemies will come after you from real places 
 (there are no spawn points) . This means that unless they come from the same path you are walking, 
 they have to break something down, knock something over, or make some kind of noisy entrance. The 
 absence of music allows the player to listen for these entrances. Believe me, the first time I 
 heard some enemies I thought, "that sounds like something climbing a fence." Sure enough I turned 
 around to see a couple enemies climbing a fence I had just passed. 
  
  The sound effects and voice acting is some of the best I have ever heard. Ethan is constantly talking 
 to Rosa on the phone as she helps him sort out his CSI clues. Whenever you investigate a crime 
 scene the clues you find are transmitted to Rosa (who is still helping you because she believes 
 you were framed) to get data relevant to the storyline.
  
  Story: 10
  
  The story in this game is amazing. That pretty much covers it. For those wondering why, I'll explain. 
 The plot is spectacular and is not always revealed through cutscenes but rather through your investigating 
 and processing of clues. It really feels like you're playing a CSI meets Silent Hill game. There 
 are a bunch of plot twists and information that make the game seem even scarier than when you started. 
 I don't want to ruin anything so I'm not going to give any particulars, but it really is a wonderfully 
 designed plot that will make you think and will leave enough stuff unexplained to make your head 
 churn in an attempt to put together exactly what happened, while also giving you enough information 
 to feel satisfied once you have beaten the game.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  This game plays like a typical first person shooter, although guns aren't your main weapons in 
 the game. While there are several types of guns to find, their ammo will never be more than a few 
 bullets and the amount of time you will spend with them should be significantly less than the time 
 you spend using the game's various melee weapons. You will find an assortment of pipes, 2x4s, and 
 other swingable objects that will be used as weapons. There are also several specific weapons that 
 are also used to open things throughout the game. The crowbar is used to open safes and some gates, 
 the fire axe is used to chop through certain doors, the shovel is used to destroy wiring for electronic 
 locks, and the sledgehammer is used to bash off padlocks. The combat is very violent and gruesome. 
 The hits you give and take feel slow or quick depending on the weapon and all hits have a savage 
 feel to them that make you grimace a little at first. There are also 4 finishing moves that you 
 can employ on nearly fallen enemies. You are also equipped with a tazer that will stun your enemies 
 and allow you to steal their weapon or just give you enough time to take them down.
  
  The game is different from a FPS in that the movement is much slower. This is no fast paced shooter 
 or beat em up, this is a slow paced methodical investigation. You have a run bar which allows you 
 to run, but it runs out somewhat quickly and it still doesn't make you move that fast. 
  
  The main gameplay feels very intense and atmospheric. Never have I realized the atmosphere so much 
 in one game. As you move, you will be conscious of every corner and door. You will check every 
 room and path to look for clues and to make sure no enemies are waiting for you to turn your back. 
 It is a very deliberate game that forces you to take your time when exploring. The investigating 
 parts are not hard to do, in fact they may be a little too easy, but they never get in the way 
 and they only add to the game.
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  I gave this game a very high tilt because it is so original and innovative that you must play it. 
 There are enough generic games out there and enough highly anticipated sequels to make your head 
 spin. Condemned is very different and it takes some chances. This is a game I would recommend to 
 anyone. It does not have that much replay value other than some exploration achievements. There 
 is no multiplayer and once you know the story and the levels a lot of the atmosphere will be less 
 tense.
  
  Overall: 10
  
  This is easily one of the best games I have ever played. It is perfect in so many ways. The feeling 
 you get when playing is remarkable. You are so on edge and ready for anything as you slowly make 
 your way through rundown buildings and sewers. The tension combined with brutal combat make this 
 a violent and yet cautious game. I would recommend this to anyone that is or isn't a fan of gaming 
 in any genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Brutal, disturbing, dark, mysterious, horrific and totally marauderous.
  
  Cons:
  --------
  Quite repetitive, story is too complicated and tormenting.
  
  Welcome 
 to the dark and upsetting world of Condemned: Criminal Origins, were the wicked a brutallly massacred 
 and the innocents ... more so. Meet Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent with an unusual talent (anomoly) 
 for "seeinf what others don't" a. k. a. seeing things that have happened recently and visioning a 
 strange ninja like person who tries to kill him with iron sticks.
  Condemned's graphics are phenomenol, the only let down is the characters, small fat and slightly 
 blurry. Sound is deeply disturbing, gameplay lacks originality but is nicely slow-pased and brutal. 
 A must buy, for those who have many pairs of spare underwear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonlordagony
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Imagine if they made 28 Days Later into a rocking video game who's entire point was to beat rage 
 infested crazy hobos to death with a flaming piece of wood and you have Condemned.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is lots of fun and the repetitive melee combat with somewhat similar enemies 
 never really gets well repetitive. The game's focus is on blcking and striking and having the right 
 weapon for the job. For instance a crowbar does a lot of damage but is slow and doesn't block well 
 while a piece of rebar is fast and has a great block just with less damage. Blocking is key on 
 this game if you don't want your face to get messed up a lot keep your distance and master the 
 timing of a block.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are really good but could have been smoothed over a little better. Also the 
 character models make everybody look a hell of a lot buffer than any normal human could be.
  
  Sound: The sound in Condemned is amazing it just blows me away.
  
  Story: You're an FBI 
 investigater who is running from the police because a serial killer killed them with your gun and 
 the FBI doesn't believe you didn't kill them. The storyline is fairly deep and emersive with a 
 nice supernatural twist at the end.
  
  Enjoy I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a First Person Shooter / Slasher, Depending on how you chose to play the game. If 
 you chose to try and find every Gun in the game, at the end you will get the "Fire-arm Freedom" 
 acheivement. But your main choice is to use the Melee Weapons, The advantage of this is that you 
 get more acheivements and it makes the game a litte bit tougher. Which brings me onto my next point, 
 the Game is easy. The AI is pretty smart but by the 3rd chapter you will have a pretty good idea 
 as what the enemiy will do next. The game is quite short too, The are 10 chapters which lead you 
 from a Office Building to an Abandoned Barn. It took me about 9 hours to complete and i found every 
 Bird and Metal piece in the game, There are 6 Birds in each chapter which you can find if you chose 
 to. All these do is either unlock some Concept art or a short Development movie. There are also 
 3 metal pieces to find in each chapter, these eventually unlock "Propanganda Reports", Which are 
 acheivemnts and short reports on strange going on's. These are no trouble to find and I recomend 
 looking at a walkthrough if you want to get the acheivements. The story is quite weird, you are 
 a Local police officer who tracks down serial killers. But towards the end you find out that there 
 is a Super Serial Killer who kills the Serial Killers using their same methods.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  -----------------
  As i said above the game is very simple, you can kill most of 
 your enemies just by hacking at the without stop. It is worth only using the Melee weapons just 
 to add that extra challenge. Unfortunaly there is no menu to change the Difficulty, I feel the 
 game has let itslef down by this because some of the Mini-bosses are way too easy to kill.
  
  GRAPHICS
  ---------------
  
  Great, alot of attention to detail throughout the game. 
 The charecter models and lighting effects throughout the buildings make the game look very realistic. 
 i have noticed some Graphical errors whilst playing the game such as unopening doors which stop 
 you from proceeding and make you restart at the last checkpoint, hoping that it dosnt happen again.
 
  
  SOUND
  -----------
  
  The sound has been carefully looked at throughout the game and it is very noticable, most sounds 
 make you belive that your enemy is behind you, most of the time these sounds misslead you and point 
 you in the wrong dirrection. If you invested in some surround sound the game would be dramaticly 
 improved.
  
  Overall the game is fairly good, the story is unique and has plenty twist's and turns throughout. 
 I would recomend this game only for the points. You are looking at getting around 910/970 points 
 your first time through if you used a walkthrough. dont let this game stop you buying games like 
 GRAW or Call of Duty 2 because they are just simply better.
  
  Final Score: 8.5/10
  FragSeeker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotid26
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The game that can make you jump in your seat thru-out the whole thing is got to be a keeper. This 
 game is just that. During a very dark and kind of scary single player game you can, and will be, 
 shocked at most times. this game has stuff jumping out at you, crawling to you, falling from the 
 ceiling at you, and running up to you with big pieces of burning wood at you. Need I say more. 
 Oh yea, the story is great and the twists during the game are also great. The graphics are really 
 amazing on the weapons and all the enemies look great as well. This is one of the best FP games 
 you will find on any platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins was released for the XBox 360 in 2005. The was released by Sega. This 
 game is a very psychological terrifying game. It takes two of the most liked genres in gaming and 
 combines them together. Those two would be survival horror and first person shooter. You play as 
 a FBI agent by the name of Ethan Thomas, who doesn't know it yet but he is part of a larger scheme 
 of things that unfolds as you traverse your way through the game. You will encounter such obstacles 
 as, enemies with advanced AI, horrifying areas, fully interactive surroundings, and you will also 
 have to discover evidence to link the crime to a suspect as you play along. The crime which is 
 mentioned is, you are after a serial killer X, who has been taking the pleasure of tracking down 
 other serial killers and killing them in the same way they killed their victims. Now you ask yourself, 
 what does this have to do with Thomas? Well, you will just have to play and find out...
  
  The graphics on Condemned are awesome. You could not ask for better graphics in a game such as 
 this. You have your interactive surroundings and everything that help to add to the eeriness of 
 the game.
  
  The sound and music of the game are extraordinary, they really give you the feeling that you are 
 actuall interacting in the environments yourself. These sounds also give you the creepy effect 
 that is needed for every game in this genre to survive.
  
  The story really keeps you coming back for more, you will always want to know what happens next 
 and who the killer really is. I have yet to find a game of this type with a great story, until 
 now.
  
  The replay value for some people on this game will be extraordinary, but if you aren't really into 
 these games you won't find it as interesting. I found the game's replay value one that constantly 
 has me coming back for more every time. There are endless amounts of items to find in every level.
 
  
  I would recommend anyone and everyone who owns a XBox 360 to at least give this game a go. I promise 
 you will be satisfied with the results. This game is a must have for any 360 collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveku27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I was really psyched to play this game and man it didnt dissapoint. Its been a long time since 
 I was a little scared to walk around the next corner to see what was waiting for me. This game 
 made me jump several times due to its dark setting and creepy noises that seem to be lurky in the 
 shadows. The gameplay was excellant, it was very satisfying to beat some crazy guy over the head 
 with a sledgehammer! The graphics were very well done and the story was crazy... even though by 
 the end of the game I wasnt really sure what just happened. My only real con to this game was the 
 navigation. At times it was very hard to find your way due to the maze like halls and no HUD... but 
 that was just a minor thing that actually added to the feeling of terror and suspense. Overall 
 this was a great game, good story, solid graphics, and enough thrills and chills to make me not 
 want to put down the controler! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalframe07
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins for the Xbox 360 is a first person thriller that redefines the word 
 scary. The game follows a middle-aged man named Ethan Thomas who starts the game off investigating 
 a crime scene. Right away, you can see what the game will be like and you will be able to gasp 
 at the breathtaking graphics. 
  
  The gameplay in Condemned was done extremely well and after experiencing it, you will note that 
 a lot of time was put into making this game. . You can use an assortment of weapons, such as firearms, 
 axes, sledgehammers, crowbars, steel pipes, metal signs and much more. To add excitement to the 
 game, there are four finishing moves that you can deploy on an enemy once you get them down on 
 their knees. These range from snapping their necks to head butting them and a few others. 
  
  What makes this game different from other first person games, such as first person shooter, 
 is that the game pace is very slow. Rather than a quick run through and shoot every thing you see, 
 its a slow investigative game that takes patience and skill to master. You will also get to use 
 different forensic tools that will allow you to send evidence back to the crime lab and seek out 
 bloodstains and evidence that is invisible to the naked eye. 
  
  When facing your enemies, you get the option of striking them fiercely with your weapon, or blocking 
 their on coming attacks and following up with a quick attack that will most likely finish them. 
 The enemy A. I. in the game is very good. The enemies will take fake swings at you, sidestep out 
 of the way and block your attacks, even if it means multiple blocks before they try and swing at 
 you. 
  
  The graphics in the game will surely impress. Upon seeing the opening movie you will see how detail 
 each thing is as well as how good small and unnecessary things look, such as metal cans that are 
 on the ground or unfinished walls. The buildings and other scenery that you will visit are done 
 in good detail. The game sets a shadowy mood from the beginning, which shows how good the shadow 
 and lighting effects are. The character models are definitely something to talk about. The character 
 models show what a next generation game should look like. 
  
  The storyline in the game is interesting as it is dark. The game will keep you wanting to play 
 the next chapter as you play for hours and hours until you beat it. The game pits you right in 
 the middle of a crime scene and from there you find yourself tracking down a serial killer, all 
 the same while trying to clear your name with the police. You will use your forensic tools to find 
 clues throughout the game as well as solve mysteries and link clues together that will in the end 
 come together to form one big theory. 
  
  The audio in the game is very sharp and clear. The most impressive thing about this game is the 
 realistic sound you get when you smash a steel pipe into your enemy's head. Every time you swing 
 and make contact with something, you get a realistic sound that will deliver a eerie feeling. Depending 
 on your weapon, you will get a different, unique sound that also adds to the terror of the game. 
 The sounds of your forensic tools doing their job and the sound of the little things, such as footsteps, 
 picking things up, and making grunts when you get hit by the enemy, all add a sort of realism to 
 the game. 
  
  The game does have some replay value. Throughput the game you can seek out hidden rooms that upon 
 finding different objects you can unlock achievement points. You can also track dead birds and 
 metal pieces that will unlock certain things such as videos to concept art to game files that reveal 
 more about the story. The game takes about 6-8 hours to complete it on your first play through. 
 There is no multiplayer mode, but you can post your scores and check out the leader board for the 
 game. 
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone, whether that be a rental or a buy. Some people that 
 are not a fan of the horror genre might find this game to be boring after one play through, but 
 fans of the genre will find that this game may last them for quite some time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougar10
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first put in this game i didnt really know what to excpect. After about 11 hours of playing 
 I had felt like I had just woke up from the scariest nightmare ever. 
  
  Story: In Condemned you play as Agent Thomas. After investigating a crime scene with two other 
 cops you go trough the area looking to see if the killer is still there. The killer kills the other 
 two cops with your gun and the police say that you did it. For the rest of the game you have to 
 find the real killer and unravel the mystery of all the strange events that have been happening 
 in the city.
  
  Gameplay: In condemned you find yourself with very limited ammo and usually never having a gun. 
 There are no ammo boxes lying around, all the ammo you get is what is in the gun. When you run 
 out of ammo you have to pick up certain mellee objects around the area. There are always melee 
 objects lying around so you can always survive. Condemneds melee combat is very tight and responsive. 
 Not to mention that it is very brutal and fun. Other parts of the game have you using forensic 
 tools to investigate clues found in the levels. I liked these in condemned because it broke up 
 the gameplay from just being kill things untill the next level. The only problem that I had with 
 Condemneds gameplay was that it was repetitive most of the time but at least it was fun when it 
 was repetitive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Condemned are some of the best that the Xbox 360 has to offer. The enviroments 
 are so dark and gritty, and look beautiful this way. The character models looked good as well but 
 are not as beautiful as the enviroments. Most of the objects in the game have great physics to 
 make it fun just to kick stuff around and knock stuff over.
  
  Sound: This game has some really great sound. The music will keep you on the edge of your seat. 
 When ever enemies run around and knock stuff over it sounds very good and usually scares the hell 
 out of me. All of the sounds really help make it fell like your in the game. The sounds really 
 increase the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Value: The only weak part to this game is that it only lasts around 10 to 11 hours. There are some 
 unlockables that you get if you find the birds and metal pieces in the game. Most of these unlockables 
 though are just concept art, but if you love concept art then this game has a lot. Since the game 
 is so short I would recommend that you rent it unless you can find it for 20 to 30 dollars. Also 
 this game is worth replaying to find all of the birds and metal pieces. You get achievments for 
 finding them all, so if you love to get gamerpoints (and seriously who doesnt) then you can replay 
 this game to get them all which makes the game last longer then normal.
  
  In conclusion I enjoyed Condemned and cant wait to see a sequel. The gameplay is brutal and fun, 
 the graphics are incredible, and the sound is great. If your looking for a good horror/action game 
 that will scare the **** out of you then go pick it up or borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a survival horror game unlike any I've ever played before. Not only 
 is it in first person perspective, but the game grants the player the option to choose from handfulls 
 of different weapons that are scattered across the levels. I procrastinated playing Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins because I have a hard time playing scary/intense games. Movies don't affect me 
 as much as games do... And, honestly, I don't enjoy being scared that much. Condemned is one scary 
 ass game, that somehow kept my interest and kept me coming back for more. Condemned puts you in 
 the shoes of Ethan Thomas of the FBI in the SCU department. Condemned has what most games attempt 
 but don't normally accomplish; it has atmosphere and a great story with some unexpected twists 
 and scares. Condemned is a freaky game to me probably, because I'm not into horror films, if you 
 are than this game might not scare you. Its first person action really adds to the realism as well. 
 Walking around in the creepy levels not always knowing when somebody is just going to pop out and 
 hit you in the face. 
  
  The audio in Condemned is really well done and adds to the creepy atmosphere with all the creepy 
 noises it just gave me the chills. The sound effects are well done and precise with your movements. 
 The voice acting is great, everyone sounds like you'd probably expect. The dialogue is well planned 
 out as well. 
  
  The graphics are decent, but add a lot to the freakyness (if thats a word) to the game because 
 of the environments you come across (just creepy) . Weapons look great, so do the animations, but 
 there aren't enough of a variety of animations. Cut-scenes look great, like most games. The lighting 
 is the best part about the graphics, and the creepiest. Character models are solid though some 
 of them are really strange. The graphics overall could of used a bit more polish but are good enough.
 
  
  I recomend it if you like horror movies and games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins for the 360 is definitly a game everyone should pick up if there into 
 horror games. You start the game as an agent named Ethan Tomas who is hunting down a serial killer. 
 Little does Ethan know that the serial killer is really hunting him down, and he gets into a huge 
 mess of trouble. The graphics in this game are very good, with all the blood and guts you could 
 ever ask for. The story is unbeleivable you really have to play it because words really cant describe 
 it. Throughout the whole game I was on the edge of my seat dying in suspense of what was goin to 
 happen next. Just do me a favor and buy this game if you havent already, it really is an amazing 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the most creepiest games made in years. The game could be 
 best described as a modern version Doom 3, except with a melee focus. Condemned is a very very 
 dark game, and at that it's very unsettling. The environments look all too real, most likely because 
 they were taken from actual condemned buildings. The way light interacts with the environment is 
 amazing as well. Also, the sound is probably the greatest addition of the game, and is unparalleled 
 by any current game on the market. 
  
  The main focus of this game is melee combat. It pulls that off extremely well. Never has a hit 
 from a crowbar felt so real. The sound of the crowbar hitting the opponent also sounds disturbingly 
 accurate. Speaking of the sound, while wondering through the environments you will often hear your 
 opponents running away from you and hiding. This adds to the creepiness factor because it sounds 
 dead on. The way your opponents move is also extremely realistic, the way they react when they 
 are hit to when they run away from a losing battle only to hide and pop out and hit you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader501st
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Condemned has nice graphics, cool atmosphere, the combat is amazing, with beat down weapons that 
 you gather in the scenario. The storyline is a bit confusing but if you're looking for some next-gen 
 scares this is the game although if you are just look for beat em up... this too is the game you're 
 looking.
  
  those who end game may like me realize thjat this game is probaby going to turn in a series, so 
 I hope that the sequel or prequels will be as good as this one. Quite violent game, plauers who 
 are blood thirsty will surely have some fun with this creepy but still in my opinion an action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those movie based games or games based on movies. This game needs a movie for it 
 and a sequel. Its a fun immersive game. Nicely made, great story. It is short and no mulitplayer 
 and those are the downfalls of one the best games ever made. This game has the potential to be 
 a 10 out of 10 game but it falls short in some places. Every single person above the age of 15 
 needs to play this game. I have never gotten scared or jumped in any movie or game or anything. 
 This is the first thing that ever made me jump. This is a scary game and is worth playing. Play 
 it and love it. Great story and just a plain great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins for the 360 is definitly a game everyone should pick up if there into 
 horror games. You start the game as an agent named Ethan Tomas who is hunting down a serial killer. 
 Little does Ethan know that the serial killer is really hunting him down, and he gets into a huge 
 mess of trouble. The graphics in this game are very good, with all the blood and guts you could 
 ever ask for. The story is unbeleivable you really have to play it because words really cant describe 
 it. Throughout the whole game I was on the edge of my seat dying in suspense of what was goin to 
 happen next. Just do me a favor and buy this game if you havent already, it really is an amazing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineTears
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game I got many scares when those freaks came out of every corner, When their anger 
 got the best of them and they ran to get more weaponry, It gave it high suspense. The game play 
 was tight, You can pick up the many weapons available, You can do killer moves after their knocked 
 out, But one main problem with the game play was the fact that you have an axe and you need a sledge 
 hammer to break a door open, That was a small factor that should be fixed, and the people dont 
 die realistically I mean when you hit them they get small scars but I think an axe would cut somebodies 
 head off you know. Grapics were only up to par with an original xbox game, They werent bad but 
 the characters well at least the main characters looked cheap and kinda boring. Sound wasnt something 
 to go crazy about but does give it a creepy ambience, The value is great because you'll find you're 
 self going back to do better, to get more birds, more metals and to gain achievements which is 
 easy to obtain here though they dont have the full 1,000 they have 970. This game is great and 
 you should give it a big chance it wont let you down. I for one hope this series continues and 
 gets the small factors fixed right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleg2002
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game the scariest I have ever played. Gets you into the game and the story very fast. Easy 
 to get the hang of the controls. Don't recommend for kids pretty gruesome and lots of foul language. 
 I have never jumped soo many times while playing a game. Move is kinda slow paced and the weapon 
 system gets kinda irritating at some points. They could have made some of the investigation tools 
 a little bit more complex too give some difficulty in the investigations on some of the crime scenes. 
 I definitely recommend playing this game to all xbox 360 owners, mostly a rental do to the low 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Condemned is one of the scariest games I have played in years. Now, I will admit a lot of games 
 make me jump, but Condemned had me on the edge of my seat the entire way through. Unfortunately, 
 that was only around 8 hours.
  
  Condemned is one of the games that is good, but you can see tons of room for improvement. The combat 
 is very basic, but feels rewarding when you smash a guy into the ground. The simplicity of the 
 combat is not a downfall, as it works just fine. The weapons feel very realistic, and actually 
 seems like you are carrying a sledge hammer around. The areas and fighting tend to get repetitive, 
 so don't expect Resident Evil 4 variety or length.
  
  However, it has way more scares than Resident Evil or Silent Hill in my opinion. The only game 
 that is near the creepy factor is FEAR. Although for the majority of the game you only battle other 
 humans, they still manage to pull some fastballs.
  
  Condemned graphics are good for the most part, but some of the people look a little off, and not 
 on purpose. The music is basically non-existant, but the sound effects are amazing. Glass-shattering, 
 bones-breaking, it all sounds very clear and jaw-dropping.
  
  The storyline is rather thin, and never really connects very well. The game does have a good amount 
 of voice-acted dialogue, and most of it sounds pretty good. However, most of this dialogue has 
 nothing to do with the story, simply hints to continuing your search. I get the feeling there will 
 be a sequal, but who knows if that will tie things up.
  
  If you want some hard-hitting action and some good scares, check out Condemned. It's length and 
 value are not very high, but it sure is fun while it lasts. Unless you are a hardcore horror buff, 
 a rental is probably the best idea here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXDagameXx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is just an amazing horror game. Too bad its too short wich should probally take you in 
 10 to 15 hours. If your going out to rent a good game you should deffinetlly get this one. Its 
 scary from time to time.
  
  You have tons of weapons to choose from including an axe, pipe, guns, ect.
  But the guns in this 
 game have low limited ammo so u should use them wisely. 
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty nice to look at and this sound can get you get a bit jumpy.
 
  
  It has a decent story line but at some parts your gonna find strange.
  
  This game shouldn't be too hard for you. All you need to know is the good tazer, how to block and 
 when to attack. Once you get the hang out of this you should have not too much problems.
  
  I hope this reveiw helped you. Too be honest i don't make reveiws that often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! Can't believe how nice it is! Combat is great! Best melee combat ever. Very cool, awesome 
 when you hit the bad guys and they get all angry. Scariest level I think is the Department Store. 
 Why? Because of the Mannequins, music (very creepy) , and surroundings.
  
  You start off in a crime scene and end up a fugitive. Awesome storyline. Love the whole "Multiple 
 Personalities" thing. Confusing but when you understand, it is amazing at how good they made the 
 storyline. Good Graphics, too. Very easy, but scary which makes it hard to play. Easy to learn 
 the controls. Short to medium game length. So you might end up returning it like a week or so later.
 
  
  Overall=Good Graphics, Good Storyline, Short Game, Easy, and very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  It's nice to see Sega delve into (what is essentially for Sega) unexplored territory in it's still 
 fresh role as software developer. Condemned: Criminal Origins is pretty far from Sega's traditional 
 coin-op style of game, and some of the stuff they've served up does look the goods. Unfortunately, 
 "some" is the operative word though, as Condemned offers hits and misses in equal measure.
  
  Firstly and most obviously, Condemned oozes atmosphere. Right from the beginning we're thrust 
 into a bleak, dilapidated world not unlike something from Se7en or Saw. The filth and squalor is 
 so palpable you can almost smell it. And it's dark. Even with morning light streaming through the 
 cracks in the boarded up windows, you'll need your trusty torch permanently switched to "on". It 
 serves the subject matter well, and sets a scene of unease that generally carries the whole game. 
 Character animation is another highlight, with no jerks in your enemies sudden movements. There's 
 very little (hmmm, maybe even zero) music. This helps convey the suspense that really serves as 
 the game's strongest point. You don't know what's around the next corner and the developer's sure 
 don't want to wreck the surprise, or lack of, by beefing up the orchestra as you tip toe along 
 the hallway. There's a few nice shocks to be had, but not so many that you'll come to predict them, 
 as one might for example in Doom 3.
  
  It's not all polish though. There's the issue of the way you're forced to plod around. It's as 
 if your character has just come back from long service leave, full of donuts and beer. And when 
 he sprints, he's still slower than Sam Fisher crawling on his guts. It may be a realistic walking 
 speed, and does serve the tension to a small extent, but it's a game, and we want to fluid movement 
 in our games! There's no moment when you'll really need to turn and run for your life though, and 
 lucky too, because you'd have no hope if you did. There's an (initially) excellent investigation 
 feature, where in certain parts of the game you use several forensic tools to gather evidence. 
 However, the right tool for the job is automatically slapped in your hand, so there's no challenging 
 thought to the process. Aim tool at evidence, press button, listen to voice telling you what you're 
 looking at. It's a shame, as I found this to be a bit wasteful of a good idea. I'd like to see 
 forensic evidence gathering become more prevalent and more puzzling if there were to be a Condemned 
 2.
  
  The other flaws to this game generally a lack of fine detail, possibly to do with getting Condemned 
 on the shelves in time for the 360's launch. There's not enough different characters, the level 
 design amounts to little beyond corridor after corridor, and the action gets repetitive. Simply 
 walking down dark halls and cracking skulls seems a bit of a chore after a while, with only the 
 plot followers really having anything to fight on for. Oh, and the achievement hunters too, there's 
 a fair bit to chase up.
  
  Don't be fooled into thinking Condemned is a first person shooter. While guns do play a part, most 
 of the time you'll be ripping pipes off walls and smacking up drug addicts with them. It's not 
 a balls out action game, not by a long stretch, and you'll probably get more intensity from a sword 
 fight in Oblivion. There's no doubt that Condemned has a healthy following though, so my best suggestion 
 would be to rent this before purchase, and check it out for yourself.
  
  It has it's ups and downs, but if nothing else Condemned: Criminal Origins does carve it's own 
 niche into the survival horror genre. It's a shame the numerous niggles hold back what possibly 
 could have been the must-have launch title for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bambamcoolio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Condemend is most definitly an Xbox 360 with by far the best storyline. This game has you as a 
 serial killer investigator sucked into world of psychotics and bums. After the serial killer ends 
 up killing your two partners in the investigation with your gun you end up getting framed with 
 their deaths. So now you are after the killer through abandoned schools to subway stations. The 
 most notable part of the game is the combat system. You mostly kill with melee weapons like a fire 
 axe used to chop down doors and a peice of rebar taken out of a concrete pillar. But later in the 
 game you get your hands on guns and tazers. But this game is very short, about 8 hours long. But 
 this game is definitly a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game is just incredible.
  
  The game starts off with the main character, CIA agent Ethan Thomas investigating a murder scene. 
 It starts off with you meeting an officer outside of the building, he then proceeds to lead you 
 to the crime scene. This is great because the game doesn't just start you off at the scene, it 
 builds up to the reveal of it. Once you get to the scene, you determine the victims cause of death. 
 Chains are wrapped around her body and she was strangled brutally. The game gives you a lot of 
 cool detective tools. Like blacklights, DNA collection, etc... Once you find out how the victim 
 was killed, you have a "flashback" to when the murderer is carving up a dummys head. The officer 
 with you informs the other officer at the crime scene that smoking is not allowed. He then states 
 that he wasn't smoking. This is where the game kicks off.
  
  The game has amazing combat. You can use pretty much anything you want as a weapon. Conduits, rebars, 
 small and large pipes, axes, shotguns, handguns, shovels... There is so much more. The guns normally 
 are about half full, encouraging the use of melee combat. The combat does get a little repetetive 
 near the end, but it's still very fun.
  
  The AI in this game is amazing, they will use their surroundings to hide, find weapons, and surprise 
 you. The enemies will always have a weapon on them. If they don't have a weapon, and just their 
 bare hands, they will jump at you, strangle you, and throw you, all in first person! They react 
 very well in combat and block when given the chance. The game is overwhelming in only a few areas, 
 especially on Hard, but everything is beatable on Hard.
  
  The animation in this game is the best I have seen in a game. Ever. The enemies feel so raged and 
 angry. It really seems like they drugged someone, put a mo-cap suit on them, and hit them with 
 pipes to get the animations.
  
  The sound is also phenomenal. There is little music in the game, which is great. It makes every 
 little sound tense you up. From someone breathing, to something falling off a shelf, to crazy people 
 yelling in the other room, it makes everything extremely intense. The weapon sounds are also some 
 of the best and most brutal I have ever heard.
  
  The story is great. I love the whole serial killer stuff. I don't get why people say the story 
 is a let down, when it's really amazing.
  
  All in all, this is the best game I have played on the 360 so far. That is, until Dead Rising comes 
 out . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_mac555
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  In my opinion the scariest game made to date. What this game does well is immersing you into its 
 dark grungy environments. The sound on this game is outstanding and should be commended. When you 
 can be scared merely by accidentally kicking a trash can, thinking an enemy is near, and then finding 
 out you did it yourself, shows how great the atmosphere is. The story line is decent and aspiring 
 to be movie quality. There are fairly long cut scenes at the end of each chapter which can slow 
 the pace to a screeching halt. The game play is simple and has a great amount of melee with the 
 enemies having the ability to fake strikes to throw your blocking off. It is also a little on the 
 short side, it took me just about 10 hours to complete and has virtually no replay value besides 
 completing the rest of the achievements like finding items you missed the first time around. If 
 youre looking for a few hours of great spooky entertainment look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentjm22
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This game started off pretty good for a little while then it started not to make sense. The gameplay 
 was alright but needed a few patches. Some glitches here and there. The kick is sometimes a joke. 
 When you kick a person on the ground it just looks like he just puts his leg out barely kicking 
 but yet it kills people. They should of made it a stomp or make the ground kick look stronger or 
 something. The weapons are good but come on. You mean to tell me i can hit people with poles, axes. 
 crowbars ect, but I can't get a knife on the game. You get a gun for a little while but no knife. 
 You can't even pick up a glass shard or anything. The closest thing you get to a knife is a paper 
 cutter which was my favorite weapon. It still would have been nice to have a knife though. The 
 story didn't make any sense to me. A part of the game I'm fighting criminals and bums, and then 
 I'm fighting zombies. Where the hell did zombies get in from. At least I think they were zombies 
 might have been there version of crackheads that was very agile. There was no heads up or anything. 
 They just all of a sudden pop up in the game and stay there. There was some funny spots in the 
 game when you go to the store with all the manneiquins. Some of the people you fight start posing 
 as mannequins to get you to walk pass them so they can get you from behind. It's funny when you 
 tase them while they're posing. The ending of the story made no sense. At the end I'm fighting 
 this thing with these metal pieces. Then I turn in to one of them. huh?? 
  Was it like a cult leader or something. Anyways the story line would of been great if they would 
 of executed better. All in all this game started off pretty fun and then got boring. Don't buy 
 just rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was a little too scary/creepy for me. The constant paranoia of walking around a corner 
 and being scared **** really stoped me from enjoying the game. It really keeps your heart racing 
 the whole game. The beating the hell out of creepy ass hobos and druggies is fun and disturbing. 
 But the game has a lot of things that are unbelievably scary. I dont wanna spoil any of em. I knew 
 the big scare was coming and i still **** myself. The graphics are fairly decent. The sound is 
 really one of the creepiest elements of the game. The game is way too short. I like the game but 
 it is a little too creepy for my tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a survival horror game unlike any I've ever played before. Not only 
 is it in first person perspective, but the game grants the player the option to choose from handfulls 
 of different weapons that are scattered across the levels. If you see a pipe on the wall, you can 
 grab it, and if you see a crowbar on a shelf, you can grab it, and if you see a hobo wielding a 
 shotgun, you can grab it. The taser as well is an enjoyable feature and temporarily stuns the enemy, 
 granting you the time to kick him over, steal his weapon, or just flat out brutally beat him to 
 a pulp. Even your weapons become stained in blood which really makes the game feel real. 
  The atmosphere alone is scary and includes an excellent environment which really brings out the 
 darkness that is the game's story line. The graphics are wonderful and the lighting is excellent 
 so long as there is any light in these forsaken places! The story itself is very insightful and 
 is much different than that of other games in a good way. The levels are somewhat repetitive however 
 and it is easy to get lost if you are not paying attention. The sound is good as well and grants 
 that extra feeling of realism. The clatter of a pipe hitting the ground to shooting of the pistol 
 seems very real and the voice acting is very well done. Condemned: Criminal Origins was a short 
 game though a very good one at that. It is very underrated and is a must play for anyone lucky 
 enough to own a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I procrastinated playing Condemned: Criminal Origins because I have a hard time playing scary/intense 
 games. Movies don't affect me as much as games do... And, honestly, I don't enjoy being scared that 
 much. Condemned is one scary ass game, that somehow kept my interest and kept me coming back for 
 more. I don't know what it was about it... I'm kinda sick of first-person games and I don't like 
 being scared... and that's the bulk of the game... I think there were just enough fresh ideas that 
 this doesn't feel quite like any other game out there.
  
  While it plays from a first-person perspective, it's hardly a first-person shooter (besides the 
 fact that most of the combat is with melee weapons) . It is incredibly slow paced, your character 
 practically crawls, even at running speeds and the atmosphere alone is something Doom didn't even 
 pull off as well, in my opinion. Each of the different levels, or chapters, is unique and terrifying 
 in it's own way. While the enemies are all basically the same, crazed lunatics, some of them seem 
 to have different personalities... And the AI is surprisingly good. They will come at you, hide, 
 run away, grab a better weapon or even lift their weapon and wait to hit you... It all adds for 
 a very good single player experience. 
  
  Aside from being totally atmospheric in level design, the sound is some of the best from any game 
 out there. I played both with and without surround sound and playing without is like playing with 
 all the lights on and your blankie beside you in case you get scared. No. You NEED surround sound, 
 or at least a decent pair of bookshelf speakers and CRANK IT. There are so many sounds coming from 
 all over the place, you are really not experiencing the game's full potential without it. From 
 the creaks, the rattles, the hisses, the steps, the birds, the melee destruction... Oh, it's all 
 so so SO good.
  
  Gameplay is pretty straightforward. The control scheme is simple, but some of the buttons are weird. 
 Running is done by holding done the L-stick... And doesn't work that well. Considering the buttons 
 are open, I don't understand why they couldn't have just put it as X or something... Everything 
 else is pretty good. An indicator comes up when there is an action to be done... Whether it be moving 
 something or opening something, to picking up an item/weapon or doing investigating.
  
  While on the topic of investigating... This is one aspect of Condemned that it doesn't share with 
 any other game out there.... But it isn't pulled off that well. The forensics tools are great and 
 all, but you are prompted when to use tham and it automatically pulls out which one you're supposed 
 to use. It isn't terrible, as it's not the main focus... But it would be nice for a little more 
 freedom where you could piece together more of the story through LOOKING for clues instead of being 
 prompted for them. A minor detail, since it still comes together brilliantly.
  
  Everything else in the game is great, but I'm afraid, not worth full admission. There are only 
 so many times you can go back and play through it all to finish the achievements. I got most of 
 them on my single play through, and have no desire to go back and get more. It's a fantastic game 
 and a defnite must-rent for any 360 owner looking for a good scare. It has a lot of unique ideas, 
 breathing some new life into the somewhat stagnating FPS genre... So hopefully we'll see more of 
 this franchise in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSjohn
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  i knew this game was going to be great the minute i played it. it has fun gameplay, a terrific 
 story, and great graphics. this game has only one flaw. that is that it is too short. if this game 
 had about ten more levels this would be the greatest horror game ever.
  
  this games story is great. it always keeps you wondering what really happend. i replayed the last 
 level at least 3 times and i am still alittle confused.
  this is a no brainer, if you have a 360, buy this game!!! even though its short its great story 
 and fun, brutal gameplay makes up for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Now I rented condemmend viva game fly and I was expecting alot. Hearing all that GregK had to say 
 i have to say i had high expectations for it, and overall they were met. Lets start off and say 
 that condemned is a beautiful game, boasting probally the best graphics on the 360. The game is 
 wonderfully dark and doesnt let back on teasing you with scares. This game isn't for the feint 
 of heart as i found myself going down all the corridors in a paranoid manner just waiting for the 
 next goon to pop out at me. Did i mention this game is scary? because it most definitly is. The 
 sound in the game is also right on par with the visuals working together for an overall immersive 
 experience. The combat in the game though is not up to the quality of the rest of the game. While 
 it is probally the most viceral combat in a game i've ever seen, after your first heart pumping 
 encounter and possibly even a second your going to have seen all these tricks and overall the combat 
 grows very repetative as it boils down to a simple science of blocking with said bludgeon and bashing 
 the fool over the head. So overall I think if your interested you should give this a rent since 
 this game is definitly worth playing for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  well i just finished this game ten minutes ago so with that fresh in my mind ill exlplain this 
 one gamer to another.
  it prmoised awesome ai.
  what it meant is the ai choose A: they make a b line to you and relentlessly attack or B: hide, 
 partially, around a corner making sure a shoulder or shadow gives them away.
  it promised great next gen graphics.
  and although its qiuet impressive lighting wise even halo 
 2 or far cry looks more next gen than this and the main characters lab assistant rosa looks like 
 a man, theres even a textured 5 o clock shadow on her face, dont get me wrong its a cool launch 
 title , and scary but its not next gen in the truest sense its got mediocre level design theres 
 a direct route that will become blocked ,leading to a side route which is allways, and i mean ALLWAYS 
 searching for a axe ,crowbar or a sladgehammer to open something to continue.
  as for the sparesly grouped ammo , its pretty generous even in harder settings and i was pretty 
 dissapointed.
  overall this is a mediocre game that uses x files resist or serve style jumps to make you scared 
 rather than complex designs like silent hill or fatal frame.
  the story isnt really explained... at all really one moment you are investigating a murder, which 
 leads to 3 hours of trawleing through train stations killing crawling junkies, then in a mall killing 
 manequins whic are really desguised cult members.
  all sounds good but its only 7 hours game play and very lame ,in a sense old school "collect the 
 blue key for the blue door" gameplay.
  
  now that its been 6 months since the launch of the 360 i think we really need to wait till dead 
 rising or halo 3 to see "next gen" games, becuase now it appears people only focus on graphics 
 not gameplay, this is most definatly a rental, which you cna breeze through in 2 days easily.
 
  
  so heres my personal opinion, rent it if you like cheap scares, but if you want something a little 
 more substantial i suggest buying 'farenheit' instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Condemned puts you in the shoes of Ethan Thomas of the FBI in the SCU department. Condemned has 
 what most games attempt but don't normally accomplish; it has atmosphere and a great story with 
 some unexpected twists and scares. Condemned is a freaky game to me probably, because I'm not into 
 horror films, if you are than this game might not scare you. Its first person action really adds 
 to the realism as well. Walking around in the creepy levels not always knowing when somebody is 
 just going to pop out and hit you in the face. The audio in Condemned is really well done and adds 
 to the creepy atmosphere with all the creepy noises it just gave me the chills. The sound effects 
 are well done and precise with your movements. The voice acting is great, everyone sounds like 
 you'd probably expect. The dialogue is well planned out as well. The graphics are decent, but add 
 a lot to the freakyness (if thats a word) to the game because of the environments you come across 
 (just creepy) . Weapons look great, so do the animations, but there aren't enough of a variety of 
 animations. Cut-scenes look great, like most games. The lighting is the best part about the graphics, 
 and the creepiest. Character models are solid though some of them are really strange. The graphics 
 overall could of used a bit more polish but are good enough.
  
  There isn't too much value to Condemned, It took me just shy of 7 hours to beat and just shy of 
 20 to get all the achievements, but you should be able to 2+ playthroughs out of it, because the 
 combat though repetitive it is very satisfying. The combat is relatively simple you just have to 
 swing your weapon and maybe block a few times. There are a lot of weapons to choose from and my 
 personal favorite would have to be the Paper Cutter its just awesome and a well balanced weapon. 
 The weapons have 4 attributes.
  Melee have 1. Damage 2. Speed 3. Block 4. Range Guns have
  1. Damage
  2. (I can't remember right now)
  3. Rate
  4. Range
  Guns also have the melee 
 attributes if you decide you want to pistol whip someone or hit them with the butt of your rifle. 
 This game is usually funnest on the first playthrough if your playing in the dark at night with 
 the window open and if you have surround sound you should probably use it.
  
  Condemned Criminal Origins in a nutshell is a really fun creepy addicting experience that is definetley 
 worth checking out, but before you buy it I'd reccomend renting it or borrowing it from a friend 
 because it doesn't last all that long. So get off your ass and go get your hands on this game unless 
 your too scared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kneebreaker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  first of all, sorry for my bad english.
  One of the things that i like to counter is the following quote:  Boring level design makes you 
 get lost in hallway after hallway"
  I really liked the level design (amazing graphics, atmosphere, locations,...) and sometimes it 
 took me a while to find the right weapon to enter a room, to find the right direction, ... But 
 i never got really lost. People complain when a game is to linear but when you have to search for 
 like 5 minutes you immediately 'get lost in hallway after hallway'. I think that this says more 
 about the reviewer his game capabilities.
  
  Intense game in a very creepy world, but sadly to short and not quite the ending i was hoping for. 
 The game misses some cool boss fights but overall it was one of the creepiest games i ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Condemned lets you take control of FBI agent Ethan Thomas, who while investigating a crime scene 
 with two cops in a seemingly run down and abandoned building, stumbles upon the serial killer who 
 proceeds to kill the cops with your .45 handgun. Now the FBI thinks you shot the cops, and its 
 up to you to catch the killer and proove yourself through brute force and forensic equipment while 
 dodging cops and fighting crazed hobos.
  
  Thats right, I said forensic equipment. In Criminial Origins, you'll have to use black lights, 
 cameras and other scientific tools to find clues such as finger prints and what not. It was a pretty 
 cool idea and really helped push the story along. Also like I mentioned, you have to fight a lot 
 in this game (both melee and with guns) , and basically anything can be used as a weapon. This means 
 2x4 boards, lead pipes, rifles, handguns, small locker doors, SMGs, fire pokers, axes, shotguns, 
 and many more (all these weapons can be used to block enemy attacks as well) . You battle it out 
 with a lot of freaky and odd enemies... some look like simple whacked out hobos, others look like 
 anorexic zombies, some are big & intimadating, others look like the Toxic Avenger. What was cool 
 is if you beat them enough, you can grab them and smash their heads into the floor, headbutt them, 
 or break their necks - scoring an instant kill. Oh and one more thing - you get a taser that you 
 can shoot and disarm enemies... very useful.
  
  The enemy AI was really good & impressive. They grab weapons off the floor or out of walls (conduits 
 and pipes) , block some of your melee attacks, take cover, and even go as far as to hide from you 
 and pretend they are Mannequins in one stage. Additionally, if one enemy accidently hits another, 
 they actually start to fight each other.
  
  Theres some things to collect such as dead birds and metal pieces.. each time you collect one you 
 gain an "achievement" in Xbox live.. so yeah. As for the ending and unlocking anything, it doesn't.
 
  
  The only two reasons this game has a learning curve is because you need to learn when to time your 
 blocks, and to get used to the fact that whatever ammo you have in a gun is the only ammo you get 
 for it. Thats right, you get no ammo. So lets say you have a shotgun with 2 rounds, thats all you 
 will get for that gun until you get a different weapon or pick up a different shotgun.. it was 
 sorta lame, but definitley helped in the challenge.
  
  This game's difficulty varied. At some points it is overwhelming easy, and other times its just 
 tidal wave after tidal wave of enemies running at you. But like I said, once you learn & get comfortable 
 with the weapons & blocking system you'll breeze through it... well not really breeze, but it'll 
 become easier.
  
  The graphics were pretty spectacular. The hobos looked really unique, twisted, and crazy. The enviroments, 
 though dark, where really well designed and looked really run down (which is a good thing for a 
 survival horror game of this sort) . One enemy, the last boss, looked especially weird and scary. 
 Even the fire looked almost lifelike. To put it simply - Condemned really took advantage of the 
 X-Box 360's hardware amd everything is amazing. 
  
  The sound effects were basically perfect. The music really helped add tension, and build anxiety 
 while the sound effects sounded brutal and painful. Each weapon provided an either satisfying thud 
 or bang. The enemies growls, heavy breathing and screams were really scary and added more to the 
 atmosphere. There is cursing, which helps to add personality to every character as well. A perfect 
 10.
  
  What kinda bummered me out about this title was how short it was, and how convuluted & confusing 
 the story became in the later stages, and finally the ending. In the middle of the game, you find 
 out that the man you are chasing is actually a serial killer who kills serial killers with the 
 codename Serial Killer X. At the end of the game, you capture him with the help of some old guy 
 named Malcom VanHorn,, who, it turns out, is Serial Killer X's uncle. Anyway, you have a choice 
 whether to cap SKX or keep him alive, and no matter what you end up in a coffee shop talkin to 
 Rosa (shes a woman who helps you out throughout the entire game) about what happened. She leaves, 
 you go to the bathroom, vomit, and then turn to the camera looking like the last boss fight who 
 was a monster... I was lost, and I'm sure you are too.
  
  Either way, If you want to play a game that will freak you out while providing awesome combat, 
 great enemy AI, and excellent graphics & sound - then Condemned is for you. Not to mention it's 
 one of the cheaper 360 games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Condemned is unlike any game I've ever played. It's very stylized & at times reminiscent of the 
 movie Seven. Providing gritty, grimy & very dark surroundings & themes. It's biggest problem though 
 is the extremely repetitive gameplay mechanics which is only saved by the game's short length (just 
 as you reach the point where you're sick of the swing/block gameplay the game is over) ...
  
  The GOOD: Blood! Blood! Nice graphics. The game takes place in environments most of us would 
 never want to be in (dangerous alleyways, abandoned department stores, crackhead hangouts, etc) 
 & they look very legit. Crime scenes are very nicely detailed. Sound is GREAT. Enemies scream taunts 
 that kind of stick with you even after you're done playing. Nice echo effects in large buildings. 
 Control is easy enough. You very rarely use firearms & have to make do with what you can find. 
 This usually means 2x4s, pipes, etc. The melee combat consists of blocking attacks & striking. 
 It's simple & easy to use & the animations of beating a addict in the face with a fire axe is simply 
 a wonder you must experience for yourself.
  
  The BAD: The addition of forensic tools in the game sounded really appealing, but in fact you don't 
 do much besides hit the "x" button a few times. No real thought goes into finding clues. The block/attack 
 gameplay I mentioned before starts to get really tiresome after awhile, making the game feel like 
 a one trick pony.
  
  If you're a horror movie fan I can promise you enjoyment in this title. FPS fans may not enjoy 
 the fact that you're not doing a lot of shooting. It's a short but fun game I would suggest as 
 a rental. Just be sure you play it with the lights out.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpEn_FaCe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins has one element that so many games lack, and that is atmosphere. From 
 the minute you pop the disc in, to the memorable final cut scene, the game keeps you hooked, teasing 
 you with little plot clues along the way. Sadly, this atmosphere only lasted me one day, as I blew 
 through it in less than eight hours. Along the way though, I was introduced to many unique characters, 
 all tieing into the plot in there own way. In addition, the enemies and environments are not only 
 gorgeous, but sickingly gruesome in every sense of the word. Some foes lash out, while others are 
 more timid. The game gives you an assortment of weapons, most of which you get from the environment, 
 like, pulling a pluming pole off a wall, which I found to be very unique. You also recieve a tazer, 
 to first stun your enemies, and you will find some firearms along the way as well. It sounds like 
 the gameplay wouldn't get old, but it does, with almost every fight boiled down to taze, hit/shoot, 
 block, hit/shoot again, and repeat. By the end, it starts to feel real dull. Still, despite its 
 short length and repetitiveness, Condemned is worth it in the end for at least a rental, with its 
 great story, and unique atmosphere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  At its core, Condemned: Criminal Origins is can be called the single most atmospheric and down 
 right heart pounding game to grace the Xbox 360 so far. But the million dollar question is that 
 is this game truly worth your hard earned money? And the answer is a simple, though blunt, yes. 
 Condemned is an amazing game, and a great boost to the struggling survival horror genre (yes, it 
 is in fact a survival horror game) . At some points, it can be deemed one of the greats, and at 
 other points, it falls either completely flat or just barely misses the mark that this game was 
 hoping to achieve. The incredibly tense, white knuckle action is only made better by a great storyline, 
 and some awe inspiring audio and feedback. 
  
  To start things off, Condemned is the story of Ethan Thomas, a FBI crime scene investigator, who 
 is called to investigate (naturally) a recent homicide by someone who has been calling themselves 
 The Matchmaker. While checking the area, Ethan comes in contact with a man believed to be this 
 Matchmaker hes been after. But caught off guard, Ethan is captured by the man, and before being 
 tossed out a 3+ story window, he witnesses the murder of his partner and a fellow police officer 
 by the assailant. Ethan himself is soon marker as the conspirator behind the double homicide, and 
 he takes matters into his own hands to hunt down the real killer all throughout the city slums, 
 which have recently been the host of a drastic and seemingly overly violent rise of homeless and 
 drug addicted people. For what its worth, Condemneds storyline is actually done quite well. The 
 chilling tale is full of surprises and unexpected twists and turns, and ultimately its only fault 
 is in the lackluster ending. 
  
  Gameplay wise, Condemned: Criminal Origins delivers it spades. But that doesnt mean that its 
 perfect. In fact, it falls quite flat in a few places. But well discuss the good stuff good first: 
 the combat. Combat in Condemned is, for less of a better word, perfect. With the incredibly tight 
 control scheme, fighting deranged homeless folk never felt better. And the weaponsoh lets get 
 the weapons. See the thing is, at first youd probably pass Condemned off as some sort of First 
 Person Shooter, but the overlying layer is merely a ruse to what this game really is. To put it 
 bluntlyyoull be lucky to come across three dozen weapons in the entire game. From my point of 
 view, this isnt a shooter were talking about, this is a bare bones, brutal First Person Fighter 
 (Yes, I said fighter, deal with it) . Condemneds main combative focus is all about the melee. Sure 
 there will be firearms, but most of the time youre going to have to pry them from the crazed hands 
 of some homeless person. But dont fret because you wont have your pistols or your shotguns to 
 play around with, for with just a small glance whilst playing, youll figure out that there are 
 weapons everywhere. The surrounding environment in Condemned is the host of dozens of different 
 melee objects. Small, large, heavy, quick, big, you name it, Condemned probably has it. And the 
 great thing is every weapon has its own distinct feel and weight to them. Some small quick weapons 
 like a short 2x4 are weak, but great if you need to pummel something quick. While you have sledgehammers 
 and shovels if you really want to throw down the hurt, but at the cost of swinging the weapon slowly 
 and leaving yourself open after an attack. 
  
  Melee combat in Condemned is at first, quite hard. Youll need to master being able to perfectly 
 time your blocks and be able to gauge the reach of your current weapon if you wish to live longer 
 than 10 minutes. Once that is down, the combat does begin to get repetitive in the later levels. 
 For this is about all there is to Condemned; Block, swing, block, swingand then you just rinse 
 and repeat for the next ten or so hours. But this isnt something to dwell on, for the combat is 
 always intense and always nerve racking. And thanks to some fairly smart AI enemies, youll always 
 enter a new situation against a seemingly new enemy. Theyll back off if they know they are underpowered 
 or outmatched. Theyll hide behind corners, jumping out at the opportune moment to pound your face 
 in. If underpowered, the enemy will retreat to find a more powerful weapon, and then come back, 
 screaming in a bloody rage, ready to finish the fight. Youll also be stuck in some moments when 
 there is more than one opponent in the same room, but luckily for you, the AI doesnt seem to get 
 along with itself. Improving on the whole mentally distraught homeless factor, sometimes enemies 
 will duke it out with each other for a better weapon, or simply because of personal space issues. 
 This is a nice touch, because when you do get overwhelmed by more than one enemy in Condemned, 
 the going really does get tough, so its nice to see that you arent the only enemy to the homeless 
 population. When fighting, the combat is so fluid and responsive that it feels you are really fighting 
 someone in real life. The hit detection is surprisingly solid, and when you do hit someone, boy 
 does it look and sound real. Hitting someone with a shovel in Condemned sounds like it should if 
 someone in real life was wailed right in the head with a shovel as well. So while playing, it made 
 me wonder what actually went on in Monoliths recording studios. 
  
  Speaking of sound, Condemneds audio is flawless. Coming off of something like F. E. A. R, Monolith 
 has shown once again how to perfectly use sound to set a near perfect atmosphere. Every sound in 
 the game works amazingly well, and it only adds to the oh-so-creepy feel of the game. And depending 
 on the size of the room you are in, the sounds will have a different variety and pitch. For example, 
 in a wide hallway, footsteps will have more of an echo to them and have a deeper volume to them. 
 While small tight spaces offer quick smacks of audio for every footfall, with no echo preceding 
 them. The same goes for rooms. Bare walled rooms will have a resounding echo if noises are made. 
 But in other more cramped areas, you wont hear any feedback of an echo. The weapons themselves 
 sound great as well. Metallic objects will, well, sound metal, and other more wooden weapons will 
 have a nice dull thud when struck up against something, whether it being a wall or deranged hobo. 
 
  
  Earlier I spoke of one fault in Condemneds gameplay, well now Im going to go out and say what 
 it is. The investigation sequences. While great in concept and theory, they simply fall flat in 
 game. The real reason behind why this is so is because during these sequences, the game precedes 
 to hold your hand throughout the entire process. It will tell you when its time to whip out a 
 tool, where to use it, and how to use it. Sure that might help and probably wont bother the more 
 linear gamers out there, but I personally felt cheated because of this. Youre not able to use 
 these investigating tools outside of the desired areas either, which is also a downer. For you 
 think they would allow you to use them to, perhaps find extra secrets? No. Sadly this is another 
 example of the Great Concept/Poor Execution rule. The good point about all this is that these parts 
 are well spaced apart and help to break up the action and reveal key plot points and advance the 
 story. But hey, at least the gadgets youll use look pretty awesome and have some pretty cool functionseven 
 though you still wont be able to use them at your leisure. 
  
  And on that note well switch gears to another aspect of Condemned that is executed quite well. 
 Graphics. Despite that confusingly popular trend that everything needs a plastic coating, the graphics 
 in Condemned are a joy to look at. This is especially true in the environments, which are meticulously 
 detailed down to the trim on the wall and the tiles in the ceiling. Every room and local has a 
 different look and feel to it, helping raise the bar in realistic areas. The character models and 
 weapons are also amazingly detailed. Although the enemy models could use a little more variety, 
 they are each done with such detail that the illusion of them being drug addicted homeless people 
 can easily be realized and witnessed in real time. The particle effects are also a symphony on 
 the eyes. Dust will lazily fall from dilapidated ceilings, papers and leaves will dance to and 
 fro in the breeze, gun retorts will vary depending on what youre using, and even blood will spew 
 and gush quite realistically, despite how gruesome that sounds.
  
  But Condemned, sadly, is over quite soon after it starts. Youll easily be able to experience everything 
 the game has to offer during one play through. There are a few unlockables to be had in the form 
 of pieces of metal and dead bird carcasses (seriously) . When a certain amount of birds or metal 
 chunks are found, youll unlock slowly unlock various concept art and extra tidbits that help flesh 
 out more of the story. But beside this, thats about all the incentive youll have to take a second 
 go-round with Condemned. Although the fifty achievements can increase the fun factor a little bit, 
 with one being complete the entire game with only melee weapons, which is actually a lot harder 
 than it initially sounds.
  
  In the end Condemned: Criminal Origins is an incredibly intense and downright nerve racking ride 
 that seems to over as soon as it starts. The sound and solid combat carry the game and allows to 
 be called one of the best on the Xbox 360, but the failed initiative with the investigation sequences, 
 linear gameplay, and downright insulting ending hold it back from being called one of 2005s best 
 entries. But dont let that stop you from picking up what is still an incredible addition to anyones 
 Xbox 360 collection and to anyone who loves a good scare while beating in some homeless mans head 
 with a severed mannequin arm. I can truthfully say this game had me shaking by the end. Its just 
 that good and intense. So dont miss out, for despite Condemneds shortcomings, this is one title 
 that every Xbox 360 fan should pick up and play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJCNUT
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is a game that will give people a few good scares. You dont know where 
 the enemy might be but I guarantee youll hear him. Youll be walkink through the level and then 
 youll hear the enemy breathing really hard. Youll look around and see nothing then you start to 
 get hit and your like damit I didnt see him. Condemned is a cool non zombie survival horror game. 
 The gameplay is smooth button configuration is really nice. The graphics are really nice. All in 
 all this is a game that any 360 owner should rent first before you buy cause this is a really short. 
 So later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Monolith Productions, creators of such titles like the critically-acclaimed F. E. A. R.: First Encounter 
 Assault Recon and the Matrix Online, both of which are available only on the PC, have crafted their 
 first original effort for the Xbox 360. Titled Condemned: Criminal Origins, you assume the role 
 of FBI agent Ethan Thomas, and as Agent Thomas you are presented with one main objective at the 
 game's beginning: to solve a case dealing with a series of killings by one particular serial killer. 
 Throughout the game you will encounter some twists and turns, as well as plenty of spooky moments 
 and suspenseful times, and the result as a whole is a game that is truly fantastic in most areas, 
 but is severely crippled in terms of length.
  
  Still, one thing (of many) Condemned: Criminal Origins does right is showcase to the player an 
 imaginative world that is technically astounding. Using the ferocious power that the Xbox 360 provides, 
 Monolith was able to develop a game that really looks several notches above the best-looking Xbox 
 titles. The characters you'll encounter in the world -- some clearly on your side, while others that 
 seemingly want to rip one of your arms off and beat you to death with it -- look remarkable and do 
 a good job showing off the potential the system is capable of.
  
  The progression of the storyline is mostly through in-game events, but you'll sometimes be shown 
 a cut-scene that shows Agent Thomas, for example, conversing with someone vital to the hunt. The 
 transition from in-game to cut-scene is fairly uneventful and usually just happens; you might run 
 into one walking near a door. Still, I happen to like the cut-scenes as they are wonderfully done 
 and also happen to show off the game's graphics in a good light.
  
  The environments themselves also look simply beautiful. Not unlike a painting that catches one 
 of your eyes and refuses to let go, Condemned is a fanciful title. The textures, as you'd expect 
 on a system like this, look solid, much better than prior systems, and if you play the game in 
 high-definition, they'll obviously look even better as the Xbox 360 is really built around high-definition 
 displays. You'll chase your enemies through several different areas, including an office building, 
 metro station, department store, and a library, and they all give off that sense that something 
 dangerous and unexpected is going on inside of them. Seriously, some of the places you'll find 
 yourself in give off this spooky vibe, a vibe that most horror-inspired titles try to replicate 
 yet fail to in the end. Fortunately, though, Condemned is an exception to the unwritten rule.
 
  
  Throughout the game's various areas are several different types of weapons that Ethan can equip 
 himself with, including the likes of small and large pipes, shovels, crowbars, handguns, and shotguns. 
 Each weapon you come across has its own individual statistics: damage, speed, block, and reach. 
 A small pipe might, for instance, enable Ethan to react quicker when swinging it around as well 
 as enable him block potential attacks more decisively, but it at the same time wouldn't be able 
 to cause as much damage as, say, a shovel. On the other hand, though, while the shovel would clearly 
 be much more capable of handing out more damage, it would be a bit limited in terms of speed and 
 blocking capacity. These are but a few examples of the weapons and their stats you'll encounter 
 in Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
  The levels the game has you traversing through also feature a decent amount of interaction. You 
 can open certain drawers, sometime revealing to you a hidden dead bird (which is required for unlocking 
 a specific achievement) or health restoration item, and while you can't actually pick them up, 
 you can attack and kick boxes that are the ground to make them move a few inches. You're also able 
 to open and close doors to move from place to place. It's not necessarily Half-Life 2 in the sense 
 that nearly the entire environment is quite literally your playground of sorts, but truth be told, 
 Condemned still gives you the opportunity to mess around a bit. I just wish it were on a much larger 
 and grander scale.
  
  Condemned's battle system is a bit more advanced than normal first-person shooters/adventures. 
 While you are able to wield a gun in the same fashion as other first-person shooters would have 
 you wield it, you are also able to use the butt of it as a melee weapon. So, if you ever exhaust 
 all of your bullets and can't find a box of fresh bullets or another weapon to use, don't fret, 
 simply press a button on the Xbox 360's controller and you've got yourself a "replacement" weapon.
 
  
  The brawling in the game is comparable to that in The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay in the regard that the fighting moments are very well done and give you the feeling that the 
 developers really spent a lot of time fine-tuning and sharpening those points in the game. While 
 it's true that you're using a video game controller to engage in these events, you'll be so enthralled 
 and immersed into them that it'll be like your actually there, fighting for your life against these 
 freakish, dark inhabitants.
  
  The game's enemies seem to have a rather higher-than-normal set of artificial intelligence. For 
 example, if they notice you headed their way, they might run off to a wall to pull off a pipe that 
 could be used as a weapon, then come after you. Of course, they won't always do that; they could 
 just decide to run off and leave you wondering where they are, waiting for the perfect moment to 
 strike. And once they do, realize that the brawl ahead won't be quite as easy as you think. Sure, 
 some battles in the game will be of the easy variety, but others will be tougher, especially those 
 that have you taking on multiple forces of evil. Plus, don't just think that you can go into each 
 and every battle with the mentality that all you'll need to do is ravenously swing or shoot your 
 weapon like a maniac because if you do just that, you might find yourself staring at the game over 
 screen more often than not. You need to formulate a wise and strategic plan of attack and defense, 
 then execute it to perfection. Once you inflict enough pain upon them with your weapon, they'll 
 be down, lying on the ground, screaming in agonizing pain. It's here where a mere press of the 
 right-analog stick will allow you to kick them, ending their miserable pain and suffering.
  
  If kicking them isn't your style, you can also press one of the directions on the directional-pad 
 to finish them off in a rather disgusting manner, like twisting their neck or headbutting them.
 
  
  With that said, fighting won't be the only thing you'll be doing in Condemned: Criminal Origins. 
 As an FBI agent, you're equipped with forensic tools that'll grant you the ability to scope out 
 the game's areas for fingerprints, blood, odors, and other organic substances. It's here where 
 you'll need to utilize your tip-top detective skills to progress in the game as Condemned will 
 occasionally have you searching rooms for a blood stain or mysterious odor. You'll also be called 
 upon to take pictures of specific items, and also use a scanner to scan a dead body or a door for 
 a clue, just to name several possible things.
  
  Sometimes, you'll use these same forensic tools to track down items that can assist you in garnering 
 one of the game's outstandingly-high number of achievements, fifty in total. If you're the type 
 of 360 gamer that is hopelessly addicted to unlocking every single bit of achievements in 360 titles, 
 then Condemned will more than feed your need in that regard.
  
  Aurally, Condemned manages to impress in that particular category as well. Fantastic voice-acting 
 helps bring these otherwise polygonal characters to life, and they all sound unique to each other. 
 The game also helps add to the overall scare factor by throwing some gruesome and frightening sound 
 effects towards the user, like some random screams of horror in the distance or the sound of boxes 
 that suddenly drop nearby. There isn't much in the form of a soundtrack, but what is there more 
 than fits the game.
  
  Truthfully, there are times where Condemned will get a bit on the repetitive side. Some of the 
 game's environments feature nearly-identical structures and designs, like walking up and down sets 
 of stairs, and you'll likely get a bit annoyed and tired of them once in a while. Thankfully, though, 
 the overall experience that the game presents is more than worth a few encounters with repetition.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a bit lacking in terms of length. While there are 
 a solid amount of levels to explore, and they're decent in size, they just go by far too quickly. 
 I'd wager that it'll take you around eight to ten hours to complete the game, storyline-wise anyway. 
 If the game's recommended hours for completion were doubled to around twenty, then that'd be an 
 ideal number. As it stands, once you ultimately finish Condemned's main story, you're left with 
 a bittersweet feeling: sweet because you just finished one excellent game, but bitter because it 
 was so short.
  
  Where the game's replay factor is helped is through the previously mentioned achievements. With 
 exactly fifty waiting to be unlocked, there's plenty to see and do in Condemned, and it'll take 
 more than a few hours to unlock everything. You're able to go back and play a certain chapter even 
 after you finish the game, so I must give kudos to the developers for that one particular feature.
 
  
  All in all, Condemned: Criminal Origins is an outstanding original take on the first-person shooter 
 genre by Monolith and Sega. It's like a mix between Half-Life and Silent Hill; it combines several 
 great elements from the standard FPS fare with some truly spooky and horrifying moments that is 
 the norm in a horror-adventure and wraps it all up in one beautiful package. While the game is 
 a bit on the short side, what is there amounts to simply one of the best games the Xbox 360 has 
 to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Summer is good for movie goers and bad for video game players.
  
  A little bored??
  Played all your games that were shrink wrapped already?
  Do you like playing the Resident Evil 
 series??
  Well, for the dog days of summer '06 with new games 
  trickling in like a drought. Pick up Condemned: Criminal Origins
  
  This is like being the main 
 character in thriller/horror flick.
  You play the law enforcement agent brought in to assist
  in a series of unexplainable crimes 
 happening in.. (looks like) NYC.
  With a strange twist of events you end up being the suspect and
  now in the process of trying 
 to clear your name. Your chasing down
  a madman and fighting "zombies" in the process. You seem to have
  these "special skills"..... you 
 can see things.. as they happen... before
  they happen.... through the eyes of the killer.
  
  Gameplay flows like a mini movie, there are a few hiccups
  but they can be forgiven. Locating 
 health kits can become
  a pain in the behind, especially when a "zombie" is breathing
  down your neck. This is an easy achievement point game, items
  can be easily found and you can 
 run through the chapters pretty quickly.
  
  Graphics could be a little better since this is suppose
  to be a next genaration game. But since 
 it was a launch
  title, it can be overlooked. This game is short but it's a nice
  pick up if your bored for the summer. And just want 
  something quick to play!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inlaidspoon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Of course I did just that though. Scared the crap out of me. This game was surpsingly good. It 
 was interetaining. The over plot and story of the game is very good. The game is frieghtening, 
 both in making you jump and in spokking you out a little bit. There are parts of the game that 
 make you jump, like dead bodies coming to life, people rushing around corners at you with a lead 
 pipe, and people popping out of walls. There is another aspect to the game though, one which I 
 really liked, the trippy side of the game. Things that happen, for example a pile of desks is dragged 
 by an unseen force back to a wall, just to be back where it was when you circle around again. Also 
 the manniquens in the department store keep spawning around you when you move for a little while. 
 Things like that, then the visions your character has of the killings and of other things. Add 
 on top of all this a very decent fighting system, though blocking pissed me off, and a ton of weapons. 
 There are six different types of firearms and too many melee weapons to count. The finishing move 
 is awesome to use on the guy that popped around a corner and almost made you piss your pants, it's 
 fulfilling to slam your head into his and lay him out. This game is very gorey, and if that is 
 not your cup-o-tea, then this game might not be for you. This game is short though, UBER short, 
 I beat it in 7 hours, with half the achievements. Other than that though, the game is very cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koroshiya_keefu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Here's a quick and to the point overview.
  
  If you enjoy your survival horror games, you will more than definatley enjoy this. It's hard hitting, 
 in your face and definatley sweat inducingly tense.
  
  You will definatley need a 5.1 capable surround sound system for this game. Honestly, it has some 
 of the best positional sound effects I've heard. The sound design is spot on, hearing the muffled 
 sound of insane enemies shouting at each other from another room is terrific! More than half of 
 the games emotional impact comes from sound design alone.
  
  The graphics are excellent for the first round of next gen titles, just make sure you get the full 
 effect on a true HD LCD TV, nothing less.
  
  Just a couple of negatives, it's a bit linear (meaning, no chances to deviate from the set course) , 
 and back tracking is required in a few instances. 
  
  Look. I finished this game in 3 long sittings. I was hooked. It's a brilliant, scary, violent game. 
 Not one for the youngsters to play!
  
  Get it! And get unlocking all the achievements! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  The game was fun while it lasted, but it didn't last very long. It reminds me a lot of Riddick, 
 but a little lacking. The melee combat was done well. You had to judge the distance of your weapon 
 vs. the distance of your attacker and also take into account the speed of your weapon. You could 
 try to block your attackers attack by a well timed block or try to stay out of reach of their weapon. 
 Or if you didn't want to mess with all that you could just use you tazer and then wack the crap 
 out of them. Sometimes the tazer felt a little over powering (mostly after you get the upgraded 
 one) , it would even kill some of the weaker foes. The graphics were well done for the most part, 
 but the character models were a little funny looking at times. At the end of the game you character 
 looked really shinny, and don't look like a human anymore. The game was very short, but if it was 
 much longer it might have gotten old. They could have used some other elements to help mix things 
 up a bit. There was a very short ride in a dumpster (think mine cart ride) that could have helped 
 mix things up a bit if it had been a little longer. There isn't much point playing the game over 
 unless you didn't get all the dead birds, metal pieces, and hidden TVs which will unlock all the 
 achievements (and a really sorry alternative ending) . I played the game through twice and couldn't 
 do it a third time due to lack of intrest (the only reason I got through the second was becasue 
 I was looking for all the hiddne stuff) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Man I thought I was watching a movie when i was playing this. This game is dark, scary, and FUN!
 
  
  The game puts you in the head of an FBI detective by the name of Ethan Thomas. He has fears of 
 the dark and bad memories of the past. He is trying to track down a serial killer and gets sent 
 on the ride of his life. Equipped with his cool forensic tools, he goes to many places to try and 
 find this guy. With help from his friend Rosa, it's just a matter of time before he finds his man.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a game that you REALLY want to like, but you really just can't say it's THAT great 
 of a game... it could be for numerous reasons. The gameplay is pretty simply really. You just go 
 around hacking thugs, addicts, and mutilated zombies with pipes and 2 by 4's, but the simple combat 
 system is actually really intense and fun. Every once and a while, you'll have to use investigative 
 tools, and this is a good thing since it kind of refreshes the somewhat tedious job of hacking 
 people. Just wish the investigating part of the game was somewhat more deep.
  The presentation visually in this game is astounding. Personally I thought some of the characters 
 were pretty ugly looking in the cutscenes though. What really astounded me more of the presentation 
 was the amazing lighting effects and realistic physics. Without those two things, this game wouldn't 
 be near as scary as it is... it makes me shiver when the weird lighting effects kick in...
  The sound in this game really adds to the whole package very well. The creepy ambience in the background 
 really makes you not want to play this game in the dark. The brutal thwack of your fire axe penetrating 
 a thug's skull really gives a satisfying smacking sound also. Overall, audio wise this game is 
 terrific.
  After you play this game through, there isn't much to go back to. It's only about 7 or 8 hours 
 long through the first playthrough. The only reason to go back and play again would be for finding 
 some birds and metal pieces for gamerscore points... other than that, this game's value is no more 
 than a rental.
  Overall this game was good, while it lasted. With a great storyling that's wholly original and 
 great presentation, it really overshadows some of the missteps of the game, such as rather simple 
 gameplay and almost no lasting value. It's good for a scare and is definitely worth renting if 
 you haven't checked it out, but this game sure ain't worth 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. This was my first game for xbox360 and it is a good one. This Horror Title 
 will keep you on your toes with demented people comeing out of the shadows and hitting you with 
 anything they can find. The environment is almost completely interactive. The Whole world in this 
 game can be used as a weopon. For instance you can pick up a pipe all the way down to a locker 
 door and use it to kill people. The analog stick changes the form of attack. 
  For instance pulling it up slightly as you hit the attach button makes him do a over the head chop. 
 Moving it to the left makes him hit the target with the back of the handle. RECOMENDATIONS- the 
 Gameplay is great. Great theme and all together a great horror title. On the bad side, it copies 
 off of F. E. A. R alittle. The Graphics are amazing. It really pushes the Xbox 360 and I like that. 
 The sound really creeps you out. like the music and speech.
  The value is pretty good. You will want to beat it more than once. Altogether I say it is a great 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharris01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Think CSI mixed with RE:4 and you'll come up with something that resembles Condemned. The game 
 is frightening, exciting, and worth playing through.
  
  The game is mostly made up of in-your-face melee combat, but there are a good amount of guns that 
 appear in the game. I expected the gun play to be sub par since the game is all about pipes and 
 2x4s, but the effects of shooting someone and just shooting in general were very good.
  
  The melee combat you'll experience is pretty good, but could have been better. You don't have many 
 moves to choose from: attack, block, taser, disarm. I will say that it is eerily nice to smack 
 one of the NPCs in the head with a concrete covered piece of re-bar. Another nice touch is the 
 "fatalities". Once you knock an opponent to their knees you can choose four ways to dispatch them 
 once and for all.
  
  Besides your weapons, you have a set of crime scene tools you will use to solve the story. One 
 thing I would like to see changed in the game is how these tools are used. They are pretty interesting, 
 but the fact that you just point and click seems to take away from the experience somewhat.
  
  With all that said, you can probably complete Condemned in just around eight hours - it's not 
 a long game at all. That is one reason I'm scoring it a little lower.
  
  In the end, Condemned is fun, but you'll be hardly compelled to play through it again, and if you 
 do it will be just to obtain random achievements. There are virtually no bonuses for game completion 
 which is another reason I gave it a lower score. It's worth a rental, but not really a purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool. Its scary, very violent, and has some of the best looking melee moves 
 if ever seen. Only down side is its short, repetitive, and the level design is easy to get lost 
 in. Also its very dark and morbid which of course suits this type of game, but gets depressing 
 fast. 
  
  I would definitely recommend renting it before buying it. Then again this would be a great title 
 too own because there's nothing quite like it out there. Great game to show of to your friends. 
 
  
  If they had better level design, and made it a little bit longer, then it would be a 9 out of 10 
 in my opinion. There is plenty of moments that will scare the hell ot of you which are what this 
 type of game is all about; and it delivers scares greatly. So if you haven't gave this game a try, 
 and feel brave, go ahead pick it up! Its worth a shot at the very least! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotcrazy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I think this game should get more credit, then what it is actually getting. I mean in my experience 
 playing through the game I loved it how it was so creepy and you didnt know what was going to happen 
 next. And in many reviews that have complained that it is too short, so they said it has no replay 
 value, and that you get lost in hallway after hallway because it has a boring level design.
  Well I dont think its nether of those.
  1. About being too short, and wouldnt want it any longer, 
 because of how slow paced the game is could you imagine playing condemned for like 20 hours? That 
 would be terrible.
  2. I personally would like getting lost in hallways because it would freak me out, plus it would 
 bring me across a metal piece or a dead bird that I could pick up.
  3. And last of all about replay value, is I think this game has good couple times around playing 
 it over again. I have had the most exciting time taking my time and looking for all the birds and 
 metal pieces, and all the other achievments that you have to actually look around for and take 
 your time. 
  
  So I think this is a really great game my only bash against it would be that it does get repetitive 
 and that the graphics and lighting are awesome, but the character models look like rubber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Before I bought this game, I've read a lot of reviews saying that this game is not that good and 
 only worth a rental, but well, I still couldn't resist its dark and scarry atmosphere, so I went 
 to bought one. 
  And I have to say, this game is definitely worth play, the graphic really gives you the tension 
 between killing and beeing killed. The textures while not the best of 360, but still pretty nice 
 to look at them. The sound is one of the key that makes this game so terrifying, you'd hear the 
 up coming foot steps, or someone nearby is coughing or something, really heat up the gameplay.
 
  The control is alright, first I found our Ethan walks a little bit too slow ( while we can choose 
 to run, but still not that quick) , but later I just think this is the right speed for this game, 
 it will work out very well after you get used to it.
  I especially like the finishing moves moment, really give those sick bastards some iron punch.
 
  This game while it is short, but it's really a good experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heir_jordan_023
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I've played my fair share of scary games, but this one takes the cake. I've played Resident Evil 
 4 on Gamecube and PS2, Resident Evil 1 and 0 for Gamecube, Fatal Frame II for Xbox, and many others, 
 but this one is by far the scariest. 
  I was terrified the entire way through, I didn't really have fun, per se. But I had a lot of exciting 
 moments the whole way through. I was on the edge of my seat for the whole time I rented it. I had 
 times where I hated the game, and times where I had to put the controller down and lay down for 
 a bit. It was almost too much. 
  By the time I beat the game I never wanted anything to do with the game, but it was a very satisfying 
 feeling to have the achievements unlocked for beating the game. Great game to beat once, but ZERO 
 replay value.
  Rent the game, but don't buy it. Great rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  "Condemned: Criminal Origins" is a rather different animal then anything else launching with the 
 XBOX 360. Mixing a large amount of amazing first person melee action, and a very inspired dar horror 
 theme. "Condemned" is a very interesting and amazing presentation for the next-gen player. However, 
 with a few serious problems. "Condemned" just misses its supreme ambition that it shows glimers 
 of.
  
  In "condemned" you play as a rather interesting character by the name of Ethan Thomas. Who is a 
 detective called in to investigate a crime scene that has been conducted by a serial killer named 
 "The Match Maker". As your investigation goes on, you later become aware that the dirranged killer 
 is still in the area. As you kills the Ethan's fellow officers with his own gun, knocking you out, 
 and leaving you at the scene of the crime. After Ethan comes to his senses he realises that he 
 is being hunted down by the police, who are under the impression that he is responsible for the 
 murders of the police officers. So Ethan must hunt now hunt down the serial killer, in a strange 
 and morbid town. That is run down and filled of rabid maniacle maniacs.
  
  What first stands out about "Condemned" is the presentation. If you are wanting a game that will 
 really show you if the next-generation of games will look all that much better. Then "Condemned" 
 is a great example of how amazing the future of games will look. With a higher resolution, the 
 vibrant colors and amazing looking enviroments stand out greatly. The particle effects and looks 
 of the gnaring enemies look great. The character modles and cut-scenes look out-standing. Even 
 playing the game on a standard S-Video television will be a feast for the eyes. And playing the 
 game on a HD televsion will look significantly better, making it an amazing looking experience 
 that lives up to the expectations of the next-gen's visual quality. However, thats not to say that 
 the visuals are without there faults. The enviorments, while look great, are too much the same. 
 While you are going threw the coridors that look the exact same and different very little from 
 each other. It can get very disorienting for the player as they are getting lose and confused as 
 they are looking threw these same looking rooms. And the enviroments stay the exact same threw 
 out most of the game. Which is kind of a downside, considering that you will wish that the game 
 would throw you threw more of a loop. But in this you really mostly always know what will happen 
 before it does. Taking away that sense of tention that the game has at the first half of the game. 
 But that ist to say that the game looks bad, because it doesnt. "Condemned" looks absolutely amazing 
 in many ways. And is without a dought a great showcase for what the 360 can do graphically.
  
  The audio is equal in many ways. The dialog between the characters is very solid though there 
 isnt very much of it. But the one aspect that makes the audio so amazing, is the fact that the 
 melee combat and the actual combat and fighting in the game is absolutely amazing for the ears. 
 The sounds that come from takeing a club or any melee weapon for that matter, and beating an enemy 
 with it, is amazing. The sounds that come from it sound as real as they ever could. The guns, sound 
 great. And the enemies sounds as they lash out at you are the most frightning element of the game. 
 As the enemies leap from the shadows. They will spight these descusting real sounds that give a 
 whole lot to the feel of the game. The audio is quite amazing, and has some of the best sound effects 
 to be in a game in quite a long time.
  
  The gameplay in "Condemned" is great, but mixed. The melee combat is the main focus. WHich is a 
 gooding thing. The melee combat is the absolute best in any game to date. Controling much like 
 the melee combat in "The Chronicles of Riddick" for the XBOX. You will go around the game fighting 
 off many fightning enemies in the game bashing theme with many clubs, and other melee weapons. 
 The melee combat is very satisfying and feels very great, adding much of the fun to the game. The 
 guns are very rare, and isnt as fun to use sense the game is amazing with the hand to hand fighting. 
 Though a mixed bag in some ways. The gameplay in condemned is great and fun, but could have been 
 better. Considering that the melee combat, though amazing, is really the only fully fledged part 
 of the game.
  
  The replay value isnt very high either. There are unlockable secrets in the form of achievements 
 for the game. In which they do add a lot of replay value to the game. The game as a whole is made 
 up greatly of the main quest. And considering that the main game is only around 5-7 hours of play. 
 "Condemned" really comes down to more of a rental then a full priced purchase. But that shoulded 
 stop you from playing the game, sense it is quite amazing.
  
  "Condemned" isnt a perfect game by no means. Its best parts are brought to near perfection. However, 
 the following elements just dont add up to the rest of the games success. And adding in the fact 
 that game is very short doesnt make this much better. However, since the game is quite amazing 
 while it last. Its definitely a game that any XBOX 360 owner should check out. Because it really 
 is a great experience.
  
  "Condemned" is a short experience that is mostly a one time engagment. However, since that experience 
 is an amazing one, regardless of the games flaws. It really should deter you from checking this 
 morbid thriller out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspownertheone
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game to me was one of the scariest i've played, especially the department store with the plastic 
 maniquines come alive, and the story is rather good to, your chasing one serial killer, who use 
 to be a "good boy" and now turned into a psycho that cuts your finger off dammit. The only thing 
 that brings this game down is that you can beat it in one sitting, and it's not extremely hard, 
 the last boss monster is very easy as well, all you have to do is block and hit. I would really 
 recommend to rent this, because i don't see anyone really playing this one over and over, so rent 
 it, beat it, and be proud you got through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Alright, i dont own this game, but I did rent it just to check out what all the hype was about. 
 My friends and i hooked it up to a surround sound theater system and played it in the dark, pretty 
 freaky right?
  
  Well, most of the scary parts are somewhat expected, its kinda rare when you actually become surprised 
 with something, becasue it makes you always expect the worst. The graphics are great, and the combat 
 is amazing. 
  
  The combat is like Elder Scrolls, one button blocks, one attacks. This makes it exciting and suspenseful 
 but you have to have PERFECT timing on your blocks or else you will get nailed. 
  
  The story is very interesting, you will get sucked into it. The horror is pretty scary if you're 
 playing alone, but with friends its not really a big deal.
  
  I would rent and not buy, its just an overall fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a very unique game by design. It creates a genre of its own; a mix between a first 
 person shooter and a fighting game. I plays not unlike Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, only instead 
 of weilding a sword and slaying a mythological beast, you're beating down a crack addict with a 
 sledgehammer. The gameplay is brutal. I mean REALLY brutal. The gameplay is so incredibly violent 
 the I garuntee it will make you shudder more than once during the game. But it is also undiniebly 
 fun. Tight and responsive, no one can deny that this game plays extremely well. As good as the 
 gameplay is, one thing that Condemned really nailed is the atmosphere. If the gameplay wasn't indicator 
 enough, this is NOT a game for the squemish. It throws frights-and I mean good, scream out loud 
 frights-at you constantly. By the end of the 6th chapter, I was afraid to pick up the controller. 
 Okay, if you don't understand how scary this game is yet, think about this: Think of every frightening 
 game you have ever played (Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Eternal Darkness, ect.) and imagine all of 
 the scare factor combined in all of the games being presented to you EVERY FIVE SECONDS. Yeah. 
 You have Condemned. The graphical presentation is pretty from far away, but it doesn't surpass 
 a game like Perfect Dark Zero as far as close up detail. It is still a compliment to the atmosphere, 
 as well as the stellar audio presentation. Condemned has some good replay value to it, made possible 
 by addicting achivements. Still, I would not recommend a purchase. Overall, this is one outstanding 
 rental that you won't soon, or ever, forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Condemed what comes to mind when u hear this, well for me, gross places crazy people, darkness, 
 and everything else thats nasty. Well thats what ur geing into for this game the game is extremely 
 distrubing, I mean u'll face against crazy people with here we go: guns, hammers, pipes, knifes, 
 axes, 2x4s. ect. The game is very satisfiing in the sense that when u hit somebbdy u will hear 
 the disgusting thumb or smash, it will sound very beilveable, and realistic. The game is very in 
 depth in the sense that these people can and will play with u in a way that will be so cool and 
 realistic it will be scary, for example if u hit one of them and u disarm them they will take a 
 weapon off the wall or they hide at a corner and when u come around they'll smack yA. Thats just 
 sum of the amazing A. I u'll get in this game to name a flew. Now to get on with my one or two flaws 
 with the game my first is that the game is over before u know it it took me about 6 and a half 
 ours to beat it with all of the birds collected and metal pieces. And my last flaw with the game 
 i got to saY it does get boring after the first beat through, cuz u can only bust heads in for 
 such a time! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I have just about half completed "Condemned: criminal origins" and I must say that if you like your 
 games violent, and I mean really violent, then this is a game for you to definately check out! 
 First things first, it is not really a FPS, but it is kind of a mystery RPG with all the feel of 
 a good horror movie, or a sick version of a Television show such as SVU but more violent. Yes, 
 there is a storyline and an adventure to follow, it is really like playing a horror thriller in 
 the first person. You play the role of a cop that is hunting down a serial killer... beating junkies 
 to death along the way with a wide array of mellee weapons, like a crowbar, and you soon find yourself 
 in all kinds of thrilling scenes. Although the hand to hand combat is a little repeditive... it 
 feels and looks realistic enough to play all day. You will either find this game instantly repulsive 
 or addictive, I cannot see anyone "kind of" liking this game. For me it was an instant winner... playing 
 4 hours in my first sitting, as I said, I have just about half completed it, and I just got it. 
 This is not because it is easy and short, It is because I just found the whole scene it sets so 
 damn addictive! I mean... grabbing a piece of pipe, beating a junkie to his knees and then killing 
 him by smacking his head against the concrete is plain fun for a lover of voilent games like myself...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahamKracker7
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  If your the time of person who likes a slower paced game full of scares, then don't hesitate buy 
 this game. In no way can you go wrong buying the game, it's solid on many levels unfortunately 
 it had the potential for greatness but the developers seemed to settle on saying it was good enough.
 
  You start off as a detective investigating a crime scene by a serial killer called the match maker. 
 You go into the buiding following one of the other detectives and right away the game starts to 
 feel like something out of the movie seven. You then begin to start gathering clues and transfering 
 the data back to the lab.
  Unfortuantely for you things start to take a turn for the worst, as it becomes apparent that the 
 killer is still on the scene. You and the other detectives then begin to search the building for 
 the killer and in doing so things go from bad to worse as somehow the killer gets a hold of your 
 gun, and then kills the other detectives. This is where the weak storyline comes in, as for some 
 reason the cops think you killed them and are convinced of it because your gun was used, so you 
 then become a fugitive. To be honest with you the whole story was really weak sauce and This is 
 one of the areas that the game could have really elevated itself to another level. 
  The rest of the game pretty much entails you tracking down the killer that framed you while you 
 run from the law, but thankfully the rest of the game isn't as weak as the story.
  Throughout the game while you pursue the killer you will constantly be investigating dangerous 
 invironments that are full of scares and you will be coming across a whole bunch of maniac psychopaths 
 but luckily the gameplay in the self defense department is pretty fun. You will be using lots of 
 melee combat as you can grab various weapons from the environment such as two by fours, sledgehammers, 
 pipes, axes, crowbars etc. You will also find various guns scattered throughout the levels but 
 these are more like presents that you get to use briefly as they really don't give you much ammo 
 with each one.
  The graphical presentation is topnotch, you play in a first person perspective, and the small dark 
 environments are very very convincing which is one of the reasons why the game is so scary. The 
 develpers also did a great job of implementing convincing camera shakes during combat, and some 
 great thriller special effects. It's also worth noting that adding to the realism of the game is 
 the use of the havok physics engine and ragdoll physics.
  All in all Condemned is a very good game but it really would have been something special if it 
 weren't for the lackluster story and repetitive gameplay. If the developers had put equal emphasis 
 on these areas as they did on everything else then Condemened would have been perfect but aside 
 from these flaws it's stil a ton of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Much like Monolith's own horror title, F. E. A. R., Condemned is one of the creepier games to come 
 out in some time. Unlike F. E. A. R. however, Condemned focuses more on brutal melee combat and realistic 
 urban atmospheres that are so shockingly grotesque, it'll make you want to stay in the safety of 
 your home for the rest of your life.
  
  The game starts you off as Detective Ethan Thomas, a generic name is there ever was one. Thomas 
 is investigating a series of grisly murders in the worst part of town when the killer he's after 
 frames him for murder. Now with the police against him, Thomas's only allies being forensic scientist, 
 Rosa, and a mysterious man named Vanhorn. The story begins to spiral out of control when weird 
 hallucinations and allusions to Thomas's dark history and future are presented. In the end, the 
 huge questions the game constantly presses on are left unanswered and an ansatisfying ending doesn't 
 even make it clear if it's hinting at a sequel. The plot is easily the games weakest link as it 
 has too many clever ideas, but too weak an execution of those ideas. Sure, you can argue it has 
 clever metaphores and messages in there, but it's not presented well enough to appreciate. Too 
 much is assumed and too many plot holes liter this story driven title.
  
  Ignoring the main plot, the gameplay features many fun sub-plots such as mysterious crows that 
 keep dying in the bad parts of town and the reason behind the violent behaviors of citizens. The 
 game features many eerie locations in the worst parts of the neighborhood that are filled with 
 insane drug addicts, hobos, and later strange monster like people. Some addicts are especially 
 scary as they live in cardboard homes and are wasted away to literally skin and bone. Thomas will 
 explore abandoned Subways, Streets, a Library and creepiest of all: a school and abandoned department 
 store.
  
  The gameplay definitely takes melee combat and puts it in a new, interesting and fun position. 
 First person melee has never been the best form of combat, but Condemned manages to get it right 
 with an extremely simple system. Using the Left Trigger to block and the Right to attack, you can 
 have fierce battles with one or more foes that is very fun, satisfying and sometimes frustrating. 
 Timing is everything, and a nicely timed block can leave the enemy stunned giving you a chance 
 to pull a huge swing on the enemy, the vicious force of your swings really makes you feel it and 
 the sick satisfaction is there. The game allows you to pick up nearly any object you desire. While 
 not everything is usable, many things are and you'll rarely go without a weapon. Anything from 
 pipes, to locker doors, to paper cutters can be used as a weapon. Guns can be found around the 
 areas of the game but prove to have limited use as ammo is always scarce and enemies move to fast 
 and get too close in most situations for guns to have a good enough effect.
  
  A very interesting weapon however, is the taser. An easy click of the left bumper auto-locks the 
 taser on the nearest enemy and blast! They are stunned giving you chance to steal their weapon 
 and beat them to the floor with it. This also usually gives you a chance to use one of the four 
 finishing moves that are amusing or kick the addict in the face which is often quite hilarious. 
 But, later in the game you stop caring for them and would rather just beat them in the head with 
 your pipe and be done with it. Though, the neat little touches like this make Condemned worth playing.
 
  
  Probably the most fun part of Condemned is using the forensic tools. Thankfully, the game doesn't 
 just present them at the beginning and forget them later. The tools are useful the entire way through. 
 Though, they are only accessable when required and the proper tool is always equipped. This is 
 good and bad, saving lots of time and frustration while removing some freedom. The tools are easy 
 to use but fun none-the-less.
  
  Being a horror game, sound and graphics depend on one another. Condemned's environments are highly 
 detailed, somewhat interactive and look nice through the eyes of your flashlight. Like most horror 
 games, Condemned is able to get away with lots of graphical flaws by being very dark and giving 
 the player a limited view. There are many interesting effects usually seen when using one of the 
 games many forensic tools. Also in the hallucination scenes, the grainy look is very interesting 
 and is better yet in the in-game hallucinations. Character models however don't look so nice. The 
 shadows act naturally on the characters, but they are relatively low in polygons and don't make 
 for what one would call realistic looking characters. The textures on characters faces and clothing 
 are often blurry and their faces seem to fat and wide than they should. Facial animations are limited 
 to decent mouth motions and eyebrow movement. Cutscenes are never really that impressive since 
 they feature lots of fat-faced Thomas up close and personal.
  
  The sound is excellent though, as expected by a horror game. Enemies sound creepy and eerie. Often 
 being able to startle you. The unsettling background noises make for a spooky atmosphere and the 
 lack of music in most sequences really let the silence get to you. The menu music also gets you 
 into the mood quite nicely, putting your hair on it's end.
  
  But, you're still wondering about the most important part: how scary is it? Honestly, being a chicken 
 myself and being scared of Far Cry, Doom 3 and Half-Life 2, I have to say Condemned really isn't 
 that scary. The monsters are usually just crazy guys that are fun to smack around. The skin and 
 bone crawlers later on are very freaky as they climb along the ground, but a well placed taser 
 shot can knock them out no problem. The later chapters of the game are increasingly frightening 
 and I admittingly jumped a few times, but that's about it. A few spooks must be honored for being 
 totally unexpected and kudos to the developers for that one in the school. Anyone who played that 
 chapter knows what I'm talking about.
  
  Overall, Condemned is a lot of fun, ignoring the story and the attempts at making a deep and interesting 
 plot. The story embarrasses the rest of the production as it ends up being a whole lot of nothing. 
 The game is a decent length for a first person horror title, it can be completed in 6+ hours, took 
 me about 8 or 9 I believe. The game is full of interesting and fun puzzles and challenging opponents 
 and the occasional frustration or glitch. Being only single-player, you may hesitate to pay full 
 price for it, but thanks to the Xbox Achievements, you may be coming back for more in Hard mode 
 and for the bonus achievements for finding all of the secret items in the chapters, there are lots 
 to find and for completing chapters with only melee weapons, guns, etc. Condemned may not be the 
 best game on the 360, nor better than F. E. A. R., but is an intense and creepy game with an atmosphere 
 more authentic than most other games you'll find. It's worth at least your consideration and is 
 probably the best Xbox 360 launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 510cruzzer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  From the people who brought you Sonic the Hedgehog and Space Channel 5, Sega brings you one of 
 the most goriest and scariest games on the 360 now. With a rather weak line up this game was one 
 of the saving graces for 360 owners (next to call of duty) . It will have you looking over the your 
 shoulder constantly because the excellent sound design make you feel like there is someone watching 
 you or in your room. What makes this game even better is the combat, when you time your block right 
 and follow up and connect with a hit it makes you feel great knowing that you killed a homeless 
 person. Also the realism in the weapons and how each weapon has different attributes so they're 
 not all the same. 
  For example, a sledge-hammer does a lot of damage but is really slow and a plank is really fast 
 but does little damage. The graphics also show what the 360 is really capable of which make the 
 enemies even creepier because you can see all the details of a psycho dressed up as a mannequin. 
 However with all the good comes the bad, for one its too short like shorter than Gary Coleman without 
 legs short, amounting to five hours long if you don't search for everything. Also the combat system 
 takes some getting used to and might scare off casual gamers but other than that its an great addition, 
 to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Great game, with a great story line. Very scary and thrilling gameplay, with plenty of variation. 
 You never know when a drug-addict is going to sneak up behind you and whack you across the head 
 with a pipe. Very jumpy! My only complaint is that there are only about 5 different types of NPC's 
 (they all look the same) . More variation in the appearance of random criminals would be nice. Also, 
 more in-game music is needed to intensify the horror effect. It is very scary, but not quite dark 
 and scary enough. Parts of the game are reminiscent of the Silent Hill series, without the monsters 
 (the look of the game is similar) . Better weapons are needed too. This guy is a cop... he would 
 have more than just his two fists, and definately would be able to carry more than one weapon at 
 a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a first person adventure game with a heavy emphasis on melee combat. 
 This unique take on the first person perspective is then mixed in with horror and suspense to produce 
 a game that I find to be quite unique, scary, and most importantly, fun.
  
  You play as Ethan Thomas, one of the best FBI agents in the Bureau, who starts off simply investigating 
 a crime scene. However, events following the investigation make it appear that he killed two cops, 
 and now he is on the run from the police while at the same time, trying to figure out the motives 
 behind the deranged lunatic who framed him. 
  
  Like I mentioned above, this is no first person shooter. You may start off with a gun, but that 
 is pretty much it once you leave it behind. This game is mainly focused on melee combat. You simply 
 find anything lying around that makes for a good weapon and use it. This can be anything from a 
 2x4, a lead pipe, locker doors, a sledge hammer, and so much more. Pull the right trigger to swing 
 the weapon and the left trigger blocks. Each weapon has its own stats, like damage, speed, and 
 reach. When you want to swap a weapon for another one, a quick display will appear on the corner 
 to show how the two weapons compare to each other. This gives you a good idea on how you know you 
 have a good weapon. Of course, there is no one, best weapon in the game. A sledge hammer may cause 
 the most damage, but it may take forever to wind up and swing, which gives your opponents the edge 
 in getting a hit in. It is up to you find a weapon you are comfortable with, and by the end of 
 the game, you will definitely have a favorite. You will always have a stun gun with you to use 
 as support. This can be used to, as the weapon name indicates, stun the enemies temporarily and 
 get a free shot with your melee weapon. You cannot constantly use it, though. It takes about ten 
 seconds for it to recharge and use it again.
  
  The enemies you encounter are cracked up lunatics. They are, however, very smart. They know how 
 to take cover behind columns and sneak up on you. Their fighting animations are so lifelike and 
 realistic, that it is even hard to predict how they will attack. When you hit them, they might 
 spin around and hold their head in pain, and as you get closer to them to deliver another strike, 
 they will just continue to spin around and strike you. Another cool thing about the enemies is 
 that they will attack each other if one of them accidentally hits another one. It is great to watch 
 them turn on each other and then you go in and take out the last one standing.
  
  There will also be some detective styled gameplay as well. After all, you are investigating and 
 tracking down a criminal, so it only makes sense to give good reason where this story takes you. 
 Whenever you get to a spot that has some evidence to sample, you will be notified with an icon 
 to press X. Once you do so, you will automatically take out the proper tool to capture the evidence. 
 There are a good amount of tools you will be using, but the game saves you from fumbling around 
 with all of them and just gives you the right one to use. This may seem like it is holding your 
 hand through the game, but it is clear that this game was designed to put the player is some suspenseful 
 moments and make the player's emotions run crazy with anxiety. Having the player stop and spend 
 a considerable amount of time using trial and error to find the proper tool to use would just take 
 away from the main experience, so I thought this was a very smart move to do. 
  
  Even after the great gameplay and intriguing story, there is something Condemned does that is far 
 better than anything else in the game, and that is the ability to play with the player's emotions. 
 The game is very dark and your main source of light will come from your flashlight. The design 
 of each level is so raw and gritty, that it creates this sense of fright and anxiety. Even more 
 so, the sound design in Condemned will make you jump in your chair, or better yet, scream out "Oh 
 Sh-!" Something as simple as an empty paint can falling off a shelf will scare the crap out of 
 you, as you think it is some junkie coming after you with a 2x4. Most of these moments are not 
 even scripted. You can accidentally kick a coke can on the floor and then end up frantically looking 
 around for the guy who caused that noise. I played this game with headphones on, so you can imagine 
 my heart was racing and my hands were drenched in sweat. Condemned goes even further and toys with 
 the fact that you can use fire arms in the game.
  
  As you go around with mostly melee weapons, you become petrified when you hear your enemy has a 
 shotgun. Yes, there are guns in the game, but not in the same way as a first person shooter. You 
 may find a gun with only a few bullets in it. After that, you can use it as a melee weapon or toss 
 it. The guns, except the submachine gun, actually break when you use them enough. It is so weird 
 that you get this sense of invulnerability for the brief moment when you have a gun with bullets, 
 when it is normally not a big deal in normal first person shooters. Condemned does a fantastic 
 job of using the graphics, the sound, and the gameplay in creating a suspenseful horror game that 
 truly plays with your emotions.
  
  I would not say there were problems with the game, but I do feel that a couple of things could 
 have made the gameplay better. For one, there is only one swinging animation. When you swing your 
 weapon, you have to wait for the character to bring the weapon back into a neutral position to 
 swing it again. It would have been nice if you can quickly pull the trigger again and perform a 
 backhand swing that follows the first swing. Also, it was not too responsive when I would want 
 to block. You cannot interrupt an offensive swing and go into a defensive stance, even if your 
 character has finished swinging the weapon and was pulling it back to return to a neutral position. 
 These things do not necessarily hurt the game, but they do keep it from being perfect. 
  
  Condemned is a pretty short game. A decent player can probably get through it in a few sittings, 
 maybe about ten hours. Luckily, it is an Xbox 360 game. This means that achievements will have 
 you go back through the game and search for hidden items like dead birds and metal pieces. Some 
 of the achievements are inevitable, like completing each chapter. Others are very easy, like finding 
 at least one bird in each chapter, and others will require some effort, like finding all the weapons 
 in the game. You can go back into any level and work on any specific achievement, so you do not 
 have to play through the entire game again. Each achievement you unlock will give you some concept 
 art and development footage, so you can get some added insight to the game as well. All of this 
 adds extra value to the game, even if it is not much.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is not for everybody. It is definitely not for the faint of heart. 
 This game contains some intense blood and gore, and can be quite spooky, even for the mature gamers 
 out there. If you think you are eligible to play this game, then I highly recommend you do so. 
 There is very little to no games out there that give you an experience like this one. It really 
 feels good to beat people down with all sorts of melee weapons in first person, and that is something 
 that has not been successfully done in any other game. Condemned is definitely worth checking out, 
 but do not forget to turn the lights on when you play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I know certain people fit into certain categories when it comes to games. Me... I love a game that 
 plays out like a movie. It is fun and so entertaining. Tomb Raider Legend did it, God of War came 
 very close, Condemned definately does it too. I loved this game. Scared the hell out of me on a 
 regular basis. Just terrifying when it comes to things jumping out at you. And don't even get me 
 started on the audio scaring as well. Sounds around you in first person are truly scary. This takes 
 the cake. I bought it used and saved the money, I would do the same all over again. Games are too 
 expensive as it is. This one would have been worth full price. I can't wait fora sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Now if you like horror games, this will definitely be a game for you! The experience will be greatbut 
 if you have an HDTV and a surround sound system you will totally get more out of it. So turn on 
 that sub, crank up those speakers, turn off all those lights, and wait till late at night and start 
 pounding away at the game. Right away you start out with some great action and the eerie feelings. 
 There are many weapons out there at your disposal and you will find all of them fun and useful. 
 You have to give each one a chance at least once. Nothing beats smashing in a few skulls with a 
 bent rebar with a huge concrete chunk on it!! Jeez it is great! Throughout the game you will find 
 many different experiences and some parts will be more difficult than others. But all in general 
 it is a great game that can be played over and over. It is definitely one of those games you can 
 go pick up the day it comes out. That is true to be said for the sequel that should be out in 2007. 
 I will definitely be there to pick it up. You have to play this game through and then make your 
 decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 02jmoig
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Quite easy to get into and every level is set in a different surrounding, each more scary than 
 the last ie Subway tunnels, Abandoned School ect. The graphics could be a bit better but generally 
 they are acceptable considering that this is a xbox 360 launch title. Sound is wonderful and plays 
 a big part in the story telling. Gameplay is really good and very fun, as is the story line. This 
 game really reminds me of a phycological horror film. Dont play this game all alone in the dark! 
 Unfortunately there is little replay value so you may be better off just renting this and completing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpperson
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing i am still playing to now to date and havent beaten it
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was very good the combat was fun and alota supspece bilt up after a while 
 and the people cum outta nowhere
  
  Graphics: THe grahs wor very crisp and all the crazy insane ppl look insane and they cum out gunz 
 blazin and the inviorment was very good
  
  Sound: The sound was teffic the sound of the isnae ppl was awsome they made all these sounds when 
 they got hit and when you get hitt and the voiceovers was awsome but there was not much voice overs 
 
  
  
  Value: $50.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttybar
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 29, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Condemned is all in all a good game, and definately warrants a rental. It doesnt deliver in every 
 aspect, yet is a fun experience.
  
  The story is quite good, but doesnt give you enough to satisfy what you want to know at the end 
 of the game. And the final shot of the endgame cutscene, just makes no sense.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are:
  
  -Visceral and violent melee combat
  -Finding pieces of evidence
 
  
  And there isnt much else. There is very much a linear get from A to B level design throughout the 
 game. The melee combat, although excellant, appears to be the only driving force of the game. You 
 can use pretty much anything around you e. g pipes, paper cutters, axes. Yet you cant use your fists, 
 which is a little odd (especially considering some of the characteristics of the main character 
 which you discover later on) . You can use guns, but they break if used in melee combat and only 
 come with few bullets. However non-gun weapons dont ever break, if they did it would add a little 
 more depth to the fighting system and give you a little more fear.
  
  One of the main aspects of this game is fear. Your flashlight will be constantly on as you traverse 
 the dark and creepy levels. However this game is only very rarely scarey. This is due to these 
 reasons:
  
  -Enemies are scripted, as in each time you play a level, the enemies are all in the same spot.
 
  -As mentioned earlier melee weapons dont break, therefore creating a sort of psychological safety 
 net whenever you get a good weapon.
  -Health cabinets are very frequently found in the levels.
  -You have a flashlight (it would be 
 stupid not having a flashlight, but it would be far scarier if you didnt have it) .
  
  This is a shame because when the game tries to scare you it really does do well. But it only ever 
 does this once or twice (both times scripted) .
  
  As for the second mechanic, finding evidence using your forensic tools, its very linear. You can 
 only get them out when a little icon (which i'm assuming is a sort of sixth sense) pops up onto 
 the screen. Then you get out the forensic tool chosen for you, you dont even get to chose which 
 tool. Then you just look around and see if you spot something. However, move too far away from 
 the 'sixth sense' zone and you immediately put away your tool. If you didnt know when to use your 
 tools, and could get them out at any point, it would be far better.
  
  Overall condemned is a good game, and certainly opens the doors for a great sequel. But after completing 
 it a few times (my first playthrough took merely 6 hours and 40 minutes) , theres just no motivation 
 to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome and in my opinion, it is the MOST next gen game out as of now for the 360. 
 Great graphics, and even better lighting. Very cool atmosphere. Sound is great as well. The physics 
 engine in the game is what makes this game so amazing. Enemies run across a dark hall way, you 
 can barely see them, but they knock stuff down, kick buckets around, and these makes for some pretty 
 scary moments, because you hear something, and u may seem something that has been tampered with, 
 but what was it? 
  
  It i9s so hard to review this game without spoling it. They even use situations to make a scary 
 experience. Because of this, I am not going to get intoi this because I will spoil somethings. 
 Also it has a very controversial, I guess u could say ending. I understood it howveer. I sat down 
 and thought about it for a while, and then when it came to me, it all made sense, so it was awesome. 
 
  
  Fans of horror/serial killer movies, look no further. This game is awesome. You also have some 
 pretty cool detective stuff to do with the game. Very cool gadgets u use as well. 
  
  While the developers of Doom were running around and screaming that u must play the game by yourself, 
 or else u wont be scared. That is not the case in Condemend. In Condemned, I played the game while 
 a friend watched me, yes a friend WATCHED me play, that is because the game is so exciting and 
 it has such an intriging story. Well anyway, me and my friend were playing the game (swapping out 
 and watching) and we were still sitting there and screaming, lol. A lot of times, we noticed that 
 we forgot to breath, lol. The game makes you hold your breath, it is something. So I think that 
 a game that is supposed to be scary SHOULD BE SCARY, NOT ONLY WHEN U ARE BY YOURSELF. Condemened 
 just proved that.
  
  Again, as I mentioned in the title, the biggest flaw of the game is that it is too short. Rent 
 it and beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Playstation --
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins was an extremely fun game to play. After a few months of watching the 
 trailer for this game, I was itching to get my hands on it. This has alot of action, scariness, 
 and a great fun-factor. It won't disappoint. However I don't recommend that you buy this game. 
 It's short. Really short. It can be confusing at times of who you're hunting, whether it be 'Serial 
 Killer X', 'The Matchmaker', or 'The Torturer'. The graphics aren't really up to par of what the 
 Xbox 360 is capable of, but it's good I guess. Overall I'd say its worth the rent. Just make sure 
 you keep all the lights on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I originally had no intention on buying this game. However, after playing the demo I was impressed. 
 The fighting is this games bread and butter. The movements of the enemies you face are very realistic. 
 The dark and dreary environments create an unsettling atmosphere and it is very satisfying when 
 you whack a guy in the face with a metal pipe! Furthermore, I enjoyed the plot as it always bordered 
 on the supernatural without ever actually going overboard and throwing it in your face.
  My biggest criticism is that there was no hand to hand element in the fighting. With all the desperate 
 struggles with crow bars, locker doors, and wooden planks, it seems odd you couldn't just slug 
 someone with your fists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 5
Date: May 27, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I only rented Condemned so I didn't get the full expiernce. But like myself, I suggest renting 
 it only. Condemned is about an FBI agent who's sent to investigate a murder of a woman in the bad 
 side of town. However things go wrong, he (Ethan Thomas) loses his gun to a madman, and the madman 
 uses it to kill two police officers, and Thomas is blamed. The rest of the game you are on a mission 
 to find the real killer with the guidence of your handy lab person Rosa, and a mysterious man helping 
 you out.
  
  The combat of Condemned is very straight forward, and sort of bland. You only get two types of 
 moves, Attack, and Block. That's all you do for +10 hours of the game's length. There's times where 
 you end up getting a gun which has a whooping 5 bullets in it. You use those up (Most of the time 
 missing) and then your back to beating people over the head with poles and sticks.
  
  There's also a forensic part of the game, which is also very bland. It basically tells you what 
 to do, and even then it can be annoying some times. So needless to say after 3 hours of the game 
 you'll already know everything there is to know about it. Except the confusing level design. All 
 the areas look identical, not in a "re-used textures" kind of way. But a "Huh, another room with 
 werid writing and blood everywhere, where have I seen this before?". It's a very basic idea of 
 what you'll find everywhere.
  
  I myself got lost around 12 times in the 8-10 levels there are in the game. I actually never finished 
 the game because on the last level I had no idea where I had to go, or where I had already been. 
 Which is a common issue of Condemned, you'll end up finding things to drop in the middle of the 
 room to notify you've been there, or shooting out all the lights, etc.
  
  The game seems like there was really only one level made, and then they multiplied it for a 10 
 hour long game. There's only 3-6 different enemies, depending how you look at it. There's a Guy 
 Crazy, Girl Crazy, Fast Crazy, Big Crazy, And Big and Phsycotically Strong Guy (You only see one 
 of these) . There are other variations like, a fireman, or a police officer. But it's the same idea.
 
  
  There's also a lot of holes in the story. Like I said I didn't finish it, but I doubt in the last 
 hour of the game you find out who the mysterious man is (He has a name, I jsut forgot it) and why 
 he helps you, why exactly everyone is insane, why the police just become corrupt over night and 
 refuse to believe your story, and how the city has a law enforcement squad when it seems like everything 
 is torn down, and it's always night time. You think a guy who's a tiny bit afarid of the dark would, 
 I don't know. Look for stuff at day time?
  
  Overall Condemned is a very average game. It'd be a nice buy for around $20 dollars, but nothing 
 over that. You can't even get achievements easily, so if you like achievements, look elseware. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 6
Date: May 27, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Well this game is similar to chronicles of riddick - but not as fun , you use melee 
 weapons and sometimes you get a gun for a little bit. The storyline is basicly what keeps you going 
 through the whole thing , and the storyline just builds up and up and then it never concludes. 
 
  
  Graphics - Very grimey graphics are cool at first , but after many levels , they get repetive , 
 since basicly every level seems like the same level. 
  
  Sound - Sound is one of the big things in this game , voice acting is wonderfull and as far as 
 voices go this could be a movie 
  
  Value - There is no multiplayer , no co-op at all , no downloabable content , there is no reason 
 to buy this game , it's not something you will want to go back and play over and over
  
  Bad Tilt - Worst storyline of all time 
  
  Verdict : Rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybdm
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a launch title for the XBOX360, I was originally put off to buy 
 it (I'm more of a buyer then a renter) since it was short they said. I'm not the kinda gamer that 
 rushes through missions to get to the end, Im enjoying every step I take in the game, scout around, 
 enjoy the mood and scenery. The graphics are really cool in this game both from a art and tech 
 point of view, its very convincing. Also the physics in this game are awesome and realistic and 
 play a big part in the total immersion of the game.
  Like Gamespot said, it maybe a one trick pony but its does it very well, also you get to use more 
 guns that one might think, the majority of the game is being fought with melee weapons, but guns 
 are scattered around on a frequent base and gives nice variation and is also a very realistic aspect 
 of the game.
  The story is very good, chasing a serial killer as an FBI agent is very well done.
  
  Overall 
 I like this game a lot, its one of the best lauch titles in my opinion, yeah its a bit short, but 
 most games are unfortunately. There is no high replay value, but nonetheless Im proud of owning 
 this game, cause nothing else out there comes closer if your into horror/thrillers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBereaver
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 26, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I thought that it was a stunning game for the 360. There aren't that many great games for the 360 
 (yet) , but this was a extremely entertaining game. Story-line just made me not want to put it down. 
 The Graphics are crazy on HD. I thought that the fighting style was good, but the limited choice 
 of weapons was kind a pain and made some parts of the game a little less that fun. Game endings 
 could use a little more differences between the good game ending and the evil game ending. The 
 game pretty much sucks the player into the world and makes you feel like your a part of the story. 
 That's why I couldn't stop playing it. It's also pretty scary for a video game, I was up until 
 3:00 in the morning sweating and constantly having to pause the game to calm myself down. This 
 game is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Condemed is a good game but I'm not quite sure what to make of it. The graphics are spot on! The 
 thugs, bums, crooks, and whatever half those other things are attack you with convincing fervor. 
 This game is well worth your time if your totally into the dark Seven-ish sort of world, or just 
 like being the rogue agent who can't trust anyone. I have mixed feelings about the story, its presentation 
 is excellent but it leaves you hanging at the end. I like a story to leave you guessing a little 
 but this story leaves almost nothing resolved. Perhaps that suggests a sequel is in the works. 
 As for the gameplay it gets a little repetitive, but if you like being freaked out (like in Resident 
 Evil) you won't be disapointed. The problem is you won't have the comfort of lots of firearms and 
 ammo, because most of the fighting is done by melee. All in all, this is a good game with a somewhat 
 original style of execution, which is great because so many games nowadays lack originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASP245
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best of the launch titles for the Xbox 360. This game at first is under rated 
 but is in fact a beauty of a game. Its gruesome, thrilling, innovative, anda genuine Masterpiece! 
 Let the review begin.
  
  You play Ethan Thomas, a top detective for the FBI in a First Person Shooter turned thriller that 
 will make you afraid to turn dark corners.
  
  Story
  
  For all those who havent played the game, Ill try to keep this Spoiler free. I love the plot 
 for this game. You are Ethan Thomas from the FBI helping investigate with a murder caused by the 
 serial killer The Matchmaker. Things get worse, which puts Ethan against indescribable things. 
 The story itself is excellent and most of it is explained through cut scenes and playing through 
 the game, although even more of the story can be discovered by finding the 4 Propaganda Reports 
 (Ill get back to these later) that will take a bit of searching to fully find them.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are worthy of the title Next Gen. This game is dark 
 and spooky; so dont be expecting bright colourful menus and levels, like other games like Kameo. 
 Light and shadow effects are superb and play a huge role in the game. The environments are realistic 
 and will make you feel as if you are actually in rundown buildings. The character models look really 
 good, although sometimes Ethan Thomas face looks a little odd (may just be me though) .
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds are as perfect as smashing peoples faces in can get. Youll notice a lack 
 of music, maybe a 10-20 second track repeated but dont let that bother you, as you will soon see 
 why it was necessary. If you hear footsteps, but you cant see the enemy you will be scattering 
 around looking for him. Sounds made from braking pipes or wood is impressive, but cant compete 
 to the sound of your weapon hitting your enemy in the face. 
  
  Enemies will scream in pain when you hit them, shout at you, occasionally screaming the F word. 
 The sound is one of my personal favourites of this game as it is what you would expect of these 
 types of enemies.
  
  The voice acting was well done, and you will be hearing a lot of Ethan and his partner Rosa talking 
 over the phone, discussing the evidence you have recently found, revealing more of the story.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game plays out like a FPS, except that guns arent the main weapons. 95% of the time youll 
 be bashing the skulls in of enemies and addicts with anything you can find; 2x4 planks of wood, 
 a selection of pipes, axes, my favourite: The Sledgehammer and many more. Some of these weapons 
 are used to continue on with the game. For example, the Crowbar can be used to open gates and safes, 
 Fire Axes to break down doors, Sledgehammer to break locks. The games combat is gruesome and violent, 
 but can be found entertaining. There are 4 finishing moves, Slam, Snap, Punch, and Ram, which you 
 can use to end the lives of fallen enemies. You are also equipped with a tazer that will stun your 
 enemies in their paths allowing you to steal their weapon or finish them straight off.
  
  The game is different from a FPS in that the movement of your character is much slower. This is 
 no fast paced shooter, but a slow paced investigation. You have a sprint bar, which allows you 
 to sprint for a short while, but it can run out somewhat quickly.
  
  The game has a strong atmosphere to it and almost always feels intense. Never have I felt the need 
 to search around the shadows to make sure for incoming enemies. The game somewhat forces you to 
 take your time with exploring and investigating. There are investigation parts that involve you 
 using forensic tools, which although maybe easy, keep you involved in the story of the game, and 
 gives of a CSI feel.
  
  The Games Tilt and Replay value
  
  This game is original in the fact it maybe the first FPS which doesnt involve many guns. This 
 game is different to other thriller games, and is easily recommendable. The only downfall is the 
 replay value. You can go back for the achievements and there are 3 difficulties. No online mode, 
 which although disappointing is not essential for this game.
  
  Achievements:
  
  There are 50 achievements with a nice total of 970. You get an achievement for completing a level, 
 and for completing the game. There are also ones available for finding dead birds which will 
 give you a bronze bird award (if you find 1 on a level) and a silver award (if you find all 6 on 
 a level) . There are also Metal Pieces among levels which create propergana reports, and like 
 I said earlier help you get a better understanding to the story in whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespoting
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Slick, creepy presentation. Ferocious hand to hand combat. Impressive, atmospheric visuals. 
 Intense, white knuckle battles against terrifying enemies. Remarkably smart, aggressive A. I. A 
 completely original title for the Xbox 360.
  
  The Bad: Some repetitive level designs. The game holds your hand way too much during the forensics 
 sections. It will be over before you know it.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins was one of the first Xbox 360 games to come out. It is the only horror 
 game for this system. It actually is the only game like it on the 360. It features a very slick, 
 creepy presentation that feels very similar to the movie Se7en. Condemned is a much more frightening 
 experience, though. The game is by far and away one of the most scary games to ever come out for 
 a console, or PC for that matter. It is the story about an FBI agent who is framed for killing 
 two police officers while investigating a crime scene. He then goes on the run to prove his innocence 
 while he combats dozens of terrifying enemies with brutal melee weapons.
  
  The gameplay takes place from a first person perspective. You will get to use an assortment of 
 pipes, fireaxes, clubs, among other things including firearms with just a few rounds in them. Guns 
 play a very small role in Condemned. It is all about this ferocious, up close and personal combat. 
 This fighting is extremely graphic and intense. This game is horribly frightening partly due to 
 its life like A. I. The enemies you face will throw fake swings to throw you off, along with some 
 of the most surprising actions ever done by characters in a game to date. You just have not seen 
 this type of stuff happen before. It is disturbing.
  
  During the course of your adventure, the game tries to break up the combat by giving you the chance 
 to investigate crime scenes. You will have several different forensic tools to use, to try to figure 
 out gritty puzzles. The only problem is that the game walks you through these sections step by 
 step making them very easy. They even tell you which tool to pull out and which area to look in. 
 These parts feel like they were tossed in without too much thought. If the forensics sections had 
 been better thought out they could have created a whole new twist to condemned's gameplay. Hopefully, 
 if they ever put put out a sequel, these parts will be improved and will add a real unique and 
 challenging aspect to this game.
  
  The visuals in condemned are excellent. This is one of the best looking 360 games at launch. The 
 textures are sharp and highly detailed. The lighting is realistic and the use of shadows has never 
 been done this well. This game is very dark. The only thing illuminating your path is your weak 
 flashlight, which is attached to your shirt. When you look down you will see your characters legs 
 and shadow, which is a nice touch that helps you feel like you're really playing as this guy. When 
 you attack your enemy, you will see blood appear where you hit them. All they weapons you get to 
 use look so real, you almost feel that you could take them out of the TV. One last thing worth 
 mentioning is that the game takes place in widescreen just like a movie. This only appears on a 
 normal television screen though. If you have a widescreen HDTV the black bars will disappear.
 
  
  The sound is disturbingly realistic. The sound of your melee attack on flesh, sounds like it is 
 touching real skin. The atmosphere heavily relies on the use of the game's creepy audio presentation. 
 So many times while playing Condemned you will jump out of your skin from just hearing an enemies 
 footsteps or breathing. The voice acting is well done for how little there is of it. You will only 
 here your character talk when he gets on his cell phone to communicate with his friend back at 
 HQ. But thats okay. The environmental sound effects easily carry this game to new heights.
  
  Condemned will take you 8-12 hours to finish it. It is worth revisiting to collect all the 
 unlockable achievements the game has to offers, though. For $60 this game is worth it for a person 
 intrigued by the aggressive combat and dark plot. If you are easily frightened, you will want to 
 stay far away from this game. It is one the most, if not the most, disturbing and intense games 
 ever made. Condemned can be summed up by saying this, "it is as good as it is scary." If you are 
 a Xbox 360 owner and looking for a change of pace, check out Condemned: Criminal Origins. 
  
  Gamespoting,
  This is the sole property of Gamespoting's mind. It shall not be copied or 
 reproduced in anyway without the author's consent and approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagbee
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Just finished Condemned: Criminal Origins and I came away with mixed feelings. Overall, it was 
 a great idea that could have used some better writing. It is a very dark game, literally and figuratively. 
 Very atmospheric with frequent genuinely scary moments. It is really creepy to explore the dark 
 and dirty environments and not know when someone or something might pop out of nowhere and attack. 
 That part of the game is so well done that you feel like you are in a horror movie. But the story 
 line ends up being the problem. Varying degrees of success throughout the chapters have an impact 
 on how much is revealed to you at the end of the game. I had a high rate of success but still found 
 myself unsatisfied at the end. The combat is kicka** though, with a such a variety of weapons and 
 very entertaining finishing moves. You can fight with almost anything you can get your hands on, 
 and the gore is sweet (not for kids) . The sound is great and builds tension and suspense. Really, 
 everything was top notch except that the story could have done with some better writing and a more 
 coherent ending. I do recommend this game if you like being scared, but some, like me, might find 
 yourself a little displeased with the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEvil360
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is one of the best games on the 360. I have a 360, and I beat this game in about five 
 days because it's a little short, but this game is great. The game-play is great, and the villains 
 aren't so easy to beat, but there not hard to beat either. The villains were easy for me to beat 
 because i'm really good at these types of games. This game has amazing graphics with a lot of details. 
 If you like action games that are scary, this game is for you. If you have 360, and you don't have 
 Condemned, get it!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse849
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 25, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is one of the release titles for the xbox 360. Being that it was a release title i didnt 
 expect it to be made of gold, but i had the money and decided might as well try. The gameplay was 
 pretty much addictive. Im ashamned to say that it was incredibly fun to take a paper cutter to 
 mans face or getting the butt of a SMG and complely raping anything that it came in contact with. 
 The graphics were extremely good, the shadings were something for condemned to brag about. The 
 only problem I had with condemned was that it was extremely short and I kinda felt like the slapped 
 the ending together just to put the game out with the release of the xbox 360. All and all the 
 game was extremely fun but dont waste the money buying it rent it first and then take it back the 
 next day for the dollar credit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emperor26
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Of all the survival horror games out there, "Condemned: Criminal Origins" is perhaps the most terrifying 
 game out there, contributed by the best looking graphics and gameplay.
  
  The plot focuses on Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent in an unnamed city, who's investigating on recent 
 crimes that has become deadly violent. But his investigation soon puts him on the run from the 
 cops, accused of killing two detectives he's working with. But as he gets deeper into his work, 
 he soon uncovers something more disturbing than he's willing to discover.
  
  With good fights, great cutscenes and many original ways to give a good fright, "Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins" is worthy for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter-ekali
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Finally just the game I was looking for! A game that doesn't only have action, but you can investigate 
 crime scenes, hunt the serial killer and the storyline gets deeper and deeper as you play the game! 
 Really creepy especially if you play it in a big HD tv with Dolby surround in the dark by yourself! 
 Next generation graphics with spectacular controls, this is easily the best horror/adventure game 
 yet, you can't let go of the controller you want to see what's gonna happen next but at the same 
 time you want to open the lights and hide in your sheets, it is so intense that's what it makes 
 it such a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  this game, i guess, is unpleasant. it was only a couple of years ago that we were saving up magical 
 gold doubloons to buy a unicorn made of marshmallows and happy thoughts. but now were smashing 
 tramps' heads in with nail-studded bats and stuffing dead birds in our pockets as bonus points. 
 for those that thought silent hill was a bit short on vicious pipe-beatings, then condemed's going 
 to be right up your urine-stained alley. it's all thanks to the brilliant, atmospherics, those 
 tramps snarl, sprint, rip things of the walls, knock things over and swing wild backhands even 
 after you've cracked them acroos the face with a hammer. its brilliantly realized atmosphere covers 
 up shaky gameplay, but still excellent stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RVCA823
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is an excellent horror title that places you in the feet of FBI agent Ethan Thomas, who 
 must find the man who framed him for the death of two officers. The story is quite complex and 
 interesting, it brings you to a whole new dimesion with frights and insanity. 
  
  The graphics remain the best of all 360 titles, (even G. R. A. W) whether it be the bashed head of 
 an enemy, or the wonderful lighting, Condemned doesn't fail to please. The gore and disgust found 
 in this game can not be compared to any game, movie, or anything for that matter.
  
  The sound is absolutely amazing. The soundtrack is very immersive, in that it brings you in the 
 game. In this game, sounds are one of your only options in finding your enemy. The eerie sounds 
 and grunts bring this game to life.
  
  The gameplay is wonderful, and quite satisfying. This portion of the game has been heavily criticized 
 as being too repetitive or boring. I certainly beg to differ, this game is very violent and fun. 
 The game takes place in first person view, and you are to find your weapons. The enemy AI is very 
 advanced. You will be very impressed after seeing what these guys can do. Your weapons are, but 
 are not limited to: sledgehammers, 2x4s, large pipes, conduits, shotguns (low ammo though) , pistols, 
 fire axes, large signs, desk tops, and other various tools and items. You are also given a taser, 
 which needs to recharge after one shot. This game relies on stealth at times. Sometimes more than 
 four enemies may appear without warning, and thus this may get quite difficult at times. You may 
 save anywhere but if you chose not to, the game automatically saves via checkpoints. When injured, 
 a health pack when found. You normally need one to fill your health bar.
  
  The replay value is very good in that there are many achievements to unlock. You are given a chance 
 to collect dead birds and metal pieces throughout the game. There are six birds and three pieces 
 of metal to find in each level. You may also receive additional achievements by completing a level, 
 and finding an Xbox 360 in a secret room. The game should take you about ten to fifteen hours if 
 your are determined to find everything.
  
  Condemned is a must buy for anyone with an Xbox 360. It is one of the most polished games to be 
 released on the system. The cinematics are quite impressive and the story is immersive. Don't believe 
 those who say the level design is poor or that the gameplay is repetitive, that is all nonsense. 
 
  In conclusion, you will be very afraid from the atmosphere, the gore, and the enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game has great gameplay, the controls could've been a little bit better and the 
 story most definitely needed to be longer. For people going through the game for their first time 
 the story might come off as a little confusing.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are done really good, the enemy models look really good and the environment 
 as well. Even every melee weapon or firearm that the game has to offer looks extremely good.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is done really well, for example when your in a battle with an 
 enemy and you block you hear that "clanking" noise and it sounds so good and well done. There are 
 many other intricate sounds within the game that sound real and life-like.
  
  Value: This is where the game really loses its rating, first off the game is just too damn short 
 and there really isn't any replay value at all, the only value to going back through the game is 
 to understand the story better or to collect all the Birds or Metal pieces to unlock more achievements. 
 In the long run the value for this game is between not so good and average.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This game is good, its a solid FPS action game that is worth a rental or a borrowing 
 from a friend. If you really want to buy this game then do so I would recommend it if its not that 
 important to you just wait until it goes down to $20.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is the first horror game on the Xbox 360 and will not disappoint anyone 
 who is a fan of creepy, horror games. Your Agent Ethan Thomas on a case to find the serial killer 
 "The Matchmaker". You will use gun, pipes and forensic technology to help you.
  
  When you first start it not scary at all. It's almost like a mystery FPS, which is a nice change 
 for your average "Kill anything that moves FPS". You'll use your forensic tools to find foot prints, finger 
 prints, blood trails ,ect, once you get enough clues you get a flash back to what happen and a 
 clue what to do next. When some crazy bum comes after you just pull a pipe from the wall and smash 
 his head into the ground. There are moments that are strange (Why do I need to sledge hammer to 
 break a lock when the end of my gun is just as good?)
  
  Do not let the first few stages fool you! This game will get dark and creepy fast. Wondering what 
 is moving in the shadows, what are those painful screams coming from? It like something from "Silent 
 Hill" (That is a good thing.) We need more games like this on the Xbox 360. It a great story and 
 just pulls you in. The music set the tone perfectly, all you need to do is play it at night with 
 all the lights off. Condemned: Criminal Origins is one game that everyone should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66550
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 16, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'd like to start by saying that Condemned is a good game. Its graphics are incredible, 
 along with sounds that will make jump. The game is a good mix of horror, thriller and action.
 
  
  Now that I have that out of the way, the first thing is the fighting. The game, while the story 
 is based on a crime, is mainly about trying to find the most gruesome way to saluter your foes, 
 ay that be with a steam pipe, a paper cutter, a metal sign, or my favorite, the sawed-off shotgun. 
 After the first 2 or so chapter, I started to get bored.
  
  I listed as only playing for "10 hours or less" and I usually like playing a game much longer before 
 writing a reveiw, but I completed the game on normal difficulty in less than 8 hours. If I didn't 
 get so board playing for long periods of time, I could do it in one sitting. But, alas, the game 
 gets so repetitive, I quit after an hour and a half and go eat or something. Besides from once 
 and a while getting lost, the game is relatively easy. I wanted to go back and complete it again 
 on hard, but I just would get board, as the whole shock-value of the game is gone.
  
  Overall, I liked Condemned. My only beef though is it's repetitiveness and lack of replay value. 
 I did not buy this game, I rented it for 2 weeks, finished it, and sent it back. I encourage you 
 to do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffythewise
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is freakin perfect. I have only played for like 6 hours, and still I already find the 
 game amazing. The world you are in is so cool; I mean you can actually pull pipes and 2x4s off 
 the wall and kill crackheads with them. The game is pretty scary. It's really dark, like in doom 
 you get a flash light that you can use to help yourself see, but you can't use it to attack people. 
 There are multiple different kinds of weapons you can use in the game, like a shotgun, .45m, fireaxe, 
 sledgehammer, different kinds of pipes, shovels, and... well that's all I've seen so far. There 
 is also a mistery within the mistery. You have a special gift that you learn you have early in 
 the game, but you only learn about it as you progress through the game. You collect dead birds...?...? 
 This game is freakin awsome. Just a word to all my Christian brothers and sisters out there, you 
 might want to play with the sound turned down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameKiller116
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off this is the first game i got for 360 AND i kid you not its GREAT! Personally 
 because i like the forensic tools and the fact that he's and investigator/forensic scientist and 
 what not and thats what i'm majoring. Well other than that the gameplay is good... i mean just the 
 beginning even if you play the demo for it its good. It starts you off on knowing what kind of 
 instincts is that old man talking about as well as trying to catch the guy who not technically 
 framed you but kill those two cops in the beginning. The thing that i don't like bout the game 
 is just that you can barely get any weapons and if you do find one a addict is shootin at you with 
 it and even then when you kill him and you get the gun its only has like 3bullets on it. How in 
 the world it has 3 bullets when it seemed like he's shootin like gazillon bullets... damn crack 
 heads lol. I like the fact that they made the game look and sound really. In some scary games they 
 always have like scary music but in this its like if you are really there without the music just 
 the sound of you panting and the guy screaming and yelling cuz he's soo addicted to god knows what 
 which is cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tehnubbin
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  I can't help but feel after playing through Condemned Criminal Origins, that there is something 
 missing from the game. Not scares, as it doesn't lack some freak-tastic moments... It's definitely 
 not lacking in some of the more technical aspects... the graphics are excellent, (with the exception 
 of a few minor complaints, but I'll get to that later) . The sound is extremely well done, and immerses 
 the player in the environment with spot on sound effects and some great voice-acting. So what is 
 it that's missing from the equation? 
  
  Oh wait! I know... it's the story. What's that, you say? There's plenty of story here, surely. Ok, 
 admittedly, the game really has an incredible story to tell. You are Ethan Thomas, a crack FBI 
 agent, on the trail of a serial killer known as Serial Killer X. Early on, during an investigation, 
 two of the officers you are investigating a recent murder with are killed... with your gun. From 
 this point on, the story really gets a head of steam, with plenty of twists and turns, as you try 
 to solve the case and prove your innocence. On your hunt to find the real killer, you are aided 
 by a handful of handy forensic tools and the one person who believes your innocence, Rosa, whom 
 works in a lab for the FBI and communicates with you through your work cell phone. There is also 
 a man named Vanhoorn... (I'm not going to reveal too much about him, as it's best left a mystery 
 as to what his connection is to the events that take place.)
  
  My only problem with the story is that somewhere near the end, they shift the focus from a gripping 
 detective drama, to an X-files/Outer Limits type of story, without really explaining what in the 
 hell just happened. Now admittedly, they do elude to this a few times throughout Ethan's adventures, 
 but its never expanded upon until the end, at which point, it feels like they just give up on any 
 real story and decide to tack on a boss fight and end the story on a really unsatisfying note. 
 Again, I'm not going to give anything away, but I will say this, if you're looking forward to a 
 real edge of your seat, mind-blowing ending... you will be disappointed. 
  
  Now on to the gameplay, which, as I see it, is easily the most satisfying part of the game, and 
 the only reason I didn't completely give up on the game after the disappointment with the story. 
 The first-person melee combat is exceptionally well done, and the use of the forensics tools to 
 find evidence is also implemented quite well, into the gameplay. However, you don't really have 
 control over which instrument you use at what time throughout the game. Essentially, this makes 
 it feel more like they are spoon-feeding you the answers, rather than letting you get results through 
 trial and error. For some, this is a bonus, but for others, it really takes away from the challenge. 
 As stated the combat is great. For the most part, you start every level without a weapon, but within 
 seconds, you'll find a number of weapons at your disposal as you navigate the maps. There are a 
 plethora of weapons in the game for melee combat, from locker doors, to sledgehammers and fire 
 axes. Each weapon has its own advantages and disadvantages. For example, a sledgehammer is incredibly 
 powerful, but swining it takes time, and will leave you wide-open for attacks. A small pipe on 
 the other hand, will allow you to hit quickly, but lacks any real power behind it, which isn't 
 as handy when fighting a group of people, as you have to hit an enemy a fair bit before putting 
 them down for the count, and by that time, one of your other opponents, is already beating the 
 hell out of you, or worse... There are guns in this game, but not a lot of ammo, per level, so if 
 you feel the need, you can blast your way through some of the level, but most likely, you'll run 
 out of ammo after taking down a couple of your enemies. On the whole, it is much more satisfying 
 taking out someone with the melee weapons, than with the guns, but it's really a matter of personal 
 preferrence and availability. 
  
  The game looks incredible at times... the first person aspects look incredible... it's when the game 
 switches to third person, (during cut-scenes only) , that it starts to look ugly, which is the opposite 
 of any game I've ever played. Ethan looks a little blocky and ugly up-close, and the grainy camera 
 doesn't help during these cutscenes. A minor complaint, but one I feel is valid, being that the 
 first person aspects are so well done. 
  
  The ending aside, fans of freak-out, should definitely at the very least rent this game for a weekend 
 (it's not very long, so you shouldn't have any trouble getting through most of it in one weekend,) 
 and anyone looking for some engaging gameplay will be satisfied with what they get. However, a 
 rushed ending and some minor complaints with the story at-large may turn off those gamers looking 
 for a bit more substance. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is not intended to be played at night! I have owned this game since the 22nd of November 
 when the dear old 360 was released. I have played it quite a few times and I have to say this game 
 is very good. The visuals to me could have been better and the actions of the enemy's AI could 
 have done better also. It is really hard to say if this would be concidered a true NEXT-GEN experience. 
 I like the game don't get me wrong... but I feel they "SEGA" could have put a little bit more realizm 
 in the game for a NEXT-GENERATION experience. The game holds value... just not $59.99 plus tax value... or 
 hard to say. It has a few cool achievements... and it keeps you going... not to mention will freak 
 you out and feel as if you are playing the original RESIDENT EVIL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I have again borrowed another game from my friend, this time he lent me Condemned. 
  
  I have been wondering the dark, freak infested halls of the game now for about 6 hours.... However, 
 I do not believe that it is as easy to get lost in the game as GameSpot claims... there are differences 
 in the rooms and hallways as long as you pay attention to them.
  
  Ok, the controls are very simple and easy to remember.... the hand to hand combat takes a little 
 getting used to though... especially getting the timeing down to block effectively.... I find that 
 using your stungun first works out very well in most situations.... and if you're not using the 
 stun gun... you are just making combat much harder on yourself....
  
  I found that guns are a little easier to come by than I thought they would be even though you usually 
 only get 3-4 bullets per gun. I always wait until the enemies are very close before I shoot, and 
 it is best to hit them in the head.
  If you hurt an enemy, but they aren't quite dead, sometimes they will get back up off the floor 
 and kneel there for a few seconds, during this window you will be able to execute a finishing move 
 by walking up to them and selecting a move with the D-pad when the option appears.
  
  The enviroment is pretty interactive, you can break small things, move chairs and kick bottles 
 and stuff as you walk. 
  
  You will also find that you will be collecting dead decaying birds and little scraps of metal... not 
 sure why, but you unlock achievements by doing so...
  
  GameSpot does a good job of summing up the characterists of the story line, so I'm not going to 
 bother.... other than to say that I agree with GameSpot on this one.... the story kinda leaves me 
 hangin'.....
  
  Overall, this is a great game, its comparible to Resident Evil, but FPS style... Anyone who likes 
 violent and or twisted games, this ones for you...
  
  Its atleast worth renting or borrowing.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleplaya319
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was a great experience. Basically it's a first person beat down game. You get at least 
 20 melee weapons and six actual guns. The weapons include
  regular pistol, revolver pistol, shotgun, sub machine gun, double barrel shotgun, and some sort 
 of sniper rifle gun that you only get to use at the end of the game. You don't get to use many 
 guns in the game but that o. k. I prefer using melee weapons. You can basically use anything from 
 a hammer to an axe, to a locker door. The game if your wondering isn't really that scary it just 
 has a few surprises and a spooky envirement. Like once when I was playing I went into a room turned 
 around and there was a guy banging at the window, that and you somtimes have a guy come out of 
 the dark and smack you with a pipe. The story mode in the game is at least 12 hours long. It's 
 a game that I would replay at least twice. Like greg k said they drag out using melee weapons but 
 o'well it's fun to smack people with a pipe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xoverkillx
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a very underated game if you ask me.. It is very addicting and it is really a blast. 
 The only bad down thing about this game is the longevity. It is a very short game. (Like You could 
 beat it in a weekend.) Condemned is a great game to rent but I probably wouldnt reccomend buying 
 it because its so short. Its a great game in your collection though if you have an extra 60$ to 
 spare because it is fun. Achievments also give this game more replay value for those of you people 
 who are addicted to achievments like the rest of us.. All in all this game is truly a great game 
 have fun playing it i'm sure you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mil-key-lik
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is just the start of something much greater. I believe the PS3 will come out with their 
 own brand of horror-game that will blow this one out of the water. For now i will settle with slightly 
 above average graphics and sound. Condemned is only half a foot step ahead of Half-life 2. I just 
 expect allot more out of my next-gen systems.
  
  This game is coming out soon for PC and it makes me wonder.... will this run better on the computer 
 just like Quake 4 did? This game is not as good as Microsoft thinks. Just imagine Doom 3 with enemies 
 that are alittle more complicated. Thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is just sick, and I love it! Its not the most graphical game for the 360, but it is one 
 of the most intence! The gameplay is good, even though there are times when I wanted to have to 
 actually figure something out myself, meaning the game kind of holds your hand at times, guiding 
 you through the levels. I do have to admit, there is nothing more satisfying than tasering a guy 
 that is trying to hit you with a subway sign, just to take the sign away from him while he is stunned 
 and beating him with it! The sound affects just add to the creepiness of the game. It is a great 
 game to play with surround sound. Especially when you whack someone over the head with a pipe, 
 you can feel the skull crack! It's a great game to have in the collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is underrated how can this game get an 8.0 it should at least get a 9.1.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Possibly the best FPF (first person fighter) ever but the gameplay gets very 
 boring because all you do is press hit an block there aren't diffrent types of hits.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Flawless graphics for a 360 launch game it feels so realistic that what makes 
 this game so scary it's immersive and thats because of the graphics.
  
  Sound 10/10 
  
  the sound in this game makes so scary it sends chills down my back at some parts. Flawless sound.
 
  
  Value 8/10
  
  Game is pretty short but you might want to finish the game again because of the achievements such 
 as collecting the metal and dead birds
  
  Tilt 9/10
  
  Fun game but it got boring after a while of doing the same hit and block move.
  
  Get this 
 game if you like survival horror!!! I highly recommend a purchase but you must rent this game just 
 to try it you won't be disappointed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to love than beating up sociopaths while playing a game? The games moody atmosphere and 
 its run-down locals add a tense surrounding to the game and has you looking around the corner everytime. 
 Pretty much, the combat is decent and the finishing moves are pretty cool. There is only one problem 
 with the finishing moves, they all are executed the same way. If you snap someone's neck, Agent 
 Ethan Thomas has no variety in his executions and therefore, kills them the same way. At least 
 there are 3 other moves and give you a great way to rid someone. It gets hard at first when going 
 against one weirdo but when you go against two, you'll be dying quite a bit. It takes time to get 
 used to going against three or four people but try and get them to hit each other so they start 
 to fight and kick back and watch the show! One big problem I saw in the game, is that it reverts 
 to the bodies disappearing. I thought we got rid of this in games these days. Thats why F. E. A. R. 
 is a great game because it keeps the madness you left but still the limbs disappear. But we are 
 not talking about F. E. A. R. Like I was saying though, we are killing people, not ghosts. This can 
 make it hard as you keep searching where you have been or not have been. The enviroment isn't really 
 all that interactive, sure you can take a lead pipe off the wall but I want to use like a piece 
 of sharp glass. There isn't a way to be stealthy, so pretty much you're the one being hunted. The 
 combat and visuals are good, but it still needs room for improvement. It did though leave a great 
 impression on me and I will definetely pick up the sequel if one ever develops. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Sega really doesn't have the reputation of making games like Condemned: Criminal Orgins, but there 
 is a first for everything. And this first really satisfies any gamer's cravings. You have excellent 
 gameplay from every perspective. You can use nearly anything as a melee weapon, you have state-of-the-art 
 forensic tools that come with a helpful assistant, and you can beat and kill your enemies in many 
 different ways. Also, the control of your player is top notch. You won't find yourself becoming 
 angry at over-sensitivity or dying because of the game's gameplay. Now, if the you think the gameplay 
 is great, the graphics are quite arguably the best on the 360. The light reflection on your environment 
 makes it look REAL at times and the clarity of almost everything is amazing. The only downfall 
 is some minor unrefined spots and that's about it. The sound is superb. This game is quite valuable 
 too because it gives a psychotic type thrill along with amazing visuals that make this game uncomparble 
 to any other. This game is sweet and you definity will not feel anything but satisfaction once 
 your done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideogamer
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to scary moments in games I've generally been around the block. I've played Resident 
 Evil 4 which, just as an example, had you being chased by chain-saw wielding maniacs and monsters 
 that are beyond terrifying. I've played F. E. A. R. which gave you a true sense of fear by constantly 
 messing with your head with methods such as the old-fashioned "creepy little girl" routine which 
 seems to still work to this day. But when it comes to pure jump-out-of-your-seat scares there is 
 one game that blows them all away.
  
  Condemned is a First Person Shooter/Survival Horror Game. The plot casts you as Ethan Thomas who 
 is in charge of the Serial Crimes unit. Truthfully I'm reading off of another review because I 
 don't know the exact details as the plot never really covers those. But continuing, while investigating 
 a murder he and his team realize that someone is still near the crime scene and when you do end 
 up finding the source of the noise Ethan gets his gun stolen and used to kill to kill two innocent 
 men (although this happens immediately into the game I don't want to spoil who gets the bullet 
 in their heads) and Ethan gets blamed for it. So Ethan is on the run of a man who appears to be 
 another serial murderer (at least until you find out what he's truly up to) so that he can prove 
 his innocence and he does it all while running through a crime-infested city.
  
  About fifteen minutes after you start up the game you'll be plunged into action so enjoy the calm 
 before the storm because it's just about all you get. This is a first-person game but the emphasis 
 on fire-arms is exceptionally minimal considering that not only are these gun severely under-powered 
 with almost no ammo inside these pickups (you're stuck with what's inside the gun) but there's 
 an accomplishment that you get if you beat all the levels without using guns. Instead, you'll be 
 using whatever you can hold in your little two hands.
  
  If there's anything that has to be said about this game is that playing it requires massive endurance 
 through some of the scariest moments you'll ever experience. It's unnerving enough that you and 
 up hearing all kinds of noises coming from potential foes but the sheer knowledge that one of these 
 guys could be standing right behind you will make you want to stop playing and just never have 
 to be this terrified again. But really, that's the beauty of it all is that it's an experience 
 that you'll never forget and the game sticks with scares which are completely original in the genre 
 of survival horror reminding you why you you didn't want to go into the basement without the lights 
 on. And I'd just be getting started with the terrors this game throws at you.
  
  You'll be running through levels which are all places that at first glance you're reaction will 
 be "aw, HELL no!" and then you'll see the words appear on your screen "investigate the noise in 
 the basement (that basement which does not have any working lights) " in which you're response will 
 be "oh, GOODIE". And to top it all off whenever you're in one of the cutscenes (which are the things 
 you'll be praying for for about the whole level) you'll generally get dialogue that gives you lines 
 like "you'll have to go there to investigate but watch out because no one has been there for years" 
 or "you'll have to follow him there but watch out as that's a bad place with bad people" in which 
 your response will be "WONDERFUL". Every environment in extremely unnerving as well even when you 
 know that there isn't anyone there.
  
  As you'll feel the safest in the cutscenes (of course) you might feel just as safe when you stop 
 getting bombarded with scary noises and actually fight people as you won't have to worry about 
 peeing your pants from the sudden shock of being hit from behind. Combat, which the game will plunge 
 you into very quickly, generally has you using just about anything the game will allow you to use 
 (you can't pick up anything unfortunately) which consists of lead pipes, lot's of those, 2x4s, 
 and level-specific items such as the sharp part of a paper cutter (not to be confused with a box 
 cutter) or a wooden sign. There are also special weapons like the fire axe and sledgehammer which 
 you need to get by most of the obstacles in the game.
  
  And now for the actual combat. You'll find that you'll be finding a lot of psychos roaming around 
 the side (crime waves do that) as well as drug addicts and demons (or drug addicts who look like 
 demons or vise-verse) . Although the game never explains the demons at all. Drugs generally don't 
 allow you to crawl on the ground faster than most people can run. Or do they? Anyway, in combat 
 you use the left trigger to block, the right trigger to swing your weapon or use let loose with 
 your fire-arm (which I've already advised you not to use so I shouldn't bother to mention) and 
 you can click the right joystick to use a kick to say, follow up an attack. If you're not into 
 lots of small details then I suggest you skip the next paragraph (or two depending on how long 
 it takes me to explain all this stuff.
  
  Another one of your weapons in the game is a taser which you can use to temporarily stun your foes. 
 You will find this to be one of your best weapons as it seems to be powerful enough to shock these 
 guys from about three feet away. It does have a ten-second charge after you use it so do be careful 
 about when you use it. And because you are a detective after all you do have to do a bit of crime 
 research in hopes of finding more clues as to whoever it is that framed you. These sections are 
 pretty simple as the game generally leads you through the whole process of tracking foot-prints, 
 doing DNA matching and so on. Though the only tough part of these is that they can be pretty unnerving 
 as you're still capable of getting attacked by one of the local crazies while you do so. While 
 this does add some method of difficulty to the process it would be nice for these scenes to be 
 a bit more interactive other than just push the button to find out who killed this guy.
  
  While the game-play mechanics generally hold their own the one thing in this game that stands out 
 is the presentation. This is probably the best example so far of what the 360 is truly capable 
 of. The graphics look stunning and do a fine job of really displaying the gritty crime-ridden city 
 and the character models really look great generally with your enemies who display some very realistic 
 movements and react to your blows with stunning realism. This game has won multiple awards for 
 best sound design and let me tell you, it deserved them. Your foes cry out in pain and anger with 
 dire realism that displays just how gruesome some of the game's combat is. You'll hear your enemies 
 knock over walking through these areas occasionally knock over a can or something to remind you 
 that you're not alone and that trouble is coming. While presentation is always top-notch in horror 
 games Condemned takes the cake is just how good a game as scary as this should look and sound.
 
  
  One of the only problems with Condemned is that while there is incentive to go back and earn some 
 of the Achievements if you can handle going through these levels again the game is pretty short 
 and pretty easy and with no multiplayer of any kind to back it up you'll probably be taking this 
 one back to the store mighty quickly. But while the experience is indeed short and is a bit short 
 on the fun it's truly remarkable in just how much a game can truly terrify you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing Condemned: Criminal Origins for the Xbox 360 and I have to say that it 
 is a really great game. I really like that Sega released an original game that is not your standard 
 first person shooter/ survival horror game. 
  The game play is really good, it plays like a first person shooter, but you only get a certain 
 amount of ammunition and most of the time you will pick up pipes, crowbars, sledgehammers, and 
 many other weapons. When you have a weapon other than a gun, the right trigger swings the weapon 
 and the left trigger performs a block and it works really well. Sega also did a great story for 
 this game. The story truly immerses you in the game and makes you want to track down Serial Killer 
 X as well as all the enemies coming out of nowhere gets pretty scary and intense. 
  The graphics are good, but they could definitely be a lot better, I could understand other gamers 
 saying this title does not look too next-gen, but overall it gets the job done. Sega did a great 
 job on the sound, it is really neat to hear your enemies yelling and moaning from across the room, 
 it gives you a heads up on where they are at, but it is still scary when the pop up on the screen
 
  Condemned is a very fun game to play, it is pretty easy to learn so anyone could just pick it 
 up and play it. The game is pretty short and if you really put a day or two into it, you can probably 
 beat it. There are plenty of achievements to unlock for those of you who are hooked on those points 
 like I am. Overall I tip my hat to Sega for releasing a really good and original game for the Xbox 
 360. I bought the game, but I have to say it is more of a rental. Hopefully we will see a sequel 
 to the game with better graphics, a story line just as good or better than this one, and more length 
 to the game. If you have not played this game already, go give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Ill be the first to admit that Condemned: Criminal Origins is the game that truly sold the XBox 
 360 for me. I played through the entire Flash demo of the game, only to find out that what was 
 cunningly labeled as a prelude to the game actually had very little to do with the game itself. 
 The quick, 30-second trailer that followed after it showed that the actual game  instead of being 
 a mind-boggling adventure style point-and-click game  was instead going to be a FPS that concentrated 
 more on melee combat and had the possibility of some light puzzle-solving. Still, the action looked 
 fast and furious, and it still seemed interesting enough, so I knew this was definitely going to 
 be a game I purchased. Flash-forward to present day, and Condemned indeed became the first 360 
 game I brought into my collection. The action was indeed fast paced, and it was interesting enough, 
 but I came away feeling that the story didnt really have a chance to develop itself fully, leaving 
 me with the impression that this game was half-formed.
  
  You assume the role of FBI Agent Ethan Thomas, whos rumored to be a pretty slick investigator 
 when it comes to serial killers. The citys been run rampant with these psychos, as well as your 
 ordinary street thugs and hoodlums, and the Bureau has come under a tremendous amount of pressure 
 to put a stop to the madness in the streets. You get dropped right into the middle of this crime 
 wave, as Ethan travels to a crime scene where the most recent victim of a killer called the Match 
 Maker has been discovered. The opening sequence quickly gets you familiar with the controls and 
 the variety of high-tech forensic gear Ethan has at his disposal, and even shows you the games 
 first real surprise: Ethans apparently got some sort of clairvoyance ability that lets him see 
 how crimes played themselves out. This helps him to locate clues easily, so whenever he gets a 
 strange feeling, you know its time to whip out the detective gear. This instinct alone seems to 
 be the only thing thats helped him become such an accomplished agent, however; all of the real 
 detective work is done by his lab counterpart, Rosa, who analyzes all the data Ethan sends her 
 via cell phone. After this brief tutorial is finished, the game hits the ground running, and youll 
 be navigating your way through a dilapidated office building in search of your suspect. And then 
 youll navigate through a dilapidated back alley; dilapidated train station; dilapidated mall; 
 etc. It seems that Ethan never gets the opportunity to go somewhere nice, mostly because hes hanging 
 out in the slums, wandering through areas that look creepy and eerie, but also seem to be the same 
 thing over and over again. Heres a pile of trash, heres a bunch of desks blocking this entrance; 
 heres a dark office set in a corner; lets go down to this basement and navigate around fifty 
 water heaters.
  
  Granted, the heightened graphical ability of the 360 makes these areas look very realistic, and 
 the only real frame rate issues youll encounter occur when you reach a checkpoint, which is a 
 very good thing since everything that happens will hit you very quickly. FLASH! Enemies close in 
 on you from all directions, swinging pipes, boards, doors, whatever they can get their hands on. 
 FLASH! Ethan has some strange vision. FLASH! Whip out the detective gear, while keeping an eye 
 out for doped-up thugs that want to bash your brains in. The game hits you at a rapid pace, which 
 also serves as its ultimate downfall, because the games over before you really had a chance to 
 sink your teeth into it. Its possible to breeze through this title in less than 15 hours, which 
 is pretty standard for an FPS, but I feel that the game could definitely have been expanded in 
 certain areas. Certainly, it would have been nice to see a little bit of variety, and maybe even 
 a little more story content. Its hard to truly enjoy a game when you walk away feeling slightly 
 cheated by it.
  
  Condemneds controls are very simple to pick up. Theres not a whole lot of weapon management to 
 worry about; Agent Thomas is limited to picking up one weapon at a time. As a result, when youre 
 approaching a new area and youve got a bunch of weapons lying about, youll have to decide whether 
 you want to rely on a sturdy melee weapon with good speed or hard-hitting power, or if you want 
 to trust in a firearm with only a few rounds in it. Regarding the firearms, while there is the 
 occasional pistol and shotgun lying about, you wont find any extra ammo in convenient boxes; youre 
 stuck with whatevers in the clip. Keep that in mind when youre choosing your weapons.
  
  For those interested, Condemned features a number of ways to get accomplishment points. Naturally 
 you have chapter completion points, but you can also up your score by finding metal pieces and 
 dead birds that are scattered about the levels. There are a variety of other types of accomplishments 
 you can find, but discovering these is part of the fun of the game, and will at least warrant you 
 another play through or two. The story isnt really interesting enough  or complete enough  to 
 do the same, but given the games noteworthy AI and the completely random stuff that occurs to 
 Ethan as hes wandering about make balances out this deficiency. If anything, it may be worth playing 
 again just to crack some heads open with a gas pipe.
  
  Gameplay  Pretty straightforward. Condemned gives you a limited HUD, providing a cross-hair only 
 when armed with a firearm, and giving you a look at your health bar constantly, so the screen is 
 thankfully uncluttered. This is good, because youll be searching for clues in very dark areas, 
 so you dont want a lot of junk distracting you or blocking your vision. The enemy AI is noteworthy 
 enough, at least in its unpredictable nature. You can never tell when a junkies going to lurk 
 in the shadows or just come plummeting out of the ceiling at you. Theres not a whole lot of opportunities 
 to go off and explore. Most of the paths will be blocked off, and venturing far enough into the 
 right path will cause doors to close and lock behind you, restricting you from visiting even the 
 marginal side paths.
  
  Graphics  Graphically, the game is just shy of outstanding. The character models look very realistic, 
 and the melee combat elements look and feel real. The only real gripe here is that a lot of the 
 environments look the same, so its easy to get lost while wandering around, especially if youve 
 just been cracked upside the head and everything is blurred for a moment. 
  
  Sound  Voice acting is top notch, and the music adds a very creepy atmosphere, finishing the tone 
 that the graphics have set into place. 
  
  Value  As mentioned, the game is very short, and the only real replay value I can find is in gaining 
 every accomplishment point you can out of it. But hey, maybe that works for you. 
  
  Tilt  Its short, and repetitive, but it was still a fun game. If you can look past the undeveloped 
 story, Condemned is a fun little FPS and the detective elements are interesting enough, though 
 not enough to really carry the game. There could have been more, but what there is of the game 
 is enough to demonstrate the sheer power of the 360, and give us a good taste for whats to come.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  since it was a scary and suspensful game i had to play and am very glad to have done so. The games 
 story has many twists and turns and can keep you interested. the ending suggests a condemned 2 
 and i sure hope so. the fighting takes a little understanding or at least timeing but is fun after 
 a while and the atmosphere is creepy, chilling and horrific. ai may be a little on the slow side 
 as if you run far enough back from them they run back from you. overall not quite a buy but a good 
 rent and easy achievments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  By taking pages from the cult classic movie Se7en and the hit television show CSI, developer Monolith 
 Productions newest game Condemned: Criminal Origins is an engaging hodgepodge of action, atmosphere, 
 and suspense.
  
  In the game, players take control of FBI agent Ethan Thomas as he tracks down the Matchmaker, 
 the citys newest serial killer, with the aid of his versatile forensic toolkit and knowledge of 
 crime scene investigation. However as the story unfolds, something much darker and sinister broods 
 as Ethan discovers that a vigilante serial killer has surfaced and is slowly baiting and killing 
 all of Ethans unrestrained murderers.
  
  To make matters worse, this Serial Killer X shoots and kills two fellow FBI agents with Ethans 
 gun and frames him for the crime. Now on the run from his own department, Ethan must try to pursue 
 and subdue Serial Killer X in hopes of stopping future deaths and more importantly proving his 
 innocence.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is best described as a grisly look into the seedy underworld of drugs 
 and violence. On the path to capturing the crazed serial killer, Ethan will encounter numerous 
 disturbed individuals all juiced up on a new street drug that makes its users extremely paranoid 
 and ultra violent.
  
  These arent the type of thugs that typically sit and wait for someone to come along and dispatch 
 of them, but rather will do anything in their power to make sure Ethan doesnt make it out alive. 
 The amount of intelligence that the bad guys possess in this game is downright creepy at times 
 as theyll hide, stalk, and attack players at every unsuspecting twist and turn of a level. And 
 dont even expect that theyre coming to a fight without weapons.
  
  The disturbing aspect of Condemned is that even though the game looks and plays just like a first 
 person shooter, youll rarely come across any guns to use. Weapons in this game are usually makeshift 
 items found throughout levels. These include shovels, fire axes, wooden 2x4s, sledgehammers, and 
 even pipes that can be ripped from the walls. Each item has its own strength and weakness, but 
 unfortunately they all have one thing in common; they require gamers to get up close and personal 
 with their enemies to use.
  
  This can be quite intimidating at times, especially when gamers find themselves in the situation 
 where the room up ahead is occupied with two or three strung-out druggies with the common goal 
 of destruction on their minds.
  
  If that wasnt bad enough, the places where these guys hang out are quite fear-inducing as well. 
 Gamers are required to traverse through old dilapidated train stations, school buildings, farm 
 houses, and other dark environments that will keep gamers uncomfortable the entire time theyre 
 there.
  
  While Condemned does a lot of things right, it is far from perfect. The game itself runs around 
 ten hours long and due to the lack of variety in gameplay can become quite monotonous at times. 
 While for the most part the story is interesting and helps keep the game flowing, by the end of 
 the game the story ends up raising more questions rather than solving the ones at hand. 
  
  One could argue that it is a setup for a sequel, but it really ends up feeling more like a rushed 
 ending. Either way its quite discouraging for a gamer to invest 10 hours into a game that starts 
 out with a great story, and then by the end of the game end up in far left field with untied loose 
 ends.
  
  But failed story aside, Condemned: Criminal Origins is well worth playing. It will keep gamers 
 on the edge of their seats with its spooky atmosphere and designs, yet in the end gamers will appreciate 
 the amazing graphics and smooth gameplay of the game, which is exactly what makes Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins an excellent launch title for the new Microsoft X-Box 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Pros.
  Extremely good grahics. 
  Dark, moody atmosphere is pulled off well.
  Good looking and functional combat.
  
  Cons.
  Why am I picking up dead birds?
  Some minor 
 collision dection issues I think, doesn't always hit when it looks like I do.
  
  I'm not an overly big fan of horrorish games; I'm easily frightened.
  Some of the better known 
 games in horror, F. E. A. R. and Resident Evil 4 for example; don't even cause me to flinch. They 
 aren't particularly scary.
  No matter how many times it happens, I always jump in my seat when a crazed drug addict pops up 
 from around the corner and tries beating the heck out of me with a 2x4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoyStyx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Condemned for the XBox 360 is truly a sweetly scary experience for those who desire to test out 
 some of the abilities of a new 360. This game will surely show some of the awesome things that 
 this console can produce out of a game.
  
  Although somewhat of an experience shorter than I would have liked, Condemned is going to be one 
 of those experiences that I will remember about a game for a very long time. It's been a while 
 since a game actually put fear and paranoia into me and with that, I give this game its props. 
 Make sure you play this game...... in the DARK!!! Muhahaha!!!
  
  Sweet graphics, great lighting and shadow, awesome controls, fantastic enemy A. I., great investigative 
 gadetry, and weapons that feel powerful in your hands, this has become one of my favorite games 
 that I can actually play again just to experience those edge-of-your-seat feelings all over again. 
 (I know, very masochistic!)
  
  Although I truly adored a lot about this game, I did have some problems with some of the close 
 ups of the main character and other characters in the game. Some of these close ups looked oddly 
 deformed looking and strangely "mish-mashed" for some weird reason. I wonder why time wasn't taken 
 to smooth out the appearances of these characters. 
  
  Condemend is a game I am recommending on a lot of what it has to offer for those seeking an experiences 
 which will have them jump out of their own skins. If you can although, either buy this game used 
 or rent it due to its short (but incredible) fearsome ride.
  
  Hey, I smell a dead bird......
  
  Enjoy gamers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mack10
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Criminal Origins, like Greg Kasavin said it, has a lot of room for improvement and it's unfortunate 
 the corners it cuts, because it could've been, should've been, would've been, but simply isn't.
 
  
  Condemned starts you off as a detective looking for a serial killer, and the game is quick to put 
 you in suspense, which I really liked about it. From the early stages of the story, you're hooked, 
 and you ache to know more, and that's always a good thing. Unfortunatley, that's one of the few 
 good things about this game, that could've really been something.
  
  The good: this game has really beautiful graphics (gameplay graphics, not during cutscenes though) , 
 it really fails to disappoint on that end; great textures, great lighting, and good looking enviornments 
 to run around in (but very bad shadows, but no big deal really) . The game also has a very fun combat 
 system, because I don't know many people who wouldn't seize the opportunity to beat the crap out 
 of crazy, blood craved, insane (Ganado like) beings and although the combat is "straight through" 
 simple, the game does get challenging a times. If you're into forensic science, you'll also appreciate 
 the little gadgets you carry along with you, although you don't have a choice on when to use them, 
 but it's a cool little addition nonetheless.
  
  The bad: the game is short, only about 10 hours, although Achievements will have you playing it 
 a couple times through (if you're into that stuff) . The game's guns really... reek; first off, there 
 is a smal variety to find, and each only has about 3-5 rounds before you have to discard of the 
 gun or use it as a blunt weapon (which I found ammusing) . Forensic equipment, as I said before, 
 is very limited and although fun, it's just too simplistic and doesn't add the depth you'd like. 
 Finally, if you're someone who like their First Person Shooters fast paced, you don't want this 
 game; It's slow paced and you walk by default, and in order to run (you have a fatigue gauge by 
 the way which will slow you down when it reaches zero) you have to press and hold and analog stick 
 and you push forward simultaneosly, which I found very annoying and it could've easily been fixed 
 but wasn't, too bad.
  
  All that being said, Condemned is a fun game that shouldn't be missed by horror fans (it does provide 
 the jumpy moments) , and although it's got flaws left and right, it's got great potential and potential 
 is always good. If you don't want to spend $60 on this title, atleast rent it, and make sure you 
 pick up it's sequel if that ever hits the market; take my word for it, it'll spark the fire this 
 game didn't manage to. Fun game, must play, don't buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  When I got my copy of Xbox 360, I had trouble finding a suitable game to combine with the package. 
 So, after searching for the 1st game on the next-gen console, I decided to go with Condemned.
 
  
  It was a smart choice.
  
  Even if it doesn't give you more than 8-10 hours of gaming, Condemned DOES give you creepy chills, 
 when playing alone, in the dark - I guarantee you that... :)
  
  I personally aren't a big fan of first-person games, but Condemned has a deep, partially realistic 
 environment, that only a first-person game can give you (especially on the 360) .
  
  The game starts as you begin to control an FBI agent named Thomas, in a abandoned building. You 
 come across a crimescene where a lunatic serial killer has left his "mess" behind, for you to investigate. 
 
  
  Another agent at the scene senses a weird smell of smoke coming from the other room. All of you 
 go in and check it out, only to realize that the killer is still in the building. A cat & mouse 
 chase is about to begin...
  
  The other agent and a policeofficer climb the fire-escape after the maniac, cutting off his return 
 path. The other agent urges you to block the other entrance, so that the killer wont escape.
  
  This is where the game sort of actually "begins". You get full control of agent Thomas, as 
 he picks up his gun simultaneously as there are shots fired on the floor above. The killer isn't 
 the only one inside the building. There are others - other maniacs that try to hurt you. You first 
 primary objective is to stop whoever tries to cross your path and find an exit (you wont be allowed 
 to go back to the entrace where you came in) .
  
  Now, I could tell you a lot of juicy stuff about Condemned, but I bet you wanna find you for your 
 self. I can however, reveal a few useful details:
  
  1. There are not only one serial killer. There are actually 2 of them. You have to stop them both. 
 The second one is the final "boss" in the game.
  
  2. On each level (or place) there is a hidden gun somewhere. You can try to find it if you want, 
 but it isn't obligatory. The gun might come in handy...
  
  3. Spare your ammo. Guns are useful against stronger foes. Use pipes etc. to fight the small bums 
 that come in your way.
  
  I'd love to spill the beans, but it wouldn't be fun to know what to expect if I told you every 
 single thing there is to know about Condemned.
  
  I recommend this creepy horror-action game to every Resident Evil & Silent Hill fan, since you 
 can't go untouched of the twisted world agent Thomas has to go through, in order to find the killer (s) .
 
  
  Ultimately, I can say that this game has a mixture of (as mentioned above) Silent Hill, Resident 
 Evil, The Grudge (movie) , The Ring (movie) , Seven (movie) and a little bit of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 
 (tv-show) .
  
  If you like all this, then you're in for a treat =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Spooky environments with a good selection of creeps. 
  Loads of melee weapons that you can pull from anywhere. 
  Good story with a weird twist on 
 the end.
  
  Bad Idea:
  As much fun as melee is, the guns are basically pointless with only about 3 bullets, it's just 
 not inspiring to even put guns in the game. 
  The taser gun makes the game a walkthrough. 
  Some ugly character models.
  
  Overall:
 
  Even though the game was short, the story played out like a good movie. Around the 8 or so hours 
 you play, you end up not tired of the game at the end, leaving you open to play it through in a 
 few more months. Still, I'd wait for a price drop before going out and getting the game. Or wait 
 for F. E. A. R. to hit the 360 (if ever) .
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This was one 
 of the first games I purchased for my 360. I was incredibly excited about this game after seeing 
 the trailer on GameSpot. Plus, Monolith is one of the greatest companies to produce games. Back 
 to the review, you star as a detective who is trying to track down a maniac who has a fascination 
 with manikins. Already scared? He gets worse. You have forensic tools and you have to determine 
 where washed away blood once was or where finger prints are and all that cool CSI style stuff. 
 Sadly, this feature is sort of thrown in as well since your phone rings are tells you exactly when 
 you should use it and what area it's in. During the hunt for this serial killer, your gun is stolen 
 and is used by the serial killer to shoot a cop. Doh! Now you're wanted by the law. Unlike games 
 like Max Payne or something, you continue to investigate undercover from the law, and beat the 
 crazed crazies that roam this city.
  
  With a very creepy environment and loads of unique melee weapons, Condemned will captivate you 
 throughout the whole game, mainly to see what is going to happen next and what is going to jump 
 out of the shadows and beat the snot out of you. The only problem with this is you own a fast charging 
 taser gun that basically is giving you an option to freeze your enemies for a period of time. But 
 it charges so fast that you can go through level after level without ever taking damage. Besides 
 that, you get guns. The guns... are useless. You'll find a shotgun, take aim, blast a couple of 
 baddies, then you just have to use it as a really crappy blunt melee weapon. I could have done 
 with more ammo at least.
  
  Although the graphics are spookylicious, there are some ugly things going on with the characters 
 face textures and modeling. Mainly the textures. They just look slapped on there, not really giving 
 them a realistic look to them but a very Dreamcast look. I guess they just stretched the faces 
 too much on the models. The hand model doesn't look at bad, but they are pretty ugly too. Other 
 than that, it's a picture perfect game as far as graphics. Especially the flames. Oh, yes, the 
 flames look real nice.
  
  The sounds are what creep you out more than the visuals. It's like eggs and bacon. You can't really 
 enjoy eggs without a nice slice of greasy bacon. The things that scare you the most are the things 
 that you can't see and that's what this game does real well of proving. Picture this: you hear 
 a bucket fall over behind you. You just turn around to find the bucket rolling around. You move 
 in further to investigate. It's just a bucket. You hear someone yelling random mumbled profanities, 
 turn around, and have a board lay you out. That's what makes this game better than a bargain bin 
 game. That's the kind of scary crap that will make you lock your doors at night. You are living 
 a thriller movie.
  
  The story is terrific and has a pretty good ending (although I was a bit confused on some spots) . 
 Besides just finding out who the serial killer is, there are a few things to return to this game 
 for. For one, the dead bird finding. I don't know why, but that is freaking hard and worth running 
 back through the game just to find all those darn birds. It's nothing really big but it is a challenge 
 and will keep you looking around forever until you can find them all.
  
  I must say, that it's a great game. I terrific game with many promising aspects but not something 
 for the average gamer who wants a long, deep game with many things to do. Unless you just can't 
 wait to see some scary tricks and great melee fun, then I'd suggest at least waiting for a price 
 drop or until you get tired of a few games and can cash them in for this one. 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
 
  A good amount of blood and some minor gore. You walk around smacking people with blunt objects.
 
  
  Sexuality:
  None.
  
  Language:
  A few mumbled f-bombs and during cutscenes there's a few f-bombs. There's not a ton of language 
 though.
  
  Substance Use:
  I think everyone in this game is high or drunk. They're all crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  I thought the game was kinda boring. I never finished the game, but I get a feeling I know what 
 happens. The story is definitely messed up. I don't know? The beginning just got repetitive, and 
 how big is the building? It felt like it was never going to end. Hitting guys with the weapons 
 was a challenge, not like Oblivion. Oblivion is easy compared to this game. Your enemies are unpredictable, 
 so it is tough to hammer someone. The controls were fine, the graphics were nice. Just an overall 
 average game. I kind of like the story themed games, but their replayability is gone once you finish 
 the game. This game is definitely a renter, if you're planning on chilling out for the weekend 
 or if its raining out. Check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  this is a great game so far the only thing that i dont like is that every time you find a gun it 
 only has like five bullets in it i wish you could find ammo pack lying around like you find health 
 packs though it would make things a lot easier well i guess if they would have wanted it to be 
 easier they would have made it that way well im about to sit down and play it some more oh ya i 
 think the xbox 360 systems in the game add a nice touch lol , i wish they could have though of 
 an online feature for this or something but then again what would you do online dont this are just 
 ideas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tpma4life
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Condemned... what can we say about condemned? Well, for starters, it is quite a visually stunning 
 game. .. But that's it. I hate when game's are willing to sacrifice innovation and design to make 
 a visually stunning, and somewhat scary (and repetetive) game. 
  
  Why is it that now that I have playe F. E. A. R, I seem to think that most games that will try to 
 do the same will fail? Condemned does do what it's designed to do, but never ONCE strives to be 
 more then it really is -- a lackluster horror game.
  
  Sure, it looks pretty. I can say that about almost any game nowadays, especially on the PC or the 
 Xbox 360 (or even now the up and coming PS3.) 
  I was at my friend Dennis's house playing this, so now I didn't play through until the very end. 
 However, I did get quite some time with the game. 
  I can say that the atmosphere and the sounds actually add quite a bit of quality to the game itself.. but 
 others games do the same.
  
  
  Well... I don't want to make the review very long winded, and while I do think Condemned is worth 
 a rental, it DEFINATELY is not up to F. E. A. R quality or standards, and not worth a buy. 
  
  However, if you're like me and just recently found out that places like Blockbuster require you 
 to rent with a credit card, you'll find out that unless you can borrow it from a buddy, it's not 
 actually worth the rental. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zornth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  Wow I think this is the only game that made me scream outloud. In certain areas this game is turly 
 frighting, nothing like the experince from Slient Hill, or Doom. You know how devolpers like Konami 
 use all the good graphics in the cut-sences, well this is like that but opposite. I'm not saying 
 the graphics in the cut sences are bad not at all. Its just the cut-sences arent as polished and 
 well-done as the game play graphics. Which didnt bother me because unlike other games this doesnt 
 have long and drawn-out cut-sences. Emmerivse gameplay turly draws you in, add that to the great 
 gameplay graphics and frighenting level design and enemies you get a turly scary experince that 
 is worth buying. Its not perfect though it is to short. I could beat it in a day. And to easy. 
 From a certain prospective its hard, and complex... But you can take down any of the homeless drug 
 attics with a small pipe. Speaking of pipes you get a LARGE varity of weapons... But this also 
 comes with odd jobs. Like I cant bust through a old rotting door with a pipe or a seldge hammer 
 I need a freakin' fire axe... There is one escort mission but I'll excuse it... Because your not 
 techniclly "escorting" her. Its better then an 8 yet not a 10. Fan of first person shooters or 
 just have a 360 go out and buy it. Just dont buy this game for your kids this could scar them for 
 life... Seriously this game is not for the young ones. Oh yeah this game is a hellavue lot better 
 then F. E. A. R. Oh yeah I forgot to mention the sound... Okay I'll rap this up quickly... THE SOUND 
 IS AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prid3r
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was plain fun and truly addictive! But once finish you might don't want to go back in 
 it!
  
  Gameplay : 
  the control a pretty basic, but in this game, hard control would have been a Pain! Left Trigger 
 to Block , Right trigger to Kick-a**! the only bad Thing in the control is trully the Run , you 
 must click the left Stick to run but it's hard to use it, so most the time, even when there no 
 ennemy , you might prefer just walking !
  
  Graphic:
  The graphic of the game is trully well done, as we can expect from a 360 game, the only down side 
 are the enemy skin, example : If you fight a thug, all the other thug will be the same, same face, 
 same shape, same Cloth. If you fight the zombie like dude, again the same thing, all the zombie 
 like dude will have the same Face same Cloth....
  
  Sound:
  Disturbing sound for a Disturbing game, the sound of the Weapon hitting the flesh of an ennemy 
 is just soooo realistic, and time to time you will ear people walk on the upper floor, people fight 
 or wtv, it's just make you always be on your guard! But a little bit of Music would have been nice 
 too!
  
  Value : 
  as i said before, once you have finished the game , there isn't much to make you go back Through 
 it, maybe a little of killing or maybe to find some achivement, but other then that....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cygnus999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is the SCARIEST game I've ever played. Just to let you know, I'm playing it on an HDTV, with 
 Dolby 5.1 surround, in a completely DARK room, in the BASEMENT... and ALONE in the house.... But 
 anyway, if you have the ability to create the right play environment (dark room, complete quiet, 
 etc) then you're set. But you absolutely MUST play it with Dolby 5.1 surround. They did an incredible 
 job of the sound effects in this game and successfully make it so creepy, you'll almost believe 
 you're there.
  
  After only a few minutes of playing, you'll be so immersed in the game that certain events in the 
 game (like hearing a crash behind you as something in the shadows knocks over a trash can) will 
 LITERALLY make you jump. The tension this game creates is amazing. And its movie-quality presentation 
 really has a big impact on you psychologically.
  
  Just make sure you enjoy this game in the dark with no distractions!! You'll love it!! Also, start 
 by playing it on the hardest setting -- it will add to the tension as well because of the "risk". 
 You can lower the difficulty later anyway, without having to restart the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one game that took me by suprise and I would say it's about one 
 of the top games on Xbox 360. Number 5 actually on my list. The difficulty in this game is perfect, 
 challenging in some areas but nothing too frustrating. Learning curve is less than 30 minutes. 
 Just pick it up and go! 
  
  Gameplay: Pick up boards, rip out circuits and bash the hell out thugs and zombies! What more do 
 you want? I found this game not repetitive and the story was actually very interesting to follow.
 
  
  Graphics: Textures are solid, character models are pretty bad (at least humans) . Lightning is absolutely 
 amazing though, makes up for the other areas.
  
  Sound: Excellent. Not much more to talk about it.
  
  Value: The game will take you about 20 
 hours, you need to decide for yourself if that's worth it or not. It may take a little bit more 
 time if you want to find all of the metal pieces and birds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inc3sticid3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great game you play the role as a Ethan Thomas a CSI who could 
 be insane or could'nt. In the begining of the game you come to a rundown "Condemed" building a 
 young woman has been brutaly murdered by a serial killer the beuro is calling "The Match Maker". 
 You are acompanied by a officer and a ditective who eventuly leve you to go on a chase on who they 
 think is the serial killer. Eventualy you find a power box and you try to turn it on but it knockes 
 you back and your gun gose into a hallway where its picked up by a man so you are left with no 
 weapons and this is where you use the items around you as weapons. Later in the level you are walking 
 thrue a newly open door and you get attacked from someone he gets you at gun point and lectures 
 you untill the ditective and the officer show up they try to persuade the man that has you at gunpoint. 
 But the man shoots the both with your gun he hits you and throws you out a window into the street. 
 That was a summery of the first level this is defently a buy but would not advise easyly scared 
 people to play it or watch it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  The gory and scary aspects of this makes it great. Crashing sounds, shadows, and guys jumping out, 
 or running across the room will keep you on edge You will be on the edge of your seat. I think 
 this game is a great choice for anyone. It is fun and scary at the same time. It isn't the longest 
 game out there and it doesn't have the highest replay value but it is still fun. 
  Negative aspects of the game, the fighting gets a little redundant. You can only block and hit 
 a scary zombie guy in the head for a certain amount of time before it gets boring. The graphics 
 aren't as good as they could be, and the story is a little out there. Also, if the guys you are 
 fighting are just killers and crazy people, how are some of them super fast and able to climb on 
 the ceiling.
  In conclusion, this is a good game. It is worth playing for anyone. If you want a scary action 
 game and you have XBOX 360 I suggest you go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggpjntim
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  now i don't own this game but i played it almost completely until the end and i have to say it 
 is a very um how would i say this... Interesting! yes "interesting" game. the origional idea was 
 a little farfetched but still i just wanted to beat up on some hobos with a 2x4. The gameplay in 
 the idea of weapons and how you fight with them was pretty good but the typical horror movie type 
 suspense keeps you from really taking some time to enjoy the actual acts your commiting. the plot 
 some guy going around beating up hobos and zombies to clear his name for the murder of two policeman, 
 not something very interesting but original i'll give it that. the graphics made it hard to see 
 anything as they weren't done very well at all but still i liked the looks on the hobos faces as 
 they came at you. it takes about 5 seconds to learn this game so its not like a retard couldn't 
 do this. but the length didn't seem to great as i almost beat it in about 2 days. the only truly 
 weird thing is that where the hell do the zombies come from??? I mean that isn't realy explained. 
 oh and im sure you can all relate if you have ever made it to the department store levels you remember 
 how some of the manequins were actually people. well after i saw one move i smacked every single 
 one like some paranoid psycho so that realy freaked me out im sure it did the same to all of you. 
 but in all truths the only thing truly keeping this game alive is the fact that your beating up 
 hobos with 2x4's, led pipes, electrical conduits, sledgehammers, fire axes, desk drawers, manequin 
 arms, subway signs, crowbars, and rebars. and that makes any game fun. in total good game if your 
 bored and need to release some anger, or you just want a good laugh beating up some hobos and weird 
 as hell zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coffee5565
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Wow... This was one of the most scariest games i have ever played (other than resident evil 4) . 
 Every single time i play this game, i get startled and jump at least once. Not only is the gameplay 
 fun, i find myself exploring each and every single part of the level trying to recover the hidden 
 dead birds, and the other hidden trinkets. Also using all of the cool detective gadgets make the 
 game fun. This game is soo much fun to play in a dark room while you're alone. Also, the fact that 
 you have to make use of your enviornment to find your weapons make this one heck of a game. I definitely 
 would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of survival horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Definatley on of the better games made by sega over the past couple of years compared to sonic 
 riders and shadow th hedgehog. pure crap compared to this thrilling and uber looking masterpiece. 
 the gameplay is different in this game finally a game that dosent focus on guns. guns are a luxury 
 in this game especially a shotgun which comes with a whopping 4 or 5 shells. melee weapons are 
 a given in this game and you wont survive with them. the detection equipment is cool from getting 
 fingerprints to tracing a smell. the charcters do look a bit weird and chunky but the graphics 
 are amazing but the game quickly losses it scary edge as you get more used to peolpe jumping out 
 at you and the dark locations. if anything this game focuses on the whole scare factor a bit too 
 mcuh and they could have thrown in a few mini games or any different type of gameplay. aslo if 
 you ever come up agianst more than one enemy at once then your pretty much screwed as you cant 
 really see where theyre before its too late.
  
  a great game but could been a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Have you ever heard your heart pound so loud, it felt as though it was going to rip right out of 
 your chest? Have you ever had to take a break from playing a game because it was just too scary? 
 Have you ever had the joy of grabbing a shovel and having the fulfillment of beating someone so 
 badly with it, it felt great?! If you answered No to all these 
 questions, play Condemned. If you answered otherwisestill play Condemned!
  
  Gameplay:
  The game primarily revolves around melee combat, some puzzle solving and a lot of 
 action. At times it feels slow paced, but it will only be your fault if you get too comfortable. 
 BAM! Its the unsuspected blow to the head with a metal subway sign by a psychotic killer. 
 You can pick up many weapons scattered throughout the levels, that it be they are ripped off the 
 walls, recycled from other materials or dropped by an enemy. You have a taser at your disposal 
 and its a great tool to take advantage of, especially if the enemy is using a long range 
 weapon against you. The long range weapons come as .455 mm, shotgun (sawed off, 2 barrel) and Machine 
 gun. Very little ammo is available, so use these powerful weapons wisely. The more you further 
 in the game, the more weapons become availableso dont get upset if you notice on 
 the first level the variety is a little low. The R Trigger is used to swing or fire your weapon 
 (action) , L Trigger is used to block. You cannot hold the block button and maintain a consistent 
 form of proof, so make sure you learn to block well because it will come in handy as you progress. 
 The play mechanics of the game are very original and work extremely well. The game truly gives 
 you a sense of being there, as the whole game is from the first person prospective. 
 You're a detective that tracks down serial killers, so you will also get to use tools that will 
 help solve puzzles and find clues to the murders. Although you can't use them freely (only in certain 
 areas) it still gives the gameplay a nice change of pace. Oh, did I forget to mention you will 
 have chairs and other office appliances thrown at you? It may seem linear, but the levels begin 
 to open up more as you progresssee a trend here? Everything came together well and it goes 
 to show developers arent dead just yet. 9.5/10
  
  
  Graphics:
  Stellar visuals, the cut scenes and gameplay are sharp, and deadly. You can tell Monolith (Fear) 
 worked very hard to give the player one of the greatest atmospheric designs ever. Its difficult 
 to explain, but the world created is so dark and scaryits beautiful. Many objectives 
 can be kicked around, knocked down which gives the world a life like experience. The attention 
 to detail throughout the game is jaw dropping, that it be disturbing or visually stunning. At times 
 there will be some odd texture issues, but I hardly noticed them. This right here is the best looking 
 360 game, period. 10/10 
  
  Audio:
  You can hear the sound of a buckets drop to the floor echo from a distance; this will hint 
 youre not alone. Some of the objects in the environment do not make a sound, for example 
 when I kick or bat a pale off a table. Although this seems picky, its definitely an area 
 that could use work. There isnt much music, but what is there adds to the experience. The 
 sound effects when hitting an enemy are striking enough to feel it. 7.5/10
  
  Controls:
  Overall the controls work well. The analog sticks are treated much like any typical 
 FPS, the face buttons are used to interact with the world. The biggest mapping was to make the 
 right (or left) analog click the run button. Its just too difficult to run away when youre 
 trying to hold the click of the analog, the same button you use to direct where youre going. 
 However, aside from the running its great. 8.5/10
  
  Replay:
  There may not be a lot of incentive to go back. Throughout the game you can collect birds or metal 
 pieces, hidden treasures, and eventually collect gamescore points. There are different difficulty 
 settings, so that may be enough reason to return a second time. There are leaderboards, if thats 
 your fling. And when you consider the game runs at about 10 hours, without Xbox Live support the 
 replay value is limited. 6/10
  
  Overall:
  The game is incredible, plain and simple. Every Xbox 360 owner must at least rent this title. It 
 does start off somewhat slow, but quickly begins to pick up the further you delve. The story is 
 one of the best Ive ever experienced in a game, even if it des borrow from some popular 
 horror flicks. The action is intense, exciting, disturbing and very scary. I recommend you do what 
 I did, play at midnight with all the lights off and your speakers full blast. Its quite 
 an experience no one should miss, even if it is on the short side. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimafanatic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Condemned is another of the 360s launch titles, but its more than that, its one of the scariest 
 games created in the past year or two. But it isn't without its faults.
  
  Criminal Origins puts you in the bloody stained shoes of FBI investigator Ethan Thomas. Who has 
 the charming job or investigating murder scenes, and finding the culpirate. Occasionally stopping 
 to beat a hobo round the face with a pipe or a plank, also know for having a terrible sofa and 
 throwing great staff partys.
  
  Its when Thomas starts having hallucinations, and seeing things through killers eyes, that the 
 story hots up, and when he's thrown from the FBI and on the run for a crime he didn't commit, he 
 goes on a mission to find the man who framed him, the person who connects all his recent investigations.
 
  
  In terms of setting and graphics this game is astounding. The story takes place in broken down 
 buildings, schools, librarys, department stores. All rendered perfectly, every last detail, every 
 peice of grime is different, and this is another thing that makes the game scary, the fact it looks 
 so real.
  
  The graphics on the enemys or victims are no different, they all look haunting, and they'll all 
 stick out in your mind, or stay with you long after you put the game down, like the ninjas for 
 example.
  
  The enemy AI and mechanics are another terrifying feature, the enemy will hide, sneak behind you, 
 fight eachother, and activly seek out weapons. None of the enemys behavior is scripted, they'll 
 act differently every time you try a stage.
  
  There are a A LOT of scripted moments, all to move the story along, that are terrifying, but giving 
 them away would be spoiling it.
  
  Unfortunatly, this is a flawed gem, the game is too short, and even the extra acheivments that 
 you can get may not warrant a second play through. Towards the end you'll also notice the repetition 
 in the game. Bassicly "Find this weapon to open this door". Also towards the end, the game also 
 runs out of what makes it so terrifying, but not till the VERY end.
  
  The combat system is also flawed, although meaty annd satisflying when it works. The blocking detection 
 is off, resultuing in a few cheap deaths, but when you master it, you'll never have this problem 
 again.
  
  Overall this is worth buying, and playing till the end, it'll deliver a fantastic experience that 
 dosn't come round so often anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Rent this game. 
  
  As stated above, this game, like all other 360 games, has enormous potential but comes up short. 
 
  
  So much more could be done with the story.
  
  So much more could be done with the investigating system, using the equipment, gathering evidence.
 
  
  The game could be twice as long.
  
  The gameplay could be mixed up a bit instead of just swinging pipes and boards for 7 hours.
  
 
  But,
  
  The graphics are decent, the sound is great, the gameplay is awesome until you get bored with it, 
 and, there are a few creepy moments that got me good like the old resident evil. I was pretty impressed 
 with that. 
  
  If this game was smoothed out a little more and maybe added something to the mix to give it some 
 replay or online value like a combat arena for a few players to fight online or a survival mode 
 (resident evil 4 had a time attack survival mini-game) this game could've been fantastic instead 
 of ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is very scary. The sound is the best just so real in other words perfecthion. The gameplay 
 is top notch i love it just finding the dead birds and footprints it is adds the fact the you really 
 seem that you are a FBI agent the game does get a little bit repetitive after a while just smashing 
 pepoles head with anything. The game is a weee bit short it last about 9-12 hours. The lack of online 
 co-op would have been a plus. The story of the game is sick and twisted kinda like the movie saw. The 
 graphics can be better but still looks very good. AI is solid pepole throw chairs at you do fake 
 swings trying to Fudge with you very clever and very cool game a solid rent or buy for serious 
 horror fans or for a cashual gamer like myself but keep away if you dont like scary bums hiting 
 you with a bat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying condemned has the best idea for a game ever, if this idea could have 
 been executed better this could have been a 9 or a 9.5, unfortuntly the games graphics fall short 
 of the 360s standards, it does utilize the sound very affectivly, it makes the game twice as scary, 
 condemned is very scary and uses all the tricks in the movies, pop ups fake scares and bait, e. t. c, 
 i do feal the game gets repetitive but not as much as the gamespot reviews says, if your in for 
 a good scare or want to experience a good mystery, rent condemned, dont buy it, wait for condemned 
 2, if 2k makes it, watch for a big surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer-Insticts
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, if u buy this game, u might just find yourself in a dark corner of ur house mumbling to yourself 
 and / or profanity. Why? BECAUSE THIS GAME WILL SCARE U SH$%LESS!!!! in the game ur in like abandoned 
 and run down buildings with Rob Zombie looking guys and other dudes "driven into madness" trying 
 to KILL U!! Even though the game gets a little repetitive, the gorgeous graphics and white knuckle 
 mano a mano action makes up for the repetetiveness... The game also simply oozes atmosphere that 
 makes the game that much eerie. By the way, if u ever get to the part were the woman is, DONT SHOOT 
 HER WITH THE STUN GUN IF U DONT WANT TO SH$T UR PANTS. If u do, she screams the most horrific scream 
 u will ever hear and shell be MAD at YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  condemed is my favorite launch game for 360. its alot of fun and it add new to the fps gnere. very 
 little guns!. sound dumb rite? wrong condemed is very fun. u can grab anytthing from a 2 by 4 piece 
 of wood to a broken pipe laying around. you play as a cop you is acused of murder and the onkly 
 way to get out of this is to prove ur inocence by finding the killer the gameplay uis very fun 
 and the game is quite scary. however this game would of made a great multiplayer, but it only a 
 1 player game, and other than playing the game after youve already beat it in a few hours it get 
 boreing quick. this game is great if you looking for a fun single player game. but id wait for 
 the price to go down befor you pick this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Such a depressing game. It started out with such a creepy feel. Hunting killers in a dark area, 
 armed only with a board tends to lend itself to a spooky atmosphere. However, the game becomes 
 quite repetitive, and takes a stupid twist at the end. The game never explains the zombie and other 
 supernatural connection. Also, the dead bird search and scrap medal search leave the player confused. 
 What a waste of a potential great game. So much is left unexplained, but after fighting a ninja 
 after countless hours in a dark confused area, you won't care to know any more. Where is the CSI-type 
 action that was promised? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phippn35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Condemned has great game play for every one, you can make it hard or easy what ever the player wish's. This 
 has a great story line with ok graphics nothing that wow's you mind you, As for the scare factor 
 yep i sure you will jump now and then, just make sure the lights are out and you set the game up 
 correct, so the dark effects in the game come to their maximum effect. But the only game on the market 
 at the mo that has this type of gameplay. I would recommend this game but may be you would rather 
 rent then buy this because 50 price tack is a lot of money for a rather sort game, with really 
 no replay factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap1959
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok for one thing if u buy this game expect to crap yourself a couple of times. Not kidding i seriously 
 crapped my self 2 times. (jk) But seriously this is the scariest game i have ever played in my 
 life. Freakin messed up drug addicts pop out at you with weapons from places you cant see and it 
 just = scary. All im gonna say about this movie is it is scary. O ya if u do buy this game, i got 
 2 tips for you. DO NOT SHOOT THE GIRL WITH THE TASER BECAUSE SHE WILL GO FREAKIN BESERK AND SCARY 
 AS CRAP IF U DO. and another thing. DO NOT LOOK INTO THE SCREEN WHILE TAKING THE PICTURE OF THE 
 DEAD GUY WITH NO ARMS OR LEGS BECAUSE HE WILL POP OUT AT YOU. there you go. Thank you, Thank you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1o0oDOMo0o1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  condemned is a good game but you might not like the game play if you dont like mysteries. the mele 
 is fun but searching around gets boring 2 fast. also the game runs a little to short. i would recomend 
 this game if you like mele fighting and playing the same levels over and over because you will 
 die alot and having to keep respawning. also i didnt like that you have to solve mysteries. it 
 was kinda anoying. this game has some good points and some bad points but the bottom line is that 
 this game is pretty good. the a. i of the cpu is amazing and you will have some trouble killing 
 eneimies because the a. i is so well done. an annoying part is that sometimes your walking and it 
 just says your dead wich anooys you so much. i recomend this game if you want a hughe thriller 
 because if you have a hd tv and you turn the lights out be prepared 2 get frightened!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodhawk_DX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  When you first play the game it feels like it moves a little slow, tutorial is fitting and plays 
 right in with the first level. Controls are unusual at first compared to other first person games 
 but they play really smooth once you get them down. The environments are dark, gloomy and the textures 
 are nicely done. An array of interesting melee and ranged weapons make every kill feel brutal. 
 The way a person reacts when struck with a pipe or sledge hammer sounds, looks and almost feels 
 like an actual object striking another person. The Ambience is incredible, every object has it's 
 own sound, bumping into the objects on shelves, pushing chairs and breaking things all sound very 
 real. When enemies run knocking things over and such, breathing hard, screaming and groaning. It 
 all helps the very, very creepy feeling to the game. This game definitely isn't for the faint of 
 heart. Lots of surprise, and the music definitely helps the feeling of a survival horror setting. 
 Enemies will break through walls, hide around corners, block and attack. They'll even fight each 
 other... which adds a nice touch to the AI. Not the best AI I've encountered, but good none the 
 less. This game looks beautiful in HD, and the sound on 7.1 surround sound is absolutely an experience 
 all in it's own. Overall I loved the game, unique plot, cruel and brutal combat combined with perhaps 
 the scariest settings I've seen in ages. There are some minor problems though, a few invisible 
 walls, doors that lock suddenly out of nowhere to prevent you from backtracking. Sometimes things 
 feel a little stiff and there could have been so much more interaction with the environment. The 
 levels feel a little too linear as well. Other than that, I would recommend it for people who love 
 horror-thriller games with a unusual and unique story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnylong
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  with a swift swing of my fire axe i had killed the last guy and i jumped down to the sewers and 
 then this guy comes out of nowhere an then i die. condemed is a really good game it has a good story 
 line to it and for the people who have not played this game the story is this. You play a fbi agent 
 called Ethan Thomas and you are on a hunt for a serial killer and you find him and he frames you 
 for a double murder and as you go though the gmae the story unfolds and people start to find out 
 that you did not kill the 2 police offices and you have to use your forensic tools to investigate 
 crime scenes and uncover evidence to find out who killed some of the people who you find dead so 
 your forensic tools are a uv light which allows u to look at walls and at the floor to detect traces 
 of blood which are not visible to the naked eye causing it to stand out brightly if within the 
 light range of the device and it will illuminate the immediate the area directly ahead of the device 
 with a purplish light then you have the laser light which allows u to produce a relatively a small 
 cone of a light which is green and you can see evidence which you can not see normaly then there 
 is the gas spectrometer and it allows you to find where the smellis coming from off the dead body 
 is coming from then there is the sampler which you can use to make the chemical makeup of the piece 
 of evidence and there are many more forensic tools you can get then there are the weapons which 
 are a revolver and a .45cal and a single barrel shotgun and a double barrel sawn off shotgun and 
 a street grade submachine gun and then there are the entry tools which are the crowbar and the 
 fire axe and the sledgehammer and the shover which you can hit people with and there are the debris 
 melee weapons which are a small pipe a large pipe and rebar and a 2x4 and then there is a taser 
 and that is it and plus condemned is in fps it is a really good fps game and if anyone likes fps 
 games they will like this for xbox 360 and plus it is a 18 and it is a really gory game and plus 
 it is jumping and there are some hard bits that you have to use your head to get around and things 
 jump out from nowhere and if people do not like games that make them jump then condemned is not 
 for them and plus u have to stay alive using any weapon you can from firearms to lead pipes to 
 whatever u can pry from the fully interactive environment unprecedented high-definition graphics 
 and meticulously crafted 5.1 surround sound plunge you into a world of violent crime use sophisticated 
 forensic tools to investigate crime scenes and uncover evidence in this intense one-of-a-kind psychological 
 thriller. this game has really good gaphics and it is a must have fps game for the xbox 360 it pushes 
 the 360 to it's limits the people have unpredictable enemies with complex AI and engage in furious 
 hand-to-hand combat use forensic technology to analyse murder scenes and there is no xbox live 
 online play in this you can only look at the leaderboards and also if you find a xbox 360 console 
 in the game you can hit a and get a anchivmentment
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stars05
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Sometimes it's just way to hard to understand people.
  This is one of those times.
  This game is NOT great. No way, it is not even near. The atmosphere can be considered as good and 
 nearby utterly creepy, but when these "creatures" jump at you, without you knowing what or why 
 they are there, it loses ALOT of its tension.
  
  A brick that soon makes the complete game falling apart, brick by brick.
  There i s n o t a good 
 story weaved around this game, and which isn't being explained very detailed either. You just fight 
 some de-roused and crazy people/creatures which you have no idea why or how they got there. Extremely 
 untactfull.
  
  Games like Resident Evil has a a background, and a vast one, which is being explained in a utterly 
 design-full manor. Here, in Condemned, you have absolutely no clue what is really going on.
  
  I could try to list all the bad things I, as a fan of the horror-genre, I could find in this 
 game (physics made the bodies move like they were filled with stones (!?) , character design, level 
 design, story, horrific controls etc. etc.) but I won't bother. At least not too much.
  
  If you are like me and prefer horror games which gives you an unsettling feeling (like in the Resident 
 Evil series or in which I latest played, "The Suffering" a good action/horror game which gives 
 alot more in depth to the story and keeps filling in the questions that arouses) and doesn't feel 
 utterly dull after 3-4 hours - keep your distance, for this game will probably not satisfy your 
 needs for real horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbeamsrv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I love scary movies, but I never am scared by them. This game, on the other hand, will freak you 
 out. I jump even when I see my own shadow sometimes. You just have to play it to understand what 
 I am talking about. You go through some of the darkest and dirtiest places imaginable and must 
 confront some of the craziest people who are all out to kill you at any cost. The AI is great because 
 the enemy will run and hide if injured at times, or will grab a weapon from the wall or even one 
 you left behind. I haven't beaten the game yet because I've only had it a couple of days but I 
 love it. The graphics are excellent. The story is pretty linear although you do get achievements 
 for finding dead birds and metal pieces scattered throughout the chapters. Hitting someone in the 
 head with a metal pipe never looked or sounded so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  You know this is a good game after you rip off a locker door and use it to slam a wack-o in the 
 head jut so he can stumble into another guy, knocking both of them over, giving you a chance to 
 execute a finishing move...
  The graphics are increadable. The people who you'll encounter throughout the game look increadible, 
 and when their angery at you cause you just sliced their face up with a paper-cuter, you'll know.
 
  The sound is the best part of the game. to the enemies panting as they swing and run away trying 
 to find another opening, to your footsteps as they creek on weak wood.
  Expect some serious horror while playing this game. bring some barf buckets when you get close 
 ups on enemies faces too.
  So while ths game isn't too long, it's well worth the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallMeHeavy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The game has good beginning, interesting and draws you into the story. But that immersion quickly 
 fades into repetitious and boring tasks. Wander around, kill zombie-like psycho, heal self. Find 
 item to open door. Rinse, repeat. Way too much time is spent seemingly wandering aimlessly in dark 
 rooms, dark corridors, dark subways, dark buildings, dark ect. Hard to tell if the graphics are 
 next-gen quality or not, you just can't see them. Too dark. Background music fails to inspire any 
 sort of expected emotion. No sense of panic, nervousness, danger, or suspense. Occasional change 
 of tempo or volume indicates an impending encounter, more of a warning than a tension builder.
 
  
  Plot seems well thought out. FBI agent framed for murder in the midst of a violent crime spree. 
 But from there the story doesn't really go anywhere. And the storyline moves SLOW, just like the 
 game. 
  
  All in all, the game feels a but rushed into production. It could have used a bit more polish and 
 tweaks. Maybe with a couple more months in developement, this game could have been outstanding, 
 instead of just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Ya, this game just scared the crap out of me. I had nightmares, no joke. I got extremely stressed 
 out playing the game and could only play it for about an hour at a time before I had to stop.
 
  
  The game does what it sets out to do: scare you into submission!
  The graphics are good, sound is amazing. Gameplay is suprisingly good (since you rarely use guns 
 in this FPS) . The story is a bit weird, especially the ending, but it's not bad by any means.
 
  The biggest flaw in this game is that it's pretty short, around 10 hours. And there's no reason 
 to play it through a second time. It's fun, or rather, scary while it lasts, but it doesn't last 
 all that long. There are some bugs in the game that could cause frustration, especially since a 
 major bug is involved with the final boss (someone didn't inspect this game too carefully!) .
  Worth renting, if you're up for high tension, for sure! Worth buying? I don't think so. I can't 
 justify that kind of money for 10hrs of play time. And i'm not one to go spend several hours searching 
 for every little item just to get achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  It's a fairly new concept that has it's moments but it doesn't really deliver the punch that I 
 would have thought. Let's start with the two best things the graphics and the sound, two words, 
 "frickin scary". The developers did a fantastic job of setting this really freaky setting that 
 its' really hard to keep playing. The gameplay is ok it's pretty innovative you have a block button 
 and a hit or shoot button. It kinda sucks that you can only hold one weapon at a time, although 
 it is fairly realistic. Overall the gameplay is pretty good but often get's repetitive but never 
 really boring. The thing that condemned really falls on it's sword is a lack of an online component, 
 it would be very interesting if they could have had an online component. It kinda suck because 
 with alot of the 360 games they don't really have a great online component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Condemned overall is a great game. Good graphics, not as good as some 360 games, but good. Condemned 
 has some intense close quarter combat. Using whatever you can find as a weapon. I am surprised 
 at the firearms. They dont look or sound as good as i hoped they would, and you dont really need 
 them. That is if you are good with melee weapons. And guns usually carry about 4 or 5 shots. They 
 can be useful sometimes. The game was surprisengly a little too easy. As long as you carry a nice 
 melee weapon, you shouldnt have any problems. Well except if they have a shotgun, but then you 
 can just use your tazer and zap them. There isnt that many weapons which was a real downer. You 
 get a revolver, a colt 45, a pump shotgun, a sawn off shotgun, and a rifle. I cant name off many 
 of the melee weapons. The game does one hell of a job scaring the player, so like i said be prepared. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a very atmospheric game and at times a very intense game and most of the time a superb 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is great although it takes a little getting used to. After a while the swingin, kicking, 
 and blocking all feels very natural. With every successful swing you are rewarded with a beautiful 
 crunch and then the moan of your enemy. It really feels like you just clobbered some guy with a 
 2x4 or a pipe or a locker door or any of the games other many melee weapons that can be found all 
 over the game world.
  
  The game world it self is pretty impressive. Textures look amazing. The world was really crafted 
 with care, it feels used and lived in, alive. When you look down at the floor you'll see all kinds 
 of trash around your characters feet. Everything that should have a nice shine does, but there 
 isn't too much shine like in PDZ.
  
  The character models leave something to be desired but the lighting makes up for it. All the elements 
 of the game come together very well and make for some pretty scary moments. The characters and 
 their dialogue are well thought out, much like a good movie.
  
  The story line is deep and keeps you wanting more. What starts out as a normal day in the life 
 of an FBI agent soon becomes something much more deadly. Theres only one ending but at least it's 
 pretty good. 
  
  This game is absolutely worth a rental and if you'd like to add a truly great game to your collection 
 go pick it up.
  
  Can't wait for the sequal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 252life
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, where do I start, you start the game off with two people by your side, they LEAVE, thats 
 never good. You are then left alone to gather information, they die and you talk to a lady all 
 through the game on the phone. You try to find a murderer that kills murderers. I enjoyed the game, 
 the creepy mannequins, the crawlers, the guys that carry "sticks". The game was cool just short. 
 I would not mind a sequel, if they could just make an offline multi player. If they had an offline 
 multi player, I would have that game pre-ordered tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burningtorch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I rented Condemned: Criminal Origins and I have to say I was pleased. Now because of lack of replay 
 value, I wouldn't recommend it to someone to buy it but for a rental it's amazing. The graphics 
 are great (however some cut scenes could be better) . The atmosphere is very creepy. And above all 
 is the sound. I love the sound of the weapons smashing into the enemies. The diversity of the weapons 
 makes this game one of the best melee FPS' out there. You can wield practically anything that is 
 not bolted down, Paper Cutter blade, Locker Door, Crowbar, and so many more. Back to the sound, 
 the music gets really tense and bone-chilling when your fighting or exploring a dark place. The 
 enemy AI is also very good, they can pretty much do anything you can do. For instance, because 
 you can only carry i weapon at a time, I was holding a submachine gun, with another one full of 
 ammo right behind me when and enemy snuck up behind me and plugged me with the SMG. The enemies 
 also have no problem beating the heck out of each other. If you do not have a HDTV the game still 
 looks amazing as I have played it on both non-hd and hd televisions. The campaign is relatively 
 short took me around (8 hours) and not very replayable but this is why it is a great rental. One 
 thing I was annoyed at was how easy it was to go in circles and get lost as the game even if you 
 are stuck trying to find your way for 15 minutes gives you know clear indication as to which way 
 is right. Overall, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great, and even frightening game that is a 
 100% must-rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Spooky environments with a good selection of creeps. Loads of melee weapons that you can pull from 
 anywhere. Good story with a weird twist on the end. Some of the best sound work around. Good voice 
 acting. Finding dead birds.
  
  Cons:
  As much fun as melee is, the guns are basically pointless with only about 3 bullets, it's just 
 not inspiring to even put guns in the game. After the first few levels, the game becomes really 
 easy to figure out. The taser gun makes the game a walkthrough. Short game. Some ugly character 
 models.
  
  Overall:
  Even though the game was short, the story played out like a good movie. Around the 8 or so hours 
 you play, you end up not tired of the game at the end, leaving you open to play it through in a 
 few more months. Still, I'd wait for a price drop before going out and getting the game. Or wait 
 for F. E. A. R. to hit the 360 (if ever) .
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  This was one of 
 the first games I purchased for my 360. I was incredibly excited about this game after seeing the 
 trailer on GameSpot. Plus, Monolith is one of the greatest companies to produce games. Back to 
 the review, you star as a detective who is trying to track down a maniac who has a fascination 
 with manikins. Already scared? He gets worse. You have forensic tools and you have to determine 
 where washed away blood once was or where finger prints are and all that cool CSI style stuff. 
 Sadly, this feature is sort of thrown in as well since your phone rings are tells you exactly when 
 you should use it and what area it's in. During the hunt for this serial killer, your gun is stolen 
 and is used by the serial killer to shoot a cop. Doh! Now you're wanted by the law. Unlike games 
 like Max Payne or something, you continue to investigate undercover from the law, and beat the 
 crazed crazies that roam this city.
  
  With a very creepy environment and loads of unique melee weapons, Condemned will captivate you 
 throughout the whole game, mainly to see what is going to happen next and what is going to jump 
 out of the shadows and beat the snot out of you. The only problem with this is you own a fast charging 
 taser gun that basically is giving you an option to freeze your enemies for a period of time. But 
 it charges so fast that you can go through level after level without ever taking damage. Besides 
 that, you get guns. The guns... are useless. You'll find a shotgun, take aim, blast a couple of 
 baddies, then you just have to use it as a really crappy blunt melee weapon. I could have done 
 with more ammo at least.
  
  Although the graphics are spookylicious, there are some ugly things going on with the characters 
 face textures and modeling. Mainly the textures. They just look slapped on there, not really giving 
 them a realistic look to them but a very Dreamcast look. I guess they just stretched the faces 
 too much on the models. The hand model doesn't look at bad, but they are pretty ugly too. Other 
 than that, it's a picture perfect game as far as graphics. Especially the flames. Oh, yes, the 
 flames look real nice.
  
  The sounds are what creep you out more than the visuals. It's like eggs and bacon. You can't really 
 enjoy eggs without a nice slice of greasy bacon. The things that scare you the most are the things 
 that you can't see and that's what this game does real well of proving. Picture this: you hear 
 a bucket fall over behind you. You just turn around to find the bucket rolling around. You move 
 in further to investigate. It's just a bucket. You hear someone yelling random mumbled profanities, 
 turn around, and have a board lay you out. That's what makes this game better than a bargain bin 
 game. That's the kind of scary crap that will make you lock your doors at night. You are living 
 a thriller movie.
  
  The story is terrific and has a pretty good ending (although I was a bit confused on some spots) . 
 Besides just finding out who the serial killer is, there are a few things to return to this game 
 for. For one, the dead bird finding. I don't know why, but that is freaking hard and worth running 
 back through the game just to find all those darn birds. It's nothing really big but it is a challenge 
 and will keep you looking around forever until you can find them all.
  
  I must say, that it's a great game. I terrific game with many promising aspects but not something 
 for the average gamer who wants a long, deep game with many things to do. Unless you just can't 
 wait to see some scary tricks and great melee fun, then I'd suggest at least waiting for a price 
 drop or until you get tired of a few games and can cash them in for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is nuts!! If you want a scary game this is it. Although it is only scary once. Maybe 
 twice. The best part of this game is the sound, it is completely disturbing. That is how it should 
 be. The enviroments in the game get better as is progresses which is a huge plus. They have a good 
 amount of detail though it could have been better. I would like to see more blood and body parts 
 thrown about. The enemies dont vary a good deal, there could have been some improvement there. 
 Also there is not much of an objective, but the plot is very cool. I would say play this game at 
 night sound up and enjoy. I dont have alot to say about it other than I thought it was fun and 
 scary, a definite one of a kind. It needs more though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Condemned: will scare the **** out of you es it ill I have not played anything like this bfore 
 if you enjoy nocking 7 bells out of someone with a lump of wood with nails sticking out of it this 
 is for you and what is it with picking up dead birds??? ou will know if you have played and read 
 a few reviews.
  
  For e Condemned is a little on the slow side not eniugh gun action but I lke the deat head butts 
 snapping guys necks or just give them a little kick nice try hope there is a second gme but we 
 will have to see what sega do...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durrty2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is a survival horror game from monolith productions. In the Game you 
 play as FBI agent Ethan Thomas, you begin trying to track down the serial killer known as the Match 
 Maker. Also you need to clear your name after you got framed for the murder of two police officers. 
 You go through a creepy subway tunnel, a abandoned department store and a school building that 
 makes you want to wet your pants among other creepy locales, simply put the atmosphere is equally 
 creepy to the serial killers. 
  
  The graphics engine renders some incredible details and good physics, running smooth at 720p it 
 makes the graphics look almost photo realistic. The audio is equally amazing letting you hear every 
 moan, grunt, thud whatever, nicely suited for the game. The serial killers character models youll 
 see pays a lot of attention to detail, realistic facial expressions and animation. Youll have 
 to play it and you know what I mean. As well as superb sounds, visuals it also has nice gameplay. 
 
  
  As you move through the dark environments, you have only a small flashlight to guide you through 
 the darkness and whatever you can grab from the area to use as a weapon (pipes, crowbars, axes, 
 the occasional guns with limited ammo etc) , I wished they left out the guns though and made it 
 fully melee. Forgot to mention that Condemned has one of the best Melee gameplay in a first person 
 game. Through out the game you will need to search for clues using your forensic tools such as 
 light lamp, or a gas spectrometers, from things like particles, chemical residues and fingerprints. 
 To sum it all up this game is highly recommended for Horror fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 670179139
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  If you like horror flicks you will probably like this game. These are the reasons why, it has the 
 vibe, the creepeness, and it is always dark. I think this is one of the best games on the xbox 360 
 right now. I mean I finished it yesterday but once I started playing I couldn't stop playing it. The 
 graphics are awesome the gameplay is fun the sounds are amazing no glitches and you get to use 
 forensics such as black light. It isn't as good as Call of Duty 2 but it is one of the best games 
 on the 360. If you don't like horror films then don't buy this game trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Im going to "bullet" this review becuase iam really tired.
  
  The Good:
  -Forensic Tools are cool to use.
  -Graphics are top notch
  -Story is great
  -Sound really 
 immerses you into the twisted world
  -Beating up crackheads never gets old
  -Crapload of achievments for all of you achievment W H O R E S
  
  The Bad:
  -The adventure 
 will only last you a weekend, with nonstop playing
  -Guns only have max of 5 bullets.
  -Can get repitive.
  -Maybe it is too scary?
  -Screwed up ranking system
  
  The Ugly:
 
  -Those godamned, ring looking chicks.
  
  Pick up this game or even rent it, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is basically a first person brawler taking place in an extremely gritty, dark and violent 
 world. 
  
  Gameplay
  The key mechanics of the game are pretty simple. There's an exploring session where you walk around 
 the levels looking for clues to progress in the story, a forensic evidence part where you collect 
 and analyze clues you come across and a fighting portion. The figthing is by far the most interesting 
 of the three, even though it's not particularly deep nor varied. There's not much enemy variety 
 and their AI is quite disappointing. Weapons are different, but not that different (excuding fire 
 arms that are rare and not particularly useful, given ammo scarcity) and fighting all boils down 
 to learning to defend at the right time before hitting again. The game relies on fighting too much 
 and any other elements is really shallow and not particularly flashed out. That is a shame because 
 there's potential for much more, given the story and the setting. The forensic evidence piece is 
 a joke, since the game will tell you when to start looking for clues and will also direct you with 
 arrows: in other words no skills required. The exploration part is bogged down but extremely dark 
 levels that look good but tend to repeat a bit too often. The game has also some "side quests" 
 in the form of collectible items, but I am not sure many people will like to spend hours wandering 
 in the dark (and it's REALLY DARK) to unlock a couple of concept artworks
  
  Graphics
  Graphics are great and convey perfectly the claustrophobia, fear and sense of danger the game is 
 based on. Levels are very detaild and lavishly bump mapped. They are incredibly dark though and 
 in many instances is really hard to understand what's going on. Also, each level is pretty long 
 but not particularly varied, so you'll end up getting tired of wandering around and see the same 
 rooms, doors, hallways over and over. Some physics are also implemented but in a very peripheral 
 way (i. e. they do not impact gameplay at all) . They work, but they could have been deeper. Enemies 
 tend to repeat a lot, they are well animated even though sometimes they move in quirky way. Also, 
 taken from up close the model details didn't impress me.
  
  Sound
  Nothing to say here, perfect and scary (sound fx are incredible)
  
  Value
  This is not a 
 particularly long nor difficult game, it took me around 10 hours to finish and honestly I was glad 
 it finished when it did. Definitely not worth 59 bucks
  
  Tilt
  The game has a cool story that is really intriguing and not just a pretext for some brainless action. 
 That said, the way the story influences your actions is minimal and there's no way to modify it. 
 Also the ending is not particularly good, feels kind of rushed and has this final surprise the 
 feels more like a lack of ideas than a proper closure. Fighting gets stale after a while and what 
 really drives you to the next level is more the curiosity to see new graphics than the real gameplay 
 (that, sure enough, will be the same as in the previous level)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  thsi is real FPS. you can see our legs, and your hands, you can kick, you can melee with hand and 
 legs involved and there is much love in the graphics department. lovely textures. i love the facial 
 expressions of your foes. they look crazy. its like they really are. if you duck under police line 
 ropes in the first seen, you see yourself ducking and your hands lifting up the tape. its truely 
 great. and you can pick up weapons from anywhere you want, which gives a sense of realism. there 
 are like melle moves that involve ur whole body which hurts when you hear them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  The game is one hell of a ride. Condem does what other game try to do this game is naturaly scary. 
 The game is easy and the game is short a on average the average person can beat it in 8 to 9 people 
 who play games more ofter can beat the game in 6 to 8 hours. As you play throu you will learn that 
 SKX is out to not get you in but is like an alternet you. The controls fit the game so well and 
 the graphics with the lighting is amzing whiles the charters don't look great tthe charter are 
 an 8 out of 10 but with lighting it getts a 9 so if you are a 360 owner looking to get scared i 
 suggest you pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elveon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Literal on the edge of your seat game play , ive never realy played a game that made me jump and 
 hesitate about moving on into the next room , the entire game is a fright and its amazingly fun. 
 The game has a prety complex story with an even more complex ending , wich has you trying to figure 
 things out , like a realy good movie or book unraveling as you progress. The fighting system is 
 top notch and realy responsive , its basicaly abust some brains inmelle style thing , but 
 the game has dozen of guns literd around its levels , including shotguns , hand guns and even a 
 sub-machine gun. As for the melle weapons theirs a wide variety , everything from a fire-axe to 
 a department store maniquines arm. Whethere your busting some guys head in with a pipe , or doing 
 something as simple as walking over some broken glass it going to sound real , every object and 
 surface has its own unique sound , all depending on what you hit it with . Running at about two 
 days worth of game play Condemend-Criminal Origins can be the most amazing rental you have ever 
 selected or an alright buy that may leave you a bit disapointed , that aside Condemend-Criminal 
 Origins is a definent must see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  First of I have to say the graphics is outstanding and so are the sounds in the game. Youre character 
 is a FBI agent Ethan Thomas that is getting framed for killing two police officers. Now he must 
 solve the murders to stop the killings, and exonerate himself from the crimes of which he is accused. 
 The story of the game is good but the fights in the game is almost the same over and over again 
 so it can get boring after a while. Another thing that I dont like with the game is that you cant 
 pick up ammo for youre guns so when you run out of ammo you need find youre self a new weapon 
 and the game is not that long, if you play the game for 3-4 hours a day you will be done with in 
 4-5 days. Now the things I do like is the time they have used on the details of the game for they 
 are really good and all of the sophisticated forensic tools you can use to gather clues and evidence 
 about the murders you will see thru the game. I dont really have much more to say about the game 
 except that if you like psychological thrillers than this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rctyke
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: criminal origins is an first person action game where you play the role of an FBI agent, 
 ethan thomas who is trying to track down a serial killer who has shot two police officers with 
 your gun, so you are being hunted down and and the only allies you have are pretty much a few members 
 of the FBI, like Rosa who mostly talks on your cell phone during the gameplay, and also occansionally, 
 your boss, farrell, at the same talks most of the time on your cell phone.
  
  The gameplay pretty much controls just like your particular first person game, but what makes Condemned 
 an ideal is the melee weapons, and this game has quite an array of melee weapons, there are 2X4's 
 with nails or bolts, planks, boards, pipes, fire axes, sledge hammers, you name it, (excludes swords 
 and chainsaws) . Though sometimes in the game you also have to find clues, which are a bit too simplistic, 
 the game tells you where to use these tools and where to use them so don't get confused when you 
 use these tools, but don't think these tools will have challenge. You can use a taser to shock 
 another enemy, but it's kinda cheap and make enemies easier to kill, in fact it sometimes kills 
 them.
  
  the graphics are a technical master piece and the looks like an old rat hole in a good way. you'll 
 see very detailed enviroments, sharp enemy desing and gruesome feel to it. My favorite part of 
 the graphics are the lighting and textures, the game runs at a solid framerate with little framerate 
 hiccups and it's the best looking game in the 360 launch.
  
  The sound is like the graphics, you'll hear sound echoing from enemies,
  clinging from the melee 
 weapons, and eriee sounds from the enviroments.
  The voice acting is very well done, from the characters, to the enemies swearing.
  
  The game 
 has all this great stuff, but it's all but too short, you'll finish the game in about 6-8 hours. 
 I beaten the game in about 6 and a half hours playing this game. So the game's short lenght studers 
 the value a bit. But it's worth playing. so if you want to play a game where you'll enjoy for dozens 
 of hours, it's best you rent Condemned because it's not that long of an adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I have waited for Condemned: Criminal Origins ever since Game Informer mentioned it for the first 
 time. The game had so much hype and it really lives up to it. Condemned: Criminal Origins is a 
 creepy game, with incredibly brutal, visceral combat, amazing graphics, and a solid storyline.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: In Condemned: Criminal Origins, the focus is not on guns, but on melee weapons such as 
 pipes and 2x4's. The melee combat in awesomely brutal and very well done. I found my heart pounding 
 out of my chest quite a few times. Enemies appear seemingly out of nowhere, spewing out curses 
 as they bash you with a pipe. The creepy atmosphere is also excellently done. The dark, gritty 
 environments and strange hallucinations Ethan Thomas has are amazing. The melee combat is a lot 
 of fun, but, as Gamespot said, it does get slightly monotonous. There is not much variety in the 
 gameplay, even though what it does offer is great. Of course, there is also a CSI element to Condemned. 
 As you progress through the game, you will collect evidence with numerous forensic tools. Unfortunately, 
 this system isn't as deep as it could be. Really, it's just a way to break up the action. It does 
 look pretty neat though.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Condemned are really amazing. It is such a joy to be moving to the next 
 generation. Character models look amazingly realistic, especially the thugs you face early in the 
 game. The combat looks so violent and gritty. You'll see teeth flying out, chunk of flesh, you'll 
 even see your enemies's faces get bloodier and bloodier with every hit. The same goes for you weapons. 
 The environments in Condemned look spectacular, but it seems that Condmned suffers from the same 
 problem as F. E. A. R. The environments are a bit dreary and getting lost is pretty easy. I also noticed 
 a minor clipping error once or twice. But aside from these minor flaws, Condemned looks incredible.
 
  
  SOUND: The audio is probably the best part of the whole experience. The sounds in Condemned are 
 so perfectly done. The voice acting is great, even though there isn't too much of it. But the best 
 part of the audio is the combat. The sound you hear when your pipe connects with your enemy's skull 
 is so disgustingly realistic, you'd swear you just hit a person in real life. The sounds of enemies 
 cursing and squealing in pain are so perfect. It really adds to the experience and to the overall 
 creepiness of the game.
  
  VALUE: Although the combat, the environment, the story, and the audio are all great, this game 
 will only appeal for so long. This is because the combat does eventually get a bit dull and repetitive, 
 since the gameplay doesn't really vary much at all. Even with all the dead birds and other goodies 
 to find, you can only love it for so long.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: Condemned: Criminal Origins is a spectacular, unflinchingly brutal game. The combat 
 is so satisfying and intense, though it does get repetitive after a while. Even if it does get 
 dull, while it lasts Condemned is an excellent game that is tons of fun. I have begun to love Monolith 
 more and more for their horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Condemned puts you in the place of a detective thought to have killed two cops. In the game you 
 try to prove you innocence by finding clues, searching dark and scary environments, and yes, whacking 
 people over the head with items that range from lead pipes, all the way to the arms of department 
 store manicans. As the game unfolds, you find that the person who killed these detectives is a 
 killer who is given the name Super Killer X. He is killing off all the serial killers that your 
 character has been investigating. He's is kinda playing a game with him, kinda like who can get 
 there first kinda stuff. This game is one of the scariest, no the scariest game i have played to 
 date, from its haunting environments, to its enemies, and even the chilling soundtrack. This game 
 is so far one of my favorite games for the XBOX 360, and i hope many games with such great quality 
 will follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  I was one of the smart ones who preordered the 360 way back. So I got the chance to be one of the 
 first few to check Condemned out. And I have to say I was surprised. The first thing I noticed 
 while starting out was the story kind of pulls you in bit by bit. Your interested and also unsure 
 what to expect and in some people that creates a willingness to go keep playing. Once I started 
 I couldn't stop until I had beaten the game. You can tell its a good game when it makes you forget 
 the controller in your hand, in other words, its simple to learn and follows basic FPS commands. 
 The graphics were great and it was interesting to know that it was accually pushing the 360.
  The only problems I had with Condemned was the fact that I wanted more after I beat it. It left 
 the ending as if there could be sequals. I will definately be there for the second installment. 
 Gameplay was smooth and enemy A. I. was surprisingly smart. They would run away to find better weapons 
 or hide around corners to jump you as you walk by. Among many other times I was scared s#itless. 
 Some hallways rap around in some levels and you don't even pay attention to it but one time I thought 
 I had checked out this area. I was watching my back here and there, it was really quite and BAM!!! 
 My subwoofer kicked as a shotgun rang off from behind me. I almost passed out in real life (well 
 maybe not) Altogether this game was solid and I enjoyed every second of game time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The first time I saw condemned I knew that I would buy the game. The mix of melee combat and creepy 
 storyline had never really been done before and I am all about playing games that at least try 
 new things.
  
  First and foremost I will get the things that annoyed me out of the way first. 
  
  1. Character 
 models - Models were good but knowing that the 360 could do allot better, that kind of was a disappointment.
 
  
  2. Blocking - The blocking feature was a little hard to get used to and since it changed based 
 on what weapon you use it was hard to get good at it and just proved frustrating.
  
  3. Action - I do think that the game lacked just a little bit of action sometimes, and I know the 
 game is not halo I understand that I am just saying it needed a few more interesting character 
 driven fights like the one with the crazy lunch lady.
  
  Other than those few trivial things above I absolutely loved this game. 
  
  GRAPHICS  Amazing, 
 some of the best lighting and texture work I have ever seen in an game.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The melee combat is almost as satisfying as blowing someone away with an M-16. It may 
 get a little repetitive but the difficulty increases as you go along and just swinging away will 
 not always help you. Sometimes you have to strategize to get out alive and that creates some awesome 
 moments in the game.
  
  SOUND  I want to kiss the people who designed the sound, seriously I will go brokeback on them 
 if I have to because what they put together is seriously that good. Every noise, every whisper, 
 every F&^% you is perfectly done. The voice acting is straight from a Hollywood movie (NOT ONE 
 DIRECTED BY UVE BOWL AND YES I SPELLED IT WRONG ON PURPOSE) .
  
  They game is short but I have already played thru it 3 times and I might a fourth so dont think 
 its just a one and done its not.
  
  If you are into games like this please buy it so they will make a sequel and you should at least 
 rent the game it is a great game that is trying something new. They didnt make it perfect but 
 hey nobodys perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Undertaker2k4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminals Origins is a very hard game, violence is very present. The Story is extremely 
 addicting, but very short. You are a FBI Agent with your squad you are investiguing about a strange 
 death. The suspect is trapping you, stealing your pistol. With pretty much everything you see (crowbar, 
 water pipes, etc.) , you try to take it again. When two agents are coming to help you, they get 
 killed by the suspect, with your pistol. So you are accused of killing two FBI Agents. I don't 
 want to reveal too much.
  
  The gameplay is repetitive, but very fun. Do not play this game at night, lights closed and when 
 you are the only one to play, you will be really scared. Espeicially on the two final chapters.
 
  
  Despite to the fact that it's too short (6-7 hours) , it's pretty great. The graphics are great 
 too, but the Xbox 360 can handle a lot more.
  
  Worth playing, i hope to see a sequel.
  Great game for a launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the first preview for Condemned, it didn't really get my attention. After reading a 
 review from OXM, it got me interested in at least renting the game. I downloaded the demo from 
 Xbox Live Marketplace and immediately was addicted to the game. The next day I went out and bought 
 the game. I think its amazing how a game can have guns in it but make you want to never use them. 
 I love bashing crack heads in the skull with pipes, axes, and shovels. The creepiness of some of 
 the levels will have you sleeping with the hallway light on by the end of the night. I was terrified 
 to go into the next room in some levels. I suggest that you play this game on with the lights out 
 and with the sound blasted so you can get the true essence of the game. I love condemned and hope 
 that there will be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac_daddy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  What was the last horror game you've played? Doom? Quake? Gimme a break. You haven't seen nothing 
 yet. Rent his game first. Not everyone likes to buy these types of games immediately if you're 
 one of those people. 
  
  The first thing you notice is the graphics. Indeed, they are sharp. They stand out alot, and it 
 really looks like the developers took the time to really do some wonderful things. 
  
  (**SPOILER**) You start out as an investigator investigating a crime scene. There are some messed 
 up things, including a child no more than 5, all white, and his face is cut out. It's really messed 
 up. So you walk over to the real main crime scene. You must take pictures, document, etc. The cops 
 hear something coming from upstairs. FLASH! The lights go out. The cops leave to investigate, and 
 you're all alone, and the game begins.
  
  (**SPOILER**) But suddenly, a man flies across the room. You jump, but are not afraid. You turn 
 the corner, HE POPS OUT! You fire at the guy with your 5 bullets, and he goes down after two. Now, 
 you'll want to be conserving these, because you only have 3 now, and the next time you get ammo 
 is a long ways away. And all this actual gameplay, all within the first three minutes of the non-crime 
 scene game. 
  
  So there's your review. It's spoilers galore, but hey, you get the idea of the game, right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervlahovic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  great game by sega the story line is great...... but i say buy if your into the first person with 
 brains... this is a rollor coaster of adventer across the allys and crime riden city..... so if 
 you stick to the plan and make your way to uncover the truth and its cool..... there are many things 
 that frightin and startle you as you mash mame and smash you way through the city... there is also 
 more to found in the seemly endless acheviments makeing the game fun and wort playing second time 
 around..... segas great and this game proves it the story is great and similer to the 2003 release 
 of suspect zero so if you loved this game rent suspect zero for a great trill also on dvd now..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Another FPS makes it way to the 360 (how many have their been already?) , and all I can say is that 
 it needs work. The melee combat is solid, and the variey of weapons given to you is immense (signs 
 are my favorite) . Where the game falls apart is when you are investigating stuff; there is so much 
 pressurre to find the hidden stuff, that you easily lose yourself for hours on end. The gun combat 
 is very unforgiving, offering you only the ammo inside the guns. No reloading for you. This is 
 not meant to seem offensive, just meant to tell you what you're in for. By the game's final moments, 
 you still have plot related questions, and they never are fully answered. So, in all reality, your 
 main goal is to learn all the stuff and hope you get lucky. A challenging (in a good way) game 
 worth a long rental or a borrow-from-a-friend usage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkendo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHIX
  
  VERY NICE. Everything from the dead birds to the walls to the lighting are great. love it cant 
 complain
  GRAPHIX-A
  recommendation for the sequel (if there is one) - fun faster dammit! and i am sure the faces and 
 stuff will look alot better!!
  
  SOUND
  scares the crap out of me good. love hearing the evil doers yelling and cursing in the next room. 
 really creates a good (or evil) atmosphere.
  SOUND-A
  recommendation for next one- could it get better?
  
  GAMEPLAY/AI
  this is where the game 
 is won. love the way the creatures walk up behind you. or hid behind things, pick up objects. and 
 stuff. really awesome. easy to control and very realistic.
  GP/AI-A+
  recommendation for next one- hmm..... not sure.
  
  FUN?
  UM..... YEAH!
  fun- A
  
  BUY 
 IT!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Originals. One of the first games mentioned on the 360, previewed in Game Informer.
 
  
  This is it. The action-horror game that surpasses the fear you feel in Resident Evil or Silent 
 Hill.
  
  You play as FBI Forensic Agent Ethan Thomas, as he hunts down the serial killer only known as the 
 'Matchmaker.' Who kills young women and includes male department store mannequins in the crime 
 scene. During the first level, you lose your gun, and it's taken by the serial killer. You chase 
 him down throughout the building and at the end, you are taken hold of, unable to stop him, and 
 right infront of your eyes, the Matchmaker kills the two cops accompaning you, with your gun. After 
 that, the FBI believes you killed those cops, and soon your on a run for it.
  
  Though it's a first person shooter, there's much melee to it. When you use a shotgun, and run out 
 of shots, you can use the butt of your gun as a melee weapon, but it breaks easily. After that 
 you can pull power conduits off of walls, turning off the nearby lights, or pull pipes, concrete 
 rebars, or fire axes from places all around. The game and it's weapons fully interact with each 
 other, and though your chasing a single serial killer, you'll face countless drug addicts, psychos, 
 and homeless. Though you also have your foot and your trusty taser, the real weapon you have it 
 anything you can get your hands on.
  
  Aside from the combat, the forensic investigation things are extremely interesting. You can use 
 basically everything a real FBI agent uses, and find out multiple things about a crime scene, such 
 as where the person was killed, where a dead bird is, or see invisible marks of something in the 
 crime scene.
  
  The graphics, to say the least, are breathtaking, though when you get farther in the game, it gets 
 confusing as to what you're looking for and where to find it, because there's much darkness, and 
 all you have is your flashlight.
  
  To say the least. This game rocks. Period. If you want to be scared, and have fun doing it. Buy 
 this. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, Condemned is the scariest game I have ever played. One thing that added to this achievement 
 are the beautifully sick environments. Each environment had a disturbing feel to it. Another thing 
 was the AI. The AI that you encounter are very smart. They will hide and pick up weapons if they 
 dont have one. I also enjoyed how you could use almost anything in the environment as a weapon. 
 The story was also a huge part of this game. The story seemed to be like a very good movie. Like 
 Seven or Saw. The only things I didnt like was that the game is very short and some of the characters 
 faces are kinda ugly (as in not graphically up to par as the rest of the amazing visuals.) Overall 
 I highly recommend that you try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martinhunt2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a Brilliant, but terrifying game that doesnt disappoint. From start 
 to finish as you follow Agent Thomas through the underbelly of the criminal work in search of the 
 man who framed you. 
  
  With innovative new first-person elements this game tosses aside the fire arm and picks up a melee 
 weapon in brilliant looking fight scenes complimented by the stunning Hi-Def graphics.
  
  Condemned has one of the scariest atmospheres seen in any Video Game and it rivals such series 
 such as Resident Evil and Silent Hill, some of the scariest games in history.
  
  Stunning graphics, Awesome gameplay and Terrifying atmosphere, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a 
 must buy title for the Xbox360!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  As originally published on cgno. com...
  
  You would think that in this day and age it would take a lot to make people scared. The environment 
 is getting steadily warmer, terrorists threaten our very lives, and somehow Carrot Top continues 
 to find work. People seem to shrug these horrifying things off their shoulders every day and continue 
 with their daily lives. Surprisingly, the things that scare us the most are typically our most 
 primal fearsof the dark, of eerily-worn down locales, and of those sounds that go bump in the 
 night. Its those fears that Condemned: Criminal Origins capitalizes on and what makes the game 
 one hell of a thrill ride.
  
  You play as Agent Ethan Thomas, a detective with the Serial Crimes Unit sent in to investigate 
 the latest in a series of brutal murders perpetrated by someone known only as The Matchmaker. 
 Upon investigating the murder Thomas and two local cops realize that there is someone else in the 
 building. A quick kill of the lights and menacing cello music signal that all hell is about the 
 break loose. The resulting action leaves you as a fugitive of the law who needs to solve these 
 murders and clear his name.
  
  That would be easy if it wasnt for the city full of despot, insane, crack-addicted psychos running 
 rampant in every nook, cranny, and around every dark corner. Such is the world of Condemned and 
 you must get past them all to gather clues to the ever-twisting storyline. And sure the developer 
 could have made guns the standard takedown weapon of a 100 pound crazy man wearing assless chaps 
 and a dominatrix ball gag, but that wouldnt be quite fun enough. There are firearms, but they 
 are spread throughout the levels sparsely, and efficient management of them is key, because the 
 rest of the time youll be battling it out with whatever can be found, and thats where Condemneds 
 greatest strength lies.
  
  As you explore youre forced to defend yourself with anything lying around, be it a gas pipe, mannequin 
 arm, or shovel. The combat truly is the best part of the game, with enemies staggering about and 
 launching sneak attacks from above, below, and behind you. Timing is essential and if you swing 
 at the wrong moment youll suffer devastating counters. Each type of weapon has different statistics 
 for speed, damage, block ability, and reach, which lets you develop your own melee style of fighting. 
 You can take your chances with a slow, lumbering swing to deal greater damage or pepper the enemy 
 with less-severe but successive blows. 
  
  With this system the developers try to push across a theme of self-reliance with survival and puzzle-solving 
 based on objects you locate around the different levels. There are a few holes though. For starters, 
 while there are a myriad of objects that can be acquired and used as a weapon, there are so many 
 more that are seemingly ignored. Why, for instance, can you rip a door off a locker and fight but 
 somehow cant bring yourself to pick up one of the hundreds of chairs laying around? Puzzles are 
 also item-specific, requiring a shovel, fire axe, or even a sledgehammeras if theres a large 
 distinction among the three. There are several times in the game where you may think, No, I dont 
 have a fire axe handy, but Im fairly sure my sledgehammer can smash through this plywood door. 
 Alas, you are wrong.
  
  You also have a taser with you to provide some real shock and awe. Once hit, enemies freeze for 
 several seconds giving you the opportunity to either take their weapon or get a free hit. Some 
 of the weaker enemies will be dropped for good with a single shock. It works best in encounters 
 with multiple enemies, giving you time to shock one and let him cook while you engage another without 
 having to worry about getting hit from behind. Unfortunately, the game allows for abuse of the 
 taser. A lot of encounters in the game are between yourself and a single foe, so shocking them 
 as soon as you see them becomes instinct and once that happens any threat they once posed is severely 
 diminished. The rapid recharge doesnt help things much by letting you stay back in order to get 
 another shot off before attacking again. A slower recharge rate would have made the game even more 
 suspenseful, and therefore enjoyable.
  
  Condemned isnt all combat though, and from time to time youll be asked to gather evidence by 
 one of several gadgets at your disposal. Youll snap photos of blood stains, scan finger tips for 
 prints, and follow iridescent trails by use of special lights. The game walks you through these 
 processes, literally, by prompting you to press the X button whenever a clue is nearby. It seems 
 like handholding at times but its better than randomly pulling out a camera to take a picture 
 of something that might be evidence.
  
  Those flashes of light from the cameras will be a welcome change to the dark environments youll 
 be exploring. Condemned sets a new standard in terms of downright creepiness. The levels vary from 
 an abandoned school to the bowls of the city metro station, but they all have one thing in commondimly 
 lit tunnels and tight corridors. Luckily your character can do something that seemingly baffled 
 the space marines of Doom 3; he can hold a flashlight while brandishing a weapon! Its a well-needed 
 light source in some of the games pitch black environments and without it some gamers may lose 
 their wits.
  
  This is helped by the fact that the game sports some impressive visuals. Light will reflect off 
 metallic and glass surfaces as you meander through the levels while everything from boxes, bottles, 
 and pipes will shuffle around as you walk into them. Each area is as beautiful as it is scary like 
 the cold and unemotional concrete walls of the metro station, the paint-peeled walls and debris-strewn 
 corridors of an abandoned school, and the bloody walls of shower stalls that look almost too realistic. 
 An up-close look at some of the bad guys will reveal scars, gouged out eyes, wounds bleeding through 
 bandages, and realistic movements as they recoil from their blows. The animations are quite an 
 achievement in and of themselves as people stumble around in an angry fury, suddenly swinging their 
 arms wildly to nail you with an axe. 
  
  The sound is just as impressive with Condemned boasting some of the best sound effects of any game. 
 Each weapon sounds ultra realistic and while Ive never beat someone down with a blunt object before, 
 Im fairly sure it would sound like it does in the game. The voice work from the bad guys is particularly 
 convincing. They dont sound angry, they sound convincingly pissed. Strike a large man with a shovel 
 and youll hear him let out a very loud yell as he absorbs every ounce of pain that you have dished 
 to him. The music is an impressive mix of demented background voices with crescendoing cellos and 
 violins that strike at just the right moments.
  
  Everything combines into a convincingly terrifying adventure for the 360. The melee combat isnt 
 too overbearing as its broken up with gadgetry and firearms, and as a result really stands out 
 as the redeeming feature to the game. There is a bit of repetition, and it does seem dumbed-down 
 in parts, but fans of action games who are looking for something off the beaten path will find 
 Condemned well worth the purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0L070V
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This was my first and favorite '60 launch title.
  
  Monolith, the makers of the critically acclaimed "F. E. A. R.", bring their expertise to the table 
 with Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
  You are FBI agent Ethan Thomas. You are framed for a murder by a serial killer who hunts and kills 
 serial killers (he's a badass by the way) . The story line is there. It keeps you wondering and asking 
 questions. The visuals in this game are quite awe inspiring. From subway stations to schools every 
 thing is wonderfully done. Gameplay is fun to, if not a bit linear. Your character moves at a very 
 slow pace. Which, at your second time playing the game, my be annoying but its nothing to big. 
 Combat is raw and violent. As it should be. Blood hits the wall and teeth fly. You know that you 
 just did some damage with that lead pipe. The sound is magnificently done. You hear voices down 
 the hall and footsteps in the room above you. Replay value is moderately especially if your out 
 for achievements. Overall a great game. One of my favorites. It'll having you turning the lights 
 on.
  
  Pros:
  *Next-gen visuals
  *good story
  *Superb Sound
  * Gameplay is there
  
  Cons:
  * after all achievements are unlocked not much to do
  * slow character
  
  Bottom 
 Line: The fireaxe is truly a weapon of madmen, for who else would fight a fire with an axe? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  This game is a step in the right direction in terms of new types of gameplay. Acting as a detective 
 who has been framed you have to track down the man who killed your fellow officers. The games on-line 
 capabilities only go as far as leaderboards but it is better than nothing. I dont recomend playing 
 this game in the dark with a hd 50 inch tv with surround sound, because i almost **** my pants 
 quite a few times. The game is longer than i expect but considered short by some. None the less 
 this is still a good buy, download the demo form the marketplace first or rent it to make sure 
 its what you want. For a game where you barely get firearms and rely on melee weapons, i give it 
 an 8.5/10.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeserlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is truly a great game. It does just about everything right, it creates 
 an amazingly scary atmosphere, has incredible graphics and even better sound which really helps 
 to make the game scary as hell. This game is innovative because no game has yet made it where you 
 have to use your enviroments as your weapons by tearing pipes of walls etc. Also what makes this 
 game great is its suspenseful story which gets really weird towards the end when you get more involved 
 with SKX etc. This game should be in anyones library who wants to have the freaking crap scared 
 out of them and really wants to play something innovative and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  its about time that sega made an original game 
  
  lets start with graphics im playing it so heres every detail some walls look nextgen while others 
 were abit off but still looked excellent the weapons are the best part i mean the crowbar has its 
 detail , the bodies are okbut pd0 was better 
  
  the gameplay is good but it does have some form of cheating ai especally when they dont get hit 
 but you aimed at them not much to worry about it has the best original gameplay ive ever seen try 
 to collect all the birds and plates is what make this game hard i beat it on normal and easy working 
 on hard easy and normal are to easy and it dont look like hard is any different do not expect a 
 hard to beat game (getting all the achievements is hard but just completing it is not )
  
  the value is good but it is short and if only there were more freedom this would be a perfect game 
 10 chapters some long and frustrating others short and easy overall this packs small value into 
 a yet very fun game 
  
  sound this game has only scary sounds no music what so ever tis is where your xbox guide comes 
 in handy that is if you saved any cds yet the guns and items soud great ven smaking them on a locker 
 or wall youll notice realism 
  
  tilt it is a must buy for fans of action games and those looking for another game until the better 
 ones come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If this game is great, God only knows what will arrive next... Yes, this game is great and deserves 
 all the credit, finally, its time to break the barriers to enhance the realism in the A. I. and 
 bring a creepy and sometimes scary storyline to keep you on your toes.
  
  Considering that the game is slightly short, I dont think there is any other criticism, in fact, 
 there is none other. The graphics, as we all know, are full to use, the scenery and objects along 
 with its textures are simply breathtaking. Okay, its not completely real, computer games are supposed 
 to be exact human eye vision. They're games and they're fun, this game is fun.
  
  The story begins well, you, as a FBI agent, is framed for the two murders of two police officers. 
 Cruel it maybe but you actually see the killer and who he is, so, the game sets its tone from the 
 start. From the start atleast you know the plot, the plot to find the killer and bring him to justice, 
 if not kill him for revenge. And theres more but I wont spoil the fun, you just have to give it 
 a right go.
  
  The sound is surpisingly good and is steady, with the sound effects spot on but I did feel that 
 it need a 'umph!' in the music, especially where it got really creepy and at times, making you 
 jump. The A. I. is one big bonus point on this game because it promotes the 'randomless violence' 
 of human beings. It so good that you feel the urge to really wack the game as he seems, how would 
 I put it "too clever". By having the challenge to beat these enemies with many methods and the 
 harsh atmosphere, you feel as if it may though be abit dull that you spend 90% with the flashlight 
 (the rest using investigation tools) .
  
  Nevertheless, do not be put off this, its only a small thing compared to what the game truly shows 
 and offers. A challenge, balance between soft and hard approach, surpassing the great A. I. and 
 choosing your ending.
  
  A spectacle, I really do hope theres even bigger games than this because Condemned sets the benchmark, 
 I want that benchmark to be beaten time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kotaro_Fuma_88
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Condemned is the Xbox 360 game I have been waiting for. I have always been into horror games like, 
 Silent Hill, Resident Evil, and Haunting Ground etc.
  
  At first glance, it just look like your typical FPS game, take a closer look and you will soon 
 discover that there is more there than meets the eye. 
  
  Its a great FPS game that offers you some of the best moments you don't often seen in games. 
 
  
  The good points of this game are that the AI is really superb. The enemies are really smart and 
 intelligent. They will pick up weapon if they have dropped them on the floor, and even turn off 
 the lights on you. 
  
  The bad points of this game are, this game is too dark. I found that a lot of the time, I didn't 
 know where to go because its too dark, even though you have a torch. 
  
  And the bad thing is that, it can be hard in some places. 
  
  My conclusion is, a really good 
 FPS game for the Xbox 360 that offers you plenty of scary moments and shocks. 
  
  Well done Sega!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game is a first person game. Not really a shooter though because the player will only have 
 a gun a couple of times in the game and when you do have a gun it will only have a couple of rounds 
 in the chamber. The controls are very responsive and the speed of the game is a very realistic 
 one. The enemies have pretty good intelligence but the addition of the taser undermines some of 
 the difficulty in the game. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are great overall. The weapons and the blood on the weapons looks very 
 realistic and the environments are very detailed. The only downfall in this department is that 
 the character models in the cutscenes are not as good as one would hope that a next generation 
 game would look. 
  
  Sound: The game really does not have any music, and I haven't decided whether that makes the game 
 more or less scary. The voice acting is pretty bland and the characters really don't show much 
 emotion in the cutscenes. The part of the sound that I really likd was that the enemies really 
 swear and scream at you and they sound very realistic. 
  
  Value:
  The game has a pretty good value, and the addition of achievements for the Xbox 360 make the player 
 go back and try to find all of the dead birds and other collectibles. The game is of pretty good 
 legnth but there is not much to do after that, this kind of game really isn't open to multiplayer 
 options.
  
  I believe that the game is definitely worth renting and playing so as you can have a good time. 
 I would not really buy it unless you are really looking for a horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Your agent Thomas investegating a murder by a serial killer named the Match Maker. while hunting 
 him down it turns out you find him or some other serial killer? well which one it is, he kills 
 two cops with your gun right in front of you. Now try find the serial killer and running from the 
 police and with a guy who you dont know calling you every now and then. 
  
  The weapon and fighting system is acually pretty good with pullings weapons off walls and getting 
 new weapons and guns later in the game to finishing blows and everything, but you will find the 
 tazer will be one of the best weapons you will lose.
  
  Going through spooky level to spooky level with what can seem like a drawn boring path can be a 
 bit different while looking into pointless rooms for birds, xbox 360, and metal pieces to get the 
 achievements. Through the levels you will find smart and intresting Ai that will hide behind walls 
 block your attack and even fight eachother if one hits another. But other then the good AI this 
 game will have you looking at different crime scenes that will make you feel like your on CSI or 
 some other show.
  
  Other then the repition between the levels (why the hell do the levels have to be so dark really 
 whats up with murders and bad places?) the fighting and comparing new weapons and the story will 
 give you a short view into something great but thats all......... and thats about it.
  This game will scare you but it will keep you wanting to play more even though or scared. Rent 
 if First to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Overall Condemned is a good horror game. The game really has a scary feel to it ,but doesn't really 
 deliver many scares.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Good- Fighting is good at first, gunplay.
  Bad- Fighting gets boring and repetitive at end.
  
  Graphics: 
  Good- Enviroments set the 
 eerie mood of the game, Detailed weapons
  Bad- Charecters in cutscenes look bad.
  
  Sound:
  Good- the sounds during combat really make the fighting more intense.
  Bad- Well..... there 
 isn't anything bad with the sound.
  
  Replay Value:
  This game is really short. 5-7 hour main story. You could go back and search for all the birds 
 and metal peices in this game for some extra gamepoints, but thats about all.
  
  If your interested in games of this kind than this should be a definate buy for you, if not you 
 probably won't get much out of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceCOLEd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is an awesome game for your XBOX 360 collection. The horror and storyline 
 were some of the best I've seen in a long while. When playing the game, the enemies pop out of 
 nowhere which ties perfectly into the horror elements in this game. Condemned plays almost like 
 a Manhunt type game in FPS action.
  Condemned was a total surprise to me when I played it. The only games that really give me a scare 
 are when you know the enemies are chasing you, you are not chasing them, and thats what made me 
 freak out when I played Condemned. I rank this game up with the best horror games of all time.
 
  If you are a fan of horror games, and you own a 360... pick this one up. The only element that 
 really made this game not superb was the point that there was no multiplayer, which you really 
 do not need in a horror game, but it would have been nice. This game should be rated higher... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlimitedkiller
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  At first glance i thought it would be a simple minded game like manhunt but it ended up being much 
 more A must have!!! the detective work was very thrilling and the nonstop enemies comin @ you was 
 very exciting and so real i would almost jump outta my Sit the louder the volume the better with 
 this game makes it feel like everything is real happening around you and it does get harder through 
 the game was i didnt think would happen cuz at first it looked like just kill kill kill kinda game 
 but u had to use ur brain for the detective work its a great game for late nights and AFter work 
 and to gettt out any of that angry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_m_a_n
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Imagine this ---- you enter a creepy house to investigate a murder with two cops. You find the 
 body, so you sweep the crime scene for evidence which you send back to the lab for analysis. Then 
 you start to smell cigerette smoke and its not you or the other cops. You realise the murderer 
 is still in the same building, so the two cops go to investigate outside while you continue your 
 search inside. You start creeping round the corridors and suddenly see shadows running away from 
 you. You can hear someone muttering "im going to kill you" under their breath, the rooms are pitch 
 black and you only have your torch and one round of bullets to survive on. Suddenly two men jump 
 out of nowhere brandishing lead pipes ready to batter you over the head with, you pop a cap in 
 one of the guys heads and he falls down dead while the second guy slams his pipe into the back 
 of your head, you start running away but can hear the sound of his breath and you know he's following 
 you, you reach a dead end so you turn around ready to shoot but there is nobody there....
  
  Oh did I mention this is only the start of Chapter 1. Seriously this game is superb, if you 
 thought Doom 3 was scary then this is even worse. I was creeping round so slow at one point in 
 the game that when i suddenly fell through the floor, i literally cacked myself.
  
  The fighting system is probably the best thing about the game, you can pick up most objects you 
 find and each have their own strengths and weaknesses like the sledgehammer being powerful but 
 taking ages to swing. And I tell ya, theres nothing like smacking a hobo in the face with a fire 
 axe and then breaking his neck afterwards - theres a load of this stuff in the game and I never 
 got bored of it.
  
  When I say the games superb though, there are a few faults with the game. Like most Single Player 
 FPS's, the longevity of the game is not really up to scratch. I mean the achievements will make 
 you want to play through it a second time so thats pretty good but once youve played it once, youve 
 squeezed all the excitement of not knowing whats coming next out of it and its just a case of rushing 
 through the levels killing everything you can along the way.
  
  The storyline is a bit weird too, I managed to follow most of it but you will have a lot of quesitons 
 at the end of the game that the game does not really answer so you will need to play through it 
 again because once youve unlocked all the acheivements then you unlock scripts and other stuff 
 that tell you whats going on more in depth.
  
  The other only minor fault with the game is that it doesnt seem to of been tested that well, I 
 found a few common glitches with the game, things that shouldnt of happened really but they are 
 only minor things.
  
  Overall though, definately pleased with this purchase, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYL3R_95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  condemned: criminal origins should deffenetly be on the "must have list" of any xbox 360 owmer 
 who did not buy the system for the sports games. this is like a first person action game. it isent 
 so much a shooter as it is a melee-er...
  
  you do have guns in the game but you hardly relay on them through out the game because they usually 
 only come with 5-10 bullets in them. so you usually go around hitting people with everything from 
 pipes, to locker doors, to sledgehammers, or you can kick them, or zap them with your tazer which 
 will stun or kill them. and if you get them on there knees you can head-but them, snap there neck, 
 slam there faces into the ground and there is another attack i couldent quite make out what he 
 was doing to the poor, junky/zombie.
  
  in condemned you play as Ethan Thomas, an agent who is on the trail of a serial killer called the 
 "Match Maker". this is how the story starts out but then the story takes all kinds of twists and 
 turns, where you end up looking for a serial killer X. as you run around killing these crazy basket-cases 
 you cant help but think that you (Ethan Thomas) is a slightly... ok really crazy too.
  
  this game also has a bunch of clue finding tools that help you find finger prints, blood stains, 
 anything that will help you solve the case. and once you get the clue you send it to your partner 
 Rosa through your cell phone. 
  
  now the level designs are alittle annoying at times because after awhile it seems like you are 
 walking around in cirlces because every room or where ever you are seems exactly the same. but 
 it adds to the feeling of the game alittle because it is like you are walking through a maze and 
 you dont know what you are going to find next. but you can get lost very easy.
  
  the game is also very dark. through most of the game the only light you have is this flash light 
 that lights up your path but thats about it. so the game is very dark and it is hard to see things 
 unless you crank up the brightness on your T. V. 
  
  so all in all condemned is a great great game that i would recomened for any fans of scary games, 
 action games, or even adventure games or puzzel games. so if you have an x-box 360 you should deffenetly 
 check out Condemed: Criminal Origins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kike_u80
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Great Game, excellent sound, excellent graphics, havnt finish playing it, but seems is too short, 
 because of other reviews, and the first 2 chapters. The graphics are great, and the sound is just 
 amazing, specially if you play with a 5.1. The enviroment looks great, as all the characters. The 
 weapons could be better if more guns and shotguns were added. The only tiny problem in this game 
 is that is very hard to make the guy run, because you have too press the left stick as you are 
 moving. The combat mode is something new, thats what I liked from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmantey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has a really awsome story unlike most games. This games atmosphere is action/horror/fps. 
 You get to beat up crazy people with blunt objects in first person view. You also get to finish 
 them off, my favorite is snapping the neck. This game has a pretty mind twisting story, right when 
 you think you know what is going on, it gets more strange. Its story has an awsome ending ( I wont 
 give it a way) . The story is mind twisting just like Fight Club. I highly recommend this game to 
 people who like action and horor games with an actually good story. Play this game with the brightness 
 all the way down, in the dark, and the volume cranked because the noises of weapons hitting flesh 
 is just brutal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Unlike some other tittles for the 360 this one isn't hindered for rushing to be a launch tittle. 
 Graphic wise the character models are not the BEST out there but hold well for itself. The environments 
 are done nicely good attention to detail. Occasionally areas feel like you have been there before 
 when they house the same interactive objects such as tools, buckets, and the over use of a desk 
 chair from the first level. The fighting system is very real feeling and when you fight it really 
 does seem like it's for your life. The controls for fighting are simplistic and don't have anything 
 to offer after the first couple (except for the finish moves) . The flashlight idea is straight 
 from Doom 3 where you need it almost the entire game in oder to see certain areas and they don't 
 reward you for turning it off. The detective work is the only original thing about this tittle, 
 it has some pretty neat features and work nicely throughout the game. Like I mentioned for originality 
 it simply borrows on what other games have coined but have made it into one great game and makes 
 my list for games to buy your 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I truly loved this game at first sight, the previews G4 TV was showing made me get a boner just 
 thinking about it. So I bought a brand-new mint version of the game off Ebay for $40. The game 
 was amazing, I was obsessed, I couldn't stop playing. Soon enough I finished the game and collected 
 all the secrets, worshiped the game some more and beat it a few more hundred times. Then eventually 
 I got bored too fast, after the constant fights I felt this wasn't long enough of a game. Another 
 great thing i've heard about this game is that Warner Bros. are working on a movie just for this 
 game, without seeing if this game was a sucess they said they already started on making it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfeakboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  it has the *its to scary to play feeling but still makes you want to play it because of all of 
 its action* and all of its weapons are awesome the best weapon is the sledgehammer and the guns 
 are ok but all the meele weapons are better because all of the guns you cant find ammo for it so 
 when u run out of ammo uyou have to find a different gun like the two best guns the smg and the 
 sawed off are the best guns i think but u run out of ammo really fast for them and if u run out 
 during a fight, your going to get your ass kicked because your enemies can get ALL the weapons 
 picked up by you to. But if u run out of options, you can KICK. thats right. kick. You can kick 
 everything. Enemies. Boxes. Bottles. Medicene bottles. Medicene glass. Eveything. This is the best 
 game for xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  An insane and cinematic beginning, you thought it was awesome. But after awhile, the suspense of 
 what you find gets worse. Tons of signature and should-be- trademarked moments, Condemned looks 
 like the best game on the 360..... No? The graphics are not at the standard of the 360's capability. 
 The face graphics aren't that nice. Only on some of the enemies. But the environmental graphical 
 structures are well designed by Monolith. The controls a little messed up. I don't want to mess 
 up my sticks by clicking on them all day, to block or sprint. But ripping a pipe off of the wal 
 and beating the crap out of some guy is what made me like Condemned. The story is deep and intense. 
 A guy is tracking you down. But after awhile you have to track him down leading you through sewers, 
 subway outposts, and condemned structures with enemies beyond your dreams. These places contain 
 enemies like psychos, skinny animal-like creeps, and drug-dealing prison/asylum escapees. Beware 
 and play at your own risk. Hi-def picture and sound hurts worse than standard def.
  Final- 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in Condemned Criminal Origins is quite good, you can use all sorts of weapons from 
 handguns to sledge hammers. The graphical achievements in this game are the lighting effects, the 
 light bounces off objects and reflects off objects such as mirrors how you would think light would 
 in real life, the enemies and the character you play with are also quite good. The sound in this 
 game really helps scare you rigid, sudden bang sounds might happen which will make you jump or 
 the music might change to build tension. The value of the game is quite large, there is 11 levels 
 each 1 unique, there is also 50 achievements to unlock including 2 that make you play the whole 
 game again without using certain weapons which will take you a really long time. I personally think 
 that Condemned Criminal Origins is a good horror game but doesn't match up to the standards of 
 Resident Evil 4, Condemned Criminal Origins is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomKid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 4: The Room may have a little first-person, but Condemed is even more Interresting. 
 The Texture is just like Silent Hill and some war army games although you use. I wonder if there's 
 another First-Person Shooter Silent Hill Like Horror? And regretably it acctuly did not have mounsters 
 you kill like Silent Hill or Resident Evil.
  I think there's a movie of the game on www. condemed. com with an experions. I don't know if the 
 Serial Killer are served The Devil. As I finish the game Rosa said some sort of cult behind the 
 killings. A cult of religon and serial killers alike???
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poon_lovr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing it I thought it was interesting. But it then got more fun as the game 
 went on. The murders are not scary just the drug addicts are as they pop out. Working through the 
 dark hallways gets tiring after a while but it is still a very fun game. The weapon selection is 
 quite good because when you don't have a weapon you can improvise. It is fun beating the guys to 
 death but getting to snap their neck is more fun. The Manikins freak me out just as a killers calling 
 card. Condemned is one of the best and scariest game I've played on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a great horror game for the 360. The fighting system is awesome. The scare factor 
 in this game is very good and the game itself is very addicting. The graphics are pretty good for 
 a launch game, and the sound is pretty good too. With surround sound, an Hdtv, and the lights out 
 this game is very spooky. The game is still awesome even if you don't have an hdtv and surround 
 sound, but it'll make it even scarier if you do. The game itself isn't too long buts its very addicting. 
 All in all Condemned is a great 360 launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarEagle07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  First things first, this is the most immersive game I've ever played. I've played lots of games, 
 many of them were very immersive, but none to this level. The graphics, atmosphere, and arguably 
 most importanly the sound combine to produce a synergistic effect grabbing you and not letting 
 go till you hit the power button on your 360.
  As I alluded to earlier, this game is truely an impressive technical feat. It feels next-gen through 
 and through technically. The graphics are gorgeous, in a sick sort of way. Think doom 3 type graphics 
 without the jaggies. The atmosphere is incredible. The design of the levels, the storyline, the 
 sound just sucks you right in. You will often find yourself with an increased heart rate simply 
 in anticipation of what is to come. The most underrated aspect in my opinion of the game is its 
 sound. As good as the graphics are, the sound is the game's strongest point. You'll hear things 
 rustle around, and the sound will be realistic to what is rubbing against what. You'll hear enemies 
 creeping around you, behind you, above you, it all can scare the heck out of you.
  The one aspect of the game that is not next-gen is its gameplay. The gameplay mostly revolves around 
 you sneaking around in first person through very dark (both in lighting and in mood) levels defending 
 yourself with sticks, pipes, signs, and other melee weapons. There are some guns, but they are 
 few and far between and the ammo is very limited. Guns play such a small role beating the game 
 without using guns at all is not much more difficult at all. This idea on its own is great, its 
 implemented pretty well. You have attack mapped to the right trigger, block (which takes some practice 
 on the timing to be successful) blocked to the left trigger, and a tazer to stun enemies to give 
 you a free shot or disarm them. Even the fact that you must find your weapons in the environment 
 adds to the immersion. the more you use the weapons the more blood that will gather on them which 
 is a great touch. The problem is you do this the entire game, and nothing else. The AI and enemies 
 don't vary enough to change your strategy often enough to fight off the repetition.
  A common complaint of the game is that its too short to justify its 60$ price tag. I must disagree 
 with this. There are ten chapters (levels) in the game, and their length varies from half an hour 
 to an hour and fifteen minutes roughly per level. A safe guess at the average length per level 
 would be 45 minutes. Now this clocks the game in at roughly less than 10 hours which is short. 
 However the game is so intense that you feel like you've done a lot more when you're done than 
 played for only 45 minutes or so. The story is so deep and the achievements are well done that 
 most people play through this game multiple times. All in all i'm confident that if you pick up 
 this game you'll get closer to twenty hours of gameplay out of it rather than 10 hours.
  At the very least this rough gem of a game deserves a rent. If you have an HDTV, surround sounds 
 speakers than the least you should do is rent this game, turn out the lights one night, turn the 
 speakers up, and just enjoy what next-gen gaming can and should be like. You'll find that you'll 
 quickly forget where are you and fear for your well being as addicts jump out at you and attempt 
 to beat you upside the head with metal pipes. Even those without an A+ gaming rig would do well 
 to experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  When I went to gamestop to buy this game (along with Perfect Dark zero, and 3 others) , I had no 
 idea how fricken scary this game was. The graphics we're ok, not as good as some other 360 games 
 I have, but the Framerate, textures, and other things are good enough. When you fight the "Zombies" 
 in this game, dont expect yourself to be able to whack them down before they can even swing their 
 weapon at you, Their AI is really complex, so they will know if there is a weapon near by and will 
 grab it when they see you. There are alot of melee weapons, as well as a couple of guns, like a 
 shotgun, revolver, etc. Another thing I like about this game, is that there is a good reason why 
 you have a load more health than your enemies (Ethan Thomas having a dense bone structure) . There 
 are so many things i like about this game that i can't type here, but there are a few things that 
 i don't like about it, too: There isn't much texture variety in the walls and doors you find, and 
 i sometimes get the feeling "Wait a minute, I think I've been here!" or something. Another thing 
 is the difficulty I had trying to run fast, because I have to push down on the thumbstick and move 
 it at the same time, and even if I'm running, I still don't go very fast so I figured I'm better 
 off walking instead. It has some minor issues in terms of control and graphics, but overall it's 
 one of the best Xbox360 launch games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buschschwick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I picked up for my 360 system, and it was for sure... not a let down. It 
 has very good game play that keeps you on the edge of your seat wanting to bash more brains in 
 and a good story line to go with it. Many "mini-games" like picking up dead birds along the way, 
 finding hidden xbox360's and metal peices. Only a few glitches that I ran into such as, the game 
 saves and on load takes away my weapon without being able to pick any other ones up (only happened 
 once, but was annoying since I had to restart the entire chapter) and the occaisonal black out. 
 But overall not a let down. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxhound71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Prepare, you lucky 360 owners, for the most terrifying game on the Xbox 360. Condemed: criminal origins.
 
  
  Now let me just start of by saying that this game made me (Foxhound71) look like a coward and i'm 
 not to fond of that. It may have you put out as a coward because this looks and sounds so good that 
 it creeps th s**t out of ya. In condemed you play as agent Thomas a man who has a bad reputation 
 for being little rough on the job but also has a gift in what he does. At the start of the game 
 the city becomes overrun by serial killers and leaves you to catch a killer known as the match 
 maker. While looking for this deranged freak you become captured and framed for the murder of two 
 officers. When in the game you can walk up to just about anything and use it as a weopon. See a pipe 
 in the wall don't hesitate rip it out and use as your hobo repelant. The fighting mechanic is fairly 
 easy to learn R is to attack L is to block, but if you really pay attention to were you hit them 
 then you see the mark on the guys face from were his cheek met your 2x4. Mostly all the gameplay 
 turns out to be is like the directions on the back of a shampoo bottle, hack-block rinse repeat, you 
 are constantly killing then look for or taking samples of stuff. But who really cares the graphics 
 are amazing the story is forgivable the sound is creepy (in a good way) and the gameplay is of the 
 hack and slash variety.
  So buy it, send a message to the gaming industry that we need mor games like this with a better 
 story and more depth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C199319
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a great game, and what separates it from the rest of the other games is that it is 
 so realistic and scary and the fact that people can follow you and you wouldnt have a clue to me 
 is pretty intense. Now lets talk about the graphics the graphics are very detailed and if u were 
 to hit someting with a melee weapon if u were to look on the weapon you would see eactly where 
 you hit the person and you would also see the aftermath on the guys face. But I had noticed that 
 sometimes when a game is too detailed and cramped with all theses matrox graphics it tends too 
 look a little fake and the great thing about condemed is that theres not too much detail and it 
 looks perfect on your 360! Some of the downfalls, not just about the game, but the xbox 360 is 
 that it melts the disc and i have seen it before and its not as dramatic as some people would put 
 it, but it does singe the outer layer of the disc and in between the middle and the power, bar 
 for the xbox 360 takes up a lot of space and electricity. also something I didn't like about the 
 game is that it was too short and that after a while you could almost sense or predict when something 
 was going to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Condemned is really the only one of the XBOX 360 launch titles to feel entirely complete. The game 
 is solidly made in every aspect, and offers a far more realistic horror experience than any other 
 survival horror type game on the market. (That includes the much hyped Resident Evil 4) The graphics, 
 lighting, ambient sounds, excellent A. I., and enjoyable/brutal combat help create an experience 
 that is intense and totally immersive. The game avoids the horrendous glitches that other launch 
 titles (Perfect Dark: Zero anyone?) faced, and it definitely feels as though Sega managed to pull 
 off a launch title that wasn't bare-boned or incomplete. The arguments against the game are all 
 fairly week, and tend to deal more with personal preferences of the reviewer, opposed to actual 
 issues with the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlissCntrl
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  The same brutal killing that a good majority of us saw in manhunt is found here. The storyline 
 is a little different, and there is the little tid bit of finding metal scraps and dead birds which 
 is interesting, but the constant need to prove you innocence and chasing after the criminal keeps 
 you going for more, and it makes you want to keep on creeping around all of the corners and finding 
 everything so that you can see what the next chapter holds in store for you. Just wish that there 
 was more firepower, hard to get through some parts with nothing but a 2x4 when 3 people are shooting 
 at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budda_165
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  i use the words above not in a good way this game is not worthy to be on this console or in my 
 house, my expectations of this game were huge but the reality was something much diffrent. The 
 game did include horror yes! but action definatly not, the game was about as full of action as 
 Barbra Strisand in 10 years and for all of you which dont understand that aint alot.
  
  all together this was a very poor game yet there were quite a few levels, those who dont want to 
 know which dont read on!, such as the school level, the libary and the farm where you had to follow 
 the text with the forensic equipment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Sega is on to something great, Condemned has introduced a new style of gaming to the market. This 
 very innovative original is probably one of the freakiest, hardest games to play in the dark (just 
 plain scary) . Condemned (if you dont know, the main character is a forensic-detective cop) gives 
 the player an experience I haven't seen in any game of its kind. While you're winding through the 
 darkest, crack-infested levels it is easy just to simply take a break for safety measures. The 
 Radiant AI has totally changed the way I view NPC's and their potential in next-gen gaming. I do 
 not want to spoil the whole story or anything, but if your a stick in the mud on these types of 
 games... atleast rent Condemned so a friend can play. It is worth the scare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for the faint of heart. In fact if you even HAVE a heart then stay away from this 
 game. The awe inspiring story is conveyed through beating drug addicts and homeless people to death 
 with planks of wood and lead pipes. They will be fighting back mind you with all of the weapons 
 available to you at their disposal also your in for a tough ride. 
  
  This game is brutal savage terrifying and phsycologically unbalancing. You will not be the same 
 after completing this game. 
  
  The great graphics and horifying music are used to great effect. But at some points you just want 
 to turn it off and run. 
  
  if brutal violence great stories and horrifying experiences are you thing then this is your type 
 of game. If not then stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGenRebel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  first off this is one of the best survival horrors ever! The environment and sound effects are 
 killer! The graphics are nice and sharp too. Didnt get into it at first cuz i had trouble with 
 the combat but once i got down the blocking and the strafing around it totally paid off. The story 
 was really cool as well. Almost like Se7en meets CSI. Using the forensic tools was really cool. 
 The pacing can seem a bit slower at times like when you are looking for clues but when the sh*t 
 hits the fan, it REALLY hits the fan!!! Like I said before the combat engine rocks but is diffrent 
 than most others at first and takes some getting used to. Not a game just based on a bunch of "jump 
 out and scare ya" moments, it really will freak you out and have you be a bit more cautious in 
 the dark afterward. LOL This game is really worth a chance by any gamer that calls themself a survival 
 horror fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  There were times in this game when the shivers became overwhelming, unfortunately, I WANTED MORE 
 OF THOSE TIMES. 
  
  The Good Points: Everything's Dark, and you're constantly bumping into Buckets, Bottles and Locker 
 Doors that make a NOISE, you didn't expect. The STORYLINE is 'alright'.... and the GAMEPLAY is pretty 
 good. I also like the fact that the BAD GUYS try to hide, and also will change their weapon if 
 YOURS is BETTER. Excellent Point: The Mannequins in the Department Store, the Little Children singing, 
 and the times when the screen turns Black and White and you can't figure out why. 
  
  The NOT SO GOOD POINTS: Gameplay and bad guys can get a little repetive.
  Sometimes, you'll be 
 in an area with obvious screen flicker, and if you're like me, your character will get "Trapped" 
 on an invisible floor half way up that you can't step off of..... or you will face a Bad Guy in 
 an elevator that you can't kill, because even though you can see him.... everything you do doesn't 
 TOUCH HIM. (Guns, Pipes to the face, etc.) He just acts like there's somebody near him, so he's 
 trying to hide, IN AN ELEVATOR. 
  
  Overall: I'm glad I played CDO, and it was a very different gaming experience.
  Music is fantastic, 
 Sound Effects are fantastic, Graphics are pretty good... but who could tell because it's so dark. 
 Storyline is okay, I guess..... and it's always fun to take a Crowbar to the side of somebody's 
 face.
  
  For those who are really into the "Serial Killer" mind set, my name and address are being withheld 
 by request. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EniGma1311
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  The game is much better than I had originally expected. The gameplay is fairly simple, just grab 
 anything you can get ur hands on and start hittin people. The graphics and the sound are the best 
 parts of this game. The atmosphere of the game is so freaky and eerie. At times, you don't want 
 to move becuase you don't know what will happen to u. It scares the s*** out of you ( or at least 
 me!) each time you encounter an enemy, unless he obviously stands out. Overall, the game is awesome; 
 it's fun and scary at the same time. Anyone who likes hitting demented zombies/creatures with pipes 
 or sledgehammers will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game will make you feel uneasy. They put you in the shoes of a homicide detective and you 
 must find this serial killer that kills serial killers... pretty creepy! The graphics are some of 
 the best I've seen for the 360. The gameplay is a little "iffy" but the game does scare the crap 
 out of you at times. I dare you to play this game with all the lights out and the surround sound 
 on. You will here bums coming at you but you don't know where to look. There is no online play, 
 just leaderboards. There are a ton of achievments to unlock and it can keep you busy for a while. 
 The game is a definite rental so don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazingz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Graphically this game doesn't shout out next gen to be, but they did do a great job on the lighting 
 in this game and made the atmophsere chilling.
  
  gameplay was great, i woudlnt call it a first person shooting game, more of a beating the crap 
 out of crazy people! lol
  
  sound was great and scar at sometimes
  
  i reccoment this game to all the people who enjoy games such as resident evil etc. I think the 
 first thing you should do is rent it to see how much you like it and if you do , it will be highly 
 addictive and a great game to play for long  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2_mike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The game Condemned is a one of a kind in the 360 launch line up. The video review is overly harsh. 
 The game excells in story unlike most games such Perfect Dark Zero, which had a terrible story, 
 poor looking a. i. models, and boring dialog. Honestly I wise i had bought Condemned instead of 
 PDZ the day I bought my 360. Anyway, the audio in this game feels real, as if you were there. The 
 gameplay is absolutely brutal, but not anything you'll hold on to for a long time. The graphics 
 are problaly best on the launch list. The game has a good story and with suspense and gore for 
 any fan of Saw this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Pros
  + Sound design and graphics will send a chill down your spine
  + Different from the usual survival horror games out there
  + Combat is brutal and satisfying
 
  
  Cons
  - By the same token, the combat is a bit shallow
  - The story soon becomes too hard too follow, not due to obscure writing, but obvious plot holes.
 
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins, as one of the launch title for the Xbox 360 has quite a bit of expectations 
 to live up to. Not only does it need to show the power behind Microsofts new monster, but it also 
 has to compete against the like of Resident Evil and Silent Hill. Whether or not the game lives 
 up to expectations, you are still left with a solid, terrifying title.
  
  As FBI agent Ethan Thomas, it is your job to track down a recent serial killer, whose brutality 
 and mannequin fetish are second to none. As the game opens, Thomas enters a dilapidated office 
 complex where a new victim has been found. Soon everything just turns on its head and you begin 
 battling against hordes of sociopaths whom have suddenly gone murderous crazy. If that werent 
 enough, you also have to evade the police, as you have been framed for the killing of two law enforcers. 
 This is the hell Thomas has been thrown into, and is your job to find a way out. Along the way, 
 youll bash, break and obliterate any sort of opposition with brutally looking melee combat and 
 do some forensic work, whose results will be sent to you via cell phone by the only person who 
 still happens to believe in you. The game starts out on an interesting and positive note. However, 
 the story soon becomes quite impossible to follow, as no coherent explanation is ever given as 
 to what it is thats going on, no matter how hard you investigate. Still, Condemned does manage 
 to keep you hooked until the end, if not for the story, it will for its brutal game-play and awesome 
 presentation. The bulk of the game is made of you navigating seamlessly dark and abandoned places, 
 whether itll be warehouses, offices or schools, the game never throws a bright day at you. It 
 also happens that each and every one of these levels are full of scum who have nothing better to 
 do than trying to kill you. Thankfully, the combat system in Condemned is fun and brutal, even 
 if it lacks a little depth or variety. Basically, you can find all sorts of melee weapons, from 
 steel pipes to mannequin arms laying all over the place and you use this to show these deranged 
 killers who is boss. Each weapon works the same as the other, you swing, block and just look for 
 openings to bring the pain down on your enemies. The weapons do vary in parameters, such as speed 
 and strength, which will be neatly shown on screen before you decide to change weapons. There is 
 also some gun combat involved, but the instances of these happening are not many. Apart from these 
 forms, you can also use a taser to immobilize your opponents, giving you enough time to either 
 disarm them or introduce them to the business end of your sledgehammer. There also some finishing 
 moves, such as breaking necks and slamming people, which are pretty brutal and awesome to pull 
 off. Unfortunately, thats about it with the combat system. It would have been nice to see some 
 new stuff later on in the game. Of special mention is the enemies AI however. The enemies in Condemned 
 are very smart and are not dominated by certain videogame conventions, such as weapon picking. 
 Basically, anything that you can pick up from the environment, so can your enemies, including guns. 
 So, itll make you think about what weapons to take and what to leave, but dont be surprised if 
 you suddenly reach the game over screen, courtesy of a crowbar you just left there for your enemies. 
 The little creeps are also adept at sneak attacks, so you need to stay on your toes. Another cool 
 thing is that even though it is their common goal to kill you, that doesnt mean they are friendly 
 to each other and sometimes watching one of them bash one of his allies in the head with a two 
 by four before coming after you is both, funny and useful.
  
  The atmosphere of Condemned really comes to life courtesy of a great visual engine. Everyplace 
 in the game looks astonishing and genuinely eerie. This is further enhanced by some state of the 
 art lighting effects. Even when you may find yourself going through the same similar hallways and 
 rooms over and over again, youll never be nothing short of awe-struck as how the entire thing 
 looks. It further helps that the environments react realistically to what is going on around them, 
 often going from abandoned to abused. The enemy characters are also disturbing and move with disturbing 
 life-like movements you would expect from people high under the influence of something. Thomas 
 himself features some seriously good-looking facial expressions and movements. There are some animations, 
 such as kicks that dont feel right and the guns dont look particularly menacing, at least not 
 when compare to your trusty axe.
  
  Sound design is the biggest, most satisfying aspect of the entire game. Not only is the voice acting 
 downright hair-raising, the overall sound of combat, shots, steel hitting flesh and anything you 
 might imagine feels right at home. Even when youre just walking by yourself, youll find yourself 
 constantly turning around, wondering if that bucket that just feel from a shelf was your doing, 
 or someone elses completely.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great appetizer for the games we can expect from this generation. 
 It is visually stunning, features real life-like sounds and even when a little repetitive, still 
 offers one of the most brutally satisfying games to come in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  It is awesome. While you will have to crank the brightness on you tv up high, its well worth it. 
 It has fast paced combat and throws in firearms, which ill admit feel a bit out of place. The environment 
 allows you to take anything off the floor or wall to use as a melee weapon. My preferance is the 
 paper cutter. they are pretty rare though. This is one of the best games on the 360's titles, so 
 its not worth it not to buy it. It is the most ultra violent piece of fun horror i've playes since 
 doom 3. You better buy it after this review. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal origins is a horror first person action adventure for the Xbox 360. Developed 
 by Monolith and produced by Sega Condemned is the game that finally gives you the ability to smash 
 someone with a lead pipe. Condemned is an Xbox 360 exclusive and easily the scariest of all the 
 launch line up games. Parts of it are reminiscent of Silent Hill and Doom 3 in terms of the scare 
 factor. It truly delivers a scary game that will have you jumping at times especially with volume 
 cranked up and the lights out. 
  
  ESRB: M for mature
  Genre: First Person Action/Horror
  Cost: 69.99 cdn
  Platform: Xbox 360
  Online: to some extent
 
  
  Condemned is first off a semi story driven first person action game. The story is solid but could 
 have used a little more detail and explaining so the story would flow better in general. The premise 
 of the story is that you are Ethan Thomas a Criminal investigator for the FBI. The story begins 
 with you doing your job and investigating a murder. Of course nothing is ever as planned and you 
 barely get out with your life as a nasty little excursion. Your life was by someone but you dont 
 why or who. You also dont know why you were about to die or who was sent to kill you. Being the 
 investigator that Ethan is you set a course due to figure these things out and solve the spooky 
 mystery. You have some help in the form of Rosa to help you analyze different information, your 
 in contact over the phone and never actually meet the person face in the entire game. 
  
  The plot feels kind of half-done at times. The main plot of the story is strong enough to continue 
 on and some evidence leads to some interesting and often unexpected twists. The story is told through 
 loading screens and moves smoothly throughout the entirety of the game. Occasionally youll want 
 a few more answers and have questions about the overall feel of the game and where its going. 
 Unfortunately the game doesnt deliver a lot of answers at once and in some cases doesnt answer 
 questions you may have. The ending isnt all that spectacular to say the least. Still the story 
 is capable of making you want to at least finish the game and continue on throughout the games 
 10 levels.
  
  Condemned is primarily a first person shooter minus the shooting. The bulk of the weapons youll 
 be using in the game are hand weapons. These include planks, boards with nails in them, flaming 
 pieces of wood, pipes and of course crowbars. Certain weapons only appear in certain levels based 
 on the building or area youre currently investigating. You have a taser gun that can be useful 
 when confronting enemies but is most useful in head to head battles. It shoots like a taser gun 
 and will temporarily stun an enemy so you get a few smacks or shots at them depending on your current 
 state of weapons. The taser seems underpowered and unrealistic though. It real life hitting anyone 
 or anything with a taser for such a long time could kill them or at least knock them to ground 
 and possibly knocked out for a long time. 
  
  The games arsenal besides the taser has a much more realistic appeal to it and is simply more 
 real. Youll frequently be faced with tough decisions as to what handheld weapons to use or to 
 try to use the shotgun or guns lying around. The guns rarely have enough ammo to defeat a horde 
 of enemies and really causes the game to focus on its hand to hand combat aspects. The weapons 
 are fairly accurately represented and balanced. Weapons that are more powerful per attack generally 
 take longer to swing around and hit an enemy with, where as lighter and less powerful weapons are 
 quicker to swing at enemy with. Likewise the heavier weapons take longer to block and the lighter 
 ones block much more rapidly. The guns found in the game always have a very limited supply of ammo 
 and most of the time wont get you through a horde of enemies as youll almost be better off not 
 using them. 
  
  This is what the game wants you do fight hand to hand with all the various and grotesque looking 
 foes found in the game. The game does through a simplistic and somewhat deep combat system that 
 has a few tricks but wont take tediously long to master. The game has two moves in combat, a block 
 and an attack. There are no special combo dual wield mega damage combos which limits the combat 
 system drastically. You can attack and block using the two triggers. The block will prevent enemies 
 from bashing your skull in and the attack will attempt to bash an enemys skull in. these attacks 
 are all powerful on enemies and yourself. Your attacks can do a lot of damage but so will your 
 enemies. The attacks look vicious on screen and will deplete your health if you take a few to many 
 whacks. 
  
  The foes in the game are vicious, work well together and actually feature some fairly intelligent 
 A. I. for the most part. The enemies often come barging out of corners charging at you especially 
 when there is only one enemy. The enemies when there are multiple as in most confrontations in 
 the game will lurk in corners and attack in a group -- strength in numbersand leap into combat together 
 forcing you to fight multiple foes at once. The A. I. is not only intelligent in this form but has 
 intelligence in combat. It will often attempt to lure you into a false sense of willingness to 
 attack by blocking then making fake attacks giving you the want to counter-attack only to beat 
 smashed by the enemy knocking off some health. As much as the bulk of combat is composed of swinging 
 and blocking agent Thomas has several really cool looking finishing moves that include a supreme 
 looking head butt move. These moves are performed when the enemy is near death enforcing the combat 
 of block and beat in the game. 
  
  Condemned is interesting in the fact that the game tends to stick with you and blur together. Its 
 not to say you wont remember parts but youre more likely to remember a section of it as opposed 
 to a few moments like in other games. This is in the most part due to that towards the end the 
 levels begin to blur together because of their vast similarity to one another. As much they take 
 place at different locations the scale of these locations arent drastically different and the 
 level design is rather drab for the most part. Its makes the game feel as if its one big level 
 that your playing through with only forensics and the story breaking it up in between. This is 
 fine at first but over the 8 or so hours the game lasts it begins to wear you down and become rather 
 annoying.
  
  The game has that dark tinge to it and is what causes the levels to feel so blended. The levels 
 arent necessarily identical but rarely will you see more then what is illuminated by your flashlight. 
 Youll be moving it around of course to light up the dark and attempt to see where the next batch 
 of enemies might be lurking or ready to jump out from. Still the game isnt all combat and action 
 and some sections youll merely be walking through a section to get further into the building to 
 gather the evidence you need. Each building is damp, dreary and dark to fight the horror feature 
 and they do this well. The game is constantly frightening and will scare you on more then occasion 
 at least. The scary moments are drastically similar to Doom 3 with enemies lunging and charging 
 at you from the dark suddenly in your face smashing you with pipes or whatever else they may have 
 in their hands. 
  
  In the game you are actually searching for evidence as to the murder in these condemned buildings. 
 This is done in the game using instincts these instincts occur via on screen prompting and will 
 allow you to use your forensic tools to find the evidence located nearby. This mechanic is honestly 
 way to simple and with a little more thought and effort could have added some depth and challenge 
 to the game. The forensic tools are only used when prompted and youll have the right tool out 
 you only need to find the evidence. This develops the story and is a much needed break from all 
 the beating up. Early on youll merely have to do this with lots of time whereas later in the game 
 will you have quickly switching your tools for lead pipes to kill another large set of enemies 
 that will attack you as you attempt to grab your stuff and find the killer.
  
  Condemned is mostly beating the crap out of people but it does it so well that it really doesnt 
 bother you by the end of it all. For the most part that can be due to how great the game looks. 
 I havent played in full 720p glory with the exception of a demo but even on a regular television 
 the game looks fantastic. The enemies look absolutely gorgeous. The models with flesh pealing and 
 the effect of watching them get head butted, smashed or punched look fabulous as well. The animations 
 in there entirety are top notch. The occasional enemy looks odd and like it got messed up and the 
 environments are so dark its hard to see them at points to really see if there was a ton of work 
 done on them. The lighter environments, the few there are do look fantastic as well. The game features 
 some great texture work but its to be expected for a game on a next-gen console. Whats also expected 
 is that the frame-rate is stable and doesnt hiccup during large combat scenes when faced with 
 a plentiful amount of enemies. The game doesnt hiccup and runs smoothly throughout its entirety. 
 In general the game looks fabulous and is a top tier looking Xbox 360 game on almost all levels. 
 Of all the Xbox 360 games I have seen only Project Gotham racing 3 looks better. The sheer level 
 of detail into the game shows that Sega still can make great games without having to slap Sonic 
 on them. 
  
  On top of looking great it sounds fantastic as well. Its hard to describe how well the game sounds. 
 The highlight of the sound is by far the combat as hearing the sound of lead and flesh for the 
 hundredth time is still great. All the combat sounds are terrific and seem like it would have been 
 tough to do on a previous generation console. With surround sound the game gets even scarier. This 
 is due to the subtle slow dreary music in the background and the enemies leaping around. Again 
 the sound-effects are Amazing. The voice-acting in the game is well done but the dialogue portions 
 really dont comprise the bulk of the sound found in this game at all. The only sound you might 
 notice getting repetitive is the taser gun but besides that you wont hear and get to used to hearing 
 any one sound found throughout the game.
  
  Despite the fact its not full of depth or tricks condemned is still loads of fun to play through 
 once. There is virtually no replay value for the game and will most likely collect dust after you 
 beat it. The game is virtually the perfect weekend rental title clocking in at 8 hours or so. The 
 game looks gorgeous and sounds fantastic and is not a memorable experience but definitely a great 
 game on almost every level. A little more depth on the forensic side or the combat side would be 
 nice but for a launch title its definitely one of the Xbox 360s more unique ones. If your in the 
 market for a great 360 rental game or want a scary, horrifying experience for yourself then reach 
 for condemned and you definitely wont be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustopants
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  so... Condemned: Criminal Origins... it's a Great game for any fan of the horror genre... also 
 a great game for anybody who's a fan of innovative First-Person games (i. e. - Deus Ex, Breakdown) ... 
 it takes both of thoose formulas and combines them greatly...
  
  Gameplay:
  the whole game immerses you vastly, If you play it by yourself, late at night in a dark room... 
 it'll scare the living **** out of you! You'll soon find yourself in the shoes of the main character, 
 walking through slums and dark alleyways, looking over your shoulder... as for gameplay features 
 itself, You can pick up lots of various weapons right off the wall, or from your enemies, or just 
 lying on the ground, or pretty much anywhere... and then beat the crap out of your foes... theres 
 also some guns, besides all of the melee weapons, and they're fun to use... The AI is also pretty 
 good in that they occasionally go and run from battle to hide behind a wall... just so they can 
 pop out and scare you again... there are a few parts where you might get stuck, but nothing too 
 major... nothing where you're gonna wanna beat your 360 with your controller... it's a nice, steady 
 difficulty slope...
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics look great... the backgrounds look simply amazing... although, the characters sometimes 
 looked a bit muddy... nothing THAT noticeable, though... overall, the graphics are really good...
 
  
  Sound:
  This game has excelent sound... the voice acting is realistic and beliveable... from the spoken 
 dialouge... to the fighting grunts... to the psycotic yelling of addicts, this game's voice acting 
 is great... as for ambient sounds... thoose are also great... everybody knows that a good horror 
 game pretty much has to have great ambient sounds, or else it's just, well... not scary... this 
 game has great ambient sounds, from it's low creepy soundtrack to the clutter clatter of objects 
 that you walk into on the ground... to the creepy faded static noise heard when you start to black 
 out and have hallucinations... also, the sound fx are solid... everything sounds like it should, 
 (i. e.- a steel pipe hit up against a locker door sounds different than a 2x4 with nails hit up 
 against a locker door...) thats not really anything new, I suppose... but I guess it was worth 
 mentioning... all around, the sound in this game is top-notch...
  
  Value:
  The Game doesn't have that much replay value... The main story is kinda short, and you can go through 
 it in about 15 hours... but you might want to play it over again for more achivements or to just 
 beat up some addicts... still, the game is pretty much a once-through type of deal... defidently 
 a rental game...
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I had lots of fun with the game... and I enjoyed, thouroughly, beating the **** out of people... 
 Defidently worth a rental... and if you're a fan of games with good storylines, then it'd be worth 
 a buy for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple6e1999
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  .... No not really. I downloaded the Condemned demo on Xbox Live, it was great, i was having alot 
 of fun, so I rented it. After playing about 3-4 levels it just gets real boring. Its the same thing 
 over and over. Of course its always dark , after you fight a guy or two, in takes about 10 minutes 
 before you encounter another guy. It gets boring fast and very repeater, I dont like this game 
 at all. It could have been so much better. This game isnt a FPS, every gun you find has about 3 
 to 5 bullets, you mit aswell not pick them up because theres certain weapons you need to hold onto, 
 like a sledge hammer or a axe and if you loose one or trade it for a gun, you are f**ked. Boring 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the third game I have purchased for the 360. I bought it yesterday and I just finished 
 it today. You might think that I'd be disappointed, but I don't think I could say that. I think 
 the game was just about what I had expected it to be. Without further delay ... allow me to shed 
 light on ... the good ... the bad ... and the downright ugly.
  
  The Good:
  - This game is a great game for thrill-seekers. It is full of suspense and immerses you in the 
 gaming environment from start to finish.
  - The graphics are very impressive. This game appears to me to have the upper hand in graphics 
 compared to my other two games (King Kong and Gun) . Looking at the concept art, it is apparent 
 that the team involved in the creation of this game was able to come up with something they were 
 proud of.
  - Avoids many FPS cliches and has a unique presentation. (e. g. Only being able to carry one weapon 
 at a time)
  - Interactive environment (related to weapons) and interesting AI ... it's like they want to re-position 
 themselves in places to scare the crap out of you all over again.
  - Great selection of melee weapons ... a lot of them I probably used to think about being able 
 to use ... "it'd be cool ... if like ... there was a game ... where like ... you could just like 
 ... take a pipe off the wall and beat somebody up with it." :-)
  
  The Bad:
  - Everybody talks about how cool it is being able to smash them over the head with a this or that 
 ... including myself ... but what very limited options you have for swinging them. Getting similar 
 reactions from many of the weapons makes you feel like the weapons aren't being used to their potential.
 
  - For how realistic the environments are, it seems that some of the character models weren't so 
 much that way. I'm not quite sure if I could say what exactly could have been improved on that.
 
  - Very short. You probably read above ... about me buying it yesterday and then finishing it today. 
 On the plus side, it was good enough to keep me going from start to finish.
  - Little replay value. There are some weird unlockables involved, however. Much like a suspense 
 movie, it is just about a one-shot deal. I think I just don't want to bother with such repetetive 
 fighting motions again.
  
  The Downright Ugly:
  - I think this stretches into the "bad" category as well ... the repetetive combat options. I just 
 was disappointed with the lost potential there. The strategic placement of certain weapons was 
 nice and the idea behind it all was very well done ... but to summarize ... you can't hit a homerun 
 with the best of baseball bats if you don't know how to swing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volcom12
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  holly shti this game is unbelieveable i love this game icant believe how great teh graphics are 
 and wehn u are walking around the different levels out of no were the serial killers pop out and 
 it is so relistic liek u have to time your block and hit they make the serial killers look so scary 
 but when u play this game dont be a scared **** and live on the lights u have to have them of whe 
 n u play this game and i no it is not on xbox live but it does nto need to be becuz thi sgame will 
 never get boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbtrap1212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Using melee as its main type of combat, Condemned is a very original title that is very deserving 
 of hype (that is didn't get) and in my opinion, the best launch title on the 360.
  
  Pros
  
  Unbelievably realistic sound, voice acting, and lip synchronizing; amazing graphics 
 that include high-res textures, detailed character models, and probably the best lighting seen 
 on a console to date; the melee combat feels very different, yet simple; how is it possible that 
 it scared me more the second time through?
  
  Cons
  
  Scarce variety in the environment, the game is fairly shot and doesn't have much replay value, 
 and the ending didn't make any sense. To quote Gamespot, "The story teases more than delivers." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drangel_jam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  If I could only mention three reasons why you should buy this game, it would be:
  
  --The presentation.
  --The uniqueness
  --and... the thrills.
  
  The presentation of Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins is phenomenal. Its best is probably the ambient sounds and in game sfx. The sound 
 is so well implemented that I found myself trusting my hearing senses more than my own visual ones.
 
  
  The uniqueness of this game is relevant because no other game (at least that I've played) has implemented 
 horror, investigation, and first person survival beat'em up as well as this one. You will hardly 
 find another game in the market that will quite substitute this one. The industry is in desperate 
 need of more originality. This game is one of the few that stand alone in their overall concept.
 
  
  The thrills are son many that I can hardly count them. Each level gives you that adrenaline that 
 makes you want to investigate and survive, yet they all have their specific freaky fortes. For 
 example, some make you feel claustrophobic, others make you feel weak like a prey (especially on 
 the hard difficulty) , yet others let you become a macho man that doesnt admit when his scary because 
 the only way to survive is to be brave, courageous, and optimistic.
  
  I recommend this game for those who are looking for a horror thriller. Buy the way, the story and 
 plot are awesome. However, since it's a thriller, I don't want to get into it. Most elements of 
 the story are better left alone for the gamer to experience by himself. Let's just say that you're 
 an FBI agent who's agency has turned against yourself even though you where as confident of your 
 job as far as thinking that you where one of or the best.
  Even though it's a short game (ten hours or so) , the story, the plot, the sound, and the gameplay 
 elements, make it well worth it. 
  
  Gameplay: gets repetitive, yet addictive. (go figure)
  Graphics: somewhat irregular. Some sections 
 and FMV's will blow you away, others will at worst disappoint you.
  
  Sound: do I really need to say anything else about it? if yes... it's as good as it gets.
  
 
  Value: a short ride with lots of adrenaline and collectibles. Therefore, very rewarding.
  
  Tilt: this game captivated me more than I expected.
  
  Trust nobody, unless you really 
 don't have a choice.
  
  {*Note: I'm being somewhat severed on the grade because it is just the beginning of the HD gen.}
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Condemmed: Criminal Origins is a first person survival/horror game for the Xbox 360. It is an excellent 
 blend of those two themes and it makes for great gameplay, though this game is not for everyone 
 (mainly the squeamish or those who scare easily)
  
  You play as detective Ethan Thomas for the FBI, in a city that has basically gone to hell,  
 the works. In the first level you and another detective try to find the Match Maker, a serial killer 
 who makes manequins of his victims. At the end of the level, a prison convict escapes and kills 
 your two partners and frames you for it. Not only that, a lot of people have lost their minds and 
 they try to kill you, and for the rest of the game you go around the city fighting for your life 
 trying to clear your name.
  
  Condemmed focuses more on melee combat than the average FPS, though there are guns in the game, 
 there are likely to have 2 to 4 bullets and then you have to use the butt of the gun, but I guess 
 it make sense of Sega emphesising the survival/horror genre. As for the Melee weapons you have 
 everything from 2x4s to fire axes, and when you get your enemies down you can use your D-pad to 
 choose a cool way to finish him off. You also have a taser where you can stun your enemies to give 
 you a free hit if you're fast enough.
  
  Overall I would recommend gamers to play this, but I would'nt recommend buying this since the game 
 is pretty short and there is not much to do after you beat it, but it is a perfect rental and you 
 will have a good time getting scared and beating peoples faces in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deano-5
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Condemned is scary.
  
  So basically you are a cop framed for the murder of 2 detectives.
  
  This game is a little difficult but just right.
  
  Psychos run at you in the dark. You 
 can kill them with pipes, crowbars, guns and more. 
  
  Quite scary as it is always dark. You can be ambushed and attacked from behind. The storyline is 
 ok.
  
  It is a First-person game where you must find evidence to prove your innocence.
  The evidence collection is boring. The levels are too scripted and linear. You always know exactly 
 when to collect evidence because you are told.
  
  The levels last a decent amount of time. The levels are so scripted though!
  The enemies always 
 appear in the same place!
  Come on SEGA! THIS IS NEXT-GEN!
  
  A waste of money!
  
  by: deano-5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reviewerfabz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  No matter what happens in the game, most gamers will find their eyes stuck to the screen as they 
 sit riveted in their chairs playing Condemned. The game looks absolutely gorgeous and everything 
 was incredibly well designed and animated. Characters are detailed and disturbing, environments 
 are large and drawn up extremely well, and the lighting effects are beautiful. The whole graphical 
 presentation of the game matches the theme perfectly: presenting a dark, tense feel that leaves 
 gamers on their toes for the whole experience.
  
  Although Condemned doesnt deliver the pivotal gaming experience by any means, its unique concept 
 and original gameplay design make it a game that most Xbox 360 owners with a dark side will at 
 least want to try out if only simply to fulfill some of those dark, gory urges that are hidden 
 in all of us. The game may be gruesome, gory, and appalling to some people, it is actually quite 
 fun and very satisfying.
  
  This setting creates an incredibly dark, terrifying, and atmospheric setting that many games fail 
 to grasp. The atmosphere can be unsettling at times, but the way it was drawn up and put into action 
 really helps to draw gamers into the game. Combined with a unique, engaging storyline, good voice 
 acting, and interesting characters, Condemned lays solid foundations for a fun game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  One would wonder where the killer app for the XBOX 360 is. You could search for it, but then you'd 
 be searching. I would just like to tell you to not look here. 
  
  Condemned is no the killer app for the XBOX 360, however it is a damned good game. It's all kinds 
 of creepy, and you can beat people up with axes and pipes.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins, comes from developer Monolith. The same people who brought us that 
 great FPS, FEAR. Condemned is a lot like FEAR. The only difference is that this game isn't an FPS 
 game. It may have a First Person perspective, but it isn't a First Person Shooter game. 
  
  All though you get to pick up guns along the way, you'll spend most of the time hacking people 
 up, or smashing up their faces with axes, pipes, and 2 by fours. It's all a lot of fun. Beating 
 someone up sounds great. Each weapon has a variety of sounds which are richly detailed and just 
 make you want to hit someone again. The shots fired sounds real too, it's all well done. THe games 
 music is creepy enough to make you shiver.
  
  The enviroments are greatly detailed. THe character faces, and enemy count is well done. The only 
 problem with the graphics is the brightness. THe game is rather dark, and using your flashlight 
 will just annoy you becuase it seems as if everything just lacks color. Another problem with the 
 enviroments is the same problem we had with FEAR. The enviroments are all pretty much the same. 
 They may seem different, but they all look and feel identical to the last.
  
  You'll constantly get lost because you don't have a map, and everything looking the same way doesn't 
 help you. Gameplay does change, sometimes you can use your spy kit to search for sea-men drops 
 on the ceiling or on a mattress...
  
  Condemned is certainly a great game. YOu'll love it if you're looking for a quiet slow paced game. 
 If you're expecting big guns and nice racks, then this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Cyn-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  This is one freaky game, and probably the scariest one I've ever played, especially with surround 
 sound. What's new about this game is the first person melee combat if you haven't noticed, which 
 is very entertaining but slightly repetitve. Though I thought there wasn't enough enemies but I 
 suppose that was the point. What I really love about the melee combat is that you get the sense 
 that you're really plowing into your enemies rather than just hitting and doing damage. Which I 
 like because everyone probably wants to beat the little bastards face in after he jumps out and 
 scares the **** outta you. 
  Probably the best aspect of this game is the story. You won't be able to completely understand 
 what's going on in the game till you get all of the metal peices and dead birds, listen to what 
 Rosa says, and read the propaganda reports. Even then you have to put that little mind of yours 
 through a little thinking. 
  The character models look like they were waxxed before put into the game, which seems to the 'next 
 gen' look for the 360's launch titles so it didn't really bother me. 
  The detail in the game is awesome. I love hitting enemies and watching their teeth fly all over. 
 Probably the thing I hate most, in a good way, is all of the items that are placed on shelves so 
 when you walk by them about 3 things fall off and make a very loud sound, which tended to scare 
 the hell outta me. 
  I've only seen one glitch, which my enemy ran into an elevator and wouldn't die, and I had to go 
 into the elevator to go on with the level, so I had to run in there and hit the button and hope 
 I didn't die. I managed to hit the button without dying but when the evelator started to go up 
 the guy went through the floor. 
  Well, overall I thought this was a great game, good storyline, great first person melee combat, 
 great detail, and definetly one of the best launch titles for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoicLeopard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Love the game, stupefied by the plot. Maybe I am a game snob in that I like comprehensible plots 
 but wow. Not to ruin anything but at times they make insane logical reaches that could have much 
 simpler and believable reasons. As for the actual game it is a masterpiece of how a games environment 
 should be made, lighting, sound, textures, stray objects all fit together to the point where you 
 dont think of levels but of places and people, that is the mark of a great game. And it makes 
 you feel, afraid when you are walking in a dim hallway, the sounds of psychotics moving about, 
 some loud and regular, some quiet till the strike. This also is one of the few games that makes 
 you angry, not at the game but at your foe, there is not like getting ambushed by a locker door 
 wielding hobo, getting smashed in the face and then ripping a 2x4 from the wall and bashing his 
 head in o crap his buddy has a fire axe, so you rip a sheet cutter blade and hack him to the ground 
 and k9ick his corpse. This game needs to be played on HDTV for it to truly sink in. On a side note 
 the detective moments were somewhat lacking, other than two moments when you follow a trail through 
 dangerous parts of a building, it is mainly the game holding your hand and telling you what to 
 do. In the end, this is a game you have to play if you like scarier games or appreciate the level 
 of workmanship in this as some parts feel almost artistic in their composure instead of merely 
 thrown together like so mainly other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  After reading the hype I decided to venture into the horror fps arena and check out condemed. FPS 
 you say, but I thought it was a horror adventure game! Well, it is... but after the very beginning, 
 it boils down to a fps where you spend most of the time using 2x4's and gas pipes and can't reload 
 your guns.
  
  Graphically the game is great. The sounds help to set a spooky atmosphere. However after the 359th 
 axe wielding homeless fireman... the game began to drag. The occasional interventions with the forensic 
 tools was neat, even if the arrows told you exactly where to look for clues
  
  Anyhow, not a lot to say about this game but it was quite disappointing. Looks can be deceiving 
 you know.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatman991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great game filled with scary parts. In the game u run around beatting 
 ppl with 2 x 4 and pipes whitch sounds like it would get boring after a wile but it doesnt and 
 if u dont got all ur achevments after the first time u complete it u should diffently play it agian. 
 the game sounds plays and looks greats I think it is one of the best xbox 360 games out so far. 
 The only downer was how long the game was it only toke about 10 hrs to beat. the story is a great 
 story the game is deffintly worth renting. Because if u play a lot u will be done it fast but it 
 is a MUST PLAY GAME.
  
  Put the kids to bed
  turn of ur lights
  turn up ur sound
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY 8 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Melee fight is very well 
 done
  - Challenging AI
  - Fast saving/loading times compared to other games
  - Game Physics / Objects and people movement realistic
  
  The Bad  
  - No MAP! Very annoying!
 
  - No 'Save Anywhere'
  - Limited areas / Should be more open
  - Forensic Tools are mostly useless
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS 10 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Looks great overall
  - Arguably the best graphics of all launch games
  
  The Bad  
  - 
 Characters don't look too good
  - Too dark in some areas
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND 10 / 10 
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good  
  - Perfect / Crucial to game success
  
  The Bad  
  - None
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  VALUE 7 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good  
  - Varied 360 Achievements
  
  The Bad  
  - Repetitive
  - Limited Replay value
  - No Multiplayer
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  REVIEWER'S TILT 8 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Original
  - Real scary
  
  The Bad  
  - Story starts well but falls short
 
  - Achievements are glitchy / there is a bug that might prevent you getting some of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tippedcandy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I was really skeptical about this game at first. When i first popped this game in my x-box I was 
 really scared that i wasted 60 dollars. To say the least, i was wrong. 
  
  Pros
  
  -First of all the environment graphics are just outstanding, everything from the walls to the background. 
 The little details in the game give it its spooky atmosphere.
  
  -The gameplay is quite fun. People tend to look at this game and think its a FPS. Well in a way 
 it is but There arn't a whole lot of guns. You pick up objects like, 2 x 4s, pipes, shovels, or 
 anything else you can find throughout the game. The fist time you smack a drug addict with a lead 
 pipe you almost want to say "oh im sorry are you ok?" its that real. The addicts wince in pain 
 as you hit them. Once in a while you find guns, but you only can pick off a few addicts before 
 you run out of ammo. But you can use the butt of the gun to lay a few bruises before droping it. 
 
  The other aspect of gameplay is forensic investigation. Basically you survey a crime scene and 
 use things like a uv light, digital camera, or DNA sampler to send back to HQ for analysis. Mainly 
 this portion is just to keep the story going.
  
  -One of the greatest aspects to this game is sound. If you have a surround sound system with 5.1 
 Dolby your in for a treat. IE: In the fist level You can hear the addicts running around upstairs, 
 Pounding the wooden floor boards. There muffled yelling is also heard in the background. It sounds 
 so real, its scary. Also the errie ambient music addes to the presentation.
  
  -I'd have to say the story is well done. Although it is kind of weird. Also the story closes with 
 a cliff hanger meaning Condemned 2?
  
  Cons
  
  -Game is overall to short
  
  -The gameplay, after a while, does get stale.
  
  -The story has kind of a stupid ending
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badhk93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  if you have not played this game you should you will get so addicted to it you wont want to put 
 the game down. They way the guys pop out and act realistic is what i think makes it so addicting 
 to want to keep rite on playing for hours threw the day. i would never recommend letting a young 
 kid watch any one play this game or actually let them play it, it is definitely not a game for 
 little kids they might get th wrong ideas from this game. or just get very scared or nervous lata 
 game spot people hope you enjoyed my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chief_of_tribe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely incredible high definition visuals matched with an outstanding story line and innovative 
 gameplay, Condemed: Criminal Origins changes the norm on all games considered to be great. With 
 the most puzzling ending I've seen in a game in the last 5 years, all the creepiness along the 
 way, and the many hours spent trying to collect all the unlockable Achievements, Condemed is not 
 only one of my first Xbox 360 games, but one of my favorties. I absolutely LOVE what Sega's done 
 with this game and I'm sure anyone else interested in purchasing it will agree. But words won't 
 convince you, go find out for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a first person game in which you play the role of an F. B. I. agent 
 tracking a serial killer. I'm not going to ruin the plot for anybody, but suffice to say, the story 
 in this game is one of the best I've seen in any video game ever, and I've been playing since the 
 days of Pong. There's a whole lot that went right with this game, and here's what I'm talking about.
 
  
  Graphics: I'm not a big advocate for giving a game a good score solely on graphics. The 360 hardware 
 can make almost anything look good. BUT, when it comes to Condemned, there's graphical eye candy 
 all over the place. The environments are INSANE as far as detail goes. You really feel like you're 
 investigating the scenes and it really does creep you out not knowing when someone might come flying 
 around the corner to nail you with a 2 X 4. The lighting effects are also awesome. The cutscene 
 models for the characters are pretty crisp but could be a little bit better with some of the facial 
 aspects. But regardless, it's still the best looking game I've seen.
  
  Sound: What do you say about this other than unbelievable? The sick thud of a pipe smacking your 
 skull will make you wince it sounds so real. When you can find them, the guns sound nice as well. 
 This game trys for the spooky feel that alot of other games have gone for before (Resident Evil 
 4, etc.) . The only difference is, those games didn't scare the crap out of me. This one did, and 
 in such a good way that I kept coming back for more. And THAT is the sign of a good game in my 
 opinion. Not just how good it looks, but how good it is at capturing the player and drawing them 
 in. This game excells at it.
  
  Control: Okay I admit. Blocking in this game is extremely tricky. But that's the point. Once you 
 get into the game, it becomes second nature. Timing your attack to land before the enemy's attack 
 does take alot of time and practice. Fortunately, this game kicks so much butt that you'll actually 
 look forward to multiple playthroughs. At least I know I did and still do. 
  
  Story: Amazing. I won't spoil it, so let's leave it at that.
  
  All in all, Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins was the reason I got a 360 in the first place. I just KNEW this game was going to be the 
 sleeper hit, and it indeed is. The gameplay is intentionally slow here, so if you're looking for 
 something more fast pace, I highly recommend Call of Duty 2 or Perfect Dark Zero. But if you're 
 looking for a game to scare the mess out of you when the lights or off, or sometimes even on, then 
 this is a sure winner. A big thanks to Monolith and Sega for bringing us all an excellent original 
 horror title that truly shows us what the 360 can do. One thing to mention: I don't know if I'm 
 the only one having this problem, but at times, my game glitches out (rarely but it's annoying 
 when it does) and i have to reload my last checkpoint to fix the problem. The screen just goes 
 black and you can't really see the room you're in or any doorways. It may just be my copy of the 
 game or something. I did get it from Wal-Mart.... lol. But all in all, whatever you do, do NOT miss 
 this adventure. It's the first classic of the new generation. Do yourself a favor and check it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elzzato
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Its a very nice looking graphic game, whit a creepy dark atmosfere, whit great moments of shock 
 that will make you jump out of your seat .
  The game is obviously that is from sega the zombies look like the house of the dead ones, but sincerely 
 I say that the game is a very good one in frighting I never jump out of my seat since Resident 
 Evil 2 , Resident Evil 4 or Silent hill series. I tell you that this game is a good one in his 
 genre is a dark creepy first person survival trhiller from Warner Bros , from moments of the game 
 you feel like you play the movie Seven or Saw . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_of_Fear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  This is the best single player game on the xbox 360 for now. You take that role of a crime scene 
 investagator that while trying to catch a serial killer the killer gets his gun and kills two cops. 
 He then has to run from the police and catch the killer to clear his name. 
  This stroy takes you through a variety of locations and battles. As the story continoues you learn 
 about a more supernatural reason behind these killings. This game will grab you from the first 
 video and not stop until the resoulution. 
  The combat in this game is simply amazing. It is very realistic. As you play there is a variety 
 of melee weapons and fire arms. All of witch your enemies can use as well. The fire arms are hard 
 to find and hidden throught the levels and if you get one it will take one to two shots to take 
 down an enemy but the same is true for you. Also this game has a good learning curve that as you 
 play and the levels get harder you will have to become better at the combat system. 
  The other thing in this game that really stands out are the movies. Most of the movies in the game 
 dont take you out the player. They are all in the first person and you can still move around while 
 they go. So that the movies dont stop any of the action
  Overall this is the best single player game on the xbox 360 and from what i have that is coming 
 out it will probley stay that way for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATrueRounder
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Gameplay: Focuses on a simple melee combat system. Player is forced to use pieces of the environment 
 as weapons (pipes, 2 by 4s, wooden planks, etc) , each weapon with different speeds, damage rates, 
 etc. This allows for multiple styles of play. Condemned has 1000 points worth of achievements.
 
  Graphics: Nearly flawless first person animations help to bring the player into a truly first 
 person view. When you, for instance, chop down a door with a Fire Axe, you can almost feel yourself 
 lean back, wind up, and bring the axe crashing down on the door. Combat animations are fantastic 
 as well. Almost all facial models are good, with the exception of, confusingly, the main character.
 
  Sound: Creepy, realistic, and near terrifying sound effects add to the games suspenseful horror 
 feel.
  Value: Easter Egg style achievements add to replay value, but not by much.
  
  The Bad
  
  Gameplay: Melee combat system is a bit too simplistic for my taste, consisting basically 
 of an attack button, and a block button. As exciting as the animations are, the lack of skill 
 involved makes the combat tedious and repetitive after a while. 
  Graphics: Most inconsistent graphics I have seen to date. The graphics, images, and cinematics 
 go within seconds from being ridiculously lifelike and incredibly realistic, to looking hand drawn. 
 For whatever reason, the main character, (the one you play as) seems to have the most unrealistic 
 hand drawn looking facial model.
  Sound: Lack of music.
  Value: Close to zero replay value. The only thing that would ever cause you to want to go back 
 for more are the extra obscure easter egg achievements, such as finding dead birds, and pieces 
 of metal. But these are almost not worth doing, as the game would be infinitely more boring the 
 second play through. No multiplayer of any kind.
  
  Tilt
  I gave the game a score of 8 in tilt because despite the lack of replay value, the first play through 
 is absolutely unique, and will chill you to the bone.
  
  Overall
  A solid game, all in all. Would be much better with some kind of multiplayer, or more diverse combat.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AV145
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games i picked up for my 360, it was a good game, i enjoyed it from begining to 
 end without feeling bored atall. although i just felt that it lacked something, i think it was 
 just variety. The whole game is basically just hitting alive/dead things that run at you with stucks 
 and stones. Alot of weapons are around to use including pipes from the walls and manequin arms 
 from shops which gives the game a fairly good weapon set, but once the game is finished, usually 
 in about 5-8 hours theres not much to do but start again, or reload a checkpoint. There is however 
 two endings to the game which i will not spoil now, but they are pretty interesting but again, 
 not alot of variety still. Anyway, despite that the game does have great graphics, a fairly confusing 
 but interesting plot and a strange fetish with birds, its definitely worth picking up and will 
 still provide the player with a decent game experience of next gen horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlesnshannon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  For starters, Condemned is a game that puts you, Ethan Thomas, into a basic FBI SCU investigation 
 and throws you into a wall by having you framed. Throughout the game you will be on the run from 
 the FBI and these crazy psychopaths that have no appreciation for life. The psychopaths I mention 
 are the foes you will be dealing with on many occasions. Sometimes alone, sometimes in multiples, 
 these killers have no compassion for anyone. Not only will they work together to bring you down, 
 if one of them mistakenly hits another, they will begin to fight each other along with still attempting 
 to kill you. Your goal is to find the SK that framed you while avoiding the FBI and staying alive 
 easy enough.
  
  The environments you run across are: Old run down buildings, burnt libraries, ruined department 
 stores, a school, barn, and you actually do go along the streets for a little while. The atmosphere 
 is dark, the only light you are given is a rinky-dink flashlight that only shows about 5-10 feet 
 in front of you (with the exception of the street level where there are streetlights that actually 
 help from time to time) .
  
  The gameplay for Condemned consist of mashing the triggers to block or swing with your melee object 
 (or shoot your firearm, but meleeing is what makes the game so great) , and using your forensic 
 tools to gather evidence to aid your proven innocence. Though the style of fighting does get redundant, 
 it is by no means easy because each type of melee weapon has different speeds and it takes time 
 to master those blocks. Also, enemies tend to fake their swings and run at you and back away at 
 the last second. 
  
  The graphics are dark, crisp, and suitable for the environments and characters. There are some 
 glitches, but overall you will be impressed (especially on HD) .
  
  Going along with the graphics, the sound is amazing (use Surround Sound if you have it) . The way 
 the objects sound when they hit people sound realistic and the fact that there is basically no 
 soundtrack to the game shows how Condemned thrives on its sound effects. Also, the voice acting 
 to the game is great and adds to the anger involved in the game.
  
  The value for the game is a little intimidating since it is $60, but looking at the package inside 
 is definitely worth buying.
  
  The only tilt to the game is that if you didnt collect all the birds/reports/evidence the ending 
 will change slightly, and for you xbox live accomplishment crazed folks, you will need to redo 
 the game (or just the chapters) . You could go through the game on other difficulties as well. One 
 good note is that each accomplishment you unlock simultaneously unlocks concept art, movies, trailers, 
 and other neat features.
  
  In conclusion, if you are looking for a game that pits you at your doom, and scares the crap out 
 of you, buy Condemned  you wont be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DApeoplesCHAMP7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  As i avid horror game fan i can say that this is one of the best ones out there. With constant 
 druggies and addicts just trying to beat the living crap out of you around every corner and you 
 friendly neighborhood serial killers lurking in the shadows behind you, this game will keep you 
 on the edge of your seats (or under the covers) all night long. Many achievements and secrets to 
 be unlocked you will be playing for more than just a week. A great Max Payne like story and some 
 of the best graphics on the 360 right now, you will not be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estearns
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game does a lot of the same things that I get out of resident evil four. It finds a way to 
 limit the game play as a tool of suspense. The game is visually beautiful, great lighting and production 
 design. The game also does a good job of breaking down it's linear path. Sometimes you do some 
 back tracking but that allows you to become more familiar with these amazing dark levels that you 
 could so easily pass through without giving them a second look. Rarely do I find a game that can 
 get me so emotionally involved, that can make me jump and stop my heart when something happens. 
 I love this game. On the other side I don't see this game having much replay value the prizes that 
 are unlocked don't do enough for me to make me want to replay levels I already know how to navigate. 
 Lets face it, being lost in this dark world is what makes that game so fun. I also at time find 
 it difficult to pick up items and weapons. When you are in a tight situation this can be a problem. 
 However this can also go back to the concept of limiting down the ease of the game play in order 
 to make it suspenceful, and that is what I love about it so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Run around and beat, kick, or shoot demonic hobos. Doesn't get much better than that. Condemned 
 is a first person action game where you walk around in the dark, grab random objects such as 2x4's 
 with bolts or nails, fire axes, sledgehammers, crowbars, shotguns, rifles, sub-machine guns, etc., 
 and beat the ever-living crap out of hobos. There is a story to the game, about serial killers, 
 but I won't get into that because I don't want to ruin anything. But the gameplay is really addictive.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Not the best I've seen, but definately eye candy at best. It's basically a smoother, better running 
 version of Doom 3. All the objects and textures in the game look amazing though. The only thing 
 that "hurts" the game are some of the character models.
  
  Sound:
  There is creepy music in the menus, but none in the game, which really sets the mood. The whacking 
 sounds of drawers ramming into hobos faces are really good though. I love hearing the screams of 
 hobos. Plus, a lot of .
  background noices are really freaky.
  
  Replay:
  There is actually tons of replay... for me anyway. I loved replaying each level a second time just 
 because they are brilliantly set up. Plus, trying to get all of the achievements is a blast as 
 well.
  
  Overall:
  Even though it's not my highest rated one, it is my favorite 360 game thus far. The game did everything 
 from give me a rush, to addict me, to scare the crap out of me. Definately a must play for 360 
 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  An d they make great club targets. This game rocks, plain and simple its fun to just watch them 
 beat on each other. Beating up killers and homeless guys has never been funner. Trust me this game 
 is awsome, What better way to clear you mind from a bad day than listening to Quiet Riots bang 
 your head while pummeling some poor shmoe with a sledge hammer. And guns (yeah their in there) 
 dude open up his head with the over under shotgun is the stuff dreams are made of. Point blank 
 Gamespot does not know good games, An 8 is too low this game needs a higher rating. You know you 
 want to go beat santa's head in with Rebar, I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattykovax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Condemned is one of those games that proves sometimes you do not need to come up with something 
 completley new, that shaking up an older, broken genre can be enough. The game is what survival horror 
 should be.
  
  You start the game as an F. B. I forensic investigator chasing down a serial killer by the name of 
 the matchmaker. By the end of the first level you are not only trying to find the serial killer, but 
 you are also on the lam from the cops and the F. B. I. To say any more would ruin what is possibly 
 the tightest and most cinematic game story I have ever seen.
  
  The gameplay is probably one of the best things I have played. You can pick up weapons almost anywhere, and 
 use them in fights. Learning to block is essential, as you will be stuck with melee weapons throughout 
 most of the game. When you come across new weapons it will show you the difference between the 
 new option and your current selection. While there are firearms, they are limited to the ammo in 
 them, and having to melee fight with them when you run out of bullets can be frustrating, as most 
 of them take damage, and will eventually break leaving you with no weapon at all.
  Along with blocking, it is handy to learn how and when to use the tazer, to be most effective in 
 combat.
  The puzzles rely heavily on your collecting forensic evidence. The manner of using these instruments 
 is simple, and the variety keeps what could become tedious actually interesting.
  Also, the manner of getting into blocked areas is much better than other survival horror games. 
 Instead of "find the white block, put it on the red pedastal, to get the green key" the area puzzles 
 are simpler and more immersive. Need to get through that door? find the axe. Need to pry open that 
 door? Chase down a crobar. Definitley the biggest fix for me in this type of game.
  
  The graphics are some of the best. I was constantly amazed while playing through the game how good 
 some of them are. Again, as with all the 360 games, sometimes the enviroment textures are flat, but 
 there is so much detail in everything else, you will not have much time to worry about it.
  The lighting models are excellent, with the flaming 4x4's in level 10 probably the most amazing 
 and realistic lighting effects i have ever seen.
  
  The sound is very immersive, and definitley ups the creepy factor, and will keep all but the most 
 desensitized players always scared of what is coming around the next corner.
  
  The only con with this game is its length. It is very short, even with replay and getting more acheivements, there 
 is only about 20 hours of play at the most. While i stand by saying its one of the best 360 games, I 
 would seriously suggest a rental before purchase.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reymundo514
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Condemned puts you in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, and FBI crime scene investigator. Ethan is framed 
 for the murder of two police officers and must find the real killer in order to clear his name. 
 What he discovers is that the man he is chasing is behind the recent flux of deranged, violent 
 criminals across the city.
  
  The entire game is spent investigating abandoned areas looking for clues while fending off the 
 crazed drug addicts and hobos that inhabit these ares with little more than a pipe or 2x4 you just 
 ripped out of the dilapidated wall. However the game is not constant action. Monolith did an excellent 
 job making sure you heart is pounding so hard with anticipation as you tip toe to your destination 
 that, when an enemy finally does appear from around a corner brandishing a mannequin arm, you literally 
 freak out. So be forewarned; this game is not for those with bad tickers. You WILL have a heart 
 attack.
  
  Now while the game is very well made, it is a little on the short side (perhaps 10-15 hours) . However, 
 you will have to place at least one more time if you want to make sure you get all the achievements. 
 This is almost necessary since some of the achievements unlock background information about the 
 main character that is needed to bring closure to the storyline. Other wise the ending doesn't 
 make a whole lot of sense.
  
  Overall, I would have to say that Condemned is unique among the other XBOX360 launch games and 
 definitely worth checking out (especially if you have an HDTV) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLOBABUNNY
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Condemned was everything i expected it to be, Fast, Jumpy, Violent and dam right easy!
  
  I had this game for a little over three days and now when i finish for the weekend its going back 
 to the shop. Its not that i am dissapointed with the game cos beleive me i'm not. I just like to 
 be challenged from time to time and this game lacked all sense of a challenge. It doesnt take you 
 long to figure out that all the charactors have a sequence of punches and blows and once these 
 are figured out the game is a doddle.
  
  The game however looks fantastic and i have no complaints regarding this just wish it could of 
 :
    Been Longer
    Been Harder
    Had a ( how can i say this ) story line
    and for god sake someone give me a map AAARRGH!!
  
  Otherthan all that great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bansheesdie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origions, the horror game that puts you in the role of a FBI Forensics Expert, 
 who will gradually grow more and more insane with each passing step, going from basic "hot-flashes" 
 to full fledge physco-pathic outbreaks that are as real as they look.
  There no other game on the market right now that gives the feeling of being pulled into a situation 
 and having to fight for your life every step of the way, just so that you might, MIGHT, survive 
 just to die again in a couple of minuets.
  
  Condemned is just that good, if you like being scared, horrified, freightened, or just having that 
 feeling that you are being watched. Condemned will not dissapoint.
  
  With all of the good things about Condemned, unfortunatly it also has some bad things in it also. 
 While the gameplay is gripping, and intense, you will often find yourself frustrated, even if its 
 so slight that you won't even notice, in the blocking system. Know don't get me wrong the blocking 
 system isn't the kind of thing that will make you throw done your controller in frustration, no, 
 its just... difficult, to master.
  
  The graphics are, in the truest since, bone chillinging realistic. While the graphics aren't as 
 immediatly stunningas is the case in PGR3, the graphics are some of the best ever to grace a console. 
 They are, though, with out a doubt the best graphics that have ever been used in a survival horror 
 game.
  
  What does a scream sound like, when the person screaming is only seconds away from either making 
 the decision of either killing themselves by a pike to the abdomen or having that same pike driven 
 into them multiple times until the cold embrace of death slowly takes them away from there suffering. 
 The sound of of shotgun being fired in the distance, the sound of a peice of rebar smashing into 
 a already mutalated human flesh. Condemned has quiet possably the best sound of any game ever made.
 
  
  While Condemned may not be as deep or intricate as Resident Evil 4 it does make RE4 look like The 
 Bible Game in comparison to how horrifyingly realistic and scary Condemned is.
  Basically if you don't mind scary horror, and when I say scary horror I mean horror that would 
 make RE4, Silent Hill 3, and The Ring all combined look like nothing in comparison then this is 
 your game. If you like an intense and deep First Person game this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderGrim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  The game itself is very well put together but it starts down a redundant cycle later on in the 
 game. The lighting is dark and scary with people seeming to come out the woodwork to either attack 
 you or try and scare you. They will run by at the end of a dark hallway, rip electrical sockets 
 out of the wall, and hide behind corners, ect. Later on though thing seem to get predictable as 
 the people still hide behind corners, the game doesnt really throw new things at you and it ends 
 before you even know it. Just as many of the other 360 games do (8 to 10 hours on normal) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins, A one of a king Survival Horror from Monolith.
  
  The game feel's more like a movie than a game, cinematic cut scenes, great graphics, and a story 
 straight put of Hitchcock's head.
  
  You play as Det. Ethan Thoman, one of the FBI's most promising agents, who investigates a crime 
 scene, and turns his world upside down. You find yourself on the run from the cops and blood-thirsty 
 maniacs. The game has a great combat system and the First-Person perspective really fits in well.
 
  
  This game will have you on the edge of your seat from start to finish and I suggest to anyone playing 
 it, play it with the lights off and the volume up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I get inspired to write reviews from different feelings I have after I play a game. The feeling 
 of utter disappointment (like with Perfect Dark Zero) , the certain wow factor that needs to be 
 expressed (like with God of War) , the feeling of surprise of how overlooked a title is (like with 
 Cold Winter) and finally, when a title is so different from any other game that Ive ever playedlike 
 Condemned. 
  
  Originality cant be overlooked. In todays market, the gaming industry is suffering from the same 
 fate as the movie industry a lack of original ideas. Todays publishers just rehash ideas or come 
 out with sequels that are hardly improved year over year (Tony Hawk anyone?) . Thats why, Condemned 
 is a breath of fresh air. 
  
  Sureyou could say its a survival horror and theres nothing new about that. But, I defy you to 
 find another title that is able to give you the jitters throughout the whole entire game. Condemned 
 not only gives you a good scare now and again but it somehow manages to give you that tense feeling 
 in the pit of your stomach. Not many games have been able to achieve that level of horror.
  
  It stars FBI agent Ethan Thomas who is part of a team that investigates serial murders. At 
 the start, he gets called to investigate a murder scene and then the story just takes you on one 
 major roller coaster ride.
  
  Every location in this game is dark, creepy and downright scary. Part of it is due to the level 
 design and the other major contributor to the horror, is the sound. As you investigate every scene 
 from a first person perspective, the creepy sounds and noises you hear contribute so much to the 
 intensity of every scene. 
  
  The control in Condemned has a bit of a learning curve to itparticularly the art of blocking. 
 You cant just keep the button pressed and block the attacks from your enemies. The timing has 
 to be exact as your weapon goes up once to block your foes strike. Also, when you hit them with 
 your item of choice, get ready for a counter strike. As tricky as it sounds, you eventually get 
 a feel for the blocking system. 
  
  Your foes usually vary depending on the location youre investigating. At the beginning, youll 
 be fighting street bums and vagabonds but as you progress throughout Condemned, you will face a 
 variety of attackers that usually get tougher and quicker. The scariest parts are when these enemies 
 are hiding behind a counter or a wall, and then sneak in an attack. Ive knocked over my drink 
 a couple of times when this happened.
  
  Your weapons come in a variety of choices that you are able to find as you explore the local. You 
 can rip pipes off the wall, circuit breakers, 2x4s, axes, shovels, and even sledgehammersplus, 
 a small variety of guns with very limited ammunition. You also get different items you can use 
 as weapons specifically because of the location you are exploring. 
  
  Some of these tools need to be used to open certain areas. At one point, youll need a shovel to 
 bust a lock. You might need a crowbar to open a safe. Sometimes I question the logic behind these 
 choices. Why do I specifically need the axe to break this door? Wouldnt a sledgehammer work as 
 well? Thats one of the elements I feel should have been more flexible. Finally, the forensic tools 
 you use to investigate the crime scenes are neat at first but mostly get repetitive and tedious 
 as the game moves forward.
  
  The other gameplay aspect that bothers me is the lack of endurance of my FBI agent. At times, you 
 need to run faster in order to chase or run away from enemies but, it takes about 7-8 seconds before 
 Ethan Thomas is tired and slows down to a walk. Too many trips to the donut shop, perhaps?
  
  As a launch title, Condemned doesnt disappoint. It really looks like a next generation game 
 with its fluid movement, detailed levels and realistic animation. The amount of detail on each 
 level is also a remarkable achievement. My only gripe from a graphical standpoint is that I wish 
 the characters looked a little more real. The animation is realistic whereas the characters look 
 a little cartoony for my taste.
  
  Theres hardly any music in Condemned but when there is, it adds to the realistic tenseness of 
 the situation. The voice acting is decent enough to keep you interested in the storyline, but not 
 good enough for you to really care about your character. The major strength in sound is the ambient 
 noises at each locationthe creaking noises, the crash of furniture to the floor and hearing the 
 footsteps of someone walking nearby. Ive actually scared myself by walking into a piece of furniture 
 or even knocking bottles that are on the floor. Finally, the hard-hitting sounds of the hand-to-hand 
 combat sounds painfully realistic.
  
  Quite honestly, Condemned is a title that cant be missed. In a market where originality is really 
 lacking, it is unique while having fantastic production qualities and a captivating storyline. 
 Its also the most suspenseful and scary title I have ever played. Those looking for a good scare 
 or something different should definitely give it a try. 
  
  To me, its the surprise launch title for the 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpislife
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the scariest game i have played bar none. The levels ARE NOT repititious. This game always 
 keeps you guessing! In fact, this game rivals that of Clive Barker's Undying, all Resident Evil, 
 all silent hill, F. E. A. R., them all. It is not too scary that you can't handle it, however it is 
 scary enough that you need to take a break in a quiet place with lots of lights on. The levels 
 are mixed up alot and the games use of hallways and rooms add a perfect sense of fright. This is 
 a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rofler
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Ah Monolith. Trust someone like them to develop a game like this. Its creepy, entertaining and 
 a whole lot of fun.
  
  Still on a roll after developing F. E. A. R. (another great FPS i recommend to all) Monolith along 
 with SEGA bring us Condemned.
  
  In Condemned you play as FBI agent, Ethan Thomas. Your main objective: Hunt and destroy a deranged 
 serial killer. Deranged is a word that can easily describe a lot of what happens in this game. 
 From a super scary mall in which mannequins try to kill you, to a crap-your-pants frightening Orchard 
 House Condemned will have you scared but on the edge of your seat wanting more at the same time.
 
  
  Unlike many games like this though guns and shooting up stuff is not the main focus. In fact it 
 is all about the melee which in my opinion is pulled off extremely well and is lots of fun to play 
 with. While you might find a pistol with 7 bullets in it, use it then drop it and continue you 
 will nearly always be using kicks, blocks and whacking the hell out of deranged killers with whatever 
 you can find. This is where the game shines. By pressing down on the right control stick you will 
 unleash a stiff kick, Bruce Lee style. As much fun as kicking people is have you ever wanted to 
 just pick up a 2 x 4 with nails in it and bash it onto some flesh? Now you can! From paper cutters, 
 a flaming 2 x 4 and many-a-pipe you can use a large assortment of nasty weapons to block attacks 
 and beat down on those zombie scum.
  
  Apart from the highly fun melee combat, and the occasional gunplay Condemned also has a story behind 
 it. This story consists of many weird ass moments and some questionable things but all in all the 
 story is not bad at all but certainly not the most gripping thing in the world. 
  
  "Immersive" why do you ask? For one the graphics in this game is brilliant. All the settings look 
 amazing and the animations are spot on though some of the character models could use some work.
 
  
  Oh and one feature i nearly didn't mention is the fact that at a crime scene you will whip out 
 your little tools to take photos and other shenanigans. This is an interesting feature but the 
 game DOES tell you exactly what to do so some freedom is lost.
  
  So to conclude this review: Despite the some times flawed story and level design and the some times 
 ugly characted models Condemned: Criminal Origins is a fantastic and creepy experience that combined 
 with a great melee system and freaky antics i recommend to any X360 owner.
  
  Oh... And you can see your feet... BIG PLUS!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsferro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best X360 game I've played and truly deserves a "next-gen" stamp of approval. 
 In fact the only game on ANY system that is in the same ballpark is Half-Life 2, and believe it 
 or not, Condemned actually does a few things better than the afformentioned classic. Condemned 
 looks fantastic even when you barely can see anything on screen. I have never jumped as far out 
 of my chair as I did when playing this game, more so than in any other game OR movie for that matter, 
 in my entire life. Kudos to whomever was in charge of the creative/conceptual aspect of the game. 
 Condemned takes a big creative chance by stripping the game down to the barest of elements (simple 
 attack system and limited weapons, extremely dark environments) and succeeds in doing so through 
 fantastic production quality and a unique presentation style. If this is the future of gaming, 
 count me in !!.... oh and Warner Bros., and the rest of the screen boys might actually see a light 
 at the end of the tunnel, and it's not Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie, or Joanna Dark for that matter. 
 Its Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabond_gamer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Oh my Skittles, this games RAWKS, it never let's up on the scary lever. From the begining of the 
 first level i knew i had found something special. Now tracking down serial killers is fun and all 
 but to acttually WHACK a bum in the head with a metal pipe is just strangley satisfying. In my 
 honest opinion i did not understand half of what was going on on screen but when you see the enemy 
 A. I. ad the urban decay from the genius level designs who cares that your a wanted FBI agent for 
 the murder of a police officer an all this wierdness insues. I never felt at ease when playing, 
 I damn near wet my pants when in the mall level and that freakin manequin comes to live and grabs 
 you....... yes nightmares followed soon after i played. The settins are morrbid and unwelcoming 
 and the enemies are fierce as they are crazy. Although the story Stonewalls it from being classic 
 I anxiously await another entery of this groundbreaking serialkiller toting Title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortune99999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game and have beat it already. The melee weapons and the fire arms are great. 
 The environments look very realistic and are very detailed. The character models look good but 
 at times look very choppy/bumpy and nasty but all and all there really good. The cut scenes are 
 really good i enjoy watching them and they can be creepy at times. The puzzles and the finding 
 of clues in this game are hard and it will take you a while but you will eventually find it fun 
 to search for stuff and unlock new achievements on your 360. I suggest this game to anyone who 
 likes forensics, dark, creepy games, and games that are very intense and of course fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady_07
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This Game is completely incredible, plain and simple. There is no better words to put it in. The 
 Story - line is completely terrific, if you have the brain capacity to think a little bit, and 
 try to figure things out for yourself, and not have it handed to you right smack in ur face!. This 
 game actually reminds me of the movie Saw, in the way the story is set up. Graphics are great, 
 story is one of the best stories i have ever seen in a game before, and it is just completely addictive.. 
 =) .
  
  I definetley suggest to buy this game definetley worth the $60, and a xbox - 360 purchase let alone. 
 Hope the sequel will be soon, and cant wait for that sequel.. ^^ =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordTyphon
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Kudos to SEGA for having the fortitude to bring out an original title when every company seems 
 to be releasing sequels or adaptations to those titles that are sure to increase their bounty. 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins is a unique attempt at the otherwise overworked FPS genre. Well, To 
 the review we go.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  A two-bladed sword to be sure. At first the gameplay is quite unique and thoroughly enjoying when 
 you first realize that you truely are looking out of the eyes of a breathing person, which few 
 FPS games do well, instead resorting to that typical "head bobble"effect to try and simulate the 
 immersion. But, with a few hours of investment, you'll soon realize that the game does not offer 
 much more than the tired, old explore-find-kill formula. The shining achievement in this game is 
 its scare factor. The dark rooms, eerie silence, and a typical lack of a firearm will make you 
 slow down and walk slowly as not to be ambushed by an enraged pyscho. Another factor you will soon 
 become irritated with is how slowly you walk, and even run. In addition, the NPC's are absolutely 
 brain dead and will often run around simply to find that fabled hiding spot to try and ambush, 
 that is, if you hadn't followed him the whole way there and bashed his brains in with that 2X4 
 on his journey to that spot.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are good in areas, bad in others. At the very beginning you'll wonder if your TV is 
 about to give out. You'll notice a "fuzzy film"" over the entire graphical images that almost looks 
 like electrical static. I assure you, it is not your TV. The lighting effects, however, are quite 
 spectacular. Awesome light glares, light filitering, and the always cool ability to interact with 
 the lighting by bashing the handing light fixture to get that bobbling light effect. The textures 
 are nothing to brag about, but then again neither is most launch titles.
  
  SOUND:
  The sounds are very good for the most part. Sure, as always, you'll hear me complain that the gun 
 fire is weak, but it's on par with the rest of the games. The ambience sounds, NPC grunts, and 
 general background noise hits its mark when trying to deliver a creepy feeling. Don't expect the 
 sounds of an RPG or a Final Fantasy game and you'll be happy with what SEGA was trying to do with 
 the sound.
  
  VALUE: The game drops here. As in most FPS, the game doesn't offer much in depth or playing hours, 
 especially when considering that there is not a multiplayer experience. Expect to beat the game 
 in under 10 hours, 5 if you are an experienced gamer. Absolutely no reason to play through a second 
 time unless you hadn't gotten all your achievement points.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  -NONE-
  
  *NEWLY ADDED TO ALL OF MY REVIEWS* 
  
  ACHIEVEMENTS:
  The unlockable achievements in the 
 game are about normal in difficulty. expect to spend a few hours looking for those dead birds and 
 metal scraps, as well as the other hidden loot, if your not using a strategy guide. Also, several 
 achievements are secret and thus takes some experimenting without any guidance. A few achievements 
 are mundane, like not using any firearms, but easily possible. In terms of difficulty, NORMAL.
 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  A worthy entry into a brand new franchise that brings both the good and bad that most debuting 
 franchises have. A solid effort by SEGA and worth checking out if you are interested in getting 
 the crap scared out of you or just a fix on your trigger finger.
  
  THE TRUTH:
  Not really worth the admission ticket, but a solid rental on a late night with the lights off. 
 Get your achievements, enjoy the eerie feeling and move on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I don't know if it's the solid gameplay, the creepy ambience, the great visuals, the incredibly 
 well designed sound, or the nifty little secrets that has me hooked on phon... I mean Conemned, 
 but it is one thrill ride worth playing. I don't know about buying due to the short duration and 
 lack of multiplayer (not that they could have done multiplayer with a game like this) . I rented 
 it (I don't usually rent; mostly I buy or never try) . Well, it was worth it.
  I'm going to buy Full Auto with that money I didn't spend on it. 
  
  The gameplay is really 
 cool. Taking on one crazy sociopath is kind of easy, but things get tough when you get jumped by 
 a few guys. Then things get frantic. You're tazing, kicking, whacking, and shooting. It's exhilirating, 
 to say the least. Speaking of shooting, guns play a rather small role in Conemned. You're going 
 to be hard pressed to find a gun, let alone one with more than three of four bullets. It's basically 
 the opposite of say, Perfect Dark Zero, where guns are the the star and melee, while important 
 at times, could easily be forgotten. I think the "puzzles" are cool too. If you search around, 
 you could find guns behind TV's and Xbox 360's hooked to a TV for acheivement points. You'll often 
 need to find a certain weapon to open certain doos (such as shovels, sledgehammers, fire axes, 
 and crowbars) . Great gameplay.
  
  The graphics rock. Textures are sharp and incredibly detailed, the weapons look great, characters 
 are good excpept that they look plastic and get yucky real close up. My 32" LCD HDTV makes the 
 graphics shine. I could go on and on, but I won't.
  
  Sound rounds out the experience, and really does in Condemned. The sound of thuds, crashes, guys 
 yelling at you, and the music make it even creepier. My 7.1 surround sound makes the sound shine. 
 Hearing wacko's behind you coming from speakers behind you is awesome.
  
  The story is really cool also. It takes turns, teases, and so on.
  
  Well, it's short lived 
 (but can be stretched for acheivements. I love those things. They are proof that you beat CoD2 
 on hardened/veteran) , but you'll probably love condemned no matter who you are. My last horror 
 experience, Doom 3, was horror to play, but this one rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VRplant
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I think this game will be involved in some serial killers gameplan, and eventually will end up 
 being banned. IT IS THE SICKIEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED!! Heck, Postal and GTA are angels compared 
 to the intense, horrifying gameplay that condemned offers, but it isn't worth $59. Get it on Ebay. 
 However, it IS worth at least having it in your collection. It offers stunning AI, amazingly chilling 
 sound, an easy to learn format, realistic graphics that go beyond anything that you have seen in 
 games, and a lot of GORE!! However, it lacks depth and has potential for a second game in the series. 
 I recommend playing the demo before buying it. Heck, you'll be playing the DEMO for hours on end. 
 All and All, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louthar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Before I popped this game in my 360 i didn't know if this game could live up to its hype. 
  
  This IS a fun game! There is a lot of first person combat to deal with as it seems as though 
 every living creature wants you dead after about midway through the first chapter. 
  
  This game is creepy because of lighting and sound effects. You owe it to yourself to play this 
 game using at least 5.1 surround sound. You really can hear a bad guy creeping up behind you. There 
 have been quite a few times that I heard someone behind me, and then whipped around just in time 
 to block some drug crazed homless guy from crushing my skull in with some rebar or a 2X4.
  
  I was creeped out enough that in the first chapter i shot my own freaking shadow 4 times before 
 i realized it was just my dumb shadow.
  
  There are some things that could have been done better (more fighting varieties just to name one) 
 but this game is a lot of fun even though i'm not done with it yet. 
  
  I'm not even going to spoil it by playing during the day, this game was meant to be played with 
 the lights off and the surround sound up, and that is exactly how i'm gonna finish it.
  
  If you have a XBOX 360, you own it to yourself to play this game, that is if you don't mind having 
 the crap scared out of you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  good sounds not great i have herd better, the game levels stay in the same soup mix, sure its dark 
 spooky but gosh after 5 hrs in the game its like i want to see diffrent levels, like say outside 
 diffrent places that you could look around, and i would like to see more gun fire, its just to 
 much of the same thing and after 5 hrs you want to help, but over all its ok very good weekend 
 rent game, but no reply value here , maybe next time they can call capcom they know how to make 
 these type of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldfront45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I must say, this monolith has brought us two amazing games F. E. A. R and condemned. A lot of games 
 people say are scary really aren't
  this is the only game that has EVER scared me. The graphics are amazing, except for agent thomases 
 face, that just looks weird. an amzing story and one great ending. althoug this game doesn't have 
 a lot to do with shooting, the times u do get a gun ur happy and feel safe. 
  
  Yet this game does have its share of problems. like how slow you walk, i kno there is a sprint 
 button but thats not unlimited. Beating the sh*t
  outta people does get repitive. It doesnt have xbox live : ( that would be fun.
  Sometimes too 
 scary also the game is over way too fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Every system needs its freakshows, and the 360 fills in that spot nicely with Condemned. The combination 
 of stunningly realistic environments, creepy ambient sound, and brutal hand-to-hand combat come 
 together to make a horror package that begs to be experienced. As FBI Special Crimes Unit officer 
 Ethan Thomas, you'll travel to various locations like abandoned subways, a derelict department 
 store, and other places you would'nt ever want to go. Along the way, you'll pull out different 
 forensic tools like UV lights and 3D scanners to piece together crimes and unravel clues. The story 
 is surprisingly good, and it comes to pretty satisfying climax. The fights, however, are anything 
 but textbook. Enemies come swinging wildly, driven to murderous rage by an unknown force, and they're 
 as dangerous as they look. You begin with a gun, but after a short while you lose it and are introduced 
 to the visceral melee combat. Pulling the right and left triggers performs a swing or block, respectively, 
 and a solid block will open up an enemy to a hit from your pipe, 2x4, or one of many other weapons. 
 Sledgehammers, fire axes, and shovels can be used to open doors or dispense rusty death. The fighting 
 looks and feels savage, with blood flying from wounds and a sickening crack when a swing connects. 
 Your enemies stagger realistically with every hit, and counterattack with the same force as you 
 attack them. The mechanic works pretty well, and a few finishing moves spice things up. The whole 
 game is creepy and well-paced, keeping your nerves fried as you carefully creep around dimly lit 
 rooms, sometimes scaring yourself when you knock a bottle off a shelf, expecting to see a maniac 
 behind you, only to see him when you turn back around. The scares are a mix of Resident Evil shocks 
 and Silent Hill freakouts and hallucinations. They work well, and you may even find yourself calling 
 a friend over to keep you company, especially in the Farmhouse level. Condemned is a solid game, 
 whose spectacular graphics and gruesome combat show great promise for next-gen horror, and I can 
 only hope a sequel is in the works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was a let down with all the hype that was built around it. I found the graphics (compared 
 to other 360 games) were not what they were cracked up to be. The floors and walls were nicely 
 detailed but the NPC's of the game looked like one of the first games of the last Gen.
  They say that there is AI in it. However I played through it twice ( to get all the achievements 
 ) and noticed that the movements were almost exactly like the first time that I went through. I 
 only know of 3 moves, 2 of which I didnt use.... Fire, Block, and Swing. Swinging was pretty much 
 all I did, Swing, Back off, come and swing again, Back off, repeat.
  The Story of the game was the best part of it. It tried very hard to emerse you. And at a few points 
 you would get emersed even to the point of jumping once.
  The sound of the game was creepy, actually that was more scarier then most of the game, lol. Overall, 
 I gave this game a 7.3 because it does not meet the standards for the 360, and is a last gen game. 
 I would like to see this game maximized for what the 360 can do. And since they left the end open 
 ended, I hope to see that in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08willej
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game i gotta say was great, the A. I. was fantastic and scared the hell outta me. The very 
 last level i gotta say was too scary for me no joke call me what u want but when ur all alone playin 
 it it is too much i was goin to quit because it freaked me out so much at parts but the great storyline 
 made me want to see how the game finished up. 
  
  Dissapointments i gotta say is how few gunz there were. i prolly liked al the melee weapons more 
 but add some gunz for more fun there wasnt even that many melee weapons. and after a while it did 
 kinda get a lil repetitive.
  
  The best part about this game i gotta say was the storyline, this is seriously the best storyline 
 i have ever encountered in a game.
  
  Overall this game is great i wouldnt but it becuase no online play and once u beat it its basically 
 good for nothing but if ur good at games and can beat it in a week like me get it and have some 
 fun, make sure u turn out the lights and if u have surround sound be carefull for heartattacks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Believe me when I say that there is a game out there that is scarier than Resident Evil, Silent 
 Hill, and Doom..... Condemned.... If this game won't scare the hair off your testicles, than I don't 
 know what will... I'll just start off by saying that the premise of the game is just eerie.... The 
 game revolves around a police officer that was framed for murder, and he now has to investigate 
 on a shietload of serial killings that has been occurring in the area.... Well, I will just sum 
 it up by saying that this game gives you a lot to look at... There is a lot of eye candy here, especially 
 since it is in first person view.... The game will make you focus on serial killers.... and you will 
 get a sense of their world..... which is vastly different from our own.......
  
  Graphics
  The graphics will make you want to glue your eyes to the TV, and will have your jaw drooping to 
 the tiles on your floor. The amount of detail this game emits is simply astounding. Once again, 
 with High Definition graphics, it leaves the game with an insurpassable amount of realism, combined 
 with an eerie sense of disturbing images, and large environments to explore, with a lot of eye 
 candy to make your heart start pounding a mile per minute. The amount of weapon detail is extremely 
 impressive, and forget about them crapping ammo and firearms on you as they did in Resident Evil 
 4, because this game mainly focuses on melee weapons.... Believe me, if you find a pistol, or shotgun... savor 
 the moment, because you won't be getting another in a long time..... Plus, there is no reloading 
 in the game, so once you find a gun, pray to the merciful lord GESES KRIVST that the gun has ammunition 
 in it...... possibly to the MAX...... But the game's melee weapons is variable, and ranges from wooden 
 planks, to fire axe's, and sledgehammers.... a lot more cushion for the pushin' if you ask me...... The 
 environments are highly detailed as well.... Hell, once you walk into a room and see the amount 
 of blood on the walls, and ceiling, and subliminal messages written on the walls, you will think 
 twice before saying this game is a joke.
  
  Sound
  There is no music in this game, which makes it all the more intense.... Every little aspect of sound 
 that this game emits is superb, and will have you clinging to the edge of your seat with some of 
 the climatic moments in the game, that will make you jump, and scream. No other survival horror 
 game on the market has made me jump more than this game with just the sound alone..... and some 
 gory, surprisingly distraught imagery.
  
  Control
  The control is somewhat like your everyday FPS game. It entrails everything you would expect from 
 a FPS game, but the only thing is, it focuses more on melee weapons, so you will have to master 
 the blocking, and attacking feature. The controls are somewhat tight and responsive... However, 
 timing is everything when using melee weapons.... So use your head, or have it knocked off.
  
  Replay Value
  Once you beat the game, and if you are bold... and mighty daring, then you may 
 want to give it a second go.... However, the game isn't entirely as long as Resident Evil 4.... it's 
 only about 10-12 hrs. in length, but thats long enough for a game this intense and thrilling..... Anymore, 
 and I would have to replenish my underwear, and wash the shiet stains out of them every hour on 
 the hour. 
  
  Overall
  I would say this has to be one of the most satisfying survival horror games that I have played 
 since Resident Evil 4. The fact that it is in first person view, makes it all the more scary, and 
 hanging on the edge of your seat action that turns this game into a great addition to the Xbox 
 360 newly added library. Anybody that is a fan of the survival horror genre, or just wants to cream 
 up the bed in their long john silver's should give this game a try..... But beware.... only the strong 
 will survive... and this game is not for the weak hearted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Whistler
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  As a Gamefly rental, Condemned: Criminal Origins turned out to be a better gaming experience than 
 I had initially expected it to be, even after playing the demo.
  
  WARNING: This is not a game that you want to play in front of children.
  
  I'd hate to say 
 too much and give away the story, becuase thats what you really want to play this game for, the 
 story. You are Ethan Thomas, FBI. You are blamed for the murder of two police offices during examination 
 of a crime scene. 
  
  So throughout the game you are trailer the suspect that shot the police officers to prove your 
 innocence as well as find how who's behind the murders of serial killers.
  
  The game is First Person, but mostly the combat is melee. You do acquire a few firearms to use 
 but they are limited in ammo and thus you will resort to an axe, or crowbar, or sledge hammer, 
 paper cutter, conduit, pipes, ect. You do have the use of a tazer, which by the way, I always forgot 
 I had, so never used much. When your not fighting off street thugs and other crazy mad people, 
 you will user some tools to collect evidence about the unsub and the murders. This helps keep you 
 tied in with the story. So you just dont blast through the game ala Master Chief.
  
  The gracphics are ok, nothing that stands out as next gen, but definitely sufficient to keep you 
 on your toes, especially with the sound effects. Kind of reminded me of playing Doom3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodKn0wn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The Pro:
  
  The game contains wonderful graphics and extraordinary sound effects. The details are astounding, 
 and animations are very smooth. Combat is remarkably entertaining and injuries sound legitimate, 
 leaving me questioning.
  
  The Con:
  
  The game sometimes can be very predictable, and the story-line itself is quite weak. Combat is 
 laughably unrealistic at times, and the level design can become recurrent making scare-spots lose 
 their alarming grip. Forensic equipment does not have much depth in them, and are only useful in 
 scripted moments.
  
  Game play:
  
  In Condemned, you'll start out as a criminal investigator named Ethan Thomas, ending up, later 
 on, being an accused guerilla. Walking into a trashy abandoned complex with your two partners, 
 you'll be investigating the corpse of a lovely young lady and her date, an average mannequin. You'll 
 be given the chance to use cool, high-tech forensic tools to scope the scene, such as a UV Light 
 and a Digital Camera (being more useful than it sounds) . Once you are done capturing the evidence, 
 it is sent to another computer friendly who will call your handy cell phone and try to explain 
 to you what you found. Sometime after, you learn that you and your partners are not alone in the 
 building, only meaning that they will leave you as the lone wolf for the rest of the chapter. You 
 are then presented with a run feature, which is only useful when you are willing to retreat from 
 the enemy.
  
  As you navigate through open corridors and rooms to subway systems and sewers, you will have to 
 fight against gangs of homeless brawlers to hordes of dangerous lunatics using any weapon they 
 can salvage. You will be given the option to equip yourself with various objects you find in the 
 surrounding environment. Small pipes, 2x4s with nails, and shovels will all accommodate you in 
 your attempt to defeat your ape-like opponents. But don't worry; you will also be able to recover 
 'long-ranged' weaponry, though ammo conservation is the wisest choice. Also, some weapons will 
 need to be acquired in order to proceed to the next area. In case you left a gun behind during 
 an exchange, a taser will be available for use, holstered in your inventory. To note, weapons left 
 behind can only be recovered by returning to the previous area (if you can) , or by your future 
 enemies who can and will frequently pick them up.
  
  The combat system is very unique, and fighting hand to hand in first person has never felt so good. 
 When you attack other criminals, you can hit them so hard that they will either drop their weapon, 
 or run in terror. In special cases, your enemy will fall to the ground and daze on his knees until 
 you finish him, or until you allow him to stand back up and proceed harming you. Finishing your 
 challenger doesnt always mean beating him with a crowbar, or kicking him with the right analog 
 stick, but can also mean selecting one of the four signature moves controlled with the D-pad; 
 one being snapping their neck like a twig.
  
  Moving onto other things, if you find yourself in a dangerous area, you will usually find medicine 
 compartments that heal a little over half of your health. Tablets can be found in many areas of 
 the level, but on the other hand, you would find most of them packed in one area. In areas that 
 there arent many enemies, there will either be a pesky phone call, a prompt to use one of your 
 forensic tools, an abrupt cut-scene, or medicine compartments. Usually, the cut-scenes are of no 
 use, and force you to carry on without really knowing what they meant. The only significance of 
 those short films, you will find, is how they coincidentally appear when you arent paying any 
 attention. Thankfully, the combat makes up for the games ineffective attempts to engage you into 
 the already feeble story.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are unheard of. They hold the game up higher than its own game play at 
 times; which in some ways are good. Dry wall looks like dry wall, beer bottles look like beer bottles, 
 and blood looks like blood. The lighting is also very impressive, and ironically there arent many 
 lights in the game; with one exception being your shoulder light which is always carried. Your 
 character seems to have a habit of trapping himself in maggot-infested dumps, where the environment 
 is both trashy and spooky at the same time. The graphical environment creates the perfect depressing 
 setting any game could ever achieve.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sounds in this game are remarkably detailed. Stepping on different flooring or objects will 
 activate a noise accordingly. The bone-breaking sound effects in fights are excellent in terms 
 of realism and gory detail. There isnt much music in the game, but there are more ambient noises. 
 The environmental ambience shrouds the graphical surrounding with the perfect morbid theme, as 
 if the game wasnt dark enough already. The only quirk in this department was the quivering, and 
 irritating voice of one of the characters. Unlocking the last level to be offered B-class voice 
 acting was unexpected, though funny at the same time.
  
  Control:
  
  The controls are considerably smooth, but there isnt really anything exciting about them. The 
 controller vibrates every time you hit something or someone, and it vibrates when you get hit by 
 something or someone. You can get around smoothly most of the time, picking up weapons along the 
 way, though sometimes getting weapons can be a pain. Sometimes trying to find things requires you 
 to perfectly adjust the center of the screen onto the item. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Condemned sounded cool and looked great until you actually sit downand start playing the game. 
 You play as a agent that gets framed for murder and you're trying to track down this serial killer 
 that mimics the other serial killers you've busted. Yeah, it sounds cool but it falls short from 
 the mark, very short. Every single level is pretty straight forward, giving you no opportunity 
 to choose your own course of action. With the power of the of 360, you'd think that you could venture 
 off where ever you wanted to but that's not the case in this game. It's either follow this blood 
 trail or follow these crazy writings, etc. The levels look extremely nice and give a creepy effect 
 when you're running through the chapter but there's no interaction between your character and the 
 levels. You'd think that if you swung a sledge hammer at a wall it would do something than just 
 make a noise but no, just a thud and some dust. Once again the 360, has the power for it but this 
 game lacks the full use of the system. I only saw around 13-15 variations of enemies in this game 
 as well which isn't very good. I did'nt know that everyone had like 6-10 twins running around. 
 I mean really, you could at least make the same character not pop up twice while you're fighting 
 one already. The cut scenes are worse than actual game-play and the ending just makes the game 
 not worth playing. Sorry, but seriously, resident evil 4 was a whole lot better. The combat is 
 what takes the slack off the bad stuff. It's fun and intense. You get the choice of several different 
 weapons like shovels and pipes that break when you use them too much. It's cool because each one 
 is used for different purposes too. Every weapon also has it's own speed and damage so you won't 
 get the same effect as using a 2x4 with nails then using a shovel or a gas pipe. Every once in 
 a while you'll find a firearm which makes the games run a lot faster. Most enemies are taken out 
 with one shot. The problem with the firearms though, is that you only get like 3 shots or so. This 
 was'nt meant to be a shooter. If you don't have a Gamecube, which you probably don't, or a PS2, 
 rent this one for sure. If you're one of the smart ones and kept your old systems, go buy RE4, 
 it's tens times better than Condemned and it's worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  This games graphics are outstanding beings that it came out before the system even did. I just 
 want to take a moment and thank Monolith and Sega for this great gaming experience. From the start 
 Condemned scares the crap out of you and keeps you on your toes the whole way through. Though the 
 gameplay was smooth and unglichy, the fighting system needs some improvmement if there is to be 
 a sequel to this game. Other than this one little problem there isn't many bad things to say about 
 this game. If you haven't had the chance to check this game out, you need to soon, because if you 
 don't you will be missing out on one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I love this game... It looks beautiful, nice blend of a First person role-playing beat'em up, It's 
 the funnest first person sludge hammer swinging I every had... It's sorta slow-pace but it's tense 
 & immrsive until something jumps out of the wall yelling & screming beaten ya over the head with 
 a crow-bar, but when the action dose start it's pretty surprising how immersive it is... I felt 
 like I was beating this guy over the head with a concrete rubar... I'd say stuff like "take that 
 b****" ya know? But once I finished this game, I found no reason to play again, I'm mean, it's 
 absolutly wicked cool, but there is absolutly no way I'm going back to that freak-fest.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardfj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I literally jumped several inches off my couch at several points in this game. The gameplay takes 
 you back and forth between "combat" mode and "evidence" mode ... but while you walk around with 
 your black-light, looking for clues, there is no guarantee that some creature will jump on you 
 and make you soil your pants.
  
  Even though the environment is very supportive of the scary theme and serves it's purpose very 
 well, there are several things that are just plain off. The sound seems to be very awkward and 
 sounds/voices would be either too close or in the wrong spot in the audio space. The visuals are 
 good in it's support of the dark scary dungeon feel, but characters, shadows and light are simply 
 wrong. If you walk up to a wall with a light in your back, your shadow will look like it fits in 
 a N64 game. I'm also not a fan of the terrible rendering of the in game characters, including the 
 lead. The lead character looks simply weird ... and not in a good way ... he looks like some cross 
 between a weathered dude and a monkey.
  
  Also considering the lack of any form of online play, and some of the glitches that have been experienced 
 with respect to the achievements inclusion into Xbox Live, the game definitely leaves something 
 to be desired. However, the awesomely executed environment and a fairly entertaining story line 
 make this a great game to ensure some quality nightmares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_popwwe
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  I have to commend Monolith for actually trying to break the mold and trying something a little 
 different. I am a fan of a lot of Monoliths past work (i. e. Shogo, Aliens vs. Predator, No One 
 Lives Forever1 & 2, Tron 2.0, and the recent hit F. E. A. R) . I have to say that Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins was a title that caught me off guard and surprised the hell out of me. Very little press 
 was given to this game prior to the launch of the Xbox360. I read a detailed preview about this 
 title in a major publication and it intrigued me enough to grab this as one of my launch games. 
 And I sure am glad I did. This game had me hooked form start to finish. If this game had just been 
 a tad bit longer (I completed it in about 10 hours) , and had some minor game play tweaks, this 
 would be one of my contenders for my top 10 games of 2005. Why, because this game is scary and 
 creepy as hell. I not talking B-Movie schlock scary with predictable seat jumps. And I'm not 
 talking about Resident Evil scary because the horrendous camera didn't allow you to see around 
 the corner (not RE4 though) . I'm talking I don't want to play that game at night by myself because 
 it's creepy!
  
  When I first heard about this game I thought it was going to be a feeble action game with CSI elements 
 to try to appeal to a broader crowd (i. e. try to grab some older gamers) . When I researched the 
 title and read about the horror and the investigative elements I decided that I would have to try 
 this game out. And I have to say the game didn't totally let me down. The investigative elements 
 of the game are absolutely brilliant and seamlessly blend into the game play. I like the fact that 
 Condemned doesnt weigh you down with the investigative parts, its done very well and really helps 
 as a story telling device. During the game, you learn the main character has knack (actually an 
 ability) to perceive when something is odd. And then you will automatically select the appropriate 
 device. The XBox360 graphics really immerse you into this aspect of the game. When you use the 
 UV light to find blood stains or trauma wounds it's just cool as hell. Taking pictures and samples 
 to upload to your lab partner is easy and provide more of the mystery elements to the story. After 
 Chapter one, I was hooked into the story. A very well done story, up until the end and.... well 
 I won't spoil it.
  
  The combat is what will make or break the game for most people. You will either like it or you 
 will hate. Let me state upfront that this is not a first person shooter or action game. It's more 
 like a creepy horror story being told from the first person perspective to make the experience 
 more immersive (and the game more than exceeds at that) . You basically use whatever bludgeon you 
 can find in the game environment and that is your weapon. A steam pipe will have different attributes 
 than say a fire ax, or crowbar. You can also find firearms, but the ammo is in short supply. You 
 may pick up a pistol or shotgun only to find that you have 2 or 3 rounds (finding a fully loaded 
 weapon is rare) . And when you run out of ammo, you're out. You can use the shotgun as a club when 
 empty but if you break the stock against the head of an enemy, you're in a world of trouble. You 
 attack with the right trigger and you can block/parry an enemy swing with a well timed press of 
 the left trigger. The combat is visceral, gory and in your face. Once you get used to it, it is 
 not that bad, but may seem a lot of work for some. It seems to fall apart when you get jumped by 
 2 or 3 enemies, but you also have an electric taser to stun them with (which takes a small amount 
 of time to recharge) , and you can push in the right stick to execute a kick. You can use it to 
 kill weaker enemies, and to keep strong foes at bay or knock them off balance. Once I got used 
 to the combat I could live with it. Also when you stun a foe you can walk up to them and select 
 different ways to dispatch them. And you deal with them in a very violent fashion. Snapping necks 
 or ramming their face into the concrete are my two personal favorites. You just have to check it 
 out yourself, it's raw and primal... and for some reason I love it!
  
  The two things that make this game truly frightening are the art direction and the sound. This 
 game is just creepy as hell, you will encounter enemies and just say to yourself, what the hell? 
 Some things are just going to freak you out. The XBox360 really allowed the artist and programmers 
 to deliver a really dirty grimy dark world populated by very frightening characters. If you remember 
 the killers apartment in the movie Seven, just imagine a whole city like that. Not many games 
 actually end up looking like their concept art. The whole game just feels dark and foreboding. 
 When you get to the abandoned shopping mall, the look will just make the hair on the back of your 
 neck rise. Also this game uses sound better than most of the games I've ever played. It's a MUST 
 that you play this game on a Dolby Digital 5.1 setup. I think sound is a major 50% of the immersive 
 experience of this game. Just the ambient sounds in the background and environments will put you 
 on edge. You'll kick a bucket or a can and literally jump out of your seat. There was one situation 
 where I kicked a bottle and heard it roll. About four seconds later I heard it roll again behind 
 me and I turned around just to catch a pipe to the face. My wife laughed hard when she heard me 
 scream from downstairs. But its not just moments like that it that make the game. The story is 
 dark and you sense that there is something evil and sinister going on. I dont want to give too 
 much of the story away, but you find out that you are being manipulated. 
  
  If the game had been just a tad bit longer in regards to flushing out more of the story elements. 
 But Id rather have a nice story that moves along in 10 hours than a game that has slow pacing 
 and purposely drags out the story and redundant game play just to make the game 25 hours. Also 
 there were some things that could have been improved in the way of combat, but I can see what the 
 developers were trying to do, the execution could have used just a little tweaking. But overall 
 I enjoyed the hell out of this game (when I wasnt cowering on the couch in fear that is) . Monolith 
 did an outstanding job with this game, and I hope it does well enough to warrant a sequel. The 
 ending left some things unresolved. I really like the way they handled incorporating the forensic 
 tools and investigative elements into the game play and how this also drove the story. The UV light 
 effect is cool as hell! Even though there were some things that could have been worked out, I like 
 the fact that they did some new innovative stuff. I enjoyed this game as much as I was scared by 
 it.
  
  While the game was a little short, it was a good time (which isnt a bad thing) , the entire time 
 I played. It looked and sounded spectacular and the story was very engrossing. I felt the pacing 
 was just right and it kept my interest. This game is not a first person shooter but more of a horror 
 story told from the first person perspective to immerse the player. And this horror game actually 
 succeeded in scaring the heck out of me on several occasions. In the end I wanted more and hope 
 we get to see a sequel or more in the series. Monolith did a lot of things right with this game 
 and I commend them on their first effort for the Xbox360 console. Now if we could only get F. E. A. R. 
 on the consolebut I digress.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins places you in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, a member of the Serial Crimes 
 Unit (SCU) . Ethans primary job is tracking down and capturing serial killers for the government. 
 The game starts off with Ethan visiting a police crime scene where it appears another person has 
 fallen victim to The Matchmaker, a killer that Ethan is currently tracking. Shortly after Ethan 
 begins to investigate this murder everything begins to go wrong; he is framed for murders he didnt 
 commit. So he has to find a way to get out of it. 
  
  The Graphics are Amazing. So detailed there is so much blood. The physics are very well done. The 
 only problem is that it's a little dark h though out the game so it's kind of hard to see were 
 you are going at times.
  
  The Gameplay is good. It's the first person view and you go around to solve a bunch of murders 
 and try to find out who famed you. Like a said before at times it's a little dark and hard to see 
 at times even though you have a flash light to help you get around. The sound of the game is a 
 very spookey so it will keep you on the edge of your seat not expecting what is coming next until 
 some crazy person jumps out at you.
  
  In the end Condemned: Criminal Origins is a solid Mystery/crime adventure game with lots of Violience 
 and Blood and gore. Go out there and get an Xbox 360 if you don't allready have one and get this 
 game. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GetAtMeDog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins places you in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, a member of the Serial Crimes 
 Unit (SCU) . Ethans primary job is tracking down and capturing serial killers for the government. 
 The game starts off with Ethan visiting a police crime scene where it appears another person has 
 fallen victim to The Matchmaker, a killer that Ethan is currently tracking. Shortly after Ethan 
 begins to investigate this murder everything begins to go wrong; he is framed for murders he didnt 
 commit, hes disowned by the SCU, and while trying to clear his name he undergoes many trials that 
 will test his very sanity.
  
  The game uses this plot setup to place Ethan in an extremely detailed and grizzly underworld that 
 feels familiar and menacing at the same time. From burnt-out libraries, to abandoned warehouses, 
 to dilapidated shopping malls, urban decay is one thing Condemned has in spades. Garbage is piled 
 high in every corner, lights flicker on and off from years of neglect, plaster flakes off every 
 wall, and your footsteps echo in the darkness. This is perhaps one of the most important things 
 to appreciate about Condemned; the environments are the true star of this game.
  
  While traversing these (seemingly) abandoned locations, Ethan will encounter throngs of homeless 
 who attack him on sight, for reasons that he only comes to understand later in the game. Having 
 lost his gun, hes forced to make due with whatever he can find to defend himself. Pipes, two by 
 fours, and locker doors all come into play as Ethan pillages the environments to find a means for 
 self defense. Once armed, Ethan can engage in melee combat with like-armed foes, and its this 
 combat that constitutes the bulk of the game play. From a first-person view Ethan will can swing, 
 block, kick, and even use a tazer gun on any who invade his personal space. The combat itself is 
 pure white-knuckle excitement. Blows feel like they land with a weight and gravity that one can 
 only hope to never face in the real world. The first time you down a foe, or the first time you 
 yourself take a tremendous beating you will have an appreciation for the job Monolith did in fleshing 
 out this virtual experience. Blows to the head send teeth flying, blood spewing, and deliver a 
 truly awful thud of steel on flesh that somehow you know sounds authentic. All of this translates 
 to combat being a very tense affair that doesnt seem to get old.
  
  Perhaps combat doesnt get old because the enemy AI is no slouch when it comes to defending itself. 
 When wounded foes will hide from you, when they have the advantage they will press you aggressively, 
 and when you are surrounded by a group of enemies they will work together to ruin your day. The 
 AI is aware of its environment as well; if it sees a better weapon than it currently has it will 
 often run off and get it, only to return to face you on its own terms. In short the enemy AI is 
 wonderful and provides a wily foe on the default difficulty level.
  
  Being an investigator hot on the trail of the man who framed you for the aforementioned murders, 
 Ethan has many tools at his disposal to help him dissect a crime scene, many of which seem to be 
 ripped straight out of CSI. Laser scanners, UV lights, and 3D Samplers are just a few of the tools 
 of the trade for a SCU member. Using these tools at predetermined times during the game are what 
 make up the remainder of the game play in Condemned. Once you stumble upon a clue, the game will 
 prompt you to use a specific tool to dig a little deeper and root out some more information. These 
 portions of the game arent particularly great, but they do provide most of the opportunities for 
 Monolith to progress the story in-game, and they break up the action nicely.
  
  Oddly enough though, the investigatory portions of the game can be among the scarier moments in 
 the game. This is because when you are using your tools to track clues, you are pretty much defenseless. 
 Often times you need to follow trails of evidence, and knowing danger could lurk around every corner 
 (even though it rarely does) can be quite unnerving. The very deliberate pacing of the game, as 
 well as the nook-and-cranny architecture, leaves you always feeling exposed and in danger. You 
 can walk around a level for minutes at a time without running into a foe, but this merely serves 
 to ratchet up the tension, as it makes you even more certain that the very next corner will spell 
 doom.
  
  The plot itself can be a bit difficult to follow as it requires the player to reference loading 
 screen text, blurbs from the manual, and some mocked up SCU reports in the Achievements section 
 to get a true understanding of what has been going on over the ten hours it will probably take 
 to finish the game. These problems notwithstanding, I enjoyed the story quite a bit. 
  
  From the horrific environments to the set-piece battles you fight, if you are a fan of action or 
 survival horror games on any level you will enjoy Condemned. Just dont forget to turn the lights 
 out before you play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I am a total survival horror sucker, regardless of the concept or the title I am normally fast 
 to pick them up and just as fast to toss them aside, Condemned did not make my original 360 launch 
 list, but I ended up getting because the concept seemed a little more fresh then I would have thought 
 and there was alot of positive previews, and I will admit in terms of length of meaningful play 
 this was perhaps the best game of 2005 (next to RE4) simply because the story was deep, the game 
 took bizzare twists and I found myself getting more and more shocked as I went deeper into the 
 game.
  
  In terms of Gameplay, many reviewers have cited that "dark hallways" and dark lighting effects 
 as a negative to the game, but I simply chalk that mentality up to lazy gaming. Sewers are not 
 well light, nor are they very well laid out which is what made this game more interesting to me 
 then anything, it added a touch more reality and a little less "gamer coddling" which really sold 
 me. I would be lying if I said there were not moments where I almost threw my controller through 
 the TV because I did not see someone hiding in the shadows, but its what made the game more fun. 
 The AI in this game is one of the things I just don't hear enough about which truly is the unsung 
 hero of this game, if you have a gun they will take cover and try and get around you to get better 
 positioning, (well depending on the enemy) They will pick up weapons and they will try and out 
 think you at times and that is really a cool aspect, there are not many "easy kills" and for some 
 that may shy you away from Condemned, but I think for some gamers they will see it as taking Survival 
 Horror to the next level. 
  
  The story is good, and keeps you guessing but I found I was spending so much time focusing on the 
 levels at hand I was really off balance when the story hit me between the eyes with a twist, very 
 well done in that regard. 
  
  The whole forensic angle was cool, and once you get the hang of all the tools you will pretty well 
 get through and progress the story as a result, but I felt that this was an aspect that simply 
 grew old quickly with me, but did not take away from the game
  
  Graphically, what can I say other then the fact that it is truly next generation, and major items 
 such as characters aside the little things were flawless, the detail of the drywall, the cracks 
 in the floors, the dents in doors simply fantasic, I would be lying if I said I did not expect 
 a little more from the major characters but as a whole this game is a masterpiece none the less, 
 and full credit must be given for lighting effects, flickering light bulbs, blinking lights, shadows. 
 Stunning. 
  
  The Sound in my opinion makes this game a standout, because in dark area's you need to listen you 
 need to focus around the background noise and listen for breathing or foot steps in the distance 
 after playing on my Surround system and a standard Stereo TV the efforts put into this aspect of 
 the game are remarkable and worth the cost of the title alone, this sets a new standard for sound 
 in a game much like Eternal Darkness did last generation. 
  
  The Value Question is one I will answer with my typical Play Vs. Replay value, 
  From a Play 
 Value Stance, it was worth it chills, thrills, shocks, I do not regret a moment of this game and 
 as such I am content that I recieved my moneys worth no question
  From a Replay Angle, I think I would be hardpressed to ever sit through it again, I pop it in when 
 I have friends over who want a look at the new Xbox and from that facet it does a good job as a 
 show piece but maybe a few years down the line on a rainy Saturday I may play it again, but it 
 was a one shot deal for me. 
  
  Overall, It was the first game that really hooked me on 360, when I put the disc in, it was pretty 
 well all I played till the credits rolled at the end, and that says alot considering I picked up 
 six games at launch, it is worth a look for any Resident Evil, Silent Hill or Clock Tower Fan, 
 and should be a hoot for anyone who watches CSI, 
  
  -Z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawnfades
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is an excellent first person fighter in the survival/ horror genre. 
 You are Agent Ethan Thomas sort of a Will Peterson type from the Movie Manhunter. Ethan's the guy 
 they call in to solve the real nasty serial killer cases. You start out investigating the latest 
 Killing by the Matchmaker and then everything falls apart and you're on the run trying clear your 
 name while somehow managing to stay alive.
  
  Condemned features some of the best fighting ever in a video game. It's fierce close quarters fighting 
 with 2x4's ,pipes, fire axes and pretty much anything you can get your hands on.
  
  The addicts crimals sneak around then lunge at you out of the darkness. I can't tell you how many 
 times I was startled by this game.
  
  The CSI type moments while rather shallow still added some needed variety to the game.
  
  The 
 Graphics are very good but rather dark seeing as how most of the game takes place in ababndoned 
 buildings.
  
  The sound is fantastic, especially the sound of say a pipe caving in someones head. Must be played 
 in 5.1 for full effect.
  
  This was a game that wasn't on my to have list but repeated recomendations made me buy it. I'm 
 glad I did. Its really the sleeper of the Xbox360 Launch titles. Download the demo from live and 
 I bet you'll be surprised as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candykiss83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  The game is a little repetative, and even after finishing the game I am still unsure of exactly 
 what was going on (might have just missed something there) , and the last level mad me more angry 
 than one of those crazy crack heads, AND I have no idea what the dead birds and strangly hidden 
 medal pieces are for, I still had a good little time with this one. 
  
  I love being called those dirty names before I smack the crack heads around, I love running around 
 in creepy little buildings, I LOVE the sound effects (the sweet little pitter patter of a junkie 
 running at you from somewhere) , and I love the handful of scares that come at you now and than. 
 
  
  All and all its a nice little waste of time with a bottle of wine and the lights dimmed. The game 
 is a little short but really how much time can one spend beating the rubbish out of junkies? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Series like Silent Hill and Call of Cathlou are always missing one thing, GREAT sound. The things 
 you're trying to kill aren't really that creepy, but the sound has to be great. Otherwise, you 
 wont feel the atmosphere. One game before Condemned: Criminal Origins did this. It was F. E. A. R. 
 but anyway more about Condemned. Condemned's levels are very very dark. I adjusted the brightness 
 to the max and it was so freakin dark!!! imagine it on the lowest level of brightness. The fighting 
 in the game is awesome, because it's all up in your face! its literally the closest to a crowbar 
 you ever want to get. The enviorments are very gruesome and very detailed so they fit the mood, 
 even though there is a lot of repition in how the enviorments look. The A. I. are pretty smart as 
 they will take fake swings to scare you and put your guard down, they will run around you like 
 a chinese fire drill to make you search for them and they will creep you out by just looking at 
 them. The TASER you get is a very cheap and effective to get a free shot at your psychopath. The 
 value isnt very high because it only took me 8 hours and you probably wont want to play the game 
 again and again. I reccomend this to a player who likes up in your face creepy horror games!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethBrundle
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  This game... oh god... this game. Where to begin? This game has the same level of sequential storyline 
 as Steven Spielberg's "Munich." If you liked that movie stop reading and move onto the next geek's 
 review right now. 
  I just finished this game and I gotta tell ya, it makes no damn sense at all. 
  
  The levels 
 are all very similar, and without any storyline it's hard to tell the difference between where 
 you are now and where you were 2 hours ago. Play it with a friend, because it's still kinda spooky 
 and you will enjoy the nonsense of it all more with someone to ridicule the game with. 
  The graphics are awesome, and cracking someone in the face with a gas pipe is pretty cool. All 
 things considered those are really the only good things about it. 
  I hope this game sets a precedent and one of the decent game designers makes a less pain-inducing 
 game that also allows you to crack junkies in the head with a pipe. Maybe the next mario spin off. 
 Super Mario Pipe Smack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game because I tryed the demo and found it pretty intresting. It's fun at the 
 beginning when you don't know what to do and trying to figure out what to do step by step, but 
 when you make it further in the game you'll get used to it and it will become more and more weirder, 
 it's awsomes thought how they made the levels dark and creepy. The weapons are kool like the guns 
 are sweet and there are all kinds of weapons to use in close quarters. So if you like scary games 
 you might just get hooked to this game, it's pretty sweet but it has ups and downs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Condemned
  
  In condemed you play as an Investigator to serial killing crimes struggling to keep his own sanity. Condemed 
 has some of the most impressive graphics on the 360 yet and makes use of it with its intense atmosphere 
 and chilling enimes you will come across. Condemed however does not have much replayability and 
 does get repetitive after a few hours of play. The game streches out for 10 or so hours. It is 
 an insider to the 360 true potential it can allow game developers to use.
  
  The game starts off as you hear about someone being brutaly murdered in a dangerous place in the 
 city and you are sent to the scene to figure it out but things do not go that smoothly shall I 
 say. Condemed has a somewhat dissapointing plot and feels like they havent put enough time into 
 it. The game plays out simmilar to a Fps but with a change. There are very few guns at all and its 
 combat is more melee based and hand to hand with axes , pipes and other things that you will get 
 your hands on that you will find along your way. The main aspect of the game that is impressive 
 is infact the interaction betwen you and the AI. The AI in the game is amazing and you will learn 
 to fear your opponent because of how it can predict your moves and take action apon that.
  
  Condemed has a problem of not breaking up the action enough and the same dreary corridors and 
 abandoned buildings can leave you with the need to see some veriety in locations , perhaps a busy 
 street or something like that. The game seems to run out of new tricks after a few hours play but 
 this never really takes away from your enjoyment in the game. Since Condemned goes for the more 
 scary look and succedes in doing so it does let the tention build in some areas by making things 
 too quiet although instead of using oppertunities for new tricks it instead just does the same 
 old stuff you have seen before, which is kind of dissapointing as its from the same makers as F. E. A. R 
 and was a little better than Condemned in many ways.
  
  The graphics in Condemned are amazing for lack of a better word but they do have a few small problems 
 which is expected for a launch game. With bland corridors and the like. There is too little contrast 
 in the places you visit. The only distinctive looking parts are at the begining and end of the 
 game and also does not make enough of the physics at all but when the game looks this good its 
 hard to complain. The graphics do require a High Definition TV to get the most of it and the game 
 will also keep a nice steady framerate as high definitions.
  
  Condemned does have success in having the best looking game of its kind seen yet and has great 
 sound to go also. It does provide some thrills and will get you jumping now and then and is deffinetly 
 worth playing there is no real replayability or reasons to come back as there is no xbox live.
 
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Sound 8/10
  Value 5/10
  Tilt 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe512
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  In Condemned you play an FBI investigator named Ethan Thomas, who is assigned to the murder of 
 a woman. Throughout the game you look for evidence involving this game's twisted plot. You also 
 fight off crazed addicts, squatters (I still don't know what these are) , maniacs, etc.
  Wow, this game in my opinion is one of the best or even the best Xbox 360 launch titles. The gameplay 
 is phenomenal and very unique. The fights sequences are savagely brutal, and especially because 
 the AI puts up a challenging fight. Graphically, this game is absolutely next gen and you don't 
 need a HDTV to appreciate the visuals. Oh and the sound is unbelievably realistic. If you back-up 
 into a bucket, it with make you turn around in shock. All the aspects of this game are fantastic, 
 except for one minor thing, which is length. This game is not short however in is not very long. 
 You can probably finish fairly quickly over a couple of days, depending how much you play it. But 
 again, this is NOT a short game, just not a very long one either. 
  Overall this game plays, looks and feels great, and with a solid amount of playing time in the 
 story, this is one game no Xbox 360 should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merriJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Not for the faint of heart. A must play game IF you have HD and SURROUND SOUND. Turn the lights 
 down and the sound up. The name of the game is exactly were you'll be spending most of your time, 
 in claustrophobic run down buildings and areas. It's like walking through a haunted house in a 
 nightmare. It's very un-nerving from start to finish and the shock moments are well placed. You 
 actually have to stop playing this game after a while because you start to feel worn out from anxiety. 
 If you like to be scared, play this game and experience the grief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  This is one heck of a game. The evil. the blood. the dead birds. This game almost has it all to 
 be one of the greatest. But I hope they leave it alone in its glory.
  
  First is the good. ITS IS CREAPY I TELL YOU. This game is great for keeping you on the edge of 
 whatever you sit on. You must be carefull at all times because you have no idea what will happen 
 next ( I will never look at a pool the same again) The graphics in this game were great. The lighting 
 was perfect and the detail was out of this world. The levels were a good length and the enemies 
 were always around the next corner. I liked the cut sceans and the voice overs were good. The fact 
 that you had to use almost anything you could rip off the wall as a weapon was a +. And the story 
 was great.
  
  Now for the bad. The controls wernt as responsive or as smooth as I like. I didnt like it that 
 you couldnt reload a gun even if you find a new one. The run feature was a joke and I think that 
 the evidence collecting could have been a little more of a challenge.
  
  Over all I think this is a great game and worth picking up if you are in the mood for a shorts 
 dumping, freaky, challenging, survival horor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknotj24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  To make this fast for people who do not like to read reviews, this game game is very cool. It is 
 scary as hell, it had me jumping at most parts and screaming at some other parts. Smashing someones 
 face in with a sledgehammer or 2X4 has never felt so good. This game is rated M for a reason, children 
 15 and under should not play this game. The graphics are really outstanding, the only real complaint 
 about this game is the character models don't look as good as the scenary, and the gameplay might 
 get a little repetitive, but it's not as repetitve as other people say it is. Condemned is a great 
 game and it's a great scare, I would definetly buy this game, since there really isn't alot of 
 good x-box 360 games out right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is so scary, no joke. I don't know how to explain how scary it is without joking. It 
 is best if played at night. The random sounds and movement in the darkness scares the bejezus out 
 o' ya. Don't be afraid to buy the game because my review is so scary, because I know thats probably 
 what you are thinking. Really its not as scary as I make it sound, but it still is really scary. 
 Its not only scary but its fun, especially to play with your friends (or if you don't have any, 
 your mom) . So, in conclusion, you should buy this game. Ignore the scariness of my review because, 
 truly, the game is fun (and not too scary!!!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  You will notice firsty that the graphics are stunning. The sounds are brillient. You will some 
 times tread on bottles and you'l turn round and nothings there. The stroy can become very deep 
 in places but action is fast. There is a wide variaty of weapons including shotguns, machine guns, 
 pistols and revolvers. But.... you wont want to use the guns that much because they only carry about 
 half a clip of ammo. the main part of this game is picking up weapons including, signposts, fire 
 axes, spanners, sledgehammers and flaming wood, then going up to your enemys and hacking them to 
 peices. There is quite alot of blood in the game which also for a change looks almost real. One 
 thing i love about this game is the finising moves which are ram, snap, punch or slam. Either one 
 of these attacks are great. my personal favourite is either snap or punch. over all this game isnt 
 far off perfect. The only thing i would include is multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Being one of the launch titles for 360, and being made by Sega, kind of had me skeptical as to 
 how this game would turn out. Fortunately, this game is absolutely brilliant on every level, and 
 you will enjoy every moment of playing it.
  
  Gameplay: Condemned takes first person gaming to a whole new level. Whether you are using investigation 
 tools to solve a case, or just smiling happily as you bash criminals with just about every melee 
 weapon imaginable, Condemned is there for you. Exploring the creepy and varying environments is 
 a tense but exciting experience, and youll find that there is more than enough combat to justify 
 the situation, which brings me to the point: The melee combat in this game is perfect. You have 
 sledgehammers, fireaxes, pipes, conduits, tables, desks, planks, and a whole slew of other objects 
 and firearms. The good news is, it is so much fun to use all of them.
  
  Graphics: Condemned is a great start to bringing on the next gen experience. The graphics in this 
 game are great, especially the character models, which never get old. The cutscenes look really 
 good too, and even though most of the environemts are shrouded in darkness, you can tell they are 
 pretty amazing looking as well.
  
  Sounds: Weapons bashing skulls, machine guns pumping convicts full of steaming lead, screams, curses, 
 grunts, and anything else you would hope for in a game of this calibur. Bottom line: sound is top 
 notch.
  
  Value: Although Condemned isn't a very long game, it is no longer than need be. However, after 
 beating it, your love for the combat system will probably have you run through it a couple more 
 times. Working to earn some of the many achievements is a great source of replay as well. Basically, 
 if you like to play awesome games, then play Condemned.
  
  Tilt: Buy Condemned, it's very very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Condemned might just be the scariest most intense game ever made, and it even manages the near 
 impossible feat of dethroning Doom 3 in the process. Graphically Condemned shines - sometimes all 
 too literally as some NPCs can look a little on the plastic side. The locations and lighting effects 
 are simple gorgeous, and the frame rate never lets up. Just as impressive is the sound effects; 
 chilly, eerie and sometimes so creepy that you have to stop playing - this is one very scary sounding 
 experience. 
  
  The gameplay also remains solid, with its new twist on the FPS genre. Here, you have to use your 
 cool forensic technology to solve crimes and help you through levels and even defeat certain enemies. 
 What really makes Condemned so scary is its gritty realism. Unlike Doom with its sci-fi locales 
 and bulbous monsters, Condemned usually pits you against drunken and or drugged up psychopaths. 
 Sometimes you cannot help but feel you are playing something that might be a mixture of CSI and 
 the sick and sadistic movie Saw.
  
  Condemned is a brilliant game, and yet another reason you must own the every brilliant Xbox 360 
 - a system that did indeed have the greatest ever launch line-up. Along side this game, you should 
 also own Perfect Dark Zero, Call of Duty 2, Kameo, Quake 4 and PGR3. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soliquid_Snake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Dark, eerie and a little sombre, Condemned: Criminal Origins introduces XBOX 360 owners to a whole 
 new level of next generation game play that matches the true power of Microsofts mighty machine. 
 Never before has a first person action game felt so enjoyable without the repetition of gun weaponry 
 allowing the game to fully focus on melee combat in which to add more impact. This appears to have 
 been achieved on so many levels despite the urges to pull the trigger further on in the game. 
 
  
  The game revolves around FBI agent Ethan Thomas who is sent to a murder location in which to gather 
 evidence for further study. Once present at the crime scene, Thomas (along with two policeman) 
 discover that also present are many drug addicts and maniacs bent on inflicting carnage on whoever 
 is unlucky enough to be within their proximity. Ethan must battle these cursed individuals in order 
 to advance in his investigation of a sadistic serial killer.
  
  The graphics featured in the game are nothing short of stunning as they truly capture the dark 
 and morbid theme the game portrays. Most locations are a depressing grey to enhance the mood of 
 the game to truly capture the essence. The only light that is available to use is a flashlight 
 that Thomas carries that will most likely be required throughout the game. 
  As the game progresses the moody locations become very repetitive as each location contains the 
 same level design (even though its not really recognizable) which will contribute towards the games 
 re playability.
  
  The gameplay itself is quite simple as only the right back trigger is required for the melee swing. 
 However, this attack contains no combinations whatsoever so there is no real variation when attacking. 
 Each weapon that is available has its own useful properties indicating its strength and speed and 
 so on. There is also an interesting block system that should be focused upon. Instead of the usual 
 blocking methods that are used in most games, the game now challenges you by making you time your 
 blocks in which successful blocks allow you to react with a quick counter attack. 
  
  Sound is also a key in the playing of the game. Due to very minimal music during levels, the game 
 presents are more eerie atmosphere as the only sounds that are heard are ones of the enemy accidentally 
 knocking items over in which to scare you which works superbly. It allows the player to become 
 more involved in a story driven by horror and suspense.
  
  Overall Condemned is a great achievement that is truly welcome on the XBOX 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  To be perfectly honest, Condemned isn't really my type of game. I only tried it because it came 
 with my Xbox360, so I figured I'd give it a shot. I don't think I'll be keeping it.
  
  Condemned has an interesting premise: youre an agent whos been framed for murder and you need 
 to not only discover you framed you, but also stay alive in the process. The game starts out well, 
 with and intriguing story and really impressive graphics. Youll quickly learn all the controls 
 as you walk through the first part of the game. The suspense builds and the plot thickens and you 
 quickly find yourself in a life and death struggle to survive.
  
  In terms of visual appeal, Condemned is very well done. The dark lighting and clear, detailed images 
 are definitely worth checking out. If you like dark, mysterious movies or TV shows, youll appreciate 
 the graphics in this game. The sound also really helps make you feel like youre there. Theres 
 great ambient sounds, appropriate music and very nice dialog and action sounds. The graphics and 
 audio do a fantastic job of putting you in the scene.
  
  The gameplay, itself, isnt too tough. There are some tricks you need to get used to, but its 
 not very complicated to control. What frustrated me was the repetition of it all. After the first 
 few areas you explore, everything looks pretty similar, especially considering youre always in 
 the dark. The action, too, is pretty similar except for the little side tasks you need to complete 
 here and there. Its basically one deranged, drugged out thug after another and youre left to 
 fight them off with whatever you can find around you. Sometimes a lead pipe, or a 2x4, and every 
 once in a while youll find a randomly discarded firearm (not sure why someone would just leave 
 a shotgun on a table next to a soda can, but hey) .
  
  All in all, I couldnt really get into Condemned. For one, in my opinion its just a little too 
 dark and creepy. You feel very oppressed and fearful while playing this game. And since things 
 really just kind of repeat over and over again, its just not all that interesting to persevere 
 through. It looks really nice, and has a great overall atmosphere. But, that wears off quickly 
 enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Concept: Go through spooky and photo-realistic environments, and kill insane humans in brutal and 
 satisfying first person combat
  
  Gameplay: a little slow, but overall great. Has a great story, even thought its not about the story, 
 and the controls are simple yet sophisticated. Some foresic elements, but serve more as a break 
 from the action rather than an actual gameplay element. Another problem is that the game doesnt 
 show exactly how far away you are from an enemy and can cost you a couple hits, its no big deal 
 though. 
  
  Graphics: Awesome environments, but the cut scenes and charecter models look almost like they could 
 have been done on the original Xbox.
  
  Sound: Perfect! Kicks in at the right time and does a great job at setting up the atmosphere. 
 
  
  Value: Only real big problem. Its very, very, short and has almost no replay value and no shock 
 value after you've already gone through and seen the scripted events and all the shocks. 
  
  Tilt: I personally loved the story, but the ending is a real let down, especially considering 
 how great it was leading up to that. Awesome atmospher, this is a scary ass game that will make 
 you jump out of your seat. Possibly the scariest game of all time. 
  
  Conclusion: Great game, great premise, Definately rent it and play throught it once, its an awesome 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehunteh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is amazing i cant believe the graphics on it the horror involved while playing my 
 god some of these crackheads have literaly scared the sh1t out of me. if you cant watch horror 
 movies do not pick this game up you will be having hallucinations about crackheads zombies and 
 coming up behind your and trying to beat the sh1t out of you with a 2x4 with nails in it. the A. I. 
 is very smart and complex they fend for their lives and while in a fight they may even go grab 
 a stronger weapon. but dont be scared of this after i cleaned up the sh1t all over my room i started 
 to enjoy it then something else would scare the sh1t out of me but its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Massacre lots of enemies in this First Person Action Game. Condemned is a Xbox 360 exclusive at 
 the moment but is also in creation for the PC.
  You take the control of a FBI agent trying to solve a case about a serial killer but this is no 
 ordinary case you have will have to hack away at loads of sociopaths. 
  
  Condemned offers a pretty short but great gameplay which unveils the story as you go along. But 
 if your buying this game because you think its a First Person Shooter you would be wrong however 
 this could interest lots of gamers, there is actually some shooting in the game but most of the 
 time when you actually find a gun that might have say 4 bullets in it, you wouldnt find any more 
 bullets for that gun and you might not even find many other guns until the next chapter. However 
 the full range of weapons you can use in Condemned is quite fun, these vary from Revolvers, Pistols, 
 Rifles, Shotguns, Pipes, Wood with 2x4 Nails on it, Fire Axes, Sledgehammers, Shovels, Signposts 
 and lots more. Each Weapon has its own like stats so Sledgehammers will do lots of damage but it 
 will take you longer to swing it than say a small metal pipe but you could get like 3 swings in 
 before the sledgehammer could get a second. But most of the time its best to use a high damage 
 weapon hit then, stand back, block, when they have finished there attacking movement, attack then 
 move forward. Or you could just use your tazer on them to immobilize your enemies.
  
  The Graphics are done well, the shadows and look of everything including the player/enemy models 
 look great. Although the shadow on your character wasnt the best ive seen but it still looked good.
 
  Some awesome blood effects make this game look great. So this all builds up for a great experience.
 
  
  The Sound is excellent from wicked sound effects to tension building which it also doesnt give 
 away the points of the game where it will shock you. The sound just on all the weapons hitting, 
 dropping and smashing togethor is great. The sound really helps create tension and make it sound 
 real.
  
  Unfortunatly the game doesnt last very long but as long as it lasts its great fun. You could if 
 you didnt the first time play through the game a couple of times maybe to find all the secrets 
 in the game to unlock all the Xbox 360 Achievements.
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone who likes horror, first person action games or any action 
 fan and even anyone whos wanting to try something new, Condemned has a great feel to it and im 
 glad i bought this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossauce
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell: You're a crime scene investigator with a magical cell phone that can take DNA samples. 
 You find yourself in a gritty, spooky world filled with thugs who want to kill you, are they human? 
 That's a good question. Can you explain how these thugs came to be? Their, criminal origin perhaps? 
 Well, that'll be briefly explained through load screens and subtle references to a cult. The story 
 isn't important though, what is important, and what the games main perpose is, is the combat, and 
 spook factor. The combat is great, though suffers from certain situations where you can't tell 
 if someone is close enough to you to connect a hit, but, you get over it. 
  
  Basically:
  
  Good- great combat, great control, great graphics, great sound, great spook factor, oh, and 
 the lighting effects are beautifully done, just hit a dangling light, and watch what the light 
 does
  
  Bad- short, very short, Story leaves you wanting more, no replay value, only reason you'll play 
 it again is to let your friends watch you own a thug, or let them do it.
  
  Things I found corny- You're an agent, you carry a weapon, you'd think you would have taken training 
 on how to use your weapons. Well at the start of the game when you're learning, a police officer 
 tells YOU how to use YOUR tazer. Lame.
  
  By all means, give this game a shot, you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing condemned, it had everything I expected in regards to being dark and a 
 little creepy. What I didn't expect was that I would blow through it in just under 10 hours. The 
 game starts out so good, and the storyline is wonderful. The problem is that there was never that 
 part of being stuck, which although I hate when I am playing, I actually enjoy as it gives me a 
 sense of accomplishment when I get through it. I was a little disappointed with the way the game 
 ended, but overall I would have to say it was a decent game that just wasn't long enough for me 
 to rate any higher than an "8". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the more interesting games of the Xbox 360 launch lineup. 
 Its not a port of a PC game, nor is it a racing or sports game, but thats not to say that it 
 wouldnt get your heart pounding. Condemned: Criminal Origins is hands down one of the creepiest 
 games out there in terms of its slow, almost meticulous pacing, environments, and the pure savagery 
 of the enemies youll be up against. Condemned further ups the scare factor by bringing some of 
 the most intense and satisfying melee combat ever seen in a first person game that will make you 
 cringe with every blow and a soundtrack that will make you think twice about turning the lights 
 off. Condemned is truly the best example of horror in the next generation. 
  
  Condemned puts you into the shoes of Ethan Thomas, a regular FBI agent who specializes in tracking 
 down serial killers. The story starts off with a routine visit to a crime scene of a killer called 
 the Matchmaker, but quickly goes awry. The whole situation leaves Ethan unarmed with the exception 
 of a taser gun and some forensic tools and hot on the trail of a madman. All the while Ethan questions 
 his own sanity in the process. The story starts off with a bang and quickly pulls you in to the 
 point where youll feel compelled to play more and more just to find out whats going to happen 
 next with no sign of slowing down. It only opts to get more intense as the story progresses. Of 
 course, youll have an army of insane junkies who are more than willing to put an end to your investigation. 
 The game touches on what has caused these people to lose their minds and aggressively attack anyone 
 in their way, but youll never really know the full story in the end. 
  
  Action takes place strictly from a first-person view which helps to make some of the games more 
 memorable moments even more intense and scary. This is evident in the examples of abuse Ethan has 
 to endure which includes getting thrown out of a window among other crazy events you may yet have 
 to experience in the first person. Since Ethan is essentially unarmed, he has to make due with 
 makeshift weapons to stave away the nasties that will stop at nothing to kill him if he gets in 
 their way. Luckily, weapons are abundant and can be found anywhere from pipes to nail-imbued 2x4s, 
 desk drawers to paper cutters, and even signs and locker doors will become part of your arsenal 
 at some point or another during the game. You can carry only one weapon at a time so youll be 
 pressed to decide between a heavier, more powerful weapon or settle for a smaller, faster weapon. 
 You will come across the occasional fire arm here and there, but ammo is severely limited so make 
 every shot count. Certain weapons like the fire axe, crowbar, and sledge hammer can be used to 
 open special doors and objects to find hidden guns or a few of the games numerous secrets. 
  
  Condemned becomes a literal fight for survival since youll be on even ground with the crazies 
 that come at you armed with the same makeshift weapons and an even larger lust for blood. The fact 
 that the crazies are smart doesnt help to make matters any better. They wont hesitate to run 
 off and find a bigger, badder weapon, hide behind walls to get the jump on you, or show fits of 
 anger and retaliate with a lunging counter attack after you hit them. Their acts accompanied with 
 the realistic animations that accompany them are enough to make you almost regret hitting them 
 across the face with a pipe in the first place. The baddies only get bigger and harder to defeat 
 as the game goes on. Blocking with your weapon is encouraged since it will let you go straight 
 to the offense after a successful block, though its a bit flawed and it seems that it takes a 
 stroke of luck to get a good succession of blocks in. Youll find that using guerilla tactics works 
 just as well as blocking. The fighting system is basic and you wont see any crazy twelve-hit combos 
 here. While early parts of the game can be a challenge, things become much easier after getting 
 your hands on an upgraded and overpowered taser gun that will allow you to get one hit kills on 
 nearly everything you encounter. By the end of the game youll feel like youre purely going through 
 the motions just to get to the next bit of the storyline until the last level where the difficulty 
 really gets turned up. There is some satisfaction gained by performing special moves on baddies 
 that lie on the brink of death. By choosing an option from the d-pad, youll be able to give them 
 an impressive head butt, slam their heads on the floor, break their necks, or deliver a punch to 
 the face. The best part about executing special moves is that youre not doing them to every enemy 
 and happen every so often so the novelty really never wanes. 
  
  When youre not fighting, youll be exploring to find miscellaneous dead birds, metal pieces, and 
 hidden Xbox 360s to unlock achievements where you can check out some different and oft repeated 
 shots of concept art. When youre not looking for items or fighting for your life, youll be investigating 
 the trail of the mystery killer youre in pursuit of. Of course, this isnt as good as it sounds 
  youre not mister CSI after all. You see, Ethan has an uncanny instinct that tips him off to 
 when he should be investigating. Namely, its an excuse for the game to basically prompt you to 
 pull out your forensic tools and look for blood marks or hand prints in a room. If you stray too 
 far away from your evidence, the game will have no qualms with letting you know. Sure, this may 
 sound bad to those who love to explore or have a deep affection for David Caruso, but its just 
 right for those of us who are playing purely for the horror aspects. 
  
  Condemned is full of creepy environments that youll be stumbling through thanks to the dim glow 
 of your flashlight. Youll make your way through one run-down condemned building after another 
 (and here you thought the title meant something else) with each exhibiting the beauty of run-down 
 abandonment. While youll be navigating more than your fair share of dark, narrow corridors, youll 
 also get to go through an abandoned farmhouse, a department store complete with freaky mannequins, 
 and even get to go outside once in a while. Each environment gives off its own feeling of anxiety 
  some more than others obviously, but the creeps are always there. 
  
  The visuals resemble something youd see running on a high end PC game. Not that its a bad thing, 
 but aside from the excellent animation, those who have played F. E. A. R. or Quake 4 may not be too 
 impressed right away. Youve got a good use of physics for inanimate objects and some decent rag 
 doll effects on enemies but nothing too impressive there either. Both the enemies and your own 
 body are able to clip through otherwise impassable objects now and again, but its nothing too 
 horrible. There are some pretty neat effects at work, but a lot of them are pretty subtle aside 
 from the great animation that I just cant seem to shut up about. Youll also get some neat shadows 
 casting off of enemies as well as your own body which is guaranteed to cause a couple of inadvertent 
 scares for sure. Not to sell the visuals short, they really are amazing despite my incessant nitpicking 
 and should be looked at with a keen eye (and some high definition help) to be truly appreciated. 
 
  
  The games sound actively competes with the visuals for the prize of best way to tempt ones senses 
 and its pretty much a dead heat thanks in part to the games great voice acting and ambient soundtrack. 
 All of the main characters do a great job of voicing their lines and its a welcome change to not 
 play as a mute character who doesnt respond back. The best bits of voice acting come from the 
 crazies youll be coming across who all yell, curse, and grunt with a demeanor like that of a criminally 
 insane person thats actively trying to kill you. Some of the best portions of the game are when 
 you hear them yelling and scuffling with each other in other rooms and the floors above you which 
 will definitely send the chills down your spine. 
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is definitely an experience that anyone looking for a good scare should 
 experience. A mixture of excellent visuals, a compelling story, and a great soundtrack are enough 
 to make you look past the somewhat repetitive portions of gameplay. While the game can run a little 
 short, about ten hours, those hell-bent on finding every secret to increase their Xbox Live gamer 
 score will get a little more enjoyment out of the game. For others out for a cheap scare, Condemned 
 is perfect for a weekend rental if anything. If Condemned is the defining example of the visceral 
 and aural experiences well be experiencing in this next generation of games, then its going to 
 be a fun five years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woppo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Although I doubt the replay value of this game, the first time around it's a breathtaking experience. 
 It's been a while since a game really scared me and this one does! It's the suspense that makes 
 this game, don't expect loads of monsters and massive battles. Instead it's all that you don't 
 see that scares you the most. Let your mind fill in the blanks. And when you do encounter the baddies 
 you better get your act together and fight for your life. 
  
  Because the game doesn't give that much the work with you want to stay alive. It's not like any 
 FPS when you die you just re-spawn and fight on. In this game it's all about survival. 
  
  The forensic elements add more beef to the otherwise thin story but isn't that big of a deal. This 
 is where Monolith could have spent more time in. Overall this game isn't about the story. 
  
  The sounds are superb and really add to the overall horror of the game.
  
  Overall: great 
 game, play it once, just like a good book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Condemned its not much of a FPS. Its First person view but shooting its no where its at. Here's 
 the full review
  
  GRAPHICS- really well done graphics its shows the power of the 360. The best thing for me was the 
 physics of this game. you can move 80% of the object in the game. 9/10
  
  GAMEPLAY- you'll be scared in some moments. Spooky enviroment. But after halfway of the game, the 
 game gets kind of repetitive. And its short too. Smart AI. 8.5/10
  
  SOUND- again really scary. The sound is well made. 10/10
  
  SINGLE PLAYER- You play Ethan Thomas 
 who is framed of killing two policemen. you'll trying to prove that your innocent. great storyline 
 8.5/10
  
  OVERALL- supringsingly good, creepy game. This is one of the game we have never played it and are 
 really great. And for me its the scariest game I ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezapoc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This might not be saying much but as far as launch games for the Xbox 360 go there was only Project 
 Gotham 3 and Condemed that were designed for the console. This shows in Condemed as the graphics, 
 sound design and lack of loading time or slow down add together to create a gameplay experience 
 that is as immersive as the very best horror films such as 28 Days Later and Seven.
  This immersiveness creates an unparalleled sense of tension, fear and panic.
  Every weapon in 
 the game is well though out with it being less of a shooter and more of a fighting game in the 
 vein of The Chronicles Of Riddick.
  As to the supposed problem of a low lifespan there are 50 acheivements to complete with collectibles 
 in the levels providing some extra replay value.
  If you want something different when you get a 360 buy this as it is a gaming experience only equalled 
 by the aforementioned Project Gotham 3 and Call Of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Amongst SEGA's offerings earlier this year at E3 was Condemned - Criminal Origins. I hadn't seen 
 a game so brutally gritty since Kingpin Life of Crime on the PC. As most of you know it was an 
 XBOX 360 launch title, the first game released I believe, and for 360 owners, it's a must. Condemned 
 pits the player as Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent in the serial crimes department. You have a strong 
 history of solving serial killer cases, and the game begins with you arriving at a fresh crime 
 scene. A serial killer, the Match Maker -- whose MO is very creepy -- has struck again. During the 
 course of this crime scene investigation, the two other officers you were with get killed -- with 
 your gun. Obviously, you've been framed, and you have very little time to clear yourself. Fortunately 
 there are a few people that believe you didn't commit the crime, including Rosa, a very helpful 
 lab tech who analyzes clues you find to help you find the killer. You keep up with her via a cell 
 phone, as well as a few other characters that you will be in contact with throughout the game. 
 
  
  Now Condemned is a scary, scary game folks. Before proceeding with the gameplay analysis, I just 
 want to get that point across. I don't know that I have ever yet played a game that made me feel 
 so drawn in by fright. I remember playing Thief for the PC and it was frighteningly intense in 
 some areas, but Condemned does a phenomenal job of keeping you feeling disturbingly uncomfortable 
 throughout the entire adventure. You never quite feel like you're ready to turn that next corner 
 and I wished I had eyes in the back of my head for this game. 
  
  
  
  
  
  I'll speak more about that as this review goes on, but for now, lets take a look some of the gameplay 
 elements of Condemned. Condemned is a persistent FPS, you never leave the first person view. The 
 idea of the game is to discover clues and trace down the Match Maker and to clear your name of 
 murder. The vast majority of the game comes down to melee combat. You can carry one weapon at a 
 time, be it a large pipe, a 2x4 with nails, a sledge hammer, fire axe, shovel, meat cleavers -- there 
 are at least a dozen different melee weapons, each offering slightly different uses. For example, 
 the sledgehammer does great damage, but it has a slow recovery time, and is slow in blocking. One 
 neat element of the game when you are finding these weapons and are considering trading is that 
 a small display pops up showing you the differences between the weapon you have, and what you can 
 pick up. By that I mean that a small window pops up in the HUD showing you how the weapon you have 
 compares in terms of damage and reach, to name a couple. If a value is marked green, the weapon 
 you are looking at is better in that respect, if not; the value will be marked in red. Ranged weapons 
 included .45 caliber pistols, machine guns, shotguns and rifles, which you can use as melee weapons 
 too, although they will damage the weapon quickly. The game weans you away from using firearms 
 by keeping them far apart and offering very little ammo. This turns out to be a good thing because 
 the game is really a lot grittier and even more frightening in melee combat. If you think about 
 it, it's just so brutal to take a piece of steel conduit you ripped off of a wall and smash it 
 against a drugged out crazed guy who is trying to kill you. The act is rough, but the presentation 
 in the game brings it home -- how the character reacts, in terms of AI and physics, how he looks, 
 the sounds -- whew, it's intense. The melee combat system itself was a little problematic for me 
 at the outset, probably because I was getting used to the 360 controller and the extra shoulder 
 buttons. However, I will say that learning to judge the reach the enemies have was tougher than 
 I thought it would be, but about two hours into the game I got the hang of either being out of 
 the way or blocking with my own weapon. That reminds me of a fine point about the melee system 
 and all of these different weapons you find; how well the weapon blocks is something you have to 
 consider as a weapon like a crowbar might offer quick strikes, but it makes for a rather weak block. 
 Alternatively, a sledge hammer might be a very powerful weapon, but its inherent weight makes it 
 a lot slower in blocking, so you really have to anticipate a block well before you actually need 
 it. 
  
  Besides saving yourself from injury, blocking will also stun your opponent for just a second to 
 give you time to make a quick counter strike. When you execute a block, you will know it. Your 
 character doesn't grunt in pain for one thing, but additionally you can see the enemy kind of stumble 
 back and be unprepared for a counter. It is important to make the best of every chance you get 
 like this because you can die real quick in Condemned. Another way to get a leg up on these fights 
 is to stun an enemy with your taser; the taser is a very quick draw weapon that will shock an opponent, 
 leaving him vulnerable for about three seconds. The recovery time exhibited by the enemies was 
 often pretty unrealistic; I would often taser them and then immediately smash a crowbar across 
 their head and they would, more often then not, jump right back at me without hesitation. Still, 
 the taser, useable about once every ten seconds, was an invaluable tool throughout the game. You 
 can also kick opponents by clicking the right thumbstick; kicking opponents is helpful for a quick 
 stun or something to keep them off of you for just a second or so. As a last resort you can try 
 to sprint away from enemies, but this really shouldn't be necessary or helpful very often. Once 
 you get used to the timing of the different melee weapons, you gain confidence, but the fights 
 are still scary as hell.
  
  The thing about fights in Condemned is that a lot of times you know when they're coming; even if 
 you have only a few seconds warning. Sometimes, you won't have any really any warning at all and 
 you just see and hear your guy get clubbed in the back and the sound of some crazy guy yelling 
 at you. Maybe I should have turned up the sound more; regardless, the environmental detail -- the 
 graphics, the sound, the atmosphere -- is so immersive, it'll creep you out. Somehow you just never 
 really feel quite ready for an encounter. Often times before you go toe to toe, you will see faint 
 silhouettes running in the distance or they will taunt you on the other side of a window, just 
 a few short steps from you, just behind the corner, just behind the unlocked door... this game 
 will really make you uneasy. The ferocity of the enemies in Condemned is darn near unmatched. You 
 can tell that they are throwing everything they have at you and throughout the game I was shocked 
 at their aggression. I learned straightaway that in this world, the world of Condemned, you have 
 got to fight back with all the brutality and angst that these guys bring. To that end, kicking 
 and skull bashing is the norm. Sometimes you will see a dazed enemy drop to his knees and you can 
 quickly execute a finishing move by pressing one of the four d-pad buttons. I think the head butt 
 is my favorite; picture, from a first person view, seeing some broken down, beat up face looking 
 right into your eyes as the camera rears back a bit and comes flying forward as you hear the grunts 
 of the freshly dead and of your own self, and witness the blood fly. You can also crack their neck 
 and two other finishing moves Ill leave for you to discover. It's gruesome, gritty, and brutal, 
 but so is the world of Condemned and Monolith does a superb job of presenting this harsh reality 
 and immersing the player in it.
  
  Before moving onto the forensics portion of Condemned, I do want to mention that in Condemned, 
 you aren't constantly fighting off enemies from one room to another. That's actually another great 
 part about the game is that you aren't facing droves and droves of blood thirsty psychos; you will 
 face more than you ever hoped for, but you won't see them in every room. This too adds a strong 
 sense of suspense and, for that matter, realism to the game. Generally there are not any obvious, 
 tell-tale signs of when you will encounter your next foe, either. Furthermore, it could be one 
 foe, or a few, you just don't know. And they aren't all friendly towards each other, either, and 
 I felt lucky when they would take some damage from each other before I had to put them down. As 
 you might expect, the fights are over quickly, but they sure are furious. Some may last longer 
 than you think if you are unlucky enough to have an enemy take off on you and run into the darkness; 
 who knows when you will see him again, he could be right around that next corner or he may get 
 the drop on you a few rooms down.
  
  When you aren't smashing skulls, there's a good chance you might be in an evidence area. The idea 
 to include forensic tools in a game like this is great; it's the implementation that really will 
 leave you disappointed. The forensic sequences in Condemned generally break down to trying to locate 
 some substance or object using one of a few tools. Some of the tools you have include a gas spectrometer, 
 a UV light, and a digital camera, all of which you will use to locate evidence that you either 
 transmit to Rosa for processing or use to continue your search. I like the idea quite a bit, but 
 the times when this comes in to play are limited to just certain areas. In fact, when you are leaving 
 an evidence area, the game will actually flash text telling you so -- now I can see the importance 
 of that, but at no other time are you able to use your forensic tools, and I think that is a sad 
 thing because, how cool would it have been to discover a whole other side to the world of Condemned 
 via writings on the wall or various other bizarre things? It also locks the forensic element of 
 the game into a very tight role, really being one of just a formality that advances the story, 
 or mostly so anyway. This was an element of the game that was underdeveloped, unfortunately; still, 
 without it, the game wouldn't have been as good as it is. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Condemned takes place across ten levels, ranging from a subway station to a mall and other places 
 best left discovered for the gamer himself. In all locations throughout the game, Condemned is, 
 ultimately, a linear game. Sometimes you may find two ways that quickly lead to the same place, 
 other times you might find a door that needs a certain weapon to get through that you either already 
 have, or will encounter soon. The big question is whether or not someone will want to use that 
 axe or shovel on you first or if you will just find it lying around. However, for the most part, 
 you go from room to room, sneaking ever so carefully in hallways and stairwells and closing doors 
 behind you. Well, I certainly made it a point to close doors behind me anyway; made me feel about 
 one percent safer. Now one really interesting point to make here that I couldn't help but notice 
 is the lack of backtracking; the game will lead you through the grim world and it is a rare occasion 
 that you will backtrack. That's all well and good, but what I thought was a poor design decision 
 is the fact that often times; you can't backtrack even if you did want to go back and pick up that 
 health kit or gun you left behind. I found it really strange that doors I went through earlier, 
 just a few minutes previous, were locked and I was no longer able to backtrack back for goods left 
 behind or just for exploration purposes. I agree that the sense of Condemned is one of constant 
 "man I got to get the hell out of here" but how nice would it have been, I asked myself at times 
 in this game, if I could go back and get those med kits I left behind, or if I could go back and 
 smash that door down now that I have a fire axe again. Granted I never found a "secret area" that 
 was really all that cool, but you do score XBOX Achievements and get to see some more of the world 
 which is nice. Condemned is also very much an indoor, closed corridor kind of game, there isn't 
 much time spent outside and even less time spent in very large or open rooms. I don't see this 
 is as a problem, just something worth mentioning. 
  
  There are a few other key things I want to mention about my experiences in Condemned. For one, 
 the physics in Condemned seem to be really on or not at all. Boxes and some other similar objects 
 react well; for example this one time I was fighting a guy next to a shelf that had some boxes 
 on it. During our fight one or both of our weapons hit these boxes, and they came flying off and 
 tumbled about on the ground -- it was cool, and believable. That actually is not the norm, but more 
 of the exception though, for how the world reacts to things in Condemned. Almost anything you try 
 to hit in the world either has no effect -- as in no visual or aural effect -- or nothing happens. 
 There is a point in the subway mission I couldn't help but remember. There is a TV, and it's on, 
 but there is no signal, just animated static. Later on in that level, the TV gets knocked off of 
 its stand and onto the floor. There is clearly no cable running out of it, yet it is still powered 
 on. Furthermore, when I try to take a sledge hammer to it, nothing happens. Other times you take 
 a swing at something and your weapon seems to just breeze through it, like the object isn't even 
 there. Now the game is still great despite these realism holes, but more emphasis on these types 
 of situations would have elevated this game to the next level.
  
  A couple of other really important functions you might assume are in the game but aren't included, 
 are the ability to jump, crouch, look around corners, and bring up a map. I can forgive not having 
 a map, as I suppose it's fair to assume that your character is experiencing all new areas that 
 he isn't familiar with; but that's a stretch. Maybe due to the game's linear nature there isn't 
 a map; then again you will be immersed enough, maybe scared enough, in Condemned that you will 
 know the ins and outs of your surroundings as you creep through them. A jump function would have 
 been nice, at least for realism's sake, but you won't find any use for jumping in the game anyway, 
 nor is there a good place to map that control to. Looking around corners would have been a great 
 way to ease the suspense of the game, something that the designers might have decided to force 
 on purpose. Lastly the ability to crouch would have been much appreciated, not so much in fights, 
 but just in making me feel a little less of a target as I worked my way through whatever area I 
 was in. 
  
  Something that is altogether very minor, but that would have made the game a bit better is the 
 HUD. The health meter, which takes up about five inches of the screen, is always up in the upper 
 left hand corner. If the health meter has to always be on screen, it would have made more sense 
 to place it somewhere on the bottom, or just use a smaller health indicator rather than a multi-inch 
 meter. I would have liked the option to only have the health meter show during combat. On a similar 
 note, one nuisance I had throughout the game was the world indicators for objects; when you are 
 looking around and you come across something, the game will flash a very quick indicator, usually 
 showing a button like A or X and then some text to describe the object or action. The frustrating 
 part about this is that I always seemed to be moving my right thumbstick too quickly to catch what 
 the pop up said -- so I would have to look back to the area I just passed, move my right thumbstick 
 back and see what the heck it was that I just flashed by. Usually it was something useless, like 
 another pipe or conduit piece. I would have rather seen some kind of other indicator system used 
 that allowed you to get a better grip and perception of the world. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Another element that would have been a positive to see in Condemned would be the ability to barricade 
 doors. Besides just being able to close them, being able to wedge a chair or slide a cabinet in 
 front of the door would have gone a long way to calming my nerves, anyway. I know that if I were 
 in this game for real I would certainly do everything I could, reasonably, to keep my back covered. 
 Man, this game is spooky... one final, tiny little gripe that isn't meant to be taken as an actual 
 drawback for this game is the way Ethan, your character, holds his .45. Anyone with some training 
 would know how to carry a gun better than that; Ethan walks around with the .45 in his right hand, 
 his left hand just hanging at his side. It'd have been cool to see Ethan carry his .45 in the manner 
 an FBI agent would, with the left hand clasped under the right. 
  
  Graphics
  
  I have played just about every 360 title out right now, and Condemned pretty much has the best 
 overall graphics yet. Not only are the textures and colors good, but the lighting and the decisions 
 that went along into the art are commendable. I really felt at times that I was playing a PC game 
 with Condemned. The lighting is very good; shadows, of yourself and objects, are splashed nicely 
 on the surrounding environment. Swaying lights and transitions from light to dark have a very noticeable 
 and impressively rendered effect on the world around you. The texture detail on the weapons and 
 tools that you hold is good, and on the world around you, too. I think even more detail was paid 
 to the characters in the game; it really helps bring them to life. 
  
  Even more than the detailed textures, the very fluid animation of the characters, especially the 
 psychotic addicts that come barreling at you, will knock your socks off. It's downright fearsome 
 seeing these guys in action. The way they shake when you jolt them with the taser is harsh, but 
 cool. How the bodies slump to the floor and are strewn about is also done very well. Furthermore, 
 the textures of the characters change as they gain damage; what was to begin with a dirty, ugly 
 face gets bloody and mashed up as they take a few hits; get a real good look in the finishing moves 
 mentioned earlier. It's rather impressive. Cutscenes are all rendered well, too.
  
  Condemned succeeds graphically based on not only a technical level of achievement, but also in 
 an artistic sense in their very impressive use of lighting and effects. The combination, backed 
 by the power of the 360, makes for a visual treat, albeit a dark and bloody one.
  
  Sound
  
  Condemned is the kind of game with a subdued, usually non-existent soundtrack. When 
 their is a soundtrack, it's instrumental, and, guess what, unsettling. That is, the music is good, 
 when it quietly plays in the background at various points in the game, but don't expect it to calm 
 your nerves any. Monolith did a fine job with the soundtrack. Additionally, I didn't think the 
 voice acting in Condemned was half bad; there is a sufficient level of emotion in the voices and 
 the lines are executed well. 
  
  In more than one way this game reminds me of the original Thief game on PC; in that game, sounds 
 were so crucial to staying alive and learning about your environment. Condemned is very much the 
 same way. Without paying attention to the sounds in the game, not only are you missing out on a 
 whole other level of immersion, you are also making the game a lot less rewarding and a whole lot 
 more challenging. Being able to hear the sounds of the game help you know when, suddenly, you're 
 not alone anymore. The advantage to that is obvious. Additionally there are many disturbing sounds 
 to hear in the game that really add tremendously to its spook factor. If the game looked half as 
 good and yet sounded as good as it does, it would still be about as scary as it is. This is a testament 
 to not only how good the effects and soundtrack are, but also to how well they were used in the 
 game to convey the world to the gamer.
  
  Depth
  
  There are a lot of different kinds of games. Condemned is the kind that provides a memorable, frightening, 
 and satisfying single player experience without really offering anything else except the ability 
 to play through it again in an attempt to unlock various art and videos and the like. That isn't 
 very appealing to me, but, I'll take a superb single player story over any other gaming experience 
 anytime. The lack of multiplayer is good and makes sense for Condemned. You can, however, still 
 use the 360's ability to chat via your headset while playing the game, by the way. So the game 
 might be fairly short and linear, and not offer a great deal of reason to go back through it again, 
 but it will leave you with some of the most, if not the most, frightening gaming experiences you 
 have ever had. That said, technically speaking, Condemned does not offer a lot of depth, but in 
 terms of experience, Condemned offers a sincerely immersive, scary, rewarding, and memorable time.
 
  
  Fun Factor
  
  Condemned is a lot of fun, but it's not the arcade, casual, happy fun we've seen a lot of. From 
 start to finish Condemned presents itself as a raw, brutal scary time. It's a whole different kind 
 of fun; it's like having the chills and enjoying the experience at the same time. If you think 
 about it, not many games offer this kind of fun. Not many games cater to our sense of suspense 
 and fear like Condemned does. I can honestly say I had a lot of fun with Condemned, not the kind 
 of fun where I wanted to replay certain parts of it again or where I was really ever comfortable, 
 but more of the kind of rare, suspenseful, chilling side of fun we rarely see. 
  
  Overall Comment
  
  Monolith and SEGA have put together a winner in Condemned. From all of the 
 launch titles the 360 has to offer, this is my personal recommendation to all lucky 360 owners 
 out there. Few games, if any, have ever been as scary and brutal as Condemned. The game is backed 
 by a fine story, impressive technical achievements, and a constant sense of uneasiness that is 
 unmatched by anything I have ever played. There are some problems and gripes with the game, as 
 mentioned, but ultimately Condemned - Criminal Origins is a must have game for every 360 gamer. 
 Did I mention it's scary? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a good horror game. It is fun to whack the crap out of guys. This is scary game especially 
 at night. One of the things I didn't like was not enough ammo in weapons at all. But in the end this 
 is a good horror game.
  
  This is a good horror game. It is fun to whack the crap out of guys. This is scary game especially 
 at night. One of the things I didn't like was not enough ammo in weapons at all. But in the end this 
 is a good horror game.
  
  This is a good horror game. It is fun to whack the crap out of guys. This is scary game especially 
 at night. One of the things I didn't like was not enough ammo in weapons at all. But in the end this 
 is a good horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago, I was playing No-One Lives Forever 2, another Monolith-developed game. It contained 
 some very atmospheric and creepy levels set in an abandoned house and an Antarctic base. I wrote 
 in my review "I hope Monolith tries their hand at a pure horror game some day." 
  
  So I think I will take full credit for inspiring Monolith to make F. E. A. R. and Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins. Yep, that sounds fair. 
  
  Condemned, Monolith's latest, is a first person shooter. Perhaps it's not a "pure" horror game, 
 but it's also not a pure action game. Its pacing is much more deliberate and patient than a game 
 like Perfect Dark Zero; closer in spirit to a Horror Survival game like Silent Hill or Resident 
 Evil. It has a heavy story component, and some problem-solving elements, like using high-tech gadgets 
 to collect forensic evidence. You move slower, and while you get most of the standard arsenal of 
 shooter weapons (Pistol, Shotgun, Semi-Auto) you will never have loads of ammo. As a result, you're 
 always feeling vulnerable. Mix that feeling in with levels upon levels of urban decay and maliciousness, 
 and you've got one fresh and frighteningly intense ride.
  
  Gamers play Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent investigating the crimes of a serial killer dubbed "The 
 Matchmaker." While examining the remains of the Matchmaker's latest victim, Ethan is framed for 
 a double homicide by... well, who? The Matchmaker? Or someone else? Ethan will have to catch the 
 real killer and clear his name. 
  
  This quest will take you to the scummiest parts of the city: an abandoned school, a burnt-out library, 
 deep dark subway tunnels. These levels are a lot of fun to explore, like crawling through a high-tech 
 funpark haunted house. Wretched and mutated human beings scuttle out of the darkness to attack 
 you, but fortunately things are not completely pitch black. You have a flashlight, and you can 
 have both it and a weapon out at once, unlike some games I could mention. 
  
  Most of your fighting is done with melee objects. Pipes, fire axes, rebars, just about anything 
 lying around that you can swing. Sometimes you can even wield locker doors. Some weapons you can 
 swing quickly, but they do little damage. Others have a longer but more devastating swing. You 
 can also use them to block. A successful block will momentarily stun your opponent, giving you 
 a chance to clip them. Combat does not come down to button-mashing, but careful timing of attacking 
 and blocking. It's not lightning-fast-adrenaline like a lot of shooters, but more tactical and 
 gruelling. You'll feel like an urban gladiator. 
  
  Combat is also very satisfying; particularly if you disable a foe enough to do a finishing move. 
 Then you can snap a neck with a satisfying crunch. Enemy animation makes it even more enjoyable, 
 as the foes react realistically as you bash them about, clutching the injured areas. I love the 
 tasering effect too. Oh my brothers, Condemned makes good use of the ol' ultraviolence. Real horrorshow.
 
  
  Condemned has some of the most "beautifully ugly" graphics I've ever seen in a game. The levels 
 look like real locations... after an alien death ray has devastated them. The environments are 
 grim, broken down and full of despair. And litter too. The levels are stuffed with objects; pipes 
 you can rip off the wall and wield as weapons, boxes that can be knocked over as you try to navigate 
 through the refuse, and bottles and cans to kick. The locations are so grimy and dirty that every 
 time I played the game I showered afterwards. 
  
  The violence, vulnerability, and a few supernatural overtones make Condemned a game that will make 
 your skin crawl... crawl off and try to hide itself in your pocket. Like F. E. A. R., the levels have 
 scripted events, some subdued, some blatant, all designed to freak you out. And they often succeed. 
 Two of the most blatant shocks -- one in the school, one in the department store -- were bloody obvious 
 (you can interpret "bloody" several ways here) , and I spotted them coming well in advance, but 
 they were so well executed (another word with multiple interpretations in this situation) , that 
 they made me jump anyway. The music and sound effects are done very subtly, but also jack up the 
 tension. 
  
  Condemned's other draw is that it has a few forensic gadgets to play around with. You will be taking 
 pictures of clues, gathering DNA samples, and using special lighting to find trails of organic 
 evidence. These gadgets are pretty cool, but I wish they could be used a little more dynamically. 
 Using them is pretty much a matter of hitting the X button when the game tells you to, and playing 
 Find-the-Sweet-Spot. There's never any mystery over what to pick, the game always selects the correct 
 device for you. I hope a sequel expands on these ideas.
  
  My other beef with Condemned is hardly unique, but here it is anyway. Saving a game at checkpoints 
 only is just not acceptable. I have a nice big hard drive on my Xbox 360, I want to be able to 
 save anywhere, anytime. There are a few sequences with multiple enemies that are particularly challenging, 
 so the ability to increment and save would have been very helpful. This is one of those games where 
 two enemies on your case at the same time is seriously bad for your health.
  
  Speaking of enemies, I love what was done with their AI. Your foes are very opportunistic. They 
 like to hit and run, and surprise you in the dark. They will make use of the environment, grabbing 
 weapons where they can. They've got some sweet countermoves, firing off attacks just when you think 
 you've got them stunned. Oh, and when they go down, always give them a few extra boots to the head 
 to make sure they stay down.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a more cerebral first person action game, and will definitely be 
 a hit with those who want their games to scare them senseless. Terror seems to be the hot topic 
 with Monolith right now. I hope they keep making games around it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethshoot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is dark, scary, and probably the most immersive game ever made. When 
 you see it you might think FPS but it's not. It's more of a First Person Adventure. The game starts 
 off pretty straight forward but takes many turns all the way to the end. It is a pretty short game 
 with an ok amount of replay value. The levels vary from a subway to a farmhouse. All of which can 
 scare the crap out of you, well not really. First 4 chapters arent that scary but they are really 
 creepy. Once you get to chapter 5... well... uh... I'll let you find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is exactly what a scary game should be. Imagine a world where psychotically enraged drug 
 addicts rule condemned buildings, fighting each other any chance they get, attacking innocent pedestrians 
 in the middle of the night. These are the alleys of condemned. The game reminds me a lot of Seven 
 actually. You are Homicide Detective Ethan Thomas, assigned to a case involving a serial killer 
 positioning his victims with mannequins in all sorts of eerie poses. You are framed for the murder 
 of two fellow officers and as such you are forced to attempt to prove your innocence through the 
 gathering of forensic evidence and whatnot. You must follow the killers path through the dregs 
 and slums of the city, from the subways all the way to condemned department stores, in an effort 
 to prove your innocence. 
  
  This may sound somewhat ho hum, but the cool thing is you have no gun. The killer has made off 
 with it and now you are forced to fight the night off with anything you can rip from the environment. 
 (Wait, thats what they said, and its not true) On several occasions I have tried to rip things 
 off the wall that you should be able to, and not been able to do it successfully, however this 
 does not really detract from the game, as the unparalleled brutality unleashed on the denizens 
 of the underworld is more than satiating for even the most hardcore of violent video game fans. 
 
  
  The weapons in the game range from a two-by-four with nails driven through it, to sledgehammers 
 and fire-axes. However, there is also a wide variety of pipes and furniture parts to be used, and 
 when you come across a hapless victim of the underworld for you to bring forth pain unto, you are 
 rewarded with bones crunching blood spraying, and teeth flying. Thats right, if you hit your enemy 
 in the mouth with a pipe or something heavy, their teeth will fly out and lay on the floor, along 
 with a fair amount of blood. The enemies are crazy, and while some may say that the AI is bad, 
 I say hey, they are crazy. And btw its not bad. They run around swearing, acting crazy, and will 
 actually wrench pipes off the wall and come at you with them. They are blood thirsty and will stop 
 at nothing to get you, and they will run off into the darkness and hide, losing you for a little 
 bit. They tend to return when you least expect it, and a crazed heroin addict leaping out of the 
 darkness with a half a gas pipe into your flashlight screaming is quite scary at night with the 
 lights off. 
  
  Guns can be found in the game, however ammo is in short supply. The models however are rather clunky 
 and the textures on the guns suck. As a matter of fact, the textures on the ppl suck too. The environment 
 is lush and it looks pretty great though. If you like unparalleled brutality and survival, this 
 is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game in many ways, its scary, graphic, fun, and breathtaking. The story isnt bad 
 eather, you are a cop framed for killing your partners. Through the game you will gather evidence 
 to help prove that you werent the one who pulled the trigger. Many parts of the game force you 
 to use your special cop gadgets to find this evidence, which can be a lot of fun and make you really 
 feal like a detective. But the biggest problem with this game that really holds it back is that 
 it is pretty short, 8-10 hours maybe. It wouldnt be as bad if there was online play but guess what, 
 noooooo online fun. While the game last it can be a lot of fun. You rarely get a gun so you are 
 forced to find weapons as you go, shovel, pipe, fire axe, anything. When you do get guns you are 
 limited to the ammo that is in it, onces its out, no good. The story, the gameplay, the horror, 
 the gadgets all make this a good first person shooter or what ever you want to call it. But the 
 shortness of it, and lack of online play keeps it from a must have Game of the Year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz0
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Sega makes better games but by the way is a good action game, that every time you get more deep 
 into the game, more you get adictive to it. I recommend it. Sound and graphics are good enough. 
 Simply one of the games i Recommend as well............ That's all..... NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty6776
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  I don't normally write reviews for games but as i was looking for inspiration for which would be 
 my first XBOX 360 game i realised that no one had really written anything that give you a clear 
 indication of what the game was like, more and more people just wrote that the graphics were brilliant 
 or sound was great.
  
  Anyway to get the game, Condemned: Criminal Origins starts off in graphics heaven as you pull up 
 to you first crime scene. This is truly what gaming graphics for next gen consoles should be like. 
 The game has an eerie feeling that resembles Resident Evil crossed with movie thrillers such as 
 Seven and Sin City. The game has a great idea for a story and after the first hour your into it 
 and you really do want to find out what will happen next.
  
  After progressing through the initial opening of the game you start what will become the more familiar 
 first person view and then the fighting can commence!! Although not quite as graphic (blood wise) 
 as say a Resident Evil or a GTA, Condemned is visually superior and you do feel a certain tension 
 when encountering an enemy that no other game has given you. This is mainly down to the realistic 
 shadows and creepy background noises that follow your ever move. 
  
  Even though i don't think the game will be remembered as a classic i do think it will be remembered, 
 it has a great game-play to it and yes graphics and sound are both good but the thing this game 
 does is show you what the 360 will be capable of doing. You get a glimpse here and a sneak preview 
 there that makes you think that yes this is a next gen games console and yes great things are on 
 the way!
  
  Anyone that likes games like Resident Evil from which you cannot help but draw comparison from 
 and first person games the likes of Doom and Quake will i'm sure be satisfied with this game. I 
 really enjoyed jumping out of my skin and i think you will too!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  After playing Fear on the PC, I gained much trust in the new game developer Monolith. Fear was 
 the best first person shooter of 2005. Condemned was developed by Monolith as well for the Xbox 
 360 launch. I was a bit weary of buying this game because of the gamespot review. After visiting 
 the forums of Gamespot, I heard some really great comments about Condemned. I finally added Condemned 
 to my Christmas list. After receiving Condemned for Christmas, I was anxious to give it a try. 
 I was not disappointed.
  
  Condemned will leave you in frightened awe in its sick and twisted atmosphere. The main character 
 of the game is a special government agent with physic abilities. You will lead him through city 
 slums that are infested with maniacs. These demented psychos are out for one thing, to bash your 
 head in with whatever they can find.
  
  The story in Condemned captures you. You must do forensic investigation using some really cool 
 tools. The story is unfolded as you find clues left behind by serial killers.
  
  The melee combat system is really smooth and implemented well in this game well. I disagree with 
 Gamespots review describing this game as repetitive. The Melee combat is the only repetitive aspect 
 of this game. This is a slow paced game and running and gunning is not the focus.
  
  My only disappointments with Condemned | Criminal Origins was its length and lack of multiplayer. 
 I finished this game over a weekend on the normal difficulty. A multiplayer mode in this game would 
 have really been interesting. The fighting system is somewhat simple, but I think it can be expanded 
 on in a sequel.
  
  In conclusion, I really liked this game. For mature gamers that love games that scare them, Condemned 
 is a must have. The length of the game is short, but it is loads of fun while it lasts.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  They force you to use pipes, bats, axes, and other melee weapons you only get 6 bullets and you 
 can't pick up extra ammo. They should have made it the third person because fighting with objects 
 is better than in first person. It is way too dark I can't even see where I'm theres only 9 enemies 
 in a level all they do uis run away then jump out and fight you all you have to do is beat him 
 down which is mediocre at best. It's not as intense as I thought it would be they don't run at 
 you attack you then you have kill them . They just run away they just do that to scare you and 
 its not because I always see them I took it back today worst waste of 60 dollars ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copunit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is WOW... Condemned: Criminal Origins blew me away with its stunning visuals 
 and creepy environments. I felt like a nauseating looking creature was going to come around the 
 corner and smack me in the face with a small pipe, or any of the weapons that are found in the 
 wide range of melee weapons that include pipes, boards, crowbars, fire axe etc. Don't forget the firearms, 
 the only gripe I have is that they have very limited ammo (the only ammo is found in the gun and 
 canno't be picked up) but it doesn't make it ammo crazy like around every corner is going to be 
 a pack of ammo. The ragdoll physics knock my socks off because of the way it looks when they are 
 hit and just crumple and realistic. The extreme amount of detail is just amazing, smake a guy in 
 the face with a blunt object and his teeth will be sprawled on the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarcat
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is perhaps the greatest horror experience of the decade. The dark environments, 
 cruel concepts and an unforgiving cult of maniacs give you a sense of fear that is unsurpassed 
 even by the Resident Evil series. In many horror themed games the frightfulness manages to wear 
 off in all the repetitive action. Though Condemned may seem repetitive it manages to keep the action 
 diverse and enjoyable throughout the entire game by having evidence collecting sequences and unpredictable 
 AI. The combat system is Awesome. it is challenging at first due to the fact that you have to time 
 your blocks perfectly to your enemy's attacks. the first person perspective makes the action all 
 the better as you hit people with blunt objects and blood gets on the screen. It really gets you 
 blood pumping and in the mood for violence. I have yet to see a game with better graphics than 
 this one. The lighting effects are phenomenal and the detailed environments are breath taking even 
 if they are gritty and maggot invested places. The sound Is superb in every way. things will hit 
 the ground and get knocked over and the effects are music to your ears. the voice acting is well 
 performed especially during combat while the criminals holler and curse as they try to hit chunks 
 off your face with lead pipes. everything sounds like what you would expect it to sound like in 
 real life. even the breaking necks. After your done with the 6-8 hour story you can replay any 
 mission you want to unlock any achievements or secrets you might have missed. The bottom line... 
 This is the best game of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebaybee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a game that seems to have taken influence from the Silent Hill era, 
 and maybe even a little from Resident Evil, with an FPS perspective mixed in. It consists of constant 
 and brutal methods of survival, such as grabbing a lead pipe off the wall and using a taser to 
 kill a guy across the room who has a sub-machine gun. That is simply the definition of suspense, 
 and the game pulls it off very well.
  
  The purpose of the game is to take the role of a detective and find a serial killer who kills other 
 serial killers. Strange, I know, but it's creative all the same. The main serial killer stalks 
 you constantly, and kill the serial killers you're attempting to find and arrest before you can 
 even catch them yourself. Also, before you can even come close to your target, you're interrupted 
 by a drug epidemic that has made its way throughout most people in the city. Everyone is raging 
 mad on this new drug, causing them to kill anyone they see, leaving you with no choice but to defend 
 yourself. You've also been framed for murder of two other detectives, since one of the serial killers 
 took your gun and shot them with it, so the cops think YOU are one of the serial killers as well 
 and are always on your tail.
  
  Throughout the game, the enemies become more strange and difficult to kill, as if they've been 
 isolated from the outside world longer while on the drug. They become mutated and have traits of 
 animals, such as climbing up walls and swimming faster than any normal human could run. Some are 
 even kids who have unfortunately become addicted to the drug, and attack you more violently attack 
 you than any other enemy. You're also not their only enemy. The addicts attack each other, too, 
 so you can choose to sit back inconspicuously for a minute while they duke it out with each other, 
 and watch the blood fly. By the way, I thought I'd add that this is definitely NOT a game for anyone 
 under 17 year old.
  
  The interactive environment is one thing that completely blew me away. You can grab anything from 
 paper cutters, desktops, and locker doors to sawed off shotguns, .45 cals, and sledgehammers to 
 kill your enemies with. Pretty much anything you can find is something you can use to smack your 
 opponents over the head when they uncontrollably attack you. You also have to have to use certain 
 weapons to get to different places, such as shovels to break circuits and fire axes to chop down 
 locked wooden doors, so that adds more points to the gameplay.
  
  As far as the graphics go, however, I have to admit I was disappointed in the looks of the main 
 characters. During cinematics, it would show a close-up of someone's face while they were talking 
 and it honestly made me feel like I was playing a PlayStation 2 game. On the contrary, the main 
 characters DID look extremely realistic when light was cast over their faces from just the right 
 angle, but I still want them to look like real people from all angles, rather than just one. The 
 enemies looked just as good as the main characters, or perhaps even better, so that was a plus, 
 AND their A. I. was simply amazing. When you block an attack from an enemy, they would fall back 
 and sometimes shout vulgar things, as if they knew they were about to be whopped in the noggin. 
 You could also perform "Finishing Moves" when an enemy was severely wounded, which was probably 
 one of my favorite parts of the game.
  
  The downsides of the game were the repitition of enemies, the extremely short and open-ended story, 
 and redundant environments (though they looked amazing, just repeatedly amazing) . I specifically 
 remember saying, "That crack head I just killed must have two dozen twin brothers, because I swear 
 to God I've killed that same guy 25 times by now." The game DID, have a variety of different enemies, 
 but they still repeated themselves over and over, which made added more to the notorious unrealistic 
 factor. I also like to play games that may take weeks, or even months, to finally conquer, not 
 2 days. I beat this game in probably no less than 7 hours of total gameplay, which makes me wonder 
 if the $59.99 I paid for it was really worth it, or if I should have just spent $5.99 at the local 
 movie store to rent it for 5 nights, which is still over twice longer than the time I needed to 
 beat it.
  
  However, this game was good overall, and I believe the 8.5 I rated it was well-deserved. The only 
 thing I can hope for now, after beating this game, is a better developed, more wild sequel.
  
  -Eliot Rutledge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marine530
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting, hard to put down the controller, but the game is only about 10 hours 
 long, no multiplayer which was a disapointment. Everywhere you go in the game it is dark, hard 
 to see without your flashlight. Good thing about the flashlight is that it isnt like Doom 3, you 
 have the flashlight on your shoulder so you can hold weapons while your flashlight is out. Later 
 on in the game you encounter wierd creatures and zombie like people, it really didnt make sense 
 to me, I have no idea where they came from. I would be guessing that your character is going insane, 
 or it would be something like the suffering, the suffered victims of the serial killer, i dont 
 know but it's wierd. Firearms are very rare to find, and if you get them, they have only a couple 
 rounds in them, for example, if you kill a guy with a shotgun, he might just have like 1 shot left, 
 but if you get a crowbar and get a gun out of a safe, you might have a full clip or high enough 
 ammo. One thing that i thought was very cool was blocking bullets, if you get a sign or locker 
 door, you can hold it up and block bullets. In my opinion, this is a rent game, but if you like 
 to play single player games over and over, go right ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berrry
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the most, if not the most original game in the Xbox 360 launch 
 lineup. The graphics look amazing, especially the weapons. Being hit with a 2x4 sounds and looks 
 as close to real deal as youd like to get.
  The enemys AI are fair on easy but very good on normal or hard. Therefore you should crank up 
 the difficulty right from the start or youll have less than 10 hours of playtime. 
  The variety in enemies is good. You fight some weaker and stronger ones but they all come in different 
 outfits and so on, making it seem like youre always fighting someone else. These differences are 
 easy to be seen in the artwork you can earn for all kinds of tasks. Which in a nutshell are fighting 
 addicts, finding forensic evidence -dont expect CSI-hard-to-do puzzles because you being guided 
 a lot on that part-, and finding youre way trough the creepy levels. 
  A small minor were the environments. A lot of the same which could get you lost and that can be 
 very frustrating as you havent got anything to guide you. 
  If you like survival horror and hitting the living daylight out of amped up junkies. This is the 
 game for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a fun game to play through and keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole time. 
 Not too many games are as unique as Condemned, this is why this game is worth a buy or a rental.
 
  
  Condemned's presentation is amazing. The storyline is surprisingly good, but a little more could 
 have been explained. Perhaps there will be a sequel? The graphics are what stick out the most when 
 you first play the game. The detail of the textures and lighting will amaze anyone, Condemned is 
 easily the most photo-realistic Xbox 360 game to date. The enemies you will melee battle throughout 
 the campaign look terrifyingly real, but after a while they will look familiar because there are 
 not too many different kinds of characters in the game.
  
  Perhaps the most innovative part about Condemned is the gameplay. Melee combat has never been so 
 much fun! After a while when you get a hang of the blocking and hitting strategies, it becomes 
 almost too simple to kill enemies, but it never gets too boring because there is an arsenal of 
 brutal weapons you can use on your victims.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is worth a buy for those who feel like winning as many Achievements 
 as possible, and definitely worth a rental for anyone who wants a good 8-9 hour thrill ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendaryhalo_3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that are fans of the survival horror genre, I am telling you that this game is 
 a MUST HAVE!!!! 
  
  The game starts off as you, an FBI agent named Ethan Thomas, investigating two murders in a dark 
 shrouded apartement complex with two other authorities who supposedly were drove mad to kill themselves 
 by a seriel killer. Right from this beginning the games spooks commences. 
  
  Throughout the game, you will walk into rooms with flashlights and nothing but a steel pipe or 
 a peice of conduit to bash the insane, and the nonliving to dickens. Many elements of horror movies 
 were compiled into the not only the gameplay but also the sound. If you have a surround sound system, 
 PLEASE USE IT! I don't have one and I didn't want one because the noises on the game will raise 
 the hairs on the back of your neck and want you to quit!!!
  
  Many times you will walk and an enemy will be in a close proximatey and the screen will imediately 
 turn into a blurred black and white with shadows of a person running all around you, with an ambience 
 of horror sounds that not even the scariest of movies can portray. 
  
  The story gets deeper and far darker once you find the seriel killer and commence you hunt to stop 
 the "ONE WHO CAUSED THIS MADNESS."
  At this point in time you will pick up a fiery 2x4 and begin the quest through an abandoned barn 
 with nothing but darkness to fall upon you!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  IMO the gameplay was very strong. I really enjoyed the first person perspective because it allowed 
 the developers the oppurtunity to to scare the player by having AI jump out at you from all angles 
 without being able to see it like most contemporary 3rd person horror games (such as silent hill) . 
 One thing I didn't enjoy was the speed of Ethan Thomas. It seems he didn't move to my liking and 
 you had the option to make him run, but you had to smash down on the left joystick to do so. All 
 in all very well and inovative for a horror genre.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Really this was the worst of the 4 games I have played, BUT they were very stellar and the sound 
 and gameplay made up for all the graphical faulty. Don't get me wrong, these graphics were next 
 gen, but not competeable with a DOA4 or COD2!!!
  
  SOUND
  I think that I covered that pretty well. Even without a surround sound on an 8 year old 20inch 
 Sony Wega (non HD) this sounded better than any game I have played when it comes to scaring the 
 shi* out of you!!!
  
  VALUE
  A 10!!!! Enough said!!!!
  
  I really cannot tell anything else regarding the story or creepiness. You just have to buy this 
 game and play it in the dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxguardian117xx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  -------------------------------------------------------
  The gameplay in this game is pretty straightforward. You have guns, and yuo have melee weapons. 
 R trigger to swing (melee) or shoot (gun) . L trigger is block. You have to time blocks you can't 
 hold it. Sometimes enemies will try to fake you out to make you block but follow up with a swing. 
 However, the weapons in this game are just the greatest. You can weild a mannequin arm, to a sledgehammer. 
 The combat is just so very fun at first, especially if you murder somebody. I was laughing it was 
 so much fun. It can get repetitive during the end however. The horror in this game will not get 
 to you unless you play alone, and with the lights out.
  
  Graphics
  ----------------------------------------------------
  I had small hiccups, nothing too majjor. 
 I'd say this is a highlight of the game. The character models are very nice, even if it starts 
 to get bloody. The lighting effect is very nice as well. If you like graphical games, this is a 
 must rent at least.
  
  Sound
  ---------------------------------------------------
  I'd say this is the best part of the game. Not because of the music, but because of the things 
 you hear in the game. You can hear the enemiies breath, cough, move around, but you can't see them 
 so this gets the tension up even more. I found myself backing into a corner because i had no idea 
 where it was coming from. 
  
  Value
  ---------------------------------------------------
  There is no multiplayer in this game, but 
 that doesn't mean you shouldn't take a look at the game. There are plenty of acheivments you can 
 unlock after the game if you like that kind of stuff. Also, if you're having like a guys night, 
 or any night in fact, you can pop this baby in to give everyone a scare. It's pretty great knowing 
 what's going to happen when your friends are sitting absoutley still in fright. The story was kind 
 of confusing though, it can ruin the game, but for me, i didn't care at all, i wa just too scared 
 to notice until the end.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  --------------------------------------------------
  Personally, this game got me into horror 
 games. I have never played a horror game before, but i saw this game and decided this was a must 
 have. If you love horrors, defenitley get this game. Bashing people upside the head. Getting yourself 
 scared as sh**, i dont know what else is better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anguineach
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a game where the sum is greater than the parts. Despite some problems in the design 
 and game play, the overall experience and genuine "holy crap!" moments, make it worth the time 
 to play. Those familiar with the Chronicles of Riddick and the Silent Hill series will immediately 
 notice the similarity as you travel through numerous dark locales with a flashlight, mercilessly 
 beating down anything in your path.
  
  As always, lets start with the bad news:
  
  1) No map: OK, maybe I'm being picky, but wandering aimlessly around the same drab corridors looking 
 for the correct path is frustrating. I found myself constantly wondering why a map function had 
 not been included
  
  2) Weapons: The emphasis is heavily on melee combat, guns are few and far between and there is 
 no reloading (what's up with that?) . You can only carry one weapon at a time (what's the holster 
 for?!?) and weapons are cleared between each chapter. A little more detail in the weapon capabilities 
 would be appreciated as well... what is the difference between a 2x4 with bolts versus one with 
 nails?
  
  3) Combat: Well it's not that bad, but it pretty much breaks down to: block, swing, kick or most 
 likely swing, swing, swing ad infinitum. No combos are evident and the frenzied nature of combat 
 in a combined space makes for a lot of button mashing. The hit detection seems a little sloppy 
 as well.
  
  4) Game conventions: A lot of areas require a certain tool to progress. Many times the game provides 
 an enemy or area with the required item close by, other times you have to backtrack to the last 
 place you found that crowbar, sledgehammer or fire ax. This wouldn't be such a big deal except 
 sometimes areas are mysteriously sealed after you pass through them for no reason. Saved a med 
 kit a few rooms back, maybe you can get to it... maybe not.
  
  5) Story: Hmmm, it's pretty incomprehensible. Maybe a sequel will tie up all those unanswered questions....
 
  
  The good stuff:
  
  1) Sound and graphics: Great environmental use of sound and the graphics are top notch (character 
 modelling is a little weak though) . The shadow and lighting effects really impress and this is 
 the best looking dark, decayed hallway I've seen to date.
  
  2) Game accomplishments: There are a LOT of accomplishments to achieve in this game. I managed 
 to get about half on my first play through and I know a lot of people will keep heading back to 
 find those last few birds, metal pieces or TV's. This game and Kameo are models of how the gamer 
 achievement system increases the replay value of a title.
  
  So after all this you're thinking, he hates this game! Nothing could be further from the truth. 
 I truly enjoyed this game, but don't really have any desire to return to the world of Condemned 
 to find those last few metal pieces or birds. The time I did spend there was immensely enjoyable.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is not one of the first games I bought for 360, but is my favorite so far. It seems like 
 a bit of a throwback and reminds me somewhat of System Shock 2. It's creepy, but not overly frightening 
 and it does an awesome job of pulling you in and immersing you in it's world. However, I must agree 
 with the Gamespot review in that it would be cool if there was a little more flexibility in the 
 use of the detection tools. But other than that, it is a great story and a great game. I mean, 
 how many other games let you hit someone in the head with a board with nails in it? :) Seriously, 
 I would highly recommend it and doubt it would disappoint many FPS gamers. 
  
  One other quick note: I am terrible with the whole dual analog control scheme on most console games, 
 literally to the point of my avoiding great games like Halo 2, etc. Condemned makes it all seem 
 so fluid that I feel like it is actually training me to be better with dual joysticks in general 
 and I am thankful for that. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix2027
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS NOT ONLY A GAME BUT AN EXPIERENCE YOU WILL NEVER FORGET. I TURN ON THE TV AND POP 
 IN THE GAME MY FIANCE AND COUSIN ARE WATCHING. THE GAME STARTS AND RIGHT AWAY THE ATMOSPHERE IS 
 FREAKIN US OUT, THERE ARE MOMENTS IN THIS GAME THAT YOU WILL NEVER FULLY APPRECIATE BUT ARE NEXT 
 GEN, TRUST ME. AT ONE OF THE VERY BEGINNING LEVELS I WAS HEADING TOWARDS A ROOM WHEN AN ENEMY RUNS 
 ACROSS THE ROOM AND TURNS OFF THE DAMN LIGHT, AT THIS POINT MY COUSIN AND FIANCE WERE **** THEMSELVES. 
 THEY WERE LIKE GO IN THE ROOM AND I REALLY WAS AFRAID TO. THERE WAS STILL A LITTLE LIGHT IN THE 
 ROOM AS I WALKED INTO IT , BUT THE ENEMY THEN ONCE AGAIN SHUTS OFF THE LIGHT AND I AM IN TOTALLY 
 DARKNESS. THIS IS ONLY ONE EXAMPLE OF MANY. THERE WAS ONE MORE POINT EARLY IN THE GAME WHEN I WENT 
 TO LOOK OVER A RAIL AND AN ENEMY JUMPS UP AND SCARES THE LIVING CRAP OUT OF ME TO THE POINT WHERE 
 I HAD TO PAUSE THE GAME, AND GUESS WHAT? WHEN I UNPAUSED IT THE FREAKING PSYCHOPATH WAS GONE, IT 
 WAS THEN THAT I FIGURED THEY HAD JUST THROWN THIS AT ME TO SCARE THE CRAP OUT OF ME, ANOTHER WORDS 
 IF I WOULD HAVE NOT BEEN NOSIY AND HAD TRY TO LOOK OVER THAT RAIL THIS PROBABLY WOULD HAVE NEVER 
 HAPPENED, WHICH MAKES YOU THINK DAMN GAMES ARE GETTING SMART. THAT IS WHAT MAKES THIS GAME SO SCARY. 
 ENEMYS WILL LITERALLY KNOCK CRAP DOWN AND RUN, SHOW UP AND DISAPPEAR, JUMP OUT OF EVERYWHERE AND 
 SO ON AND SO ON, THE WHOLE GAME HELPS CAPTURE THIS . THE GRAPHICS MAKE YOU FEEL LIKE YOU ARE ABOUT 
 TO HAVE A HEART ATTACK, YES THE ENVIRONMENTS ARE THAT SCARY, HOWEVER THE SOUND IS EVEN BETTER AND 
 TRUELY HELP WHEN YOU HIT SOMEONE YOU HEAR IT SMACK LIKE CRAZY, THE CONTROLS ARE ALSO VERY SIMPLE 
 AND FEEL GOOD, MY ONLY COMPLAIN WOULD BE THE CHARCTER MODELS LOOK KINDA XBOX ISH AND THE CUTSCENES 
 LOOK LIKE PREVIOUS GEN ALSO, BUT OVERALL YHE GRAPHICS, SOUND ,SCARYNESS, AND GAMEPLAY KICK BUTT, 
 YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO PLAY THIS GAME, TRUST ME, FELIX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm always a fan of the survivial horror, because the genre gives you a unique experience, whether 
 it's the good scare or that exciting adrenaline rush. Just after finishing Monolith's kill-app 
 F. E. A. R., I was looking for more so I got myself Condemned.
  
  This is a really basic survival horror, the main weapons you'll be using are melee weapons such 
 as 2x4's, pipes, crowbar, fire axe or those rare pistols or shotguns. The melee combat are down-right 
 brutal and realistic. You'll be shocked the first time you beat down one of those thugs/drug addicts/hobos/psychos 
 the games are filled with. It's just hard to describe that feeling, it's like you want to grab 
 your vegetable knife in your kitchen and start to swing at stuff. Ok maybe I was exagerrating, 
 but you'll get enough of it in the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are good and bad, the atmosphere is well-done, dark and gloomy and most 
 of the details are truly next-gen, but some of the textures, such as the wall are too Nintendo 
 64-like.
  
  I guess the worst part of the game was it was too short. Such a great game should be longer, the 
 story doesn't disappoint and combat are awesome. the forensic tools you use for investigating are 
 not any ground-breaking or breath-taking stuff but they give you a good break from the fighting 
 and some insight on the serial killer/story. Otherwise, if you're heart can take it, this is one 
 of the greatest survivial horror game in recent years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concrete_sledge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Using a stunning enviroment and excellent gameplay Condemned: criminal origins easily becomes one 
 of the 360's most unique, eerie, and stimulating games to date.
  One of the more interesting points of C: CO is the lack of any firearm, or firearm ammunition, and 
 when you do find some sort of gun its generally pried out of the hands of a temporarily stunned 
 junkie.
  The use of melee weapons especially from the enviroment give the game a sadistic twist but also 
 more challenging for the gamer.
  For the best experience while playing condemned i would suggest waiting till night... turn of the 
 light... turn up the volume.... and for the love of god dont put on any music on your custom soundtrack 
 as it only erodes at the gaming experience lol.
  
  However like most games it has the usual dissapointments. The almost constant need of certain weapons 
 to continue the level gets annoying especially when the needed weapon is a fire axe or sledgehammer 
 and while they are capable of killing quickest the speed of both is incredibly slow.. and beleive 
 me when your enemy is running at you with a pipe capable of hitting you twice before youve even 
 swung it can get annoying.
  
  Other than that im sure you'll all get some sick pleasure out of snapping peoples neck, finding 
 dead birds and random 360's, beating people with 2x4 with nails of bolts, pipes, and even paper 
 cutter blades, but remember its only a game....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daryl_G
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  As a relatively new gamer and a fan of the horror genre, the Condemned game sold me on the similiarities 
 to the "Seven" movie. As a blend of first-person shooter matched with a twist of horror, Condemned 
 will definitely keep your hands on the controller until the graphically violent end.
  This game is definitely of the 'mature' type with enough blood to make the Red Cross envious. The 
 story-line was somewhat gripping aside from some simple and obvious questions such as, "How come 
 all these people are whacked out?"
  The game was a bit tedious at times as the bulk of the gameplay is in the dark; unless you have 
 this on HD, you'll likely be scrambling for your brightness control to manage the turns and maze-like 
 buildings.
  The game was more of a 'find your way through the maze' more than it was a 'whodunnit' or 'shoot-em-up' 
 variety; albeit the story was captivating enough to keep me on the path.
  My biggest peeve of the game comes on your often and unflattering "You are Dead - enter the blood-red 
 screen" death; making you wait what seems like a short eternity for the game to reload and replay.
 
  The sound is very vivid and realistic on surround and the game is definitely of the 'creepy' variety.
 
  The ending of the game will have you backing up a chapter to replay it for the alternate ending. 
 I still didn't see what the tie-in was in collecting dead birds and metal pieces to unlock achievements.
 
  Gameplay: best played at night, alone, with the lights off.
  Enjoy it as I felt the game was worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jyo4life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  This game is what I hope to be the start of truly inspired and unique gaming experiences. From 
 beginning to end, I was totally engulfed in the twisting and crazy story, gritty and lifelike gameplay 
 / physics, and nightmare invoking environments. Everywhere I was petrified of going in real life 
 ended up being where my character was dropped into next. From the middle of a dark and eerie subway 
 tunnel to an (shudder at the memory) insanely detailed and truly horrifying basement of a country 
 house (I thought I could smell the mold and musky air!) . People say that the game misses opportunities 
 to be truly unique and scary, but I disagree. Time after time, I found myself dumbfounded at the 
 fact that I didn't see that event or twist coming! So in closing, if you were lucky enough to get 
 yourself a 360, then you owe it to you, you owe it to Sega and Microsoft, you owe it to the evolution 
 of gaming itself to buy Condemned: Criminal Origins for the XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Do you like horror? Got a hate for bums? Do you like to beat people with blunt objects? Then you 
 my friend need to play Condemed. This game is acctually scary and it keeps on the creepy atmospheere 
 throughout the entire game and doesnt let up a bit. Graphics are good but its not quite next generation 
 but is still very good looking game. Sound is very well done the atmosphere made bade the earie 
 sounds and screems coming from down halls or off in distances will make you feel like your right 
 in the middle of it (with surround sound) . Gameplay is a bit repetitive but ands in some diversity 
 with clue searches you have to conduct every now in then, but who knew beating some one with a 
 blunt object could be so mutch fun but you will eventually get bored of it. Some problems with 
 the game is the fact that the enviroments have some pointless areas that are just there to make 
 you wonder if a secret is there which it isnt. The enviroments dont change mutch at all so get 
 used to looking to long dark hallways and many dark rooms, wow this game is dark to dark almost. 
 Overall this game is a good game that deserves a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is the bloodiest most unnecessarily violent game I have ever played, much less seen. 
 This is what Saw would be if were a game. The story basically puts you as an ex FBI agent with 
 a super mysterious past and something top secret in your stomach (no joke here) . From there you 
 have to hunt a serial killer who kills serial killers. You journey into the dark and disgusting 
 pits of the inner city fighting off thugs who attack you with random weapons for no apparent reason. 
 You have 2 buttons: Block and hit. All you need to do is block the oncomming attack, use your cheap 
 @ss taser to stun the guy and then wail on him with whatever piece of debri you picked up. Weapons 
 vary from shot guns with almost no ammuntion to crow bars, 2 by 4s, locker doors, lead pipes, table 
 legs... the list goes on. Did I mention that this game is bloody? As a next gen console, this game 
 has next gen gore with blood splashing up from every orafice you and your opponent has, and all 
 for naught. I found that even though the storyline was interseting to follow, that I found myself 
 wondering why crazy people were just hiding out in manequin filled basements just waiting to smash 
 me in with an axe. My friend told me "they are all on drugs or something"... thats one helluva "or 
 something". I plowed through this game at my friends house in 3 days at a total time of 13 clocked 
 hours meaning that its a short game, hard and unforgiving and gory but short nonetheless. Overall 
 I would say its a much better rental if the serial killer and horror-esque story intrigue you, 
 but this isnt the game to give your kid brother for his 4th birthday, and it isnt very fun overall. 
 Next gen and xbox 360 have some much better offerings to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great next-gen horror game where you plar as a cop using forensic tools to find out who 
 the cerial killer is. The sound affects in the game are the best I have heard yet. You can hear 
 any person in the next room because in a lot of the rooms have wooden flooring and also they seem 
 to make a lot of noise. You can also move almost anything in the game which is useful, because you 
 can push a bin or something infront of an atacker if your quick enough. The graphics are quite 
 good but it is hard to tell this because a lot of the time your almost in pitch blach even with 
 your torch. This game can give quite a few shocks and can be quite scary but it can loose that 
 when your wondering around not knowing where to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is just flat out fun. I mean come on what gets better then hitting cereal killer in the 
 face with pipes and axes?! The game is scary as hell, but you eventually get used to it except 
 for some jumpy scenes. I say this game is wayyyy better then perfect dark, but not quite as good 
 as call of duty 2. If you looking for a great 360 game this is the one to get. Best graffix of 
 all the launch games. One of the best stories behind a game that I've ever seen, and could probably 
 have a GOOD movie made out of it unlikes some other games to movies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rancid_toejam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  Yeah, yet another survival horror/psycological thriller game! As we know, there are lots of them. 
 From Resident Evil to The Suffering. Most of us had played these games. In this story, your Ethan 
 Thomas, a Forensics Investagator. Somewhat like C. S. I, except without the hot ass MILF (the red 
 headed main character on the show..... nevermind) . Your character, by his reputation is can make 
 instinctions like none other, although you dont really feel that way playing the game (read the 
 manual and it will tell you) . While trying to solve a case, your friend discovers that the suspect 
 is still in the building. He and another cop go to look for him while your left alone (typical) 
 to search for stuff. Later he gets killed by the suspect and your left with being the suspect. 
 So the story is trying to escape the police while trying to solve murders and such..... yeah i need 
 to complete the game haha.
  
  Gameplay (9) : Solid game play. Can seem somewhat tedious cause your always walking. You can sprint 
 by clicking the left thumbstick (L3) , but holding that down while holding it up to run.... meh. 
 Controling aside. The foes in this game are quite original, I must say..... SMACK ADDICTS!!! YES!! 
 Its like playing a crazy game put out by the D. A. R. E people. but anyways. The A. I. is quite amazing. 
 If your attacked by more than one, and one foe accidentally hits the other.... well then you can 
 just watch them go at it (see what drugs do to you kids!) . Also, if you are at an advantage, they 
 will retreat to dark places to go "Bezerk" on you. 
  
  Graphics (9) : Okay, when I firt started playing the game, i didnt really like the graphics.... but 
 that went away. Lighting in this game is fantastic. The models (although weird looking) are smooth. 
 If you played Doom 3 then the models would look somewhat like that. Back to lighting, when you 
 have your flashlight on (which you would want to have on always) it flickers sometime like the 
 batteries are about to go out. This adds to the suspense... What if it goes out???
  
  Sound (10) : Uh, okay. Put yourself in this scenario. Imagine its dark. And you hear voices behind 
 you. You turn, no one is there. This time a trash can behinds you falls, no ones there. You hear 
 whispers.... they're planning the attack.... the sound is THAT good (better if you have surround 
 sound)
  
  Value (9) : With the Gamers Achviements you can earn. One can go back and replay to earn extra stuff 
 (by finding corspes and birds) .... ya birds
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  If you like these types of games.... why not by it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is intended for a mature audience. I know most people don't pay attention to the game 
 ratings, however. But this one is one that is really not meant for kids. That said, Condemned really 
 takes you into the whole investigation/goodcop badcop motif and pulls it of quite well. There are 
 few games that could keep the attentioni span with investigation, but this one did. For some reason, 
 as I was playing, every chapter or clue I discovered, it just made me want to keep playing. The 
 AI, in my opinion, was brilliant, not perfect, but unique enough to keep the game compelling. In 
 the dark levels (aka every level) there are enemies that can jump out of every crack or crevise 
 and basically try to manhandle you with whatever melee weapon they have. 
  The graphics are basically what is to be expected on the 360, which is damned good. The game is 
 dark, however, and it requires the use of your flashlight about 90% of the time. The sound is immersive, 
 just so immersive and creepy at the same time. For and HDTV user that has a surround system, this 
 game WILL make them jump out of their seat at certain points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Languish
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Ill keep this brief because i've been playing this game non stop since buying it. I think reviews 
 here have been too extreme on certain points. This game makes excellent use of sound but was not 
 as scary as i was expecting. It does make use of sound in a brilliant way but i would say only 
 a couple of scenes specifically made me jump. I generally dislike the horror genre (yes, i am a 
 scaredy pants) but this was an excellent balance of horror and detective work. Highly, highly recommended. 
 Right now i am replaying to get all achievements. I completed this game - in normal difficulty 
 - without trying to get any achievements in 7hrs 25 mins but the replay value IS there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarfus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that can't decide on a game to get, don't get this game. It's replay value is 
 little to none, but definately rent it. It took me about 8.5 horus to beat, and the story is just 
 amazing. It's the second scariest game I've played (behind Eternal Darkness) . Anyways, to my review:
 
  
  Gameplay: Very fun. You just can't get a game like this. It provides unlimited melee attacks, by 
 grabbing random objects around you, such as axes, crowbars, planks, and locker doors. It's completely 
 different than any other game I've ever played and very innovative/interesting. It gets a little 
 repetive after a while, however, due to the linear gameplay.
  9/10
  
  Graphics: Beautiful at times, cutscenes could be a little better, but the in-game graphcis are 
 simply horrifyingly SWEET!
  9/10
  
  Sound: Excellent. If you've ever heard a guy getting hit in the face with a sledgehammer, this 
 is what it would sound like. The atmoshperic sounds are scary as well.
  10/10
  
  Value: Very little replay value, besides the need to unlock all the achievments. It'll take about 
 10-15 hours to unlock EVERYTHING if you havent done it your first time through. Not worth a purchase
 
  7/10
  
  Tilt: Very addicting until the end. It's a must play for any mature 360 owner, because it can get 
 pretty gruesome at times. Definately worth the five bucks to rent it!
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedX46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Videogames definitely aren't just for kids any more. If that wasn't obvious after the barrage of 
 18-rated releases over the last few years, Condemned takes a gas pipe and beats you around the 
 head until it's all too painfully obvious. Imagine the crazed villagers from Resident Evil 4 but 
 more demented, visceral melee combat with the most brutal weapons ever seen in a videogame, dark 
 and gloomy environments that could have been ripped from the most grim of horror movies and a heavy 
 dose of the surreal, and then experience it all from an immersive first-person perspective. Condemned 
 is unlike any other game on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmojoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  After buying and returning Perfect Dark Zero (see my review) , I was worried that there were not 
 going to be any more games worth buying for the xbox 360. I already have PGR3 (sweet) , and COD2 
 (sweet) , but I need more, because dang it, I spent a butt load on the system, I need awesome graphics 
 overload. This is exactly what I got from Condemned Criminal Origins.
  
  First off, here is my set up:
  
  HDTV: 32" LCD Widescreen
  KENWOOD 5.1 Amp 1000 watts
  
 THX certified Monster Optical Cable (Why on god's green earth are these 60 bucks?)
  MTX, KLIPSH mix speaker set
  Velodyne CTX 12" powered sub
  
  so, needless to say I played 
 this game at good conditions
  
  From the very beginning I loved it. Why, you ask, well from my point of view it's something brand 
 spanking new. A serial killer is on the loose, and you have to track him down using real life situations. 
 You don't get to run around like Rambo with ten, twenty round clips of ammo for a bazooka..... Noooooooo, 
 on the other hand you have only your wits and surroundings to stay alive. 
  
  Here's a situation for you.... 
  
  You are Mr. Findbadguy , your walking around in a dark abandoned 
 drug house, you find a dead body and clues linking it to a serial killer you've been hunting down, 
 needless to say the mood isn't beautiful. BAM! All of a sudden the lights go out and you see nothing 
 but a small circle of illumination cascading from your small flashlight, you look at the ceiling 
 to see what is wrong with the overhead light, and to your shock you see that the bulb has been 
 smashed out, meaning you are not alone in this room..... with a dead body...... a little pee comes 
 out...... Ok Macho Man get it together, you're the police man here, assess the situation, take 
 decisive action...... you do a quick 360 of the room and notice gas pipes lining the walls to your 
 left, in desperation you yank one out..... This is when you here it.... Voices, and not just one... They 
 are coming from outside the door behind you..... You slowly advance on the door... Now you have 
 the upper hand... but wait... that bulb had to have been broken from someone in the room, you quickly 
 turn around to be face to face with a lunatic holding a wooden plank with nails sticking out..... crap
 
  
  THIS IS THE GAME! Over and over and over again, and what's weird is that it never gets less scary. 
 You are always on the edge of your seat waiting to see what will pop out next, and the game does 
 an amazing job of keeping you in such suspense that you will become calm due to lack of action, 
 then slam you with another crazy person trying to take your head off. And these enemy animations 
 are so real, they look so pissed that you are alive. What's cool is that it's not just a walk around 
 and blast people for no reason game, it's got a great story, and the voice acting is friggin great. 
 (Especially compared to PDZ) I don't want to ruin this game so I won't go on with the story but 
 it's a great game. I rented it, loved it, beat it in about 9 hours, and then bought it. It's that 
 good!
  
  A few things to think about... I really don't think this game would be as amazing on standard definition. 
 It really wouldn't be the same without 5.1 audio. This game takes the system to it's potential. 
 It works with all the features the system gives, and doesn't something completely original with 
 it, but I'll be honest, the graphics are so dark, and so detailed, that I don't think a standard 
 def TV can do it any justice. Without the surround sound this game would pretty much loose it's 
 charm by 50%. Hearing breathing sounds from behind you, and the psychological breakdowns in the 
 game, the audio is just as important as the HDTV. Make sure you think of this before making judgments 
 on the game.
  
  but... if you have the right set up BUY IT!! BUY 30 OF THEM, SEND ME 10 AND MAKE YOUR MOM PLAY 
 IT, AND WATCH AS SHE CAN'T SLEEP FOR DAYS! MWA HA HA HA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePenguin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, this is a very, very, very scary game. This game can and will make you very paranoid, 
 thats wat it did to me at least. This is Condemned: Criminal Origins, a horror game based on serial 
 killing and mega awesome melee combat. This game makes u feel like a helpless stranger beating 
 the crap out of guys with lead pipes and axes and condults and sledge hammers and a 2 by 4. This 
 game, although short is very, very fun. It is a good game experience because u r always tense. 
 The graphics are good, even though the faces for a couple of the characters is bad, it's still 
 good. The sound, this is some of the best atmospheric sound u can get in a game, although the main 
 characters voice doesn't really match the character himself. Overall, a ride u want to get on and 
 that u do not want to stop playing. But beware, it will make u paranoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REDLiNE_10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  I love playing horror survivor games (with a friend of course) . They're usually not games that 
 I buy, but I definitely rent them just for the sake of trying to beat them. The story is the same 
 old thing you come to expect from these types of games, you're either a cop/ government agent, 
 which makes sense why you're good with a gun or handy in melee combat. In Condemned you're an FBI 
 agent or should I say Crime Scene Investigator checking out a scene. You end up tracking down a 
 serial killer. You come across a variety of enemies but the game doesn't really explain who they 
 are or why they're there. They're just trying to kill you. MAybe if I found more evidence I would 
 have found out. If you looked at my gamer score I was only able to unlock 50% of the achievment. 
 Condemned takes a different perspective to this being first person. This game can give you quite 
 a good scare if you don't know someone is behind you then all of a sudden you turn around and they're 
 hitting you in the face with a shovel.
  
  Sound plays a huge role in this game. 5.1 adds to the realism but does take away a little bit of 
 the surprise because you can tell where people are coming from. Which is a good and cool thing 
 in my book. The sound quality in this game is awesome. Everything sounds so life like and crisp. 
 If you want to show off your surround sound this game will do the trick.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty decent. The surfaces don't look as high quality as the 360 is able 
 to produce. But the game has to be credited for its amazing lighting affects. The lighting affects 
 help make this game look amazing in some areas. 
  
  If you're into horror survivor games, you gotta give this one a shot (at least a rent or two) , 
 you shouldn't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBuffy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  This is a great option for a first buy game. If you like movies like seven or tv shows like CSR 
 this is your kind of game. Since the firts time that you began to play, you feel like you are in 
 a movie. The level design is like it must be whn you play a game about serial killers. There are 
 dark and beautiful at the same time. Pleae belive me when I tell you that with this game you are 
 going to feel the terror like never before. You are going to be afraid of your shadow.
  If you want a solid game when you buy your xbox 360, this is the game.
  SEGA you re the best! 
 please continue makeing games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cypher_16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best launch title of the 360's launch and in my opinion is one of the 
 best games of the whole year. Yet Condemned will not recieve the credit and recognition it deserves 
 simply because it is not a game in a series, such as Call of Duty, Perfect Dark, or any of the 
 EA sports titles.
  
  The graphics in this game are second to none, i certainly have never, EVER seen a better looking 
 game on consoles, and very few games on the PC titles can hold its own with Condemned. (F. E. A. R. 
 and Half Life 2 being the games I am referring to) The graphics are so real, you really do feel 
 like you are in the protagonists shoes. From the very first second you see the in-game graphics 
 of Condemned, you will laugh at anyone who said that the graphical leap from the original Xbox 
 to the 360 was not all that great. My only gripe in the graphics department is the character models 
 in the cutscenes. Their faces especially, look very wierd, and do not look photo-realistic like 
 the rest of the game. But to be fair, you very rarely see these models since the game is almost 
 always in first person. ( everything from climbing up and down ladders, to jumping into a dark hole 
 is done from a first person viewpoint)
  
  While you cannot deny the astounding graphics, Condemned true draw is its scare factor, which is 
 attributed in part due to its sound. you can hear bottles roll, and paint can fall off shelves 
 from all the way down the hall. You can even hear the crazies breathing heavily when they hide, 
 and their feet pounding into the ground as they charge at you with reckless abandon. Even the telephone 
 conversatins you have with your partner sound true to life, and never once sound cheesy, or as 
 if they are being read off of a script.
  
  This game blows any movie, or TV series out of the water and as far as video games are concerened, 
 is top of the line. You can argue that silent hill is just as scary, but this game has the realism 
 factor on its side. Messed up hobos and crack addicts will come almost out of nowhere and scare 
 the daylights out of you every time they do so.
  
  You may have heard that the combat in Condemned gets repetitve, (I'm looking at you gamespot) , however 
 I am here to assure you that for the 8-10 hours of gameplay you get out of this, it will never 
 once get boring or tiresome. Every goon you encounter, your hands start to sweat, and you start 
 to draw closer to the edge of your seat even more, because rarely is there just one. And once you 
 catch onto this you start to get even more scared because you know that once youve killed one, 
 another is hiding behind a column; just waiting for you to draw near so he can swing a 2x4 riddled 
 with nails at you. But the combat, and overall beating the crap out of these guys brings me to 
 one of this games best parts: The finishing moves. Once you have beaten these freaks within an 
 inch of their lives they will come to their knees where you will have a chance to execute them 
 in 4 brutal ways. The snap, punch, slam, and ram. And while those may not sound all that horrfic... They 
 are. 
  
  This games only drawback is its length. The climax of the game is one of the best i can rememeber, 
 and when it ends you will be begging for more. And upon this feeling, you should take it upon yourself 
 to play through it again, collecting birds, metal pieces, and finding all the hidden xbox 360 consoles. 
 I have also heard a few other cool things to try such as never using a tazer, never using a gun 
 (something u get points for) , and rarely using a flashlight except during crucial moments. Long 
 story short, this is a must buy game that you will not regret. This is a launch title that you 
 will not hear much about or read much about due to the likes of Perfect Dark Zero, Call of Duty 
 2, and Dead or Alive 4; but among any of these, is most certainly the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marzog
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:16 am PT
Review:  Condemned has a good story, good suspense, and very nice graphics. But it has some problems. First, 
 the game is too dark. Second, many of the rooms and hallways you walk through look very similar, 
 and it's very easy to get lost over and over again. Third, the melee fighting is very simplistic 
 and can get repetitious after a while. Also the blocking doesn't work well.
  
  But other than these shortcomings, it's still a solid game, and worth playing through at least 
 once. Unfortunately the game doesn't have much replayability, unless you wanna go back and look 
 for all the birds/metals, which may be a bit boring and tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything going for it. It has good graphics, unique characters and storyline, good 
 sound, creative control scheme, and innovative action sequences. However, I just wish there was 
 more content than the story mode. It could've used some sort of multi-player mode to up the long 
 term value. I think a melee orientated deathmatch would've been interesting. I really enjoyed the 
 game, but would recommend renting it rather than spending $50, beating it in a weekend, and never 
 playing it again. If it wasn't for it being so short, it could have been a must have for all XBox 
 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealmealdeal
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  Alright. I have to say. This game scared me. I mean it really scared me. For those who recall the 
 feeliing of the dog jumping through the window in Resident Evil, its got lots of those. Though 
 the game doesnt shine on a spectacular level as far as tight controls and mind blowing boss fights, 
 it does make a formula that can scare you, and it sticks. I found playing it at night with a plasma 
 and nice sound, that the game can put a kind of stress on you. It forces anxiety, and if you can 
 get into it like i did, you can lose yourself in a the twisted world of condemed. I describe it 
 like playing the movie SEVEN, in that its raw and edgy. It took me to a dark side of the spectrum 
 of gaming, and i hope people realize this game is great, and a must have for those who like it 
 rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferratus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game just a few days after I finished playing King Kong on the 360 and I gotta 
 say this felt exactly the same. It's hard to explain, but the immersion and the realism of the 
 game is absolutly fantastic. The game is short - it will take you anywhere from 9-12 hours to complete 
 -, but it's a thrilling ride from the beginning to the end that's well worth your time.
  
  Let me go over a few important points.
  
  First stop, The story. This is a dtory driven game 
 and it delivers quite well in that regard. It's not the best story ever invented, but it's well 
 done and intertaining. It remains really mysterious to the very end and even past the end where 
 you are still wondering what the HELL just happened. The brillliance of it though is that if you 
 replay the game and find all the hidden stuff (birds and metal pieces) , you'll get more pieces 
 of the puzzle that will help you figure it out.
  
  Visually, well, it's a 360 title and it looks the part. The level design are a bit repetitive, 
 but there's only so much you can do with the kind of environments the game story throws at you. 
 It's mostly decapitated places, like burned out library or abandoned school, metro station, etc. 
 Overall, the graphics are nice.
  
  What really makes the game so special though is the gameplay. Just like Kong, it's technically 
 a FPS, although again, you have very limited ressources so you'll haave to fight with whatever 
 you can find 90% of the time. You do find guns from time to time, but you'll have 5-8 bullets in 
 them and once you use them, there's no ammo packs anywhere. Because of this, you end up fighting 
 those depraved lunatics with 2x4s, pipes, fire axes, etc. The fighting done in a first person view 
 is extremly well done. Gruesome is the word I guess.
  
  This game is best played in the dark, with a good sound system. It won't be the longest game you've 
 ever played, but it's very well crafted and very satisfaying. If you are good at this type of game, 
 at least you owe it to yourself to rent it out.
  
  If you do buy it, know there is no multiplayer available at all, but there are a few things you 
 can unlock by findings all sorts of thing. There are 6 hidden birds per chapter (10 chapters total) . 
 Finding them will get you acheivement points. There are also TVs that will get you acheivement 
 points and finally, pieces of metal (3 per level) that will unlock reports from the police and 
 FBI that will help you understand the game's story a bit more. These reports basically fill out 
 the holes left when you first complete the game.
  
  To me, games like this one are a must buy. If time of play is extremly important to you, then you 
 may not appreciate this one too much, but otherwise, it's very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evildeadite666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  So i rented this over Xmas break, 4 days off work, and needing something new to play, i picked 
 up this, because the 2 places i get my games from were sold out. When you first play this you'll 
 notice the creepy feel, not really scared but creepy and that = good, but the more and more you 
 play the game, it gets less creepy, and then BOOM it gets even worse, although im only half way 
 through this, i can tell already it terribly short, and thats with following a walkthrough to get 
 all the achievements, but the gameplay is easy to pick up on, the graphics and sound are great, 
 the only thing this doesnt have is an online feature, although i dont know if you would need one, 
 but if your thinking about getting this game, maybe rent it first, but if you were a fan of Manhunt, 
 Max Payne, and the lighting on silent hill (only light sorce is a flashlight) then you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzytal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  Condemned was the game with the 360 launch that I was certain to buy. When I just started playing 
 it took a little time to get into the story. I was expecting something like RE4, but both the gameplay 
 and story where little less good. 
  
  Condemned is a game which primarily focuses on the scary, dark hallways in which an enemy can come 
 from all most anywhere. The story is a bit thin and quickly written.
  
  After a few levels you'll get the hang of hitting enemies with your 2x4 nails (my favorite) searching 
 the pieces of metal and finding the birds. Then you'll want to play the game till the end. After 
 that maybe one more time (finish the game and find out yourself) for the rest of the achievements 
 and then it's good for the trade or for a place on the shelf. 
  
  It took me 11.5hrs to finish the game, a bit shot in comparison to RE4 which I played a few weeks 
 ago. This is a bit disappointing to me, especially the storyline suffers the most from the quick 
 game.
  
  To conclude: A bit short, nothing like RE4, much more scarier, less gameplay, but certainly worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is no doubt fun and cool. But it has hardly any interaction with the enviroment and kinda 
 just leads you on one path the whole game. Also the collecting evidence and actually feeling like 
 an ex-FBI agent in the game is cool... but you can only collect or sample the evidence they want 
 you to collect. Also this game is made by the same people that made FEAR.. which is one of the 
 scariest games I have ever palyed... I do have to say this is pretty scary... but not even close 
 to FEAR... let alone a Resident Evil. on a scale of how scary it is.. this would get a 7.5 out 
 of ten and resident evil 4 would get a 8.5 out of ten and then FEAR.... probably a TEN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be Great. Everything about it is just fantastic, the graphics, the sound, 
 the story, its just there to entertain you and it DEFINETLY entertained me. There are a few problems 
 though, its true what they say about the repetition the enviroments tend to get bland, and most 
 of them basically look the same, but that still does not mean its a bad game. The sound is off 
 the wall, playing this game at night, with the sound blasting, i jumped a couple of times, its 
 just that damn good. But i believe the biggest problem with it is the length, very short, took 
 me 2 nights to beat it. I recommend to anybody, but RENT it dont BUY it, because its length is 
 just way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun-runner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, its savageness is very great and funny. Single- player is also very very fun 
 but if you like even more fun then you need to play this on hardest difficulty available at 12:00 
 am or 1:00am. I guarentee you will jump at least 3 times. Multiplayer, top of the line. Of course 
 everyone knows about breaking pipes off walls to use as weapons, thats what this is famous for. 
 I reccommend everyone with or getting an xbox 360 to add this to your collection. About a year 
 from now you will still be playing this weekly or daily if your like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3idolon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't to sure about this game when I heard about it way back at e3, but slowly but surely I 
 was warming up to it, then when it came out I was blown away. This game creates an environment 
 in which will make you paranoid everytime you come to a corner or new room. When I was playing 
 through this game I had 5.1, so I always thought I was hearing foot steps behind me, and the ambiance 
 was very involving. This game should get best sound of 2005. The graphics too are amazing and make 
 you want to just finish off your enemy quickly so that you won't have to deal with them later. 
 I dunno about you but I found that it felt really good slamming the butt end of an axe in someones 
 face, as well as other attacks with other weapons. This had such a great story that they should 
 create some sort of sequel or series based in this universe, because there is just so much room 
 for more answers that the game didn't get around to answering. The one thing the game was missing 
 though was co-operative play, which I thought would fit in pretty good, and greatly increase the 
 replay value, even though there is still quite a bit with finding birds, and plates. This game 
 definitely goes into my most underrated games category along with Breakdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  Let me count how times I had to change my underwear.... oh about 20 times. Yea, this game will scare 
 the s*** outta you. This game sets in you in the most ghetto and abandoned environments I have 
 ever seen. And not only are they they ghetto and abandoned, they are beautifully ugly. I say this 
 because the graphics are drop dead gorgeous and look extremely life like. The environments as well 
 as the character models all look gorgeous. I do agree with Gameinformer about how some of the enemies 
 do look a little rubbery but its not really that much of a problem or that noticeable. But what 
 this game does really good besides offering the players something for their eyes to behold is the 
 extreme scare factor. This game does set a new defining of a way to do horror games, and that is 
 in first person. It puts you more on the edge of your seat when you got a crazed hobo in your face 
 yelling "f*** you!!" and smashing your face in with a steel pipe. Yes, you will be killing and 
 slaughtering hobos like a madman. For some reason (I will not tell you) the hobos and thugs of the 
 city have all gone mad and are out to kill ANYBODY including each other. But sometimes the A. I. 
 can be a b**** and attack you from behind especially when your in a battle. As an FBI agent framed 
 for murder, you are out to track the serial killer that framed you in the first level. You will 
 be using forensic tools like the UV light and whatnot to track down clues on his whereabouts. I 
 will tell you that this game does scare the hell outta you seeing that the city is mostly pitch 
 black and you got a flash light and RARELY have a gun. And if you have a gun, it usually only has 
 like 3 bullets. About 90% of the game, you will be using the environment as your weapon. Break 
 off steel pipes off the walls or break a 2x4 off a pallet. Or rip that fireaxe out of the glass. 
 Its awesome to use the environment, and thats what really makes the game different. Its a must 
 buy for any horror fan. It really does offer something new to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardonikkus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  So basic idea of the game, you are framed for murder and you have to clear your name by slaughtering 
 lots and lots of hobos/crawler things.
  While the story is riveting I find that the gameplay dragged out at times (especially in the subway) . 
 They seemed to have an amazing game going but they settled for the linearity, I would only assume 
 this is because they wanted to have it out for the 360's launch. But as games go this one isn't 
 a bad one.
  I did enjoy it (also I enjoyed scooping up all those gamerpoints for completing the game) . The 
 fighting is quite basic especially when you have a super taser.
  But when you don't have the taser it gets a little harder. They do throw in some bonus videos of 
 the game development for your achievements so if you are interested in that it's a pretty cool 
 bonus. If there was to be a Condemned 2 or a similar game I would probably buy it but they would 
 have to revamp alot of elements of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for 3 days now and I love it. The eerie feel it gives you. The moments 
 where things jump out at you. The hidden surprises and special awards. This game is amazing. If 
 you buy one title with your 360 make sure that this is at least in your top 3. When you grab a 
 hold of one of the enemies you get this menu of 4 options on what you can do to the enemy next, 
 this is a nice feature though I wished for a little more, like some decapitation or some type of 
 weapon fatalities. This game could have been a lot better, but right now this game is simply amazing 
 anyway. With any game you will find some flaws. Let's hope a sequel is in order :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  In games such as Resident Evil you mostly use weapons. In Condemned: Criminal Origins you have 
 a chose of debris, tools, and guns... In Resident Evil games you would need guns to survive. Condemned 
 is the old school version of Resident Evil because you don't need mindless guns to kill all enemies. 
 You can use tables legs to pipes to old two by fours... This game is a call to Resident Evil to 
 tell you that horror games need more than just crafty guns and blunt objects such a lamp... Come 
 on!!! Condemned could be better if the story made more sense but the gameplay has it's feature 
 that kicks Resident Evil's A$$!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standard_222
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  Condemned was a game that was created for one purpose... to shock the s@#$ out of you. A first 
 person perspective that brings something new to the table. A focus of handheld weapons which you 
 pick up using the environment around you. The fighting can be mastered using only two buttons, 
 hit and block, but that doesn't mean it's easy. Even though I spent many hours playing the game, 
 it took me awhile to master because the enemy AI is amazingly unpredictable. You just never know 
 what they're going to do next. If you don't block at a specific time, count on getting hit. The 
 story is your conventional "fugitive" theme, in which you are framed for the murder of two cops 
 that accompanied you on a murder scene. While at this murder scene, something goes sour and you 
 find yourself at the mercy of the serial killer you were investigating. From there, you set out 
 to track down the serial killer and prove your innocence, but some scary stuff happens along the 
 way. The gameplay is rather slow, but fits the bill for the type of game this is. The campaign 
 is rather short, but rewarding. the best thing about this game, is the fighting. It has great realism, 
 and looks great for launch release. a future look at things to come. But I would recommend renting 
 this title however, seeing is how the campaign is short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSwampy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a hard game to categorize, it feels like manhunt at times, then at others Silent hill 
 with it's creepy atmosphere. Without giving to much away, you play the role of a cop who gets into 
 a bit of bother at a crime scene and ends up getting framed for murder, you then spend the rest 
 of the game hunting down a mystery serial killer who seems to like playing games with you.
  
  Condemned is very slow paced, I think the designers wanted you to take in all your surroundings 
 instead of running through the levels and it works, it adds to the tension you feel as you creep 
 around the dark corridors. You'll spend much of the game on the edge of your seat waiting for a 
 bad guy to jump out at you, and when they do you get to the highlight of the game, the combat which 
 plays out like the melee sections of Chronicles of Riddick but better with lead pipes, crowbar 
 and a axe all available as weapons. 
  
  The problem is these are all more or less the same except for how much damage they do, enemies 
 don't react any different from being hit with a wooden stick or a sledge hammer and there are no 
 extra moves for each weapon. There are some other problems with the combat, it's a bit basic with 
 only a block button and a hit button and although it may seem like there's a lot of variety to 
 the weapons at first, you'll start seeing the same ones to often later on in the game. On the plus 
 side the combat is quite realistic with each blow of your weapon feeling like it has real force 
 behind it, this makes the combat quite brutal but still not as gory as some other games like manhunt.
 
  
  Condemned tries to add some variety to the game with your character having to search for evidence 
 to the crimes he comes across, it's a good idea but not implemented very well, it basically holds 
 your hand and tells you exactly were to look for evidence which is a shame as letting you really 
 search for clues would have added much needed variety to the game.
  
  The graphics are nice, one of the best looking launch games with levels that look like you can 
 almost reach out and touch the cold hard walls, the lighting is very good and adds to the atmosphere 
 a great deal, and the textures on levels and weapons are quite realistic. I think the enemies could 
 have been done better as they all look pretty much alike and aren't particularly scary but they 
 do have good AI, finding cover and jumping out at you when you least expect it.
  
  The story is well done and is a strong point of the game, you really want to finish it to see what 
 happens to the main character as he's a likable kind of fella. It's a pitty the story gets in the 
 way on your second play through as you can't skip the cut scenes which there are many of, and finding 
 the evidence all over again becomes a chore.
  
  I should mention that this game is dark and quite depressing. That's what it's aiming for but it 
 may put people off. The sound effects are great and the music is very low key which is good in 
 this sort of game, the effects really adds to the reality of your surroundings with enemies shouting 
 out and the thud of your weapons landing on there head sounds painfully real.
  
  I enjoyed Condemned but it's not going to stand up to multiple play through unless you really enjoy 
 the combat as that is pretty much the whole game, and although quite scary on your first play through 
 it does loose that edge of your seat feeling the more you play it. 
  
  There is some re playability for those who are interested in looking for dead birds and pieces 
 of metal? that get you gamer points but I didn't really enjoy looking for all of them and they 
 were quite hard to find. There are many other things that get you gamer points if that's your thing, 
 like finding all the weapons, or only using melee weapons in the game.
  
  Condemned is the only real original game out of the XBOX 360 launch games but it's not for everyone 
 I don't think as I can't really describe it as fun, more of a experience. A good game and a great 
 rental, but you may find it collecting dust after the ten or so hours it takes to finish it unless 
 you go looking for all those achievements to unlock.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilyoda861
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  This is the first horror game ont he 360 console and it is an exellent one at that. It is great 
 fun smacking people with axes, crow bars, shooting people, and hitting them with the gun, plank 
 with nails in them helps a lot also. There are many more weapons. The graphics are freaking amazing, 
 I was so pleasently surprised by how good teh characters looked, and the over all feel. 2 bad things 
 though however is it's a little repetitive, but hitting a freak is fun anyways. The tazer is by 
 far a great thing in the game, and it saves you lots of times, as the ai is extremley well done. 
 They come out of anywhere. So all in all one of the must have games get it get it now!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chick_frag
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome. horrific and spendid at the same time. not for your 10 year old but perfect 
 for your blood-shed-loving side. i've beat it once already and i'm on my way for a second, this 
 is an action-packed game that keeps you wanting more after each kill. the story is cool and original 
 and the graphics are just, as i love to say, PC worthy. this is the kind of game you can't get 
 tired of. currently i'm attempting to unlock all achievements. sadly though there are no alternate 
 endings to this (you know what i'm talking about if you've play this *revenge award*) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjrocks0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  graphics rock! its like a thriller movie! after ive played it i almost wet my pants. every one 
 out ther who has an xbox 360 this is a must have! now this game does get boring after a while but 
 ther are things in there to amp it up. this game is a mix of ganras like action, thriller, suspence, and 
 horrer. it shure will keep your heart beating all night. and if the story itself wont kreep you 
 out the zombies will. as i said........ this game rocks! almost as good as fear. infact i think it 
 is as good as fear. ecept the graphicts arnt as good but every thing els rocks, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Playing Condemned so far has been quite a thrill. You are always carefully walking into rooms, 
 listening and thinking "where the hell is the next guy gonna jump out on me at." I played this 
 game for about 2 hours and found many great things about this game. The visuals are very good, 
 even though its a dark game. The sound and environment are quite amazing. The A. I can sometimes 
 screw itself but for the most part does its job. For example when I stole this guys bat he took 
 off running into the shadows then I couldnt find him. Next thing I know hes behind me and hitting 
 me. The only problem is, is that there are the same weapons over and over again and you learn which 
 ones to use all the time. The other problem, is that it gets a bit repetitious. Dont get me wrong, 
 its very fun but I can see where people got tired by the end. Over all a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JungleFever916
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  gameplay (10) conmened has a great gamplay 2 it. u can do anything from smashing head on the florr. 
 2 snapping necks and using alot of diffrent meele weapons agaginst ur enemys. just wacthing da 
 blood and gore will leave u speech less 4 a while.
  
  graphics (9) now this is next gen. condemned is a very beautfuly game. its also very dark ( in a 
 good way) . 
  
  sound (10) da sound is soo good that wen just hearing ur enemy walk toward u will leave goosebumps 
 down ya body
  
  value (10) even tho da game is short, u would still wan go bak and keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aftermath6
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  This game leaves a game enthusiast very frustrated simply because there is so much potential with 
 this title, but they fail to go the extra mile and make a truly exciting, involved first-person 
 shooter. 
  
  After a couple levels, you'll find yourself wanting more and growing overly tired of the block\hit 
 tactics you repeat over and over again in order to kill the creatures lurking in the amazingly 
 creepy environments.
  
  In a game, that not only appears next-gen, but fulfills my expectations simply when dealing with 
 presentation, the game also completely fails because of its lack of play-back and overall value.
 
  
  It is definitely not worth $60.00 for this game... not because it isn't a good game... but because 
 before you know it the game is over! The presentation, fighting tactics, and graphics are all top 
 rate and will truly get you excited about the future of the 360.
  
  It's a rental for sure, so if you got a weekend to kill... go rent this A. S. A. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The basic concept of this game is you are an FBI agent that is being set up for the murder of a 
 fellow agent while searching for a serial killer. The setting is a dark city that has totally gone 
 crazy, just short of night of the living dead. At the beginning of the game you are on the run 
 so you don't have access to very many firearms. As a result you are able to search the environment 
 for make shift weapons with an occational shot gun laying around.
  
  This game is revolutionary in the sense that it really doesn't fit into any of the common categories. 
 It basically puts together various aspects of of previous games. In some instances it works and 
 others it's just been played out all before. What the game does extremely well is it really feels 
 eerie on the borderline of being flat out scary. I can't quite figure out if it is the sound, the 
 low lighting, or a combination of both. Whatever it is this is the first game I've ever played 
 that gets it right. With that said the storyline has been done a thousand times over. 
  
  The gameplay starts out interesting but it gets old fast. From the beginning to the end it's the 
 same thing. The low lighting while probably adding to the eerie feeling just gets annoying. One 
 thing that it really affects is your sense of direction. In this game you will find yourself back 
 tracking constantly, especially after a fight. The environment looks the same everywhere you go 
 within a particular act and usually what happens is your exit or goal is found right at the beginning 
 of your journey. You have to go through a few doors, fight a few guys that jump out of the dark, 
 find something like an axe, or turn on a power switch. Then you go back and you see the guy your 
 after just as he runs behind the corner. There are a few things to find that help your gamers score, 
 but after awhile you just wait for the next guy to jump out and attack you.
  
  The fighting in this game is what I feel makes this game difficult. Dying is not really an issue 
 because there are first aid kits all over the place. After picking up a 2X4 or pipe you will find 
 yourself being blindside every so often and the fight begins. In the fight you have two basic functions, 
 attack and block. I have found that timing the block is extremely difficult, it almost never works 
 and then I tee off on the dudes head with some wood knocking him to the ground and then walk up 
 and stomp the dude. The one thing that I really like in the fights is the taser. The taser has 
 been done in other games, but for some reason it's just fun to use in this game.
  
  There is an evidence collecting mode in the game and you still have access to your FBI connections 
 because if the FBI believed you killed another agent they would overlook something like you being 
 able to access ANYTHING! This part of the game plays it's self anyway so whatever.
  
  The graphics in this game would probably be awesome if you could actually see anything outside 
 of the range of your flashlight. In the limited areas that are lit there is a good amount of detail. 
 The sound I think really does it for this game. The game kind of feels like a cheesy slasher film, 
 but the sound could be from a killer thriller.
  
  As far as value versus fun this game might be a toss up. I think it was worth the experience and 
 am glad that I got it. On the other hand I don't see this being a long term play, and if you are 
 highly critical of this type of game you might get bored or irritated with the game play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: machineares
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I won't say so much about it, but this game is in a league of it's own in action and atmosphere, 
 true replay value may be minimal for some, but definitely worth a look if you're into horror/atmosphere 
 games. The game ultimately ends up feeling like a more melee-specific, first person version of 
 a Silent Hill game. Even the story and other elements reflect a strong Silent Hill influence, but 
 this game has plenty of it's own similarities so as not to be classified together. It's really 
 a thrill ride, as lame and hollywood as that sounds, but it's the best description I can think 
 of. Game site reviews cover it pretty well, as good as most sites, but the elements they talk down 
 upon really don't end up being as distracting as they may seem sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  When the game first loads you are shown a quick cut scene movie of you outside the crime scene 
 and my first impressions were: errr looks like an xbox / PS2 game. They really spent no time on 
 this movie but then the game starts and you think stuff the movie this is great.
  
  The in game graphics are crisp and very realistic, the ability to pull weapons off the wall (lead 
 pipe) is great, so you are never far from a weapon if lose one or have a crappy one.
  
  There are regular places to patch yourself up after a good pounding with a piece of wood with a 
 couple of rusty nails so if the beating doesnt finish you the tet-nis will, lol.
  
  If you have played FEAR on the PC then you will love this, not so much from the gun welding combat 
 soldier side but more the gore & horror.
  
  Its not like resident evil where you hear the people walking around the corridors groaning, these 
 people are drugged up junkies and just come at you and you get a couple of seconds to prepare yourself.
 
  
  I personally like the ability to disarm the opponent so that they cant do anything but take your 
 beating, but if you can beat them to their knees then you get the added extra to finish them in 
 a special way such as a quick neck break !!
  
  Oh yeah at the end of the day you are an FBI investigator and you have to now and then do some 
 police work but then when work is over and you have your evidence it is time again to beat the 
 junkies until they bleed !!
  
  Its the perfect mix of horror, graphics and gameplay. If you scare easily then maybe play it with 
 the lights on, or get your nan to do the scary parts. 
  A great launch title and if they are only using a third of the Xbox 360's ability i cant wait to 
 see what games look like in 2006.
  
  Winner :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  This game is about lots and lots of dark stuff and of course the stuff that pops out and goes boo. 
 You wade through some pretty crappy environments and by that i mean very nicely detailed... for 
 what the settings are. This game has a pocket full of glitches including a really stupid one where 
 you cannot finish the final boss with your weapon after pulling his first pin. Would have been 
 cool for some online play and it has a video called THE DARK which is I believe a beta version 
 for this game or something but it had the same kinda game idea just with magical melee attacks 
 and some neat concepts for a slightly different game that condemned is. Good game but your not 
 gonna need it any longer than a good weeks rental... actually I was totally done with all 50 Achievements 
 within 3 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfhdsbhf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Condemed is a new game by sega and the makers of fear. Now you are a cop trying to solve serial 
 killer muders but when your team is killed you get the blame so you have to track down the killer 
 with the help of your sidekick a woman in the csi lab. The game is kind of like the chronicles 
 of riddick were you get guns but most of the time you fight hand to hand. Now this works by you 
 can get almost anything from your envirment and use it to kill your enemys which and drug addicts 
 and serial killers. Now this game is scary. Condemed will make you wet your pants many many times. 
 Should you get this game? well thats your pesonal preference but if you like first person shooters, 
 odd games, and something new give condemed a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Bimmy-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:22 am PT
Review:  Condemned takes a first-rate idea and makes into a repetive, short game. The story involves a FBI 
 agent who's on the trail of a serial killer. Much like the movie Seven, the killer is twisted and 
 leaves behind clues. It's your job to go around, finding these clues with no puzzles to solve. 
 Well, it's also your job to go around and club or shoot the fiendish feens living in the crime 
 scenes. 
  
  Each level makes you out to be a mouse just being led along in the maze. Your tools of the trade 
 include things like a cell phone, tazer, and a uv light. Yeah, just like the dirty discovering 
 black lights on MTV, the UV light finds fingerprints and spilt liquids. The weapons range from 
 pipes to sawed-off shotguns.
  
  The game is very short. I'm not one to beat games all too often yet I even beat it within two days 
 of having it. Very disappointing. They could changed the concept a little bit to make the game 
 last longer. Only if they had, it could have maybe been a better, longer game.
  
  The graphics are very good. The humans in video games have become very detailed yet I just can't 
 say the graphics are perfect. Even though they may have no flaws, they just haven't impressed me 
 enough. A next generation game should have next generation graphics. The change in graphics is 
 barely noticeable. This shouldn't make me dock points for Condemned, but I'm doing it anyways. 
 
  
  If you have a free weekend, Condemned could fill those two days with a usually fun game, when it's 
 not the same thing as always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  It may not be silent hill or resident evil or fear but its a pretty good game for a action/ sort 
 of scary game. The game is about you being a FBI agent looking for some guy that seems to be CRAZY 
 in a way (dont want to say anything because you have to play it) . There are a bunch of guys you 
 can kill such as some guys and girls on drugs and going insane for some more drugs which includes 
 beating you up and killing you.
  
  Weapons are basicly anything you find you can use..... besides a chair, box and a toilet.... ya i 
 know your hoping for a game to beat guys over with bathroom stuff ........ or not but still fun 
 game. 
  
  There are some jumpy parts but they end up being funny when you see them. For one example there 
 is a sub way area, when you get to this gate your character starts to climb over well once your 
 character gets over the other side.... a guy just jumps out of a closet and pushes you down some 
 stairs OUCH!!!!!. There are some other parts such as a guy pushing a self at you and you end up 
 flying backwards lol. 
  
  Some parts are scary and some parts are just plain hard. Enemies are hard but you can get around 
 them and kill them if you use tactics or whatever. If your a horror fan then i suggest you get 
 it without waiting, if your a i am ok with horror person rent it and if your just scared of horror 
 stuff then well... PLAY POKEMON or something......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theslayer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! the people that do not like it are trying way to hard to find a reason not 
 to like it. The graphics are great, and it is a pick it up and play game. The learning curve is 
 slim to none. So many developers are trying to make game that they know they will sell, if it were 
 not for developers like the team behind condemned, great games like this would never come to be. 
 How often do you play a game where you jump and get scared as often as you do here. I'd wager not 
 often. The story is involved and the use of gadgetry is made so that it really is effortless. A 
 great game, do not pass it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgracindo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the obvious stuff out of the way first: I love terror games. I love it because when well 
 executed, it is immersive, it gets you in the game like no other genre. Condemned does this really 
 well. The level design, the mood of the game, the pace, everything builds up to the experience. 
 I did a little research before I bought the game, read a few reviews, watched videos, screenshots, 
 etc. In some of the reviews, there were some points that made be reluctant to buy it, but I am 
 really glad I purchased it. 
  Two things caught my attention. First was that the level design was poor, making you get lost all 
 the time, real frustrating etc. This worried me. I HATE games where you spend most of your time 
 figuring out where to go what to do. I just finished the game and can tell you this: this is not 
 true. I didn't get lost once in the game. There is always a right way to go, and another way that 
 usually leads up to either a bird or metal piece (if you find them all you get achievement points) . 
 Even better, the level design gives you a great game experience. You spend all the game expecting 
 to be sneaked on, and they managed to surprise me time after time. They use sometimes noises somewhere 
 in the room, other times they push objects in the area. That makes you know there is someone there 
 and be watching the room more carefully. You take a few steps and out of nowhere there is a junkie 
 right on top of you! Other time you get into a room, walk around, nothing happens. You keep going 
 forward, still nothing. Tension builds up, you know something will happen, but the key is you usually 
 don't know when. If you liked being scared, it is GREAT!
  The other thing, also very important is the fighting system was too simple. That is true. There 
 is not much you can do, it is either swing your melee weapon or shoot your gun in the few times 
 you get one. ( By the way, look for objects that can be moved, desks, etc, or open the safes, you 
 will a few times find guns behind them if you want to use ranged weapons.) The junkies will also 
 swing their weapons at you, and you can either back up or try to block their blow and counter. 
 It is simple, and obviously it would be a even better game with a more elaborate fighting system, 
 but in my opinion the tension of being sneaked upon, the storyline, the mood, they all make up 
 for it. The graphics are some of the best I have seen for the xbox 360, except during the short 
 movies that look ok but nothing extraordinary. Sound is great, everything adds to the creepy mood 
 of the game, the songs, groans, junkiies blabbering.
  Well, in my opinion this was a solid game. For fans of horror games is a must have. For other people 
 is a good experience, be sure of having quite a few scares and a good time. I hope they make a 
 sequel and improve the gameplay, there is definitively potential for a nice horror franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadystxxx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  First off this game is amazing, on looks and sound,
  so far ive only played it for an hour on level 3 just got it yesterday but i am really impressed 
 already which is hard to do, at first i was only able to get the xbox 360 core system as they are 
 sold out everywhere had to pay 265 of ebay which was a bargain compared to 480 which i seen one 
 go for .
  the point is i was still amazed by the graphics and sound i now have the hd cable but not an hd 
 tv but a new widescreen which has 480dpi it was alot smoother but i have played this ,perfect dark 
 zero, fifa rtwc, project gotham racing all on standard definition and they all looked great compared 
 to what am used to,
  back to condemned the first thing that struck me about this game was literaly a plank of wood with 
 nails in OH DAMM it just felt and sounded like this guy had just cracked me in the face so i swiflty 
 bat him with the butt of my hand gun and WOW two teeth just sqirted out with a bit blood very impressive,
 
  a little bit further and a creppy junkie is taunting me through a window so i pop him in the head 
 with my last hand gun round it goes through the window splats through his head and leaves a lovely 
 blood patch on the wall if you watch out for these small details it blows you away,
  my grandma came round while i was playing and i had to turn it off thats how graphic it was and 
 my grans a hard lady but the blood spaying on the screen and the sound were making her uneasy,
 
  the gameplay so far has been good, its basicly a first person shooter except there is not much 
 gun play more melee attacks with crowbars, planks, shovels, pipes and plenty other things to crack 
 skulls, the cool thing is they are not just scattered about you pull them from walls, pull pipes 
 apart grab steel girders with bits of concrete still on to bat them with, there are around 3-4 guns 
 i think handgun shotgun machine gun i think but you only get a certain amount of ammo, another cool 
 feauture is the way you have to check the clip to find out how much ammo you have left instead 
 on it being displayed on the screen,
  in the game you are a forensic agent with all these cool gadgets for retrieving evidence the vad 
 point to this is personaly i would of prefered some types of mini games to use these gadgets but 
 this part of the game is rarely easy just follow the on screen instructions, also you will always 
 know when to use your tools as it automactily says press x when in the vicinity of evidence, whichis 
 good for those people who just wanna run and smash heads but i think a few mini games and less 
 help finding the evidence would stop it from feeling like the same thing over and over again which 
 hasnt happened yet but am only on the 3rd level 
  
  this review is just for people interested in this game and also the xbox 360 the info about the 
 game itself is limited, i should of completed it before this review but i have been so impressed 
 by this game already just wanted to let people know this is definitly worth having in your xbox 
 360 collection the only online content is a leaderboard which i love i love the fact that every1 
 on the leaderboard is a real person, am hoping space invaders will be on xbox live soon i will be 
 at the top of that leaderboard 
  i can still remember playing space invaders years ago in an arcade as a kid my dad had to lift 
 me up ha ha and now looks at whats out it makes the future scary what will it be like in ten more 
 years will we really be running from serial killers in a matrix style way of jacking your hole 
 body into a game very scary but damm exciting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmgg2686
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  This game is good, but is missing a little to make it great. The fact that the game i pretty much 
 walking around and timing button presses, it can seem a bit repeative. the best part of the game 
 would have to be the graphics and sound. There is so much detail in the environment and weapons. 
 If you play on a 5.1 surround sound system you can really hear the moans and foot steps of the 
 enemy. Over all this game is good, but its just way too short. I would have also like to see a 
 wider range of weapons in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satch919
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game at launch, I didn't really know what to expect. I had seen video of it 
 on Gamespot and I was really drawn to it. Sure, the graphics made a great first impression but 
 it was the gameplay that kept me interested until it's release. 
  
  One thing that Condemned focuses on is melee combat. This style of fighting forces you to get up 
 in the "grill" of your opponent. While many FPS games before Condemned had offered melee combat, 
 I don't think any were as satisfying or brutal as Criminal Origins. After aquiring a weapon from 
 the interactive environment, it's time to take on some disturbed vagrants. These guys (and gals) 
 range from the typical hobos and drug addicts to the downright insane and freaky. But back to the 
 melee combat. 
  
  Weapons in this game go from the simplistic wood panel and desk to the more traditional shotguns, 
 pistols, and sub-machinegun. Each has it's own positive and negative stats. Some might be really 
 powerful but slow while others might be fast and weak. The use of weapon depends on what kind of 
 fight you're walking into. You'll find yourself asking, "Should I use the gun with only two bullets 
 and potentially run out of ammo during a fight or stick to the less powerful pipe or 2X4?" Oh yeah, 
 ammo is really scarce so make those shots count! Shoot straight and true! 
  
  One aspect that makes the hand to hand combat so satisfying is the sound. You'll hear every bone-shattering 
 blow in crystal clarity. The boom from the shotgun rips through the unfortunate hobos. Wood creaks, 
 metal clangs and blood splatters. This leads me to my next point. The environmental effects. Every 
 environment has its own unique feel to it through the use of audio. The abandoned buildings hum 
 with electrical equipment, sewers echo and schools are filled with laughter from children long 
 ago. This adds to the immersion. 
  
  About as impressive as the audio is, it's the graphics that most people pay attention to. Even 
 with its inner city grittiness, there was still something impressive about it. For the most part, 
 textures are clear and well done. There's a few spots that look a little low res but nothing to 
 get all mad about. One thing that literally added to the whole dirty "look" was the clever use 
 of filters. While playing there's a film grain filter on and during non interactive sequences, 
 a whole range of filters are used to emphasize something being shown. 
  
  There are things that I didn't mention in this review so it lets the player have a fresh experience. 
 
  
  This was a game that I went into with mild expectations. I came out of it enjoying it more than 
 I originally though. A superb launch title. 
  
  If you've got yourself a 360 and are of legal age, go pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ckAdDer
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was an interesting idea with a creator who i guess just ran out of ideas. Very repetitive 
 and at most times boring, doing the exact same thing over again, killing drug addicts. The feel 
 of the game was probably what the creator had more in mind than actual fun. The graphics were pretty 
 nice and, yeah that is about thats all that was good about it. You also have these gadgets that 
 are kinda cool but only used on selected times by the game, and your secret objects aren't really 
 that secret in this game. Gameplay had an interesting twist with the first-person hand to hand 
 (rarely) or used odd objects from different parts of your environment. Overall, not that great 
 game, extremely boring and in need of other features. Plus i'm not into the hype what so ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinhetu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game since i got my 360 on the 30th. I finished the game already but i am 
 going back through to find all the birds and metal pieces (which let me tell you arent the easiest 
 things to find) . The graphics and sound effects take full advantage of what the 360 has to offer! 
 I found my heart skipping a couples times when a junkie jumped out from around a corner or popped 
 up from below a balcony. Its creapy stuff but it really draws you into the game. The way the screen 
 goes black and white, resembling an old horror flick, adds an element to the game that compliments 
 its theme. This isnt your normal first person shooter. The game relies a lot on melee weapons and 
 hand-to-hand combat. Lots of blood and finishing moves too! Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-facktor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Once you put a valiant effort into this game you are greeted with psychological ticks that are 
 sure to please. 
  
  When I first popped this game into my new 360 and the beginning cinematic was playing I had a smile 
 from ear to ear, then all of the sudden I'm looking at the screen and nothin was happening. I then 
 proceeded to move my thumbstick and was floored! I was thinking the cinematic was playing, but 
 now the wonderful cinematic was actually the game!! It kind of threw me back a bit. 
  
  Once the want to look at EVERYTHING up close had subsided I continued the game.
  
  The forensic 
 tools that are a your disposal are wonderful.... well.... not at your disposal... you can only use 
 them when you're "senses" tell you to. The developers threw in subtle changes in the way the game 
 displays once your spidey/fbi senses goes crazy, which works very well.
  
  Interaction with the environment is limeted to grabbing pipes, wood, and other objects to use as 
 weapons. Each have various advantages and disadvantages over one another. Condemned throws in a 
 few firearms to swtich things up a bit.
  
  This game is relatively short and can easily be beaten and should be a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmafilms
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  At 12:01 AM on the day that was November 22, 2005, for all of my friends that didn't have a reserve, 
 were off to my house to experience the XBOX 360 and it's hyped launch title, Perfect Dark Zero. 
 But everybody knows that you have to have a secondary title to fall back on just in case you pound 
 that launch title out before your next shift. Standing there at work in the aftermath that was 
 the The Midnight Launch at Gamestop, I needed to decide what other title to pick up. Then in popped 
 into my head, Condemned. That looked good in GI. I was sold out so I called Shawn and Al over at 
 the other store. I was in luck. Shawn said he had a few copies left. So he picked it up and had 
 Al drop it off at my place. Alright I've got my secondary! Let the gaming begin. After playing 
 a decent amount of Perfect Dark, we all said, "Hey, let's check out Condemned." Poor Perfect Dark 
 sat there for the remainder of the morning. With stunning visuals, that really show the power of 
 the 360, and a story that will keep you guessing, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a must own for 
 any fan of the genre. Not to mention the excellent voice acting, and combat system. The game starts 
 at a crime scene where a woman has been murdered. You and two other police officers begin to investigate 
 the area. I don't want to give away anything, so lets just say you then are sucked into the gritty, 
 dark world of Condemned: Criminal Origins. The title really takes advantage of the first person 
 perspective. And makes it look good. All of the worlds that you explore are filled with beautiful 
 textures and a very dark ambient atmosphere, that will keep your heart pumping at dangerous speeds. 
 Never knowing what is going to happen next. You have a diverse selection of weapons as you progress 
 through the game. Everything from pipes, boards, conduit, and rebar, to pistols, paper cutters, 
 shotguns and tasers. But watch out, you may have a firearm, but you also have a limited amount 
 of ammunition. So when you here that click of the trigger, you best rip a pipe off the wall. If 
 you can't find anything right off the bat, you can always fall back to your taser and disarm that 
 scumbag of his sledgehammer or shovel. The only bad thing about the combat system that I can tell 
 you is that it will get very repetitive. One more thing that would be fantastic during your melee 
 onslaughts, would be Resident Evil 4's quick 180 option. But this does not take away from the game 
 as much as people may think. Use all the tools of the trade as you investigate environments to 
 find clues as you hunt down a vicious serial killer. And try to have your mind navigate the games 
 almost halting hairpin turns. I think I smell a sequel for SEGA and Condemned. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschool12790
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is over-all a pretty good game, one of the better titles to come out on the 360 launch 
 date. The game is really more of a story or a movie than a game. Plot is very good, and graphics 
 are amazing for the most part. Sound is excellent in most areas, although lacking in a few spots. 
 The fighting is fair, with the melee off in some places and the blocking very hard to get used 
 to. All around a good game, with a great story line and good graphics, Condemned: Criminal Origins 
 is a good game to rent or maybe buy, replay value is lacking, but definitely worth playing and 
 experiencing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaughtyB007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  
  
  What it's about: You play as FBI agent Ethan Thomas - a member of the Serial Crimes Unit (SCU) 
 - and you've just been asked to investigate a crime scene. But, after investigating the scene and 
 getting your evidence analyzed Thomas and his fellow officers are under the impression that they're 
 not the only ones in the building. Things go from bad to worse as Thomas tracks down the suspect 
 and has his gun forcefully stolen from him by none other than the suspect himself. Soon after, 
 two police officers are killed, and since it was with Thomas' gun he has just become the FBI's 
 best suspect. The bureau has kicked him off the team and is hunting him down like an animal. Ethan 
 Thomas is on a fight to prove his innocence, even if he has to do it on his own. Even if that means 
 running into a lot of dangerous psychopaths along the way.
  
  Review: Condemned plays out like a cross between Se7ev, The Fugitive, and one of Wes Craven's earlier 
 [better] films. This doesn't add much to the gameplay, and sadly, doesn't add that much to the 
 story either. Condemned teases you throughout the entire course of the game. Only letting you know 
 what you need to know, or rather, what it thinks you need to know. This works sometimes, but not 
 the majority of the time. Too many plot holes start showing up rather early into the game, and 
 since the story never even tries to patch some of them up you're left with a lot of unanswered 
 questions in the end. Not a whole lot is known about our hero Ethan Thomas except that he has a 
 "gift", according to the mysterious Vanhorn character who supposedly is trying to help Ethan. However, 
 this gift is never really explained. It is quite clear soon after the story begins that Ethan has 
 some sort of ESP, but the why's and how's are never mentioned. Later in the game it's discovered 
 that the government has a file on Ethan Thomas, hinting that he was an experiment for the government, 
 but Ethan didn't even know the file existed. This is yet another element that comes into the story 
 with the intention of getting your mind cracking to solve it's mysterious purpose, only to vanish 
 and never be spoken of again. The story is, in that sense, very similar to an M. Night Shyamalan 
 film, and like an M. Night Shyamalan film, Condemned even tries to shock and awe you with an amazingly 
 original twist ending, but if you had half a brain you saw it coming from a mile away, and even 
 if you didn't it was still executed so vaguely that you would probably miss it's purpose anyhow. 
 Then there is this back story constantly being thrown in your face during load screens about dead 
 birds, and how their deaths have something to do with a supernatural force of some kind, and how 
 that same supernatural force has also risen the crime rates in the area which points to the idea 
 that it's a contained threat. Yet once again this rather strange but interesting concept doesn't 
 get solved, or even mentioned, in the game. It's just left there wide open, leaving only your imagination 
 to close up the plot hole. Yeah, Condemned has a lot of greatly executed scenes and even more greatly 
 executed scares, but when it's all over it's too little, too late. With so many wasted plot elements 
 I couldn't help but feel as if the true killers in Condemned were the writers themselves.
  
  At first glance Condemned can be mistaken for a horror FPS ala Doom 3, but sitting down with 
 it for just a few minutes and you see that it's something more along the lines of Escape From Butcher 
 Bay. It may be in first person and may let you use fire arms, but Condemned is anything but a FPS. 
 With that said, Condemned is along the lines of a Silent Hill game, just in first person and a 
 little more down to earth when it comes to it's enemies and environments. The gameplay in Condemned 
 is split up into two different categories. If you're not bashing crazy hobo's over the head with 
 a steel pipe then you're probably collecting evidence to send over to Ethan's friend and lab worker, 
 Rosa, via cell phone. The evidence collecting portions of the game can be a little boring and tedious, 
 but that's not such a bad thing if your heart is racing too fast. When you're asked to collect 
 evidence it's usually the only time you're given a break from busting heads. There are various 
 types of evidence you will need to collect throughout the game. These things run from photographic 
 identification, finger prints, DNA, and even marks made on victims bodies or the environment. Don't 
 worry if you didn't go to crime school or aren't taking notes during each episode of CSI you watch 
 though, because Condemned makes the process of evidence collecting simple for anyone to do, but 
 still maintains it's complicated look to add to the experience and feel of the game. The process 
 is made even easier when Ethan gets one of his ESP moments (which he gets a lot) and sees where 
 the evidence is. It's too bad that these helpful aspects are forced on players though, because 
 I'm willing to bet there are at least a few people who bought this game hoping they could brush 
 off human remains looking for that needle in a hay stack for hours on end on their own. Sorry, 
 but this just isn't that game. 
  
  Evidence gathering is so easy it almost feels automatic. When entering an area where evidence is 
 present the view will transition itself into a strange grainy filter and Ethan will automatically 
 pull out the tool he needs to collect the evidence in the area, and you'll pretty much be pointed 
 to where the evidence is because if you leave the evidence area everything goes back to normal 
 and Ethan puts away his tool. Once you take the picture or sample of the evidence it sends directly 
 to Rosa and a little chat is initiated. Luckily the combat in Condemned is a little more involved 
 than the forensic stuff. Ethan's quest for innocence takes place in a really, REALLY bad town. 
 Filled with crack heads, socio-paths, homeless people, and freaks who are all out for blood. Ethan 
 will need a weapon at all times to defend himself, and he's not picky. Condemned first became pretty 
 popular before it's release because it was said you can use virtually anything as a weapon, and 
 that's not too far from the truth. There will almost always be a blunt object you can pick up, 
 rip out, or steal to bash a few faces with, and each one has it's own set of attributes, and some 
 even serve purposes outside of beating people to death with them (go figure!) . You can, for example, 
 rip a steel pipe from the wall, or take the top off of a school desk and use it as a whacking board. 
 You can even rip off mannequin arms, and break a piece off a cloths rack to use as a weapon. There 
 is a good amount of variety there, but there really isn't much to choose from when it comes to 
 fire arms. The standard pistol is there. There is a shotgun, a rifle, and a submachine gun, but 
 that is basically it. Condemned isn't a FPS though, so this doesn't really hurt the game that much, 
 and because of the way the gameplay is you will find that melee weapons are far more useful in 
 this game, and you'll rarely have a fire arm on you anyways. I'll get to why in a bit. 
  
  Ethan does have other means of taking down enemies as well. He can kick enemies if he's unarmed, 
 but I'm unsure why he can't punch them instead. He also carries a taser on him which is undoubtedly 
 the most useful piece of equipment you'll have in the entire game. By stunning enemies you gain 
 the upper hand indefinitely. You'll be able to get in a few extra blows, or even steal the enemies 
 weapon out of their hands and use it against them. If you stun enemies badly enough and bring them 
 to their knees you can perform a finisher. You get to choose between four different finishing moves, 
 each one more brutal than the last. For example, you can break an enemies neck with your bare hands, 
 or smash your head into their face violently. It's really all up to you on how you get rid of them. 
 The enemy A. I. is usually very good. Enemies all seem to have somewhat different personalities. 
 Some will run out at you in full force trying to kill you, while others may be a little less brave 
 and hide behind a pillar or wall and wait for you to come to them. If an enemy drops their weapon 
 or you steal it from them they will immediately go and pick up another one off the ground, or use 
 the same methods you use and rip one out of the wall, off a desk, etc. If they're unable to get 
 away from you to grab a weapon they will still defend themselves in a craze by lunging at you and 
 trying to attack you with their bare hands. Some enemies go down easier than others, and some enemies 
 aren't only focused on you. It's quite common to get into the middle of a fight between two hobos, 
 and quite fun to watch them duke it out until the death.
  
  As I mentioned before, the combat system does have a lot of variety, but it's the depth of it that 
 lacks in it. Much like the annoyance given to you in Doom 3 where you had to constantly switch 
 between gun and flashlight, Condemned forces players to constantly pick up and drop weapons, whether 
 you like it or not. The main issue here is that Condemned only allows you to hold one weapon at 
 a time. Don't expect to be carrying around a pistol and a shotgun, or a fire arm and a blunt weapon, 
 because it just can't be done. What makes matters somewhat worse is that the shooting aspects of 
 the game don't take from FPS's when they really should. Ammo is extremely scarce and separate between 
 guns. You can't pick up or even find ammo boxes, and if you see another pistol laying on the ground 
 you can't take the ammo out of it and place it in yours. You'll have to just drop the one in your 
 hand and pick up the new one. Having to trade a pistol for a pistol or shotgun for a shotgun can 
 definitely get on your nerves after a while. Luckily, the combat system allows you to use any fire 
 arm as a blunt weapon, pistol whipping enemies as an alternative to shooting them and wasting much 
 needed ammo, but even this isn't as useful as you may think. Unlike the melee weapons you find 
 in Condemned, the fire arms aren't very durable. Using the butt end of a pistol or shotgun as a 
 weapon only damages the gun itself, and eventually the gun (and apparently all of the ammo in it's 
 clip) will just break making it totally useless. This is only made more frustrating by the fact 
 that some areas in the game can't be reached unless you have the specific weapon needed. For example, 
 you may need a sledgehammer to break the lock off a gate, or a fire-axe to cut down a door to progress 
 through the level. So if you have a weapon that you don't want to part with you'll have to drop 
 it and constantly run back to where you dropped it at and pick it back up, but once the chapter 
 is done and over with it will all have been in vain anyways, since you start off unarmed at the 
 start of each chapter, which is also a little disappointing at times, especially since most chapters 
 all blend together. 
  
  Ethan can't even hold first aid kits which you will find throughout the game. This means you just 
 have to heal when and where you find them. Some may argue that these things add to the strategy 
 of the game, but I say it only takes away from the realism of it. While all of this may seem rather 
 tiresome or annoying, it's draw backs never make the game feel cheap. For the most part, enemies 
 have the same limitations as you do, so you won't be having to go up against baddies with dual-wielding 
 sub machine guns with infinite ammo. The biggest thing that stands out about Condemned is how well 
 it's melee combat feels. Every blow feels and looks bloody and brutal to the point that the combat 
 alone can get your heart pounding. When Ethan is hit in the face with a wooden board or steel pipe 
 you can almost feel the agony, and even the anger that comes afterwards from just getting hit in 
 the face with a blunt object. Before Condemned, Escape From Butcher Bay was probably the #1 game 
 when it came to melee combat. Condemned has beat EFBB hands down in that department. Condemned 
 isn't an especially long game though. It's spread into ten rather short chapters and can be beat 
 in 10-15 hours, give or take. I personally completed the game in 11 hours, but if you're trying 
 to search every nook and cranny for dead birds, metal pieces, and other forms of achievement award 
 unlockables then I'd be guessing the game will be a little longer.
  
  Condemned is a great looking game without a doubt. The map designs are solid and true to their 
 name. A broken down school looks like what a broken down school in a bad part of town should look 
 like, and a house out in the peaceful countryside never felt so creepy. The lighting and shadow 
 effects all look quite nice, but it's without question that the Xbox 360 can produce better. The 
 character models could have used a little more work though, as they look like something out of 
 a newer Xbox game rather than the high quality Xbox 360 game that Condemned is aiming to be. The 
 physics in the game are quite nice too. Almost everything in the environment is movable, and the 
 way enemies move and fall is believably accurate. Condemned could have used a few more animations 
 for combat, but that doesn't hurt the gameplay too much. All around though I doubt you will find 
 a whole lot to complain about when it comes to the visuals that can be found in this game.
  
  Condemned controls quite well for the most part. Every major action is assigned a button such 
 as using the taser or switching your flashlight on and off, but the one thing that did feel a little 
 off to me was pressing in the right analog stick to perform a kick. It didn't seem like a good 
 button choice since I found myself accidentally kicking enemies when I was frantically trying to 
 block and evade their attacks. This can make things a little bit annoying since kicking leaves 
 you open for attack for a moment. Also, depending on the weapon you're using, blocking can feel 
 pretty unresponsive at times. I would press the block button three or four times before the poor 
 bastard finally decided to cover his bloody head in defense. Other than that the controls were 
 pretty solid, and didn't cause me any issues.
  
  Here is where Condemned takes center stage and shines. The audio in this game is brilliant right 
 from the start, and if you don't have surround sound then you will be missing out on half of the 
 reason you bought this game - to get the crap scared out of you. The voice acting isn't always 
 on the mark. Sometimes the dialogue is delivered too humorously for the moment it's in, but that's 
 all forgiven when enemies are shouting profanity at you while hiding out in a room or running at 
 you with a loaded shotgun. I will warn you now, the F-word is used quite a lot in this game. So 
 much in fact that during my time of playing the game and attempting to count how many times it 
 was said I lost count. With that said, it's pretty obvious this game is not for kids and the sounds 
 alone can be pretty offensive to some people, but that's half the fun anyways, right? The sound 
 effects in the game are all very crisp and clear. You can hear every footstep, every bottle or 
 can that hits or rolls across the floor. You can even hear an enemies heavy breathing when they 
 know you're near. Once again, these sounds are only worth while if you have surround sound, or 
 at least some really good speakers. The ambient noises are great as well, a lot of which sound 
 very similar to games like Silent Hill or The Suffering. To make things even worse (in a good way!) , 
 the sounds of combat sound gruesome with a capital G. The grunts, the loud sound of metal smacking 
 against flesh and bone. It all sounds great, and it's all enough to make the squeamish a little 
 nauseous. But to be honest, Condemned is one of the few games out there that I don't even suggest 
 playing without surround sound, so if you don't have some, get some.
  
  Aside from the alternate ending and achievement awards there isn't much reason to play Condemned 
 more than once. The alternate ending wouldn't actually require you to play through the entire game 
 again anyways, but if you just want to pick the game back up after it's done just so you can bash 
 some hobos face open then that's fine, and I wouldn't be surprised if you did since the combat 
 is actually quite addictive due to it's brutality. However, chances are once you're done finishing 
 the game it'll take a lot more than the combat to get you back in the action, and sadly nothing 
 else is really offered to you. No cheat codes, no weapon unlockables, no bonus chapters. Nothing. 
 With a game that has no multiplayer or Xbox Live features, and is barely 15 hours long, this is 
 a shame. It would have been nice to have something extra given to you after your hard work, but 
 oh well.
  
  When it's all done and over with, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a terrifying and brutal thrill 
 ride with a terrifying and brutal lack of variety. Yes it's violent. Yes it's scary. Yes it's shocking. 
 But in reality, that's all it is. Is this bad? Not at all. Condemned just suffers from being only 
 half or so of what it could be. It's a game with a lot of mystery and adventure, but lacks the 
 explanation and content needed to make these aspects stand tall among the mountains of shock value 
 laid on the players. Because of this, Condemned can be viewed as nothing more than another game 
 designed to teach teenagers how to be killers. But who cares? To put things into simpler terms, 
 the only draw backs here is that the games too short and the combat is too limited. With all else 
 aside, Condemned is a great game, but an ever greater rental. A week is more than enough time to 
 beat it, and enjoy it.
  
  The Sweet - Combat is gory, disturbing, and oh so sweet.
  
  - Evidence collecting is made simple.
  
  - I got to use the word "hobo" four times in this 
 review!
  
  The Good - Enemies are smart enough to back off, grab a better weapon, or hide if necessary.
 
  
  - The sounds alone are almost enough to scare the hell out of you.
  
  - If the storyline is confusing you or you feel too many questions have been left unanswered then 
 you can visit the main site for Condemned to check out some extra back story on what was given 
 in the game. Still though, it's not quite enough to fill all the gaps, but it sure was nice of 
 Monolith to do.
  
  The Bad - Not Xbox Live enabled. Do you have any idea how sweet it would be to hunt the dark alleys 
 for enemies with a team of human players over XBL? It'd be like a first person multiplayer version 
 of Manhunt.
  
  - You can only hold one weapon at a time.
  
  - The storyline has more holes than Swiss cheese.
  
  - For those of you who enjoy spending 
 hours trying to solve a puzzle or mystery: Evidence collecting is [unfortunately] made simple.
 
  
  - I didn't personally have this issue, but a lot of people have been saying that it's easy to get 
 lost in the games sloppy maps. Coming from a person like me who gets lost and stuck in every installment 
 of Resident Evil and Silent Hill, I don't think Condemned is a rat maze as long as you're not rushing 
 through it like a rat in a maze.
  
  The Ugly - Firearms break too easily if used as a melee weapon.
  
  - Why can't I use my shotgun 
 to shoot and break that lock instead? Why force me run through the map looking for a sledgehammer? 
 Why axe the door down when I can just as easily bust it down with my sledgehammer? This makes the 
 game feel frustrating and linear all at the same time.
  
  - Why can I only punch an enemy in the face on special occasion (IE: when they're on their knees) ? 
 What Ethan, don't want to break a nail or risk bruised knuckles?
  
  - This goes for just about every horror game, but if you're not the type of person who gets scared 
 from games like Doom 3, Silent Hill, or The Suffering, then Condemned might not scare you either. 
 If so, then this game is mostly going to be ruined. Getting scared half the death is most of the 
 fun, and if you're not feeling it, then you're not enjoying it like the rest of us.
  
  - The F-bomb is dropped a LOT in this game. If profanity bothers you, then I advise playing this 
 game with the sound down.
  
  The Wished - I just wish Ethan had more mobility. He can't crouch unless prompted to. He can't 
 aim his blows or weapons especially well. He can't jump, roll, or dive. And he can't transform 
 into a monster when made angry. He's just below average. He'll never make it as an action hero...
 
  
  You May Also Enjoy - Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay (XB) , The Suffering (XB/PS2/PC) , 
 Doom 3 (XB/PC) , F. E. A. R. (PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlawsnbc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I first had the pleasure to play Sega's Condemned: Criminal Origins in September at my company's 
 sales conference. They had to pry me away from the controller. It was my favorite game at the show, 
 and is by far the best Xbox 360 launch title. Bashing people's teeth in with a pipe is fun everyday 
 of the week, and definitely twice on Sunday. Sega has always been ahead of their time, and have 
 stolen the show once again.
  
  The story follows you as you track a serial killer through some pretty mean areas. The game is 
 extremely dark and is best played with the lights off. Enemies come out of nowhere in the game, 
 and the best part is, they are never in the same place twice. Each time you replay the game, the 
 enemies are in a different spot. Another great part of the game is the level of sound. At any given 
 time, there are 32 different sounds going at once to create an exceptional ambiance. When you crank 
 up your speakers, you can almost feel what your characters feels. 
  
  On the downside, the learning curve is pretty high for an action game. It took a while to get the 
 hang of investigating crime scenes, and one of my employees just could not grasp the whole limited 
 supply of ammo concept (too much Halo on the brain) .
  
  Anyway, this game is a must have for every Xbox 360 owner and will definitely tide me over until 
 Dead Rising and The Outfit are released at the end of January. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I was very hesitant to play Condemned: Criminal Origins on the Xbox 360. The reason behind this 
 fear was mostly because of its FPS nature, and that I would have to play this without my trusty 
 keyboard and mouse combo. I decided to give it a chance as there is a lack of Xbox 360 games to 
 play ( I already completed Kameo, and did not want to play King Kong till after I saw the movie) . 
 Boy am I ever glad I did. 
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins tells the tale of an agent that got framed for shooting two of his 
 fellow law enforcement agents, and then must find the real killer. The basic story is simple, but 
 contains a very unnerving supernatural flavor. 
  
  The biggest surprise with Condemned is that I would not classify this game as a FPS. Sure you may 
 play from the first person perspective, but so do you in Morrowind, and no one would call that 
 game a FPS. The reality is that Condemned has more in common with Morrowind than with Quake. As 
 you more across the game world, hunting for clues, you will do so at a very slow pace. You will 
 rely more on technique and strategy to win the game, and not by firepower (which is quite scarce) .
 
  
  The first thing I must mention is how impressed I am with the game controls. My preferred choice 
 of controls for this type game, is the keyboard and mouse. But I did find the controls incredibly 
 responsive and natural with the Xbox 360 controllers. Even when the action got frantic, I had no 
 problem focusing my weapon where it was needed. I did have an issue with running, which requires 
 you to press down on your Left analog button, while moving in the direction you wish to run, For 
 some strange reason, I could not master this technique and always ended running for 5 seconds max. 
 
  
  The AI in this game is very advanced. Enemies act like the deranged loonies they are supposed to 
 be. While I have never been physically attacked in real life by some spaced out madman with a door 
 locker, I can only imagine that it would happen in a very similar fashion to what is displayed 
 in the game. I was amazed to see an enemy come near me, see the weapon I was carrying, change his 
 mind, search for a more powerful weapon of his own, before charging towards me, weapons in mid 
 stride.
  
  The graphics in Condemned are a pleasure to look at. While they tend to be a bit repetitive, they 
 are indeed detailed and superior to most offering. They do a wonderful job of portraying a filthy 
 rundown world. The animation is lifelike. So lifelike that you tend to forget you are playing a 
 game, and not watching some late night horror flick. I dare anyone to play this game in the dark, 
 sound turned up, and not jumped once.
  
  Condemned strongest asset is it's sound. If you have your Xbox 360 connected to a 5.1 Dolby Digital 
 surround system, then you are in for a threat. At any time you can hear your enemies running, screaming, 
 or banging stuff. You can also hear every single move you make (all the time wondering of the enemy 
 may also hear these sounds) . Since the game mostly relies on ambient sound and not a soundtrack, 
 this only makes the game more scare and realistic.
  
  The game does have some low points. The game is dark. Very dark. You must spend a lot of time searching 
 with your flashlight. Not really for clues, as the game will tell you when to do this, but for 
 small metal pieces and dead (or near dead) birds laying about to unlock Xbox Achievements. Even 
 if you are not looking for these items, all levels are more or less, hallway and room searches. 
 This slows down the pace (but adds to the spooky nature) . It is also frustrating that you cannot 
 climb over a simple desk, or fences and must find alternate routes to continue the game. 
  
  Finally the game is not very long. I managed to finish it in less than 10 hours of gameplay. 
 But the time you do spend playing will be enjoyable. I also found that once finished, I did not 
 fell the urge to play again. Having said this, I can also add that while not wanting to replay 
 this game, I cannot get the imagery out of my head. I do want to know what will happen now. I am 
 looking forward to the next installment with great anticipation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtrout
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The first few levels of this game are incredibly fun. It can be gory at times, but that's part 
 of its "charm." The fight engine takes some getting used to - it seems like your opponents can 
 hit you from a difficult-to-believe distance. The graphics are amazing, the environments are convincing 
 and creepy, and the story is great. But as the game winds down, it really starts to feel like the 
 developers were running out of time and needed to wrap it up quickly. The story feels rushed, and 
 the ending was confusing and bizarre. Also, the last few levels reverted to the old video game 
 trick of throwing one enemy after another at you, and they are virtually impossible to kill compared 
 to the rest of the enemies. In general, the game is worth its faults. The levels were really well 
 designed, the story was creepy, music was great, voice-overs were excellent, and the creepy horror/psychological 
 thriller aspects (wait until you get to the farmhouse) were very, very well done. I thoroughly 
 enjoyed playing it, though I wish it had been longer and the story not taken such a bizarre twist. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is so scary, no joke. I don't know how to explain how scary it is without joking. It 
 is best if played at night. The random sounds and movement in the darkness scares the bejezus out 
 o' ya. Don't be afraid to buy the game because my review is so scary, because I know thats probably 
 what you are thinking. Really its not as scary as I make it sound, but it still is really scary. 
 Its not only scary but its fun, especially to play with your friends (or if you don't have any, 
 your mom) . So, in conclusion, you should buy this game. Ignore the scariness of my review because, 
 truly, the game is fun (and not too scary!!!)
  
  Thanks.
  
  xoxo Billy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymus72380
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  for some reason the scores on this game are a little to low.. i mean overall the graphics are wonderful 
 and it has a great story. the game play is really smooth so whats the problem? in my opinion its 
 top 5 best launch titles for the 360 and its a must play.....
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   adsjf; alsjdfljsa ads jf; laskd fas df; al fl; as fla 
 sdfla sfa sd adsf dsaljaf; lj as; dl sdlf asd fsadf ad falsd fals flkdj a; s dfas dfa s; f alsf asf 
 as dla; s dfl; ad slld al; akjfd als fals; k flask j ljakdsf ;lakjds flas fjddljasdflkaj ajkd lkjadsf 
 akldf kaldflajhdfkadsjhf kjf adf aldsk fdakls fks f adsf asdfkl as fa f dsa lfkd ka fkdl fas fska 
 hfalk klfa kdfs asldfk asdkfalk fka fa af a a lksjd fasd fas flakjs kfajja akldf afk afkld fa sa 
 kl kdask sd aflkajds fksd kajhska fa a adska dsa dkadfl adsla a akds kfjd akf ak fkla fsdlkajdhsflkahjdsfk 
 ds dsf d dsf ds ds kdafs fds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  Intro::::::
  I don't own this game, so i might not cover all the game, but i have played it so i think i might 
 aswell review it.
  This game is perfect for people that like games liek resident evil and the suffering.
  
  Graphics:::::
 
  The graphics in this game are truly amazing. It feels like you have a scary environment. The environment 
 isn't too dark and has some exciting scenary, which makes the graphics even more amazing. This is 
 whats expected of the Xbox 360's engine.
  
  Story::::::
  The story in this game is excellent, you want to keep on finding more about the story. The more 
 you want to find about this story, the more you play, so you could end up playing this game again 
 and again.
  
  Gameplay:::::::::
  The main point of Condemned. The gameplay is stunning. The weapons are excellent. You can use almost 
 everything in this game as a weapon, so the environment is even more amazing. The Weapons in this 
 game can take damage, and can detoriate [cause less damage on enemies] and can eventually break. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieZaNe13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't going to get this game I'll be honest. Until my friend told me I could beat bums and junkies 
 with everything from pipes to locker doors. That's what sold it to me but upon putting this disk 
 in my Xbox 360 I found out that there was alot more to this game then Bum Fight Vol. 4, this game 
 has first off beautiful graphics in all it's Condemed glory. Everything is there from trash everywhere 
 to hard hats and spray cans of paint. Ok so I beat up some homeless people and round house kicked 
 some trash cans but then you get sucked into the story. May I tell you it's a good one folks. Your 
 this Agent on the trail of a Serial Killer who framed you for killing two cops. The levels are 
 amazing and all very differet, from a condemed department store in all it's post-Christmas gorey 
 to a old closed school with a gym and a crazy/bloody locker room. With twists and turns on every 
 level the game runs a little short, te good ones always do though. I really wish there was some 
 form of multiplayer or something of the sort though. But the online achivements keep you replaying 
 it. Like finding all the dead birds and beating the game using just melee weapons. The sound is 
 amazing as well. I has a 6.1 set up and it scared the crap outta me and I've been watching horror 
 films since I was 5. The value is ok I mean I'm going with a 9 because I think $60.00 is alot for 
 any game even this one which I loved. The controls aren't hard to master and the difficulty was 
 just righ for me. I feel anyone can love this game from gore/horror film fans to fps buffs everyone 
 can ome together and love this title. Now lets hope for a part two.
  From start to end I loved this game and I only hope everyone will check it out because if you know 
 what's good for you, you will be bashing in the faces of many a junkie somewhere in the never future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyer417
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  I just got this yesterday and its awsome! I was on the edge of my seat the whole time I was playing. 
 Using the tools agent Thomas has is really cool and clever. It was nice to get a break from the 
 @$$ kicking you hand out. This game will scare the crap out of you. There is always an enemy around 
 the next corner. The coolest thing was the enviorment. Almost everything is a weopon. A pipe, 2x4, 
 fire ax, and more. There is guns but they only have like 4 shots when you get it. It is a must 
 have if you have a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matu_sillen
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  When I first played Condemned I found myself screaming out loud sometimes because of the great 
 effects and amazing sound in the game. But after playing the game for some hours that exiting feeling 
 of playing more disappears because of you know whats going to happen, even if the end isnt what 
 you would come to expect.
  
  The game looks good even if you dont display it on an HD-TV. I dont think I even can imagine 
 how good a game like this looks on an HDTV. But I do think they could have done some more work 
 with the main characters in the game!! You know sometimes the faces looks quite ugly. 
  
  A big negative thing with the game is that you cant do any combos when the enemies can!
  You 
 can just block and hit. You can also handle firearms but with so few bullets that I headshot is 
 necessary to kill the zombies or whatever. 
  
  I recommend this game to the tough guy who wants to gain a thrilling experience! 
  It is absolutely 
 play worth! But a little to short just like all the first release games.
  
  Good luck! /Swedish 360 lover. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_cloudxx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  To be a bit unorthodox in reviewing, let me first point out the bad.
  
  The only thing bad about Condemned: CO is the promised "fully interactive environment." If you 
 claimed Super Mario Bros. was fully interactive in the late 80's, I guess you could say you could 
 head-plop and jump on anything. In games today, and those forthcoming, fully interactive should 
 strive to be like Half-Life 2-- even Trespasser had a decently fully interactive environment (though 
 I don't imagine most of us remember or even played it) . Sure, in tradition of survival-horror and 
 any other game for that matter, the occasional office desk or wooden shelf remains to be impervious 
 to the strengh of the hero, who manages to go through 10 chapters ripping gas pipes from their 
 fixtures and falling through floors with minimal damage. I just think that games of this nature 
 should be more creative when trying to prevent the player from getting to point B from A. The only 
 time I didn't mind the clump of desks blocking the way was in the school chapter where the Dark 
 one sort of became a sucking void, a magnet to the blockade, and it flung toward the wall it disappeared 
 into. Glass windows should've been made breakable, wooden objects in combination with a heavy swing 
 of the fire axe or sledgehammer should've splintered and broken to pieces, and even though white 
 men can't jump, Agent Thomas should've been able to do a little bunny hop at the expense of a little 
 stamina. Having complained about that...
  
  Condemned: CO was an awesome game. Even when I didn't have the opportunity to play it in the dark 
 with all the lights off, the shuffle and hustle of the fireman with the gas mask still had me spinning 
 around to pinpoint the direction from which he would attack. The sound effects of the game couldn't 
 have been done better, and the music, although not always present, fit where it was placed and 
 made for an eerie, horror-flick feeling.
  
  The graphics were by-far the most detailed to be seen in any current  
 game. The lighting effects rivaled those of Doom 3's, though I didn't notice shadows being cast 
 from the flashlight. My favorite thing to do was to bash a hanging light fixture or a lamp resting 
 on a nightstand and watching the lighting and shadows go crazy. The gleam from the flashlight off 
 of metallic objects and glass, and the subtle reflections in the puddles truly show that Monolith 
 put a lot of detail and artwork into creating a grimy, musty, and rundown setting for this game.
 
  
  Though the adventure part rests on the use of investigating crime scenes with neato tools, it's 
 a no brainer. The only fun with the tools is in Chapter 9 at the Apple Seed Orchard house... and 
 I wish there could've been a bit more of that.
  
  This is a short review and with errors, no doubt, I'll bring this to a close and say that ANY fan 
 of survival horror will get his or her blood curdled more than once playing Condemned while at 
 the same time witnesses beautiful (or beautifully crafted ugly) environments with all sorts of 
 crazies to take a board with many nails to their skulls. Watch out Simpson's aliens! Agent Thomas 
 has the weapon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  First let me get my negative comment out of the way. There is no descent into madness here, you 
 brutally kill people from the get go (or at least beat them to a bloody pulp) . So you start out 
 pretty vicious as it is.
  
  FPM: First Person Melee; this game does it better than any other I've played recently. It isn't 
 perfect and flashy, but it's comfortable and it works.
  
  The forensic tools are a nice touch as well, even though it does the work for you. It breaks up 
 the action and puts you in that vulnerable panicked state (you put your weapons away when you take 
 out your tools) .
  
  Another nice touch for those of you interested in Gamer Points is how they are linked to searching 
 your environment. You can easily hack your way through the game in a weekend romp, but to get a 
 decent Gamer Score, you need to be thorough.
  
  Parts of the game certainly frustrate, but I must admit, I keep coming back to this one. It has 
 a certain lure to it.
  
  The violence is graphic at times and the creepy mood is set perfectly at times for a good scare. 
 If thats your thing, than this is your game.
  
  As a note: Ive seen some questions on blocking. It is essentially a timing thing. Enemies attack 
 differently with different weapons. They also feign strikes as well. Watch them and time your block 
 appropriately (and beware their counter attacks) . A well timed block will absorb all damage and 
 stun them for a free hit, a bad block does nothing. Also, you receive Gamer Points for going all 
 melee strikes (no fire-arm kills) through 1 level, 3 levels and the entire game. If this is your 
 goal, you can still stun your enemies with the stun gun without penalty.
  
  Now get out there and find this guy! People are scared, Thomas.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: notetoself1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty awesome, graphics are pretty good and story and gameplay are awesome. great 
 ending to the story too, very sick game, definately worth purchasing. the weapons are awesome, gore 
 is great, and its scary, what else do you want? people put this game down for such stupid reasons. 
 to tell you the truth if you like scary games and games with good gore and great story lines, this 
 game is a great buy for you, one of the best stories ive ever seen, and the one of the coolest 
 ideas for a game in a while, best xbox360 lauch title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewWriter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I finished the game and couldnt stop thinking about the things I went through in it.
  I must say this is definitely a 360 launch game you must get and pass.
  A lot of people dont 
 fail to mention the games wrongs, claiming its too repetitive or dull etc. But first I must 
 tell you the good or should I say "the insane of the game"
  
  Starting off I had to laugh at Agent Ethan Thomass (the protagonist) face, but as I started walking 
 in the building I realized there was nothing funny about the game.
  Knowing the game you are playing is a horror game you start to feel paranoid, In the beginning 
 you get introduced to the forensic tools you get to use, which reveal hand prints, stains, or anything 
 you would find at a horrible murder scene.
  As you are left by yourself you start to think No wait, I just started but its too late and 
 you are stranded in a dark setting with the angriest people Ive seen since the villagers in Resident 
 Evil 4. 
  
  People are quick to judge within an hour of the game, but it gets in depth once the story starts 
 unraveling, something that will catch the eye of the gamer is the details put into parts of the 
 game, you will find out what Im saying when you play. 
  There are definitely parts that will make you jump, not as much for me, and there are parts where 
 you feel the task at hand is impossible. 
  
  One part I will say was my favorite which is the mall, its so bizarre how the Artificial Intelligence 
 comes into play when you reach the mall.
  Speaking of that, it is part of why I liked the game, is the way the A. I. moves and works with 
 their surroundings, to try to either scare you or bash your brains out. 
  
  Now for the bad  Actually the Good outweighs the 1 or 2 bad things which are minor, so I wont 
 discuss it, cause Im shore youve heard it already. 
  The Bottom line is you need to play this game because it is good, graphically, story wise, and 
 cause if you dont youll miss out on some cool parts within the game; not to mention horrible. 
 
  And since now it counts (Gamer Score) you should pass it and unlock all achievements.
  
  Final thought: Get it, Play it, Appreciate it, and you'll will see why my review makes sense, 
 and even write your own. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  'Condemned' is one of the most intense, creepy and downright brutal games I've played since 'Manhunt'. 
 Imagine a head-on collision between Resident Evil and Se7en, with the nerve-shredding atmosphere 
 of Doom 3 beaten into the mix. If spending 10 hours battering demented crack-heads to death with 
 a metal pipe doesn't seem like something you could enjoy, then stop reading this and go and buy 
 yourself a copy of Kameo. Still here? Good. 
  
  The plot followes an FBI agent on the trail of an crazed serial killer, but soon ends up being 
 framed for the killings of two other policemen. What follows are a storyline that never quite amounts 
 to anything and endless wandering through corridors, bashing criminals' heads in. Thankfully 'Condemned' 
 manages to make the art of battering people to death fun to play, and the melee combat that occupies 
 most of the game is simple, yet brilliantly effective. It's also very satisfying when you see an 
 enemy collapse to their knees before you break their neck, albeit in a very dark & disturbing way.
 
  
  The graphics in 'Condemned' are generally stunning, with some great lighting effects. If I were 
 being really picky I could say that the characters don't look especially fantastic and the darkness 
 is too over-used, but for the most part the game looks excellent.
  
  By far the best feature of 'Condemned' is its sound. The noises the criminals scream at you are 
 unbelievably creepy and make the game all the more terrifying. Add to this their sneaky habits 
 of creeping up behind you or hiding around corners and you've got one scary game.
  
  Unfortunately it isn't a particularly long one; it won't last you much longer than 10 hours, and 
 to be honest that's probably enough. 'Condemned' soon becomes very repetetive, although it remains 
 entertaining throughout.
  
  If you're a fan of horror games such as Resident Evil or Doom 3 then I'd recommend you give this 
 a try. Anyone expecting a fast-paced FPS will be disappointed, but if it's genuinely terrifying 
 scares you're after, and you don't mind some extremely unpleasant content then you could do a lot 
 worse than check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romel80
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much like going through a halloween maze. That's all you do pretty much ... 
 go through buildings like a maze with little sections here and there to do some lame "CSI" work 
 that really don't require you to think but is there just to break the monotiny.
  
  Don't get me wrong. The game does have some scary moments. But all the "maze" like action gets 
 real boring fast. To top it off, you are stuck in a maze with no map. That will get you frustrated 
 fast. The only real reason to keep going is to see what comes next in the maze ... the game doesn't 
 seem to give you any real reason to keep going besides wanting to see what comes next in the "maze" 
 
  
  But yes, there are scary moments. In fact ... a friend of mine that is deep into martial arts and 
 pride fighting was really shaken up during moments of the game. I've played horror games before 
 and this game does have scary moments. But the dull "maze" gameplay outways the scary moments and 
 is enough for me to sell this game so I don't have to waste time trying to finish a game that isn't 
 all that fun. 
  
  Also, the environment interaction is nothing like it was hyped up to be. If you hit a window with 
 a weapon it doesn't break but instead you see concrete come out of the window out of nowhere accompanied 
 by a wall-hitting sound even though you hit a window! If you hit many small items in the rooms 
 you are in they don't fly off but produce the same "concrete-hitting" sound you get with the majority 
 of the game. You just can't grab any weapon you want either like the developers say you can. You 
 can only grab predetermined weapons that the develops allow you to. If you see a lamp on a table 
 you cant just grab it as a weapon. There are a lot of things in the game that you should be able 
 to use as a weapon but can't. This is nothing like the weapon interactivity the developer promised 
 before the launch of this title. You can't just grab any weapon you want. It is all predetermined 
 by the game. 
  
  A positive in the game is the artificial intelligence. The enemies in the game are fairly smarter 
 than most enemies in other games. They will run, hide, try to surprise you, and anticipate your 
 blows with blocks. This is a positive for the game. 
  
  Graphics are great. Thats why I got this game for the 360 launch ... because I wanted a graphically 
 impressive game. The character faces don't look all that great but the environment are definately 
 Next-Gen. 
  
  The sound is right on par with other great survival horror games. There are great horror ambiance 
 sounds right on par with others. 
  
  But again, this is basically a brawler game put into a halloween maze with (in my opinion) a dull 
 story in the background. I'm going to play Resident Evil 4 or Doom 3 before I ever think of playing 
 this survival horror game again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wreeek
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  As is, this game is probably the creepiest thing I've played other than the Silent Hill series. 
 Despite bad acting, bizaar storyline that doesn't add up right, and gameplay that somtimes harder 
 than it's worth, the game still offers a glimpse of graphics yet to come on the 360, and an envionment 
 so disturbing and uncomfortable you somtimes think to yourself "Why in the hell would anyone want 
 to be here?" The AI is incredible. It's vicous, it's fast, it doesn't fret to thwack you across 
 the face with a wood plank or a sledge, and the enemies are not to pleseant to look at, especially 
 in the abandoned subway area. The AI also thinks on its toes, deciding wether to hit you and run 
 off to a corner to hide and pop out at you (though it often picks a bad or obvious spot) , or stay 
 and beat you to a bloody pulp. As for the environment, I already stated that its creepy as hell. 
 In what way, though? There are settings that are just filled with gritty and dirty floors walls 
 and ceilings loaded with trash or whatever could possibly be there. At the same time, it's always 
 dark or shadowy, and void of life, save for the indigenous drugadicts, crackheads, bandits and 
 crooks, phsycos, ruthless killers, and whatever the hell those white-ish zombie-like people who 
 never saw the sun were. Oh, and the dead and dying birds. As for the forensics, they play out pretty 
 well, but they could've expanded and made more of a challenge, and the level design was heavily 
 recycled. As for combat, I don't think I've seen anything more ruthless than the fighting in here 
 when it comes to melee. Shooting however is a bit off and when you realize that you only get one 
 clip per gun, you're kind of dissapointed. However melee has not disapointed me yet and has proven 
 itself a well designed system of combat (though somtimes I feel that he swings WAY too slow for 
 even some of the heavier weapons but that's just me) . Tazing the enemy and ripping his weapon from 
 his hand is probably the single most greatest feeling in the game. There's nothing like zapping 
 the guys with gas-masks on, yanking his sledge, and bludgeoning the side of his face into submission. 
 That, or using his (and somtimes her) gun on them. The sound makes your hair stand on end and provides 
 an undetached eerie feeling that connects itself well with the horror. I'm not quite through with 
 the game and I'm not saying to run out and buy a 360 just for this game. However, if you DO have 
 a 360, I would recommend purchasing the game or at least renting until you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmeister
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  Il start by focusing on the good points, the games graphics and sound are very good at portraying 
 the dark and dingy atmosphere the game sets. Using your flashlight you can carefully scan the walls 
 and check out their amazing definition. The sound of two drugged up phycos jumping you from behind 
 will send shivers down your spine. Now for the bad! My main problem with the game is the similarity 
 of the background, small dingy little rooms. I know you're probably thinking "It's a horror dumbass" 
 but the problem is with all these dark rooms it never really gives the game the opportunity to 
 show off what the xbox 360's graphics engine can do. The first time you take control you think 
 wow the graphics are amazing but after that the repatition of backgrounds makes it very hard to 
 care any longer.
  
  The gameplay is fun, but just like the backgrounds gets very repetitive very early. The fighting 
 controls are very good and easy to use but eventualy you begin using the same combos over and over 
 and...............
  
  I think for the money it costs you would be better to buy a xbox game like prince of persia 3 and 
 pocket the difference. The best 360 games at the moment are NFS, Perfect Dark & Call Of Duty 2.
 
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review, any questions and you can message me or add Vandinho on xbox live! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, as much as I love the survival horror game, I have to admit that 
  the evolution of the genre has come slowly. Now, Condemned doesn't exactly rewrite it, but it does 
 advance it in the right direction. With a new system comes new capabilities, and the people behind 
 Condemned have managed to put these capabilities to good use. The lighting is awsome, the textures 
 are awesome, and at anytime, the environment around you can come alive. The whole game world seems 
 alive, and you never know when you are gonna be attacked. 
  Storywise, it' s hot and cold. Through most of the game, it's pretty average, although tracking 
 a serial killer is pretty cool. But near the end, things go crazy, and I really felt the game wrapped 
 up in a great way. A bit confusing, but great nonetheless.
  But what would a survival horror game be without it's scares. While I'm not one to scare easily, 
 this game made me nervous on more than a few occasions. There are two or three environments, especially 
 the end, that will creep you out! The first person view that the game uses really immerses you 
 into it's world.
  I guess my biggest complaint is the fact that it is a slow-paced game in which you have to click 
 in the left analog stick to run, and that's a chore. Also, so levels can be a bit confusing, especially 
 with no map. Finally, while I like the ending (especially the last boss fight) , it doesn't do a 
 good job of summarizing the game's plot. Then again, maybe they did that on purpose?
  None of these complaints are major, and if you are a fan of survival horror, you absolutely must 
 play this game. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  This was actually the game I was most looking forward to for the 360. It looked good and unique. 
 Turns out that when I played it, it wasn't what I had hoped it to be. For starters, the whole nothing-but-melee 
 concept is awesome, but Condemned fails to use it to its full potential. You will soon find out 
 that there is actually a very limited number of melee weapons throughout the game. Some of which 
 are only particular to one stage. There are really only two types of weapons that feel different: 
 the really heavy weapons (axe, sledgehammer, crowbar, shovel, oops, I think I just named them all) 
 and the every other weapon. The heavy weapons take longer to swing and do more damage, while every 
 other weapon is medium swing and little damage. As far as the combat goes, it just doesn't feel 
 like your hitting the people. It's not nearly as immersive as I thought it would be. Theres no 
 pipes or axes that get stuck into your enemies, its just hits them and they do this unrealistic 
 ragdoll to the floor. The finishing moves your get are cool, but get old really quick, because 
 there are only 4 of them. You will also find that the game is very repetitive. The sad thing is 
 that the game get repetitive within a 10 hour period because the game is only that long. I must 
 say that the game did cause me to jump or get frightened pretty often because the guys would come 
 out of nowhere and hit me. What really kept me interested in the game was its story. It got repetitive 
 pretty quick, but I still wanted to find out what was causing all these people to be like this. 
 You will find that once you get to the end of the game and finish it that the story tells you absolutely 
 nothing. The end of the game makes no sense at all and clarifies nothing, leaving you very disappointed. 
 The sound is one of the best things about the game. It really is good because you can hear your 
 enemies coming and them yelling at you. That I thought was the best part of the game. But really, 
 it all boils down to this: The games concept is cool but not pulled off correctly, it will scare 
 you often, the gameplay is really repetitive, the storyline fails to deliver anything, and the 
 game offers nothing past the 10 hour story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daylightsend7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The scoop on Condemned: The game starts you off following fellow SCU agents into an abandonded 
 warehouse investigating a serial killing that had just taken place. From there your character is 
 thrown into a dark, gritty, and intense environment. I was real surprised with the lighting effects 
 in the game. INCREDIBLE! This game is so realistic looking, that the whole time playing, I don't 
 think my heart pace slowed... if anything it would jump up quite a bit during high-risk sections 
 of the game. Just think of this game like Seven, meets SAW, meets CSI, meets Resident Evil. The 
 violence and brutality is def rated mature. Your character even has finishing moves while an enemy 
 is on his/her knees begging for mercy. Real-time blood splatter, chunks of bone particals, flesh, 
 and blood accumulate on your weapon of choice with each blow, and you better know how to block.
 
  
  The only thing I didn't like about the game was that fact that there is no jump button. So little 
 obstacles like a 6-inch stack of 2x4's can render the path you would like to explore impassable. 
 There is no crouch button either, you simply walk up to an obstacle, and if one that the game allows 
 you to get pass you press the action "A" button. Other than that, I would seriously get the 360 
 just for this game. Amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubrick_11442
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  in condemned you play as agent Ethan Thomas who is framed for the murder ot two of his fellow officers, 
 you must then attempt to track down the real serial killer to clear your name. The graphics in 
 condemned are pretty good just a few little things like moving objects out the way you don't push 
 them they just kinda move themselves, but the textures are definatly one of the best if not the 
 best i have seen. The weapons in condemned are pretty much anything you can find close by, there 
 are guns but they are few and far between, and most of the time when you finally do get a gun it 
 has little or no ammo left. The sound in condemned truly is what brings it to life and gets you 
 all agitated and sometimes just damn right terrified. Just hearing a crazed maniac muttering to 
 himself round a corner is enough sometimes to chuck the pad and reach for the off button as quick 
 as possible. I don't really think the value is there in condemned it only took me roughy 5 to 6 
 hours to work through on the normal setting, so really not alot with only 10 chapters lasting about 
 30 minutes each, apart from that it was very enjoyable with alot of plot twists the story is tight 
 you will be guessing until the very end. This is a game i would recommend you rent instead of buy 
 as it really isn't long enough to warrent a purchase., and could easily be finished in a 2 night 
 rental period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was quite good! If you liked F. E. A. R., you will find a very similar game formula. Here 
 are my ratings:
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) :: 9
  Story (out of 10) :: 8
  Graphics (out of 5) :: 5
  Multiplayer (out of 5) :: N/A
  
  First off, this game does an amazing 
 job at creating scary atmospheres. In almost every level you are there wondering "is someone gonna 
 jump out? Am I gonna die here and now?" When a game makes you think this 24/7, then it's good. 
 The only problem with this? The darkness. The game is so dark that I had the flashlight on for 
 almost the entire game, and after a while, you just get tired of the lack of light. But the overall 
 theme is that the environments are perfectly done.
  
  Now I won't spoil anything, but the story is pretty good. If you played F. E. A. R. (which I also 
 reviewed) you will get the same feeling at the end: "What just happened?" The story and plot conclusion 
 really makes you think and wonder what really happened. As soon as I beat the game I went to several 
 forums that I am at to discuss it. All I can say is this: Good story, weal overall resolve but 
 definite room for sequel.
  
  I kinda wish they did MP for this, but unfortunately they didn't. If they did I am guessing it 
 would be a lot like Splinter Cell, where you creep through the dark and smash someone to death. 
 But they didn't make it, so you are buying a SP game only that roughly lasts 9 to 10 hours. (Yea, 
 another bad part of the game. It is really short, but worth every minute.)
  
  Last but not least: the graphics. As a launch game for the X360 I expected top notch graphics. 
 You know what? Monolith delivered. The skin seems a bit glossy (what I call Doom 3 syndrome) but 
 the details in characters, environments and weapons are just intense! The level of detail just 
 made you feel like you were actually living in Thomas' shoes (the main character) .
  
  I loved this game, and as of right now, it and Need For Speed are the two best x360 launch games 
 that I've played. Final word: A! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotokan_42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a first-person-shooter/brawler in a survival horror type setting, 
 without the zombies. You play as Ethan Thomas, a forensic examiner who's taken to places where 
 recently, there has been some horrible murders have occured. Eventually, the serial killer that 
 you track down, frames you for the murder of two fellow officers that you know, and in order to 
 clear your name, you must track him down and kill him. On the upside of things, gameplay style 
 is in first-person to give you the feeling of a dark and sinister feel to it. You'll be able to 
 carry weapons, mostly brawling weapons like pipes, 2x4, slughammers, locker doors, and crowbars. 
 At times you'll find pistols, shotguns, and machineguns. However, the ammo's very limited, so keep 
 checking your ammo to see how much you have left. You'll also carry a taser gun, which can stun 
 an enemy long enough to either take their weapon and use it against them, or if you have a firearm 
 or if you take it from them, a quick shot to the head will do it. The game also has finishers in 
 which when your enemy is on their knees, you can either Ram, Snap, Stomp, or some other action. 
 Enemy AI is smart, so they'll wait in one place and set a trap for you, or they'll pop out of nowhere, 
 and to top it of, they're ruthless when they either shoot you or hurl their weapon around like 
 a crazed monkey on steroids. 
  
  On the downside, the game's short, so you can beat the game in like 10-15 hours. But the REAL bummer 
 is that this game has NO multiplayer. Imagine if they had it, two or more people, online or offline, 
 carring brawler weapons and hitting each other til the death. This game would've gotten a much 
 higher rating than probably any other game by far, in my opinion. 
  
  Overall, the game has a dark storyline that looks as pleasing as the game was intended to be. Wish 
 there was some multiplayer, as the game would be more enjoyable with others. This game is a must 
 buy for 360 if you like a dark and gritty storyline.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerblaze
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game starts you off with a bucket of cold water, graphics are phenomenal, sound is really 
 good despite if you have surround sound setup, gameplay is pretty simple but challenging, the story 
 is very original and does a really great job at gaining your interest, overall this is a title 
 that you should not miss specially right now that the amount of titles is very limited, this is 
 defenetly a next gen title despite of what any review says. do not spect to use lots of guns since 
 this is a hand combat game. The scare factor is REALLY UP THERE, If you dont want to buy this game 
 i recommend that you rent it first, (youre gonna have to wait until next year to rent it, is not 
 availble) and by the way you need to have HD TV to get the best out of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNDZA222
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  I kept track of this game ever since it was announced for the 360 and when it came out, I got it 
 right away. Condemned is a great game that really sucks you in to its world. However, it does get 
 a little bit tedious. That's okay, though, if you're a true survival horror fan.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are very well laid out, but it leaves you wanting more. There is not much 
 you could do in the game. The promise of grabbing anything around you to use as a weapon is not 
 entirely true. There are just a few preset items you can utilize. The melee combat is pretty good, 
 but does not compare to Chronicles of Riddick. However, all this can be overlooked because the 
 game is just fun.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are quite amazing. You will not be disappointed in how everything looks. 
 Everything is just perfectly detailed and you just have to see it to believe it.
  
  Sound: The sound is very immersive and scares the heck out of you at times. Like the graphics, 
 you definitely need to experience it to understand what I'm talking about.
  
  Value: This is where the game loses some points. After you're done with it, there's not much to 
 do except maybe go back and find all the achievements. It seems kinda boring after you're done.... unless 
 you feel like doing it all over again that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Condemned along with some other games at launch, and I have to say that it is clearly 
 the most ambitious game for 360 to date. Although I would no say its the best game out for the 
 system, it brings something new to the table. A whole new first-person melee oriented horror game 
 is created here using ideas previously seen, but this game brings them all together with ease and 
 the game isn't overly hard as I feared it may be. It is just challenging and fun. The graphics 
 and sound for Condemned are phenomenal. The gameplay is very smooth and works well even though 
 it uses every button on the controller including all four directions on the d-pad. Condemned is 
 a must have for mature 360 owners, for it is the doorway to the next generation of console graphics 
 and sound and physics. Pick it up or get it via Gamefly. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishpride17123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  While playing this i was encountered by jumpy moments every 5 minutes. The graphics in this game 
 is one best i have ever seen, if you have hdtv it will look even better. be prepared to be jumping 
 out of your seat ALOT. the gameplay is amazing when you start walking down the stairs and you get 
 hit with a shovel in the back of the head you actually feel like you personally are taking damage. 
 when you are smaking a drug addict in the face with a 2 by 4 it actually feels real. on the bad 
 side, the levels are very tedious... thats about it.
  there really is nothing to find wrong about this game. if you have or getting an xbox 360 i recommend 
 picking this up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  This title is a must-own for fans of the Survival Horror genre. It showcases the power of the 360 
 beautifully, with incredibly detailed graphics, smart AI, and smooth gameplay. The sound effects 
 are the best of any game I've ever played, putting a chill down your spine. The game is unpredictable, 
 in that events occur that will definitely have you jumping out of your seat. This is definitely 
 an edge-of-your-seat thriller. The creepy and deranged atmospheres and events are absolutely brilliant, 
 unexpected, clever, and shocking. The game is darker and more warped (again, in a good way) than 
 the Silent Hill games. The lead character has episodes of insanity a la Eternal Darkness that will 
 leave you squirming in discomfort (again, in a good way, this is a survival horror game!) The CSI-type 
 investigation elements could have been further utilized, and there could have been more variety 
 in combat, but those factors aren't enough to keep this game from being almost perfect. This is 
 the best Survival Horror game ever in my opinion, yes, better than RE4, Silent Hill, Eternal Darkness. 
 No Survival Horror fan should be without this masterpiece. I should warn anyone who doesn't like 
 graphic violence or has nightmares easily that you may want to stay away from this game. This is 
 also my favorite of the Xbox360 launch titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinfelker42
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  ... how's that for evidenced of a scary game. I enjoyed Condemened enough that I didn't play any 
 other games until I beat it, which is rare for me cause I normally like to change up what I'm playing.
 
  
  Condemned's most striking feature is in the graphics department, it's use of gritty and light changing 
 filters to provide an overall eeeriness.
  
  The hand to hand combat is hard to master, especially when you get to later opponents, but it is 
 better than many games that have tried to implement it. Each of the melee weapon you pick up has 
 4 stats: speed, damage, block, reach. THis provides an interesting mixup when choosing weapons. 
 IF you're lucky enough to find a gun, you better use it sparingly, cause you won't find any extra 
 ammo laying around (though there seems to be plenty of med kits sprawled about) .
  
  My complaints on gameplay are A.) there is a lack of stealth. You can't sneak up on anyone, they 
 always know you're there, even if you turn off your flashlight and B.) there were a lack of memorable 
 moments, such as in this one room, all these manequins suddenly appear around you. Most of the 
 time you're meandering pathways (very linear pathways) , though still breathing hard not knowing 
 who's around the corner.
  C.) You have to have one of threee special melee weapons (Fire axe, sledgehammer, crowbar) from 
 time to time in order to open a door and progress to a new area. nOw i understand the need that 
 you have to find them in some other part of the level so that you can't just go straight there 
 from the start, but this seems so old school to me. Why couldn't we D:) get more use out of the 
 cool forensics tools and find clues like passcodes or lock combinations to get through. The use 
 of forensics tools was too easy, you were told when to use them and how to use them every time 
 you did. Why couldn't I have gotten some supernatural feeling with a filter change on the screen 
 to let me know there could be something in the area, break out my tools, and go at it on my own.
 
  
  SO my only real complaints are gameplay, there were no camera issues since it was first person. 
 THe graphics are incredible, with the added use of eerie filters. The sound in 5.1 will make you 
 do a 180 from hearing a scuttle behind you.
  
  Rent or Buy? HArd to say, I don't regret buying it (mainly because as of now, there aren't many 
 360 titles) , because I Would like to go through it again on harder difficulty, but it is not a 
 very long game, and you can beat it in a couple days.
  
  I commend Monolith on their first try, I enjoyed this much more than sIlent hill and old school 
 Resident evils. If they can add more depth to the gameplay department in part 2, this game will 
 rule the Horror Survival gender, which I attribute to the added depth of using futuristic Forensic 
 Tools. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitereaper
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  WOW I am an FBI Agent with a 9mm pistol that only holds up to 9 rounds and I guess I decided not 
 to carry extra clips! But wait theres more! Not only did I decide not to carry extra ammo but I 
 guess I also forgot to wear a holster for my gun. This would explain why I couldn't holster my 
 firearm while I pick up a 2x4 or axe to fight with. I read the reviews of limited ammo but I didn't 
 think they would limit it to the actual weapon. The graphics and sound was great and the story 
 seems very interesting but with the sorry gameplay I just could not continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redrummy2013
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  This is an Instant Classic or a Highly Addictive Game... Why? Because this
  game revolutionize the Horror games that have ever been created. The
  Sound effects are amazing 
 and blood pulsing. Darkness is the key to
  success for horror games. The Villians of this game are a little letdown
  but the rest of the 
 gameplay is just amazing. When you encounter a
  villian the fights are very realistic. The Graphics are another key for a 
  successful game, and 
 condemned is just another game with very
  vivid graphics. I agree with other reviews who put 9 out of 10 or
  10 out of 10. I would reccomend 
 of purchasing this Fantastic game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESTSIDECALI
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  omg.. first and for most this game is not for little kids. im 15 and this game down right scared 
 the crap out of me. condemmed is a really really great game. the graphics are great and the gameplay 
 is at its best. just a day after the launch of the 360 i went to my local game store and got condemmed 
 ( dad had to be with me tho due to the fact im not over 18) anyways i got the game went home and 
 after the first 10 mins i was in aww. i couldnt bealive a video games could scare a person so much. 
 this aint no resident evil, this game makes the resident evil game look like a lil gurl when it 
 comes to scare factor. i just had to show this game to my girlfriend so i called and she came over 
 turned all the lights out i let her play for a while and she got so fricken scared she almost pissed 
 her pants ( sorry samantha but it was so funny) she got hella scared so we ended cuddleing up with 
 each other haha. but the point is that this game truly will sacred the hell out of u. it did to 
 me and i try to be the tuff guy all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xero71k
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game that pulls you into its world. The sound, story, and atmosphere sucks you 
 right in. First off you have stunning graphics that sometimes looks so good its scary. Then you 
 have an amazing story that keeps you interested at all times. Add in some frightening sound and 
 fun gameplay and then you have Condemned: Criminal Origins. The graphics are beautiful but the 
 character models sometimes look a little funny. And the gameplay yet fun sometimes gets a little 
 bit repetitive. Other then a few minor trips this is a really solid title. This is one of the best 
 single player launch games ever, and I think it should not be missed by anyone whos into these 
 type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I thought that despite the slow paced gameplay, that this is by far one of the scariest games I've 
 ever played, plus crackin heads has never looked this good before. Resident Evil 4 may be one of 
 the best horror games ever, but these graphics surpass that game I believe, and I also don't ever 
 recall screaming out loud while playing it. If you're wanting a fast past shoot-em-up game like 
 RE then this game probably isn't for you. On the other hand, if you're looking for a truly frightening 
 experience full of psychological and great plot twist, then turn off the lights, turn up the volume, 
 and get your Depends ready! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game has a very interesting approach the Horror-Survival games as you track don a  
 and if your still with me you basicly are approached by many pop-out enimies screaming and wailing 
 bats at you! The suspence is a good reason to pick up this game. Although there is no multiplayer 
 that kinda limits the value unless if your the kind of person that likes to replay the single player 
 over and over again to find all the secrets (btw this game has many) then you will become bored 
 of the game after awhile...
  
  verdict: rent
  
  This game has a very interesting approach the Horror-Survival games as you track don a  
 and if your still with me you basicly are approached by many pop-out enimies screaming and wailing 
 bats at you! The suspence is a good reason to pick up this game. Although there is no multiplayer 
 that kinda limits the value unless if your the kind of person that likes to replay the single player 
 over and over again to find all the secrets (btw this game has many) then you will become bored 
 of the game after awhile...
  
  verdict: rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played Riddick? Well the graphics remind me of Riddick but a little better and as 
 far as frame rates go maybe a little smoother. In my opinion this game's frame rates could have 
 been a lot smoother. Yeah, if you move the joystick nice and slow left or right your eyes don't 
 stress and the frame rates look decent but, if you move the joystick fast you will see lag and 
 stuttering in the frame rates. The sounds in this game are amazing, the visuals are very very intense! 
 If you have kids under the age of 10 keep'em away from this game otherwise they will be traumatized.
 
  
  GameSpot should really have an Attribute to rate the game's frame rates. I'm 38 and i've been a 
 gamer for 10 years now and if the frame rates are not smooth it really can hurt the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHUNTER11111111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  its finally here, the game that marilyn manson fans, goths, pagans hav been waitin for. well, i 
 guess a few other people like me have been dying to play it too, and im a skater. but really, its 
 here. i have been wanting this game since i first saw it in game informer. and i am certainly not 
 disapointed. this game although a little short, it is a absolute scare filled, bloody melle weapon, 
 action paked thrill ride. the graphics are absolutly fonamanle, sound mixes in with the graphics 
 to scare the living hell out of you. this is the scariest game ive ever played too. the story is 
 very rich and fafilling and the weapons are incredible, yet simple. if u hav a 360, u should at 
 least rent it. but highly recommened to survival horror fans. oh yeh , it really does feel like 
 ur beatin the living out of someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start things off I had high expectations for Condemed but feel let down. The gameplay is 
 original and innovative and fits the horror style perfectly. Gameplay can get slightly repeatative 
 just wacking away at enemy after enemy though. The controls are solid; easy fighting system. The 
 creators of Condemed took relism to a whole new level with the fact whats in the gun ammo wise 
 is what you get which I found pretty cool. As far as the story in this game..... well lets just 
 say after I beat it I sat there going "WTF just happened" and I still dont exactly understand it. 
 Grapicly the gameplay is pretty impressive, allthough every time I saw a cutscene all i could think 
 was DOOM 3 engine. So definatly try this game out.... maybe not worth your $60 but a good rental 
 since the game is a little on the short side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autolycus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up my 360 games such as COD2 and PGR3 were all out. When xbox came out I never 
 heard of HALO and I thought I would give that a try and now look. Am I saying that Condemed: Crimal 
 Minds is better then HALO? Someways yes, but mainly no.
  
  First of all, I didn't really think this was going to be scary. I'm 25 years old and the only things 
 that scare me are loud noises during a movie (such as people screaming, things going crash, etc) . 
 Well within the first level, I found myself jumping (lightly) about 3 times. @ the time, I didnt 
 have a memory device and I just wanted to play something on the night/day of the launch. After 
 realizing how scary it was, I decided to wait for a better time.
  
  Tonight a friend and myself put it in because we figured it would be entertaining. Boy was it ever. 
 Without runing anything, this is by far much scarier then any movie I have ever seen and any situation 
 I could think of. I found myself yelling @ the top of my words trying to find a spot to hide in 
 the game.
  
  As you have probably read, the levels pretty much run the same thing. Tight halways with hard to 
 see around corners. However we are about 5 hours into it and we were scared enough to not want 
 to play anymore. Story keeps you going and the interuptions are perfectly times. The graphics are 
 pretty darn good for a 1st generation title and the sound is AMAZING. if you a big screen TV w/ 
 surrond sound. PLAY THIS GAME IN THE DARK, ALONE. I played it with a friend (like i mentioned earlier) 
 and we were both scared. 
  
  It would great to play as a couple (boyfriend/girlfriend, husband/wife, etc) . You can take turns 
 with the remote, considering the levels last longer then 10 mins. It'll probably get to a point 
 where you dont want to take your turn. Am I gauranteeing this will scare you? heck no. I am sure 
 there are some Marines or something out there that this wouldn't even budge. 
  
  However the story is great, graphics are superb (great bump maps) , sounds is amazing. Everything 
 is scripted perfectly. WAY TO GO SEGA. 
  
  Negatives (in my opinion) . Not open ended, which is also a positive. But when first playing it takes 
 a bit to get used to. Some of the sercrets are pretty difficult to find. and it makes you NOT want 
 to walk down the halway to get to bed, in the dark! Pick this game up if you are looking for a 
 good solo or couple game. Its better then any scary movie you could think of. being in control 
 of it all makes it that much scarier. Its faster paced the Fatal Frame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2gtasarcua
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is a absolute great game. You play as a officer named eathan Thomas 
 who is framed w/ the murder of two cops but he didnt do it cuz the crime was commited by a serial 
 killer w/ Ethan's gun. Now Ethan has to go and prove that he is innocent. Thats pretty much the 
 story and the gameplay first starts u off w/ doing forensic stuff like finding evidence and the 
 reason for death in some cases. In the game u can get diffrent kinds of weapons like pipes, 2x4s, 
 sledgehammers, axes and other stuff. In the game u pretty much go around killing these crazy hobos 
 that are trying to kill u for some reason. Sometimes u get guns like pistols and shotguns but it 
 is very rare and when u get a gun the bullets that are in the gun are the only ones u get for that 
 gun so use wisely. The enemy AI id pretty good and if they see u have like a sledgehammer and he 
 has a pipe or something he will go and find a better weapon and tear it off the wall. The enviroment 
 is close quarters so if u go running all over the place and dont look before u go the crazy hobo 
 will come out and probably kill u so u have to be smart making yur moves. The graphics are very 
 good some parts of the enviroment are a little bland but besides that the graphics are pretty good. 
 Going back to the gameplay department the melee combat w/ yur weapons feels solid. When u hit some 
 one u really feel like yur hitting someone w/ a lead pipe or what ever u have. All in all this 
 is a great game and should be a definte pick up for anyone who like the survival horrow genre. 
 Of all the launch games this is the only original game for the launch. So if u want something new 
 and exciting go and pick up a copy of this game. Reasons why u wouldnt want to pick this game up 
 is the kinda short single player which leaves pretty much nothing else after u finish the single 
 player but if u want a solid, compelling , exciting and original game go get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentSiege
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of the most creepiest games made in years. The game could be 
 best described as a modern version Doom 3, except with a melee focus. Condemned is a very very 
 dark game, and at that it's very unsettling. The environments look all too real, most likely because 
 they were taken from actual condemned buildings. The way light interacts with the environment is 
 amazing as well. Also, the sound is probably the greatest addition of the game, and is unparalleled 
 by any current game on the market. 
  
  The main focus of this game is melee combat. It pulls that off extremely well. Never has a hit 
 from a crowbar felt so real. The sound of the crowbar hitting the opponent also sounds disturbingly 
 accurate. Speaking of the sound, while wondering through the environments you will often hear your 
 opponents running away from you and hiding. This adds to the creepiness factor because it sounds 
 dead on. The way your opponents move is also extremely realistic, the way they react when they 
 are hit to when they run away from a losing battle only to hide and pop out and hit you. 
  
  The story is also very good as well. Overall Condemned is a very good game, however it suffers 
 from being a one trick game, but at which it does very well. If you choose not to buy this game, 
 at least rent it because it's the ultimate rental. I don't think anyone will be dissatisfied with 
 the great gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Its_Quagmire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start, this game attempts to scare you with its creepy atmosphere. One of my favorite 
 things about this game, was the fact that there wasn't ammo just conventiely placed throught rooms 
 for you to have. It was much more realistic, where you would have to find someone elses gun, and 
 if they took a couple rounds at you, you might only end up with one bullet left in the gun by the 
 time you get it. The A. i. is brilliant in this game. If you have a gun, the enemy will run for 
 cover, hoping to suprise attack you when you pass.. And if you have a big weapon, they will just 
 look for a bigger one. This game really makes you use your environment to survive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sLiPkNoTOOL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, I played it in one sitting. Its got okay graphics (compared to Perfect 
 Dark) . But has great gameplay, it was kind of something new. like a first person version of Silent 
 hill. The sound was excellent, hearing all the different objects move when an enemy comes running 
 in. The only complaint I would have would be that it was a little too short. It had a very good 
 story to it though. Definatly a buy. Also there is a nice array of bonuses that you can unlock 
 and get points for on the xbox menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stefano18
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics, not the best I hav seen but they are really good. Sound is really good. I dont like 
 the fact that your int he same area the whole game, it all looks the same and gets boring after 
 awhile. Good solid title but not my cup of tea. You should rent this game before you buy it. Its 
 got to be one of the scariest games ever made but thats only if you have surround sound. This game 
 was a decet launch title but I can't see myself ever owning this game. Alot of people will defanantly 
 enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game is just scary plain and simple. me and a group of frends had to switch off controllers 
 over and over again because we couldnt handle the atmosphere that this game brings to the senses. 
 the story is amazing. the gameplay is really hard but challenging making it a more different FPS 
 than most games. the sounds are freaky and not easy to adjust to. your character "sees" things 
 throughout the game making it harder to play because your scared sh**less. anyone who is a fan 
 of silent hill or fatal frame would love this game. pick it up. scare yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game I would compare to DOOM 3 in that is is dark, creepy, and very nice to look at. The game 
 play is pretty solid, with some stuff I would rather find on my own (clues and such) and the combat 
 system is pretty cool - but kinda tricky to figure out when to use your finishing moves (WHICH 
 ROCK!!) I found myself in awe withthe graphics and "set design" in this game. The sound is creepy 
 and fitting and the yells and screams of the bad guys in the will follow you to bed! I like the 
 gamer points system - which i found to be a pretty good way to WANT to hunt down birds and metal 
 (stuff in the game...) and enjoy the way the story leads you along and makes you want to find out 
 more. A very uniqe type of game ( only have played about 4-5 hours of it) but a good selection 
 for anyone into thiller style games with alot of jump out of your shoes moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onemanarmy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  I have always liked the concept of survival horror but always found them too depressing eg Silent 
 Hill 3 & Siren. You never feel in control too a point it just too much and you just want to put 
 in katamari instead to get rid of the dread feeling. Condemned on the other hand is a little different, 
 instead of feeling dread, you feel excited like watching a horror movie, but you know you can kick 
 ass and fight back. 
  
  I have played almost up the final level and let me tell you, it actually gets better and better 
 the deeper you get into it. Does it get old? Maybe if youre a Gamespot Reviewer rushing through 
 the game to put out his review on time. 
  
  If you are an adventurer who thought about exploring the dark corners of basements, abandon schools, 
 half burned down libraries, old abandon rickety houses, subway stations, abandon malls, office 
 buildings, then this game is really for you. 
  
  What I really cant get over still, is just how good it looks on the 360, youve seen the amazing 
 environments in Res Evil, but to do it in First Person 3D is just insane. 
  
  Go buy it now if you looking for a Survival Horror classic in the making 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game will scare you to death. The grpahics in this game are most likly the best ones out of 
 the launch title for the 360 as it uses all 3 procesors to their fullest. The sound is also amazing 
 if you have dolby 5.1 surround sound from each speaker you can hear exactly what direction people 
 are in. If you dont want to wet your pants I recomend keeping the lights on because you never know 
 whats coming up behind you. But other then that the game is just a little to slow. You walk the 
 entire time and to run you have to have the left trigger held down.. which to me is kinda difficualt. 
 It isnt the longest game but still worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Like all survival horror games resident evil, doom 3. silent hill and alone in the dark but the 
 one here is very specail than all of them it has power!
  
  Games which are scary needs to have lots of things into it like SOUND EFFECTS and UNESPECTED EVENTS. 
 What ever the story is it does matter how scary it is otherwise it will be a lame game.
  
  Condemmed: Criminal Origans is a great game and it might make you jumo sometimes. If your looking 
 for something that has a lot of detailed graphics, very good sound effects and specail effects 
 get this.
  
  The models of the game did not turn out fine but the good thing is that the actions they do like 
 picking up anything around the room is pretty realistc you know what i mean. Well it is a great 
 game and i hope it does fine for next generation survival horror game!
  
  Good:
  Very good gameplay, graphics and story
  
  Bad:
  Not very good with the modeling and people 
 can easily get lost in game parts but there are few minor glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonDth2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  It has a good story but it looks a little repetitive. So i would rent it first and see if you like 
 this kind of game before you spend $60 on it. It has a good story but it looks a little repetitive. 
 So i would rent it first and see if you like this kind of game before you spend $60 on it. It has 
 a good story but it looks a little repetitive. So i would rent it first and see if you like this 
 kind of game before you spend $60 on it. It has a good story but it looks a little repetitive. So 
 i would rent it first and see if you like this kind of game before you spend $60 on it. It has a 
 good story but it looks a little repetitive. So i would rent it first and see if you like this 
 kind of game before you spend $60 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueloventura2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  when it comes to scary pitch dark, this is the game. the graphits, the gameplay, THE SOUND, this is 
 a must buy game for horror fans. this is worth a wait for xbox 360 fans. if youre buying a xbox 360, 
 you should start buying this game. which comes tuesday nov.22,2005 its a cool game based on almost 
 real life where there are really no ammo for a weapon which makes it lifelike unlike the resident 
 evil series. this is a very unique game and in a unique price. its the first time someone made 
 a game about condemed people going crazy. take my word for it. its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolieo43
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game had good reviews and I had high hopes for this game. And I am greatly satisfied!
  
  Graphics: The Xbox 360 brings you better graphics and this is adds details to the players eyes. 
 
  
  Sound: This is a very crucial Element to this game for it brings tension, fear, and suspense to 
 the player and this game greatly accomplishes just that.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very good and the learning curve is to 0 to about 30 minutes.
  
  
 Overall this game is a great first but one of the best to be released on the Next Generation game 
 console, the Xbox 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prisca
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  The game was awesome alot of fun things to do and a lot of things you could pick up and whack them 
 with. Is mostly fun to play with then the lights are all off, the doors are closed, and you have 
 all your friends there with you trying to solve the mystery as well. Awesome game I must say! THIS 
 GAME IS 
 
  Don't get this game if you think you are gonna pee in your pants or you have bad heart. ROOT ROOT 
 ROOT ROOT ROOT ROOT... Condemned Criminal origins is based on a true event.. *WINK WINK* for the 
 chicken people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  the game is a dark stuff for all who wants to have a a taste for blood, murderers, gore ,violence 
 ,this game got it all is the full package, this is not just a fps shooter , it gets you in to a 
 face to face combat makes you feel the adrenaline flowin , you know like punching another 1, like 
 a street brawl, thats the diference between this game and the other games of a kind, and the twisted 
 story makes it better you got to play it, dont miss this game if u r a hardcore fan. you know, 
 to be the one of the first games for a 360 is good enough so you dont have to miiss this game it 
 would be a best seller the next year , ibet, killem all ,kill'em all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  here is a game that I watched a couple kids playin last week at .... you guessed it... Gamespot. 
 The game has its scary elements and incredible visuals in terms of the enviornments and physics. 
 the player models are hit or miss. There is this cop you see in the begining of the game that looks 
 bad graphiclly. This game is just like your playin' a movie. The people come at you hard and crazy. 
 The game has the best A. I. ive seen in a while. Dudes will run at you if they have an advanteage 
 and take off if you pull out the heat. Its scary when you hear them come into the area that your 
 in and you can see where they are. One thing that could have been doen better is the ability to 
 have alot more control over what you want to explore in a crime scene. I dont want to be told what 
 to do when im the damn detective!!!!. this is a solid game that everybody should play even if you 
 dont like 1st person games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koda89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game looks impressive. It is a solid first-person crime-scene investigation survival horror 
 game. The AI seems very smart, granted not The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion smart, but still smart 
 never the less. The way the AI uses the environment and the area around them is very nice as well. 
 There will be the occassional cheap spook moments every now and then. The weapon system is great 
 as well. I also love how the screen changes during a boss fight. I recommend this game for any 
 person getting the Xbox 360 that has enough money to pick it up, because this game has great potential. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoathswsfoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  Single Player:
  
  The single player mode will take at least 8-10 hours. It is decently long, and very frightening. 
 Pretty much all the enviroments are dark, so you will be using your flashlight the whole time. 
 The first few hours of this is cool, but it does get a little repetitive walking slowly through 
 the dark, seeing only what is being shown under the light of your flashlight. The enemies are crazy. 
 They are amazingly detailed and groseer looking than any I've ever seen. The enemies don't just 
 look good though, they are incredibly smart. Condemend contains probably the best enemy AI of any 
 xbox 360 launch titles yet. They will run cirlces around you, and try to sneak up behind you. They 
 will also take fake swings at you and try to fake you out so they can get a nice swing at you with 
 a 2X4. Speaking of 2X4s, there are several different weapons in the game, although, pretty much 
 all of them are melee weapons. There is a tazor and a shotgun, but whenever you get a shotgun, 
 it only gives you about 3 bullets to use. After shooting your few shots, you are done and you preceed 
 back to melee combat. There are many cool different melee weapons though. For example, you can 
 have a 2X4 that is on fire, or a 2X4 that has nails in it, crowbars, leadpipes, bats, and more. 
 Tons of things ready for you to pick up and beat the living crap out of these crazy serial killers. 
 The graphics in condemned are impressive as well. Like I said before, the characters are incredibly 
 detailed and so are the enviroments most of the time. Sometimes the enviroments get a little repetitive 
 because they are all so dark and some levels feel like the same as the last. Also, some of the 
 enviroments are tricky and maze-like, and you will find yourself lost a few times. But Condemned, 
 overall, gives you a nice scary feel and you really feel like you are alone, ready for some deranged 
 human to charge at you. I say this game is worth the 60 bucks even without the Multiplayer. There 
 is some xbox live compatibility though, such as downloadable content. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Condemned is a must have for any survival horror fan. This game will scare the heck out of 
 you, even if you are playing in the middle of the day. If you can look past the sometimes bland 
 enviroments, then you will see a great game that you will want to buy and play for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss00
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is a very short edition to the xbox 360 since there is only 10 levels and mostly meelee 
 combat in each. The gameplay is kind of slow since all you really can get into is the beating people 
 to death with many blunt objects. The best feature has got to be the creepy environment and sounds 
 you will hear in the dark and long corridors. The moaning and groaning of serial killers in every 
 inch of the levels. Overall the game is very intense with the great lighting the 360 allows and 
 the very realistic sounds fitting the darkness of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cancerbad
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  ok im reviewing this before the launch of he xbox 360. ive had one for about a week. and i have 
 gotten madden, nba live and this. not much of a challenge trying to figure out my fav. madden and 
 live arent to good but thats a different story, im here to talk about condemned.
  
  graphics: the first thing youll notice is the graphics. ok the player models areant "killzone ps3" 
 calibore but they arent to shabby, but this is not what will catch your eyes. it is the unbelievable 
 grimey realistic buildings and textures and it gets a feel of a "rundown" or "ghetto" part of the 
 city.
  
  gameplay: this is the halo of survival horror. the michanics are clean and are not a hassle in 
 any shape or form, from pickin up items to bashing your foe with a led pipe this game feels good. 
 perfact job on gameplay i am just almost speechless
  
  sound: nothin really can say bout the sound other than it is amazing, the voice acting reminds 
 me of halo (just because i think the voice acting is good) but if you didnt likethe voice acting 
 in halo and you jus tlike good voice acting in general than youll be pleased. and the music is 
 resident evil calibore. i havnt loaded my music onit. but if you want to be scared i would advise 
 you not to use ur own music on this because the music adds value and will certainly make the light 
 hearted poop their pants . (pardon my french)
  
  value: this game has great value. dont kow about replay value cause i havnt beaten it yet but id 
 imagine it has great replay value.
  and i dont know how long it is but i think it will be about 30 hours long just guessing.
  
 
  this is my first review and this is the best launch game im willing to bet. if you cant decide 
 wether to get this and you want something new than you have i mean HAVE to get this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
