-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Condemned 2: Bloodshot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/condemned2bloodshot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gruesome and fulfilling hand-to-hand combat.
 A good number of creative weapons to pummel your enemies with.
 Excellent, grimy visuals and superb sound design.
 Evidence-gathering mechanics have been greatly improved over the original.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gunplay isn't as good as melee.
 With the exception of crime scene, the multiplayer modes are useless.
 Some attempts at variety don't work out too well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,494 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Mar 11, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This horror-themed sequel's thrilling set pieces and bloody combat are remarkably satisfying but 
 not for the faint of heart. 

  Parents, be warned: Condemned 2: Bloodshot is not a game fit for children. At choice moments in 
 Monolith's gruesome and demented first-person horror adventure game, you'll impale rioters on rebar, 
 crush the heads of the homeless in a gigantic vise, and force the faces of far freakier foes into 
 toilet bowls. Every one of these actions is accompanied by blood-spurting visuals, shouted epithets, 
 and the slimy sounds of entrails splattering onto the floor and walls. Like a good slasher flick, 
 the game makes no bones about its controversial content; it lets you decide how you want to execute 
 each maniacal foe and then showcases the mutilation in macabre detail. If you played the game's 
 grisly predecessor, the gore should come as no surprise, though it's still impressive how well 
 Bloodshot manages to one-up the original Condemned's violence at every turn. The volume has certainly 
 been turned up.  

           Bad guy say ouch.      

  All of the vivid neck-breaking and throat-slashing action translates into equally intense scripted 
 events. Condemned 2 is, at heart, a series of fantastic moments. These individual moments aren't 
 always connected in ways that make sense, but they're powerful and memorable, and a testament to 
 the ever-rewarding nature of the jump-out-of-your-seat surprise. But a surprise is only as good 
 as its setup, and the game's finest asset is its ability to create a thick, dreadful atmosphere, 
 and then reward your emotional and physical investment in that dread with a shock and a scare. 
 You'll scour the grungiest, darkest corners of a besieged city, from a creepy bowling alley to 
 a claustrophobic dockyard. The payoff in each scenario is proportionate to the terror the game 
 so cunningly instills. Two separate chase scenes come to mind immediately and stand as the most 
 unforgettable gaming moments of the year so far, though even the less-dramatic sequences can feel 
 like a bludgeon to the brain. In the end, it doesn't matter how a magic theater and a doll factory 
 relate to one another. What's important is that each level will cause you to hold your breath, 
 only to expel it in a single gasp.  

  Somehow, Monolith found a way to fit Ethan Thomas's continuing battle with his own demons into 
 these set pieces, with mostly positive results. Ethan is as bitter and jaded as ever, and he's 
 used the bottle to bury the troubles of his mysterious past. In need of his services, the Serial 
 Crime Unit pulls Ethan from the gutter and implores him to assist them in investigating the enigmatic 
 cause behind Metro City's unstoppable crime wave. During the course of the game, Ethan unlocks 
 the secrets of an obscure conspiracy. Don't be surprised if you get a Silent Hill vibe from the 
 experience: The lines between the real world and the paranormal are confusingly blurred together, 
 and as enjoyable as the overall story arc is, Bloodshot doesn't answer as many questions as you'd 
 hope. Just when you think you might come face-to-face with the truth (and just as some major story 
 twists and a new gameplay mechanic are revealed) , you're left with a few savory hints and the promise 
 of the inevitable sequel.  

  The general anxiety is further enhanced by the most decrepit and decayed visual design in recent 
 memory. You can taste the dust in the air as you traverse Metro City's dank environs, and the rough 
 textures make every wall and object look gritty and run-down. The lighting is evocative and creepy, 
 sometimes even more so when you turn on your flashlight in the darkest areas. The stylized effects 
 that indicate a paranormal encounter are sometimes overdone, but for the most part, they set the 
 right mood and parallel Ethan's battle with the bottle. The sound is even better. The slams of 
 metal against flesh are conveyed perfectly, as are the grunts and cries of your opponents. Furthermore, 
 moments of silence contribute to the sense of fear, making the high quality of the scuffles and 
 creaks that break up those moments even more memorable. In addition, the voice acting is fantastic, 
 and the eerie, understated musical score sets the tone without getting in the way.  

           Bad guy go boom.      

  It all comes down to vivid imagery and shock value, and Bloodshot 
 gives you plenty of control over how you manipulate them. There are more weapons to play around 
 with than in the first Condemned, thanks to the inspired locales. You'll be spending some time 
 in dark alleys, where baseball bats, pipes, and two-by-fours are waiting to be grabbed and swung, 
 but even better instruments of destruction are found in a deserted lodge and an abandoned bowling 
 alley. Favorites include saws that look like lollipops, deer antlers, medieval swords, paper cutter 
 blades, bowling pins, and locker doors. A good variety of items can be grabbed and used to bludgeon 
 enemies with, but this isn't the only improvement to the formula. The basic hand-to-hand combat 
 is enhanced, and you can attack with both fists this time, using the corresponding trigger to swing. 
 You can also string combos together for more damage, and there's a terrific sense of impact when 
 your fist or bludgeon finds its target.  

  Melee fisticuffs are rather deliberate affairs. They force you to pay close attention to every 
 move so that you can block when necessary and throw in a combo when your enemy staggers. This isn't 
 always easy: Bloodshot's artificial intelligence will challenge you. Foes run and seek cover, grab 
 weapons off of the ground, and change up their attack patterns, which makes for some challenging 
 fights (and some well-earned sighs of relief when they are over) . As if this didn't make for enough 
 variety, there is also a meter that fills as your kill count rises. Filling the bar lets you unleash 
 finishing moves on your opponents. When this happens, everything moves into slow motion and a series 
 of contextual button presses tell you what you need to do to finish off your target. This mechanic 
 has been overdone elsewhere, but it feels natural here because the mechanic is an offshoot of the 
 "pull right trigger, swing right fist" controls used in basic combat.     

   

  You can also use the environment to your benefit if an injured combatant falls to his knees. At 
 this point, any number of objects will be marked with a skull, and you can drag your victim to 
 one of them, where an item-appropriate kill will take place. Drag him to a washing machine, and 
 you shove his head in. Pull him over to a blazing inferno, and you toss him into the flames. Some 
 of these kills, such as throwing an undead magician's assistant over a balcony, aren't all that 
 dramatic. Others, such as picking up a muscled attacker and impaling him on a slab of spiked concrete, 
 are insanely violent. In this case, we shoved our attacker into the rebar and pushed him flush 
 into the concrete. The rebar then weakened and the victim slid off and onto the floor, where he 
 let out a single violent tremor before perishing.  

           Bad guy go splat.      

  You'll be using some ranged weapons as well, though you aren't limited to just standard guns. This 
 isn't the game's strongest suit, given that the confined levels make it difficult to get in a comfortable 
 position for a firefight. In fact, Bloodshot's weakest segments are those that revolve around ranged 
 combat, such as a bland F. E. A. R.-inspired level that occurs in the SCU offices. Nevertheless, the 
 shooting mechanics aren't bad, and the limited ammo available to you at most times means you can't 
 rely on an assault rifle for long. You'll also find yourself lugging around a crossbow, which figures 
 heavily in a few boss fights. There's an interesting twist regarding aiming here that revolves 
 around Ethan's alcoholism. To calm your nerves, you can take a swig from a booze bottle, which 
 temporarily calms the jitters you experience when looking down your sights.  

  You'll be collecting some evidence from murder sites for Rosa at the lab again, but this aspect 
 of the series has been improved. In fact, it requires some actual thought on the part of the player. 
 In some cases, you need to use a black light to spot the pattern of blood and determine how the 
 victim was killed. In others, you inspect electrical panels, a disembodied head, and a series of 
 X-rays. You'll be pressed to answer correctly based on contextual clues (in one case, paying particular 
 attention to the story) , and correct answers reward you with a better end-level medal, as well 
 as an upgrade to show for it, such as the ability to holster a sidearm, or a boost to your health. 
 You aren't going to be doing as much forensic analysis in Bloodshot as you did in the original 
 Condemned, and it's too bad, because this element is much more interesting this time around.  

 
  For all that it does right, Bloodshot could have used some tightening up. It tries to be varied 
 by throwing in some puzzle sequences, unusual gameplay twists, and a few other odds and ends, but 
 those added tidbits detract rather than add to the experience. One case in point is a sequence 
 in which you use a magnetic crane to pick up metal meanies and drop them into a compactor. It's 
 annoying, out of place, and simply doesn't work. Another example is the doll factory level, in 
 which exploding dolls wander around, threatening to detonate any time, when all you want to do 
 is figure out the equally absurd puzzle at hand. At other times, overzealous collision detection 
 might get you stuck on the smallest object, or a much-needed prompt to grab a weapon won't appear 
 because you aren't facing exactly the right way. We could have done without some of the unnecessary 
 filler, if it meant smoothing out some of the rough edges.  

           Bad guy fall down.      

  We could have also done without the mostly unnecessary multiplayer 
 modes, though one of them isn't without its charm. That mode is called crime scene, and it pits 
 a team of SCU agents against a team of Influenced. The Influenced team hides briefcases of evidence 
 while the agents must find them, and it creates a sometimes fascinating cat-and-mouse experience 
 that makes playing on either team enjoyable. The other three modes -- deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and bum rush -- are all variants on the usual killing extravaganza, but they just aren't that good. 
 Not only is online play plagued with a lot of lag, but the calculated pace of melee combat also 
 translated poorly to a multiplayer experience. You should note that a week after release, not many 
 people are playing online, and if you're playing on the PlayStation 3, then you may have particular 
 trouble finding a match.  

  Bear in mind that if you wince at violence or get nauseous at the sight of blood, this is not the 
 game for you. It's brutal and often disturbing, and certainly not appropriate for everyone. However, 
 assuming you are prepared for the intensity of such a gory undertaking, you'll find that the fierceness 
 of the carnage is paired with compelling gameplay so that each benefits the other. It may take 
 you nine hours or so to finish up the main story, though you can return to it at higher difficulty 
 levels, or take on some of the simple unlockable challenges and compare your scores to those of 
 others via online leaderboards. But the reason to play Condemned 2: Bloodshot is to be scared, 
 to be shocked, and to explore the secrets of a slimy world where the natural and the supernatural 
 become intertwined.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (197 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jfdc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  oh yea, i wont hide it, i really like the horror shooters, especially those who gives new dinmension 
 to what we call a horrifying game!
  bioshock was one of them! this game had it all!
  then i got my hands to condemned 2 bloodshot!
  ooooooohhhhhhhh god, i said at the first feel...
 
  i realized ssomewhere at the third stage that since u ll get to know what buttons do, u ll find 
 your self slamming heads of serial killers with axes, pipes, woodsticks and many many other!
  this game will blast u since u realize that the best thing u got is your own two hands (and feet) ...
 
  overall the game uses serious badass gameplay with great visuals and its surely one of the best 
 of the kind!
  dont b afraid of your enemies...
  run towards to them and make them know what your punch feel like!
  great all the way!
  MUST
 
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original "Condemned", but this sequel is a visually magnificent, extremely well-made 
 horror game. The game's atmosphere is dark just like in the original "Saw", but it's supernatural 
 element brings to mind "Silent Hill". In fact, the game's offers much replay value with its satisfying 
 melee combat; there are plenty of options in which you can dispatch your enemies including using 
 powerful firearms.
  
  The gameplay has the player investigating strange occurances in the city as people randomly go 
 insane. You'll use your fists and the enviroment to defend yourself from the crazies. The combat 
 is like "Chronicles of Riddick" only extremely amped up. There are times where you'll simply gawk 
 at the game's life-like visuals and lighting. Unlockables and achievements are numerous. The online 
 modes are vanilla, but one plays like a creepy take on the "Splinter Cell" Spy Vs. Merc mode. Overall, 
 it's a keeper if you love horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun, the graphics were great and at time when in dark halways with your 
 flashlight on it looks real. The fighting is fun and more advanced than the first and alot harder. 
 Your character becomes an alchaholic and he looks alot cooler than the plaine everyday detective 
 in the first. There are upgrades earned after each level like brass knuckles, steel toed boots 
 and so on. There are amazing executions with the environment and the combos, though hard to pull 
 off, pay off. Once again gun ammo is hard to come by and should be used sparingly. The game has 
 a more cinamatic feel and you sometimes think it would be a pretty good movie. The villains are 
 more twisted and there are far more weapons that the original game suck as bowling balls, saw lolly 
 pops (weird, I know) gumball machines, knives, bottles and whatever you can pick up encluding medievil 
 weapons in the museum. The pop up scares are fun too although its not as creepy as the first game
 
  
  all in all a must play
  
  graphics 9
  gameplay 8.5
  Story 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. It obviously has the dark moodiness for those looking for it. 
 Its also flirts on the razor's edge of insanity. So, full points on atmosphere and creepiness, 
 but everything else was just so... meh...
  
  The environments, while positively drenched in mood enhancing madness, it often feels like the 
 game is "on rails". You'll feel you have few options but to carefully creep forward and try to 
 keep your enemies coming one at a time.
  
  The second environmental problem is darkness. I get it, the game is supposed to be dark... but 
 unless you're pimpin' a high def 50 inch plasma, forget about sitting more than a couple feet from 
 the screen. Its just too dark.
  
  The nail in the coffin for me was the controls. Maybe its just not "my thing", but I found the 
 controls too cumbersome. I love the innovative approach to close combat, I just found the execution 
 a little hard to pull off. Kuddos to those of you who mastered it though, I'm sure it improves 
 the game experience vastly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is unique in that it's a first person shooter, but it mainly focuses on melee combat; 
 many times, you're pick up objects within the game to use against enemies and there are plenty 
 of both. It's one of the few games that are shooters that reward players for their accomplishments; 
 if you did everything perfectly during one chapter, then you obtain better equipment. It also adds 
 an interesting crime scene investigation twist, with gadgets and logical reasoning.
  
  Many of the enemies in this game are pretty tough considering the majority of the time you will 
 be brawling your opponents. If you don't pick up on the unique combat system early, the game gets 
 hard and fast.
  
  The storyline is somewhat interesting, but the main character acts more like a antagonist towards 
 people rather than a protagonist, which can sometimes contradict his actions; however, being in 
 the state that he is in could give reason to his bipolar attitude.
  
  Depending on your tastes in story lines, this game seems to have a storyline that is pretty depressing 
 and doesn't exactly make much sense, but ambiguity can be preferable for those who want to analyze 
 certain sequences of the video game.
  
  Once you've finished the campaign, there are several other modes. There's on-line multiplayer, 
 but there aren't very many people playing it. It also as little side missions that are timed and 
 have objectives, but there just aren't very many of them though.
  
  While the game is somewhat enjoyable, I found it to be just a rental. I didn't finish the game 
 mainly due to a glitch that overwrote the previous save, which, hopefully, not too many people 
 encounter; that alone made me quit. For some, this game may be fun and interesting, but I didn't 
 enjoy it enough to try and progress through it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocustWarlord
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  Okay, Lets begin! =D
  
  Condemned 2 has come a long way from the first condemned, Im not talking about the games storyline, 
 Im talking about the game engine. they have cleaned up a lot of things, such as, the characters 
 look more human, It has better bloody violence.
  
  They both have a good sense of horror in them, but I thought condemned 2 went a bit over the top 
 on the last mission. (The Peninsula) I mean, Fine maybe Ethan Thomas has something supernatural 
 in him, But,
  A super-sonic scream? I mean come on!
  
  What I just said was the only thing I didn't like about the game. =D
  It has awesome gun action, 
 Which the first game didn't have. In fact, The first games guns were just a little overpowered 
 and just gave people a hard time. But that's a different story.
  
  The game is about Ethan Thomas, Who has become a drunk, and he is separated from the Police Bureau, 
 They believe he is lying about a threat in the making by a load of crazy tard's in Abandoned buildings, 
 such as schools, Bowling rinks and of course, Warehouses.
  
  If you like playing games which both have action and horror in the game, then I would highly recommend 
 buying this game if you have the chance. I will truly be looking forward to Condemned 3. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  picked this one up for 18 bucks at the game store upon beating the first condemned and being somewhat 
 interested in the story (rare for a video game) . the second i popped in the disc and the started 
 the game i was amazed. the graphics were amazing and there were so many immediately noticeable 
 improvements over the first it blew me away. i continued to be pleasantly surprised as i continued 
 playing. it had a very engaging storyline, very original, varied, and enjoyable gameplay that actually 
 worked, and most of all it was the scariest game i've played. multiplayer is a plus too.
  
  in many ways, it had exactly what i was looking for in a horror game after playing and being very 
 disappointed by games like FEAR and Dead Space. we need more horror games like this one.
  
  in closing if you're looking for a good scary game, pick this one up. it's pretty cheap now days 
 and i guarantee you won't be disappointed. just don't play it alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the dingy and deranged world of Condemned 2 : Bloodshot. You play as Ethan Thomas, who 
 has decided to drown himself in alcohol since the events of the previous game. And like any story 
 about a protagonist who decides to get away from what he used to be because its too much, his services 
 are required further. The story takes off from him searching for his old pal Vanhorn, and everything 
 goes downhill from there on. 
  
  The character, Ethan Thomas looks exactly like a guy who has drowned himself into alcohol, focussing 
 on the fact that he is done with the world and wants to fade away into the night. Then he has his 
 visions, his conversations with his "Dark Side", about how the world is plotting against him etc. 
 It all adds to his character, the way he responds to certain situations which you get a chance 
 to respond to in the game using quicktime actions. All this and more, make him one very interesting 
 character who's story you would like to play through.
  
  The environment, one of the darkest games out there, and it makes you just keep your flashlight 
 on just to see what is in front of you, and you are going to jump out of your seat on more than 
 a couple of occasions. The game makes you proceed cautiously, as you never know what may pop out. 
 Apart from that the environments look crisp, the world is filled with all kinds of crap, and you 
 have your standard bloodstained walls, floors and ceilings and boxes.... just about everywhere the 
 creators thought it would be appropriate. All in all the environments have variety in locations, both 
 open worlds and the claustrophobic areas. The sounds are some of the most accurately recorded sounds 
 for the various objects striking flesh, as if beating up enemies to pulp isnt enough the sound 
 of a 2X4 smashing onto the enemy's head is horribly satisfying. 
  
  The gameplay, a first person melee game at its core, the world is flooded with objects that you 
 can use to beat up your enemies. Everything from bricks, 2X4s with nails, toilet seats, baseball 
 bats to.... well you can use just about anything that you think can be used to mess up some junkies. 
 There are some standard firearms, for which the ammo is limited similar to as in the first game. 
 You are going to go toe to toe with the enemies for most part of the game but firearms are required 
 for certain encounters. You control Ethan's arms with the two trigger buttons, and move on from 
 there. The fights are brutal, and you can see the impact of your attacks on the enemies' body as 
 you strike him/her, and the bandages on your hands get covered in blood showing signs of the carnage 
 you spell out. Then you have special moves which require you to fill up your aggression meter which 
 you build up with each downed enemy to execute a sequence of buttons to basically in a word, overkill 
 the enemy. Another set of ways to make the enemies really suffer is by beating them enough so that 
 the drop to their knees, then grab them and look around in the environment for skull signs, take 
 the guy to one of them and be treated to more innovative ways of taking them down using the environment. 
 Then there are the standard investigative tools for your detective work, you make observations 
 at a crime scene and report clues, which basically gives an insight of what had occured. It doesnot 
 have any consequence on the game as such, you can submit the most illogical observations to get 
 a basic outline of the crime scene or you can really observe, and get the perfect set of observations 
 to get a clear picture of the what went down. There could have been more number of crime scenes 
 but nonetheless it does provide a refreshing break from all the action.
  
  The enemies, for the most part you will be up against junkies in the various dark places, but you 
 get variations, the enemies in the museum are perhaps some of the most challenging in the game. 
 Then you have some really well thought out boss like characters, who you will enjoy executing in 
 scripted but unique ways, but a pity that these executions are not possible for all the regular 
 enemies. The roster has some really cuckoo enemies as well but no less challenging, like the mannequins 
 with circular blade shaped candy sticks, exploding baby dolls and your standard SCU agents etc. 
 Though you have a variety in the type of enemies you face, but the AI isn't that great, most enemies 
 have a particular radius of reaction, if your character steps into that radius, the enemy comes 
 out to fight, but as soon as you move away, you see that moron go and hide into the same corner 
 from which he previously surprised you. It allows the player a little relief and a chance to move 
 away and think of some better way to tackle with the enemy which kills some of the fun. 
  
  All in all, Condemned 2 a great game with a great protagonist and pretty good story. Anyone who 
 is a fan of survival horror is surely going to enjoy this title, and everyone else would be doing 
 themselves a favour by experiencing the dark dingy world of Condemned 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 87 % In condemned criminal origins you`re a police officer in the FBI who is called Agent 
 Ethan Thomas and you have to investigate the crime scene to follow a serial killer named SKX that 
 means serial killer X. There`s ten chapters in the game and you can use allot of different weapons 
 you can also use 2x4, fire axes, pistols and allot of things that are in the enviroment. Now condemned 
 two is part two ethan thomas has a beard long hair and he has alchoolic problems he doesn`t know 
 what things are real and what is fake. In condemned 2 bloodshot you get to fight people hand-to-hand 
 combat you learn how to get perfect timing to eliminate the psychotics who are in the city. You 
 also have an assistant who is called rosa she was in the first game too. Rosa helps you to find 
 evidence and explain to you the problems and how to solve them. Condemned 2 is not like the first 
 game because in the first game you can follow the story but in condemned 2 its hard to understand 
 who are the bad guys and who to trust. Malcom Vanhorn was good but in this game he changed into 
 a zombie. 
  
  
  Graphics 67% The game itself has pretty good graphics like the first condemned game.
  
  
 
  Sound 88 % The music and the sound matches with a game like this i really liked the special effects 
 in the mission SCU Building.
  
  Difficulty : This game is pretty hard to beat if you have trouble go on youtube and try to find 
 the walktroughs i did it and i`ve go to the ending pretty easily.
  
  I reccomend this game to all gamers i can`t wait for condemned 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Condemned features you (Ethan Thomas) as a cop leading on the SKX murders, that game kinda left 
 you in the middle of the story, and same with Condemned 2: Bloodshot (no spoilers promised) , The 
 story is not over from the looks of it.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot stars Ethan Thomas as a hopeless hobo ready to kick some druggie asses. 
 Ethan goes through carzy experences that will make you crap yourself and cry because you craped 
 yourself about scary that one level is. Condemned 2 throws alot of twists and turns at you which 
 makes the story alot more great, You pick up the remote and never put it down, until the storys 
 over, Which, I thought it was so awesome I did not want it to end, Because of the awesome-ness. 
 Once your done with story you go staright to the new online mode, not in Condemned 1. They have 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Bum Rush, and my favorite: Crime Scene.
  Let me just say that this game is extremly underrated and online is EXTREMLY ADDICTING!
  
  
 Deathmatch is how you think it would be, running around with sledgehammers, fire axes, pipes, electric 
 conducts, swords, etc.
  
  Bum Rush is where their are two people on a SCU team holding guns such as Assualt Rifles and Shotguns, 
 Then, there are like six people on the Influnced team that hold bricks, pipes, or something else 
 thats in the level. But, the twist is about SCU is that they have pretty much extremly large healh 
 bars and crazy people on Influnced (That might be you) must group on them.
  
  Crime Scene is amazing, There is a SCU team (pistol, shotgun) with 4 people on it and a Influnced 
 team (sledgehammer, drive shaft, box with head in it.) The Influnced team must hide boxes with 
 heads inside of them so the SCU will not find them. It gets pretty crazy, It might sound boring 
 here but trust me, go out to Ballbuster (Blockbuster, I call them Ballbuster haha) and rent this 
 game.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a must own for most gamers, for those who into World Of Warcraft is MMORPGs 
 (I personally hate them.) Your s**t outta luck, boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off with Condemned 2's graphics, there are moments of dullness but they are outweighed 
 by some excellent level designs. They include the run down apartement buildings and hotels, the 
 cabin in the snow, also the beggining dream like sequence in the trashed and slimy streets and 
 mmuch more. The character designs look great especially the facial designs on street freaks. 
 
  Condemned 2 has an alright storyline. At first I expected some dumb horror storyline just thrown 
 in to accompany the blood and guts, but suprisingly I enjoyed the storyline more than other horror 
 themed games.
  The game's weapons are varied when it comes to the melee weapons but the firearms seem strictly 
 limited as they are only used at specific points throughout the game. But when the effects still 
 enjoyable to watch, like when you shoot a human sized enemy in the head with any rifle and then 
 watch as their head explodes and blood spirts out for a few seconds afterwards.
  Condemned 2 also has a satisfying soundtrack to create tension and nice sound effects. Voice acting 
 is very well done even though Ethan's swear attacks don't evoke humour or fear, still great with 
 everything else. 
  The only flaws I found in the Condemned is that some later parts of the game aren't as scary as 
 the earlier levels (only some) . A little bit of glitches here and there but they don't ruin the 
 experience. Difficulty annoys at some parts with some easy and occasional hard parts.
  Overall Condemned 2 is scary, action packed, thrilling, great to look at, fun and a great purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EDLink2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  I really hope they make Condemned 3, because I really enjoyed this game, you play as Ethan Thomas 
 from the first game, except now he's a drunk with anger issues, and has been re hired at his old 
 secret agent job thing.. However, it seems that Dorland who is supposed to be on his side is actually 
 on the side of the oro, a evil organisation or something like that. Anyways, The gameplay is great, 
 better than the first one, you can use both your fists and do awesome combo's, or grab a weapon 
 such as a gun, a baseball bat, a wrench, and many more. The environment is good too, at any corner 
 something could jump out at you, and it usually happens when you least expect it. Some levels are 
 all about Ethan's halucinations, which makes it even more creepy to play with all the disturbing 
 images, and wheelchairs moving for no apparent reason.. This game other modes that are cool too, 
 like the mini mission things where you have to kill a certain amount of bad guys to win, just survive 
 for while, or protect other cops from the buff dudes with bricks, a gun, etc. One of the bad things 
 about it though is some levels you can get lost, and when your lost and running around in circles, 
 it gets pretty boring. Anyways, this is an awesome game, I suggest you get it whenever you can, 
 but it took me 3 stores to find it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  If you didn't like the original Condemned there's no way in hell you'll like the second.
  
  It's alot darker, alot more horrible and disgusting, and crucially, alot better.
  
  Whilst 
 the original Condemned's graphics were definitly something to shout about, probably being the best 
 of the original system's bar PDZ, the graphics here really are horribly immersive.
  
  The tramps and monsters are actually scarily realistic and whilst the enviroments lack atmosphere, 
 the graphics are very clean whilst retaining a brilliant grimeyness.
  
  But what use are gorgeous graphics if the gameplay isn't up to scratch.
  Condemned's gameplay 
 was satisfyingly crunchy, however also rather clunky just like the originals.
  I feel that another engine might have been suited to the game rather then this one.
  It's a pain 
 to move about although to be fair the controls are very responsive.
  
  Actually, the main shouting point of the game is its story, which ties in very well with the first 
 game, and is satisfyingly immersive.
  It's one of those rare stories that makes you want to play on just to see what happens, and that's 
 a sign of a good game.
  
  There are plenty of dark, disturbing treats on offer here, and the levels are varied and very dark 
 and disturbing.
  
  If you can handle your games very dark and gruesome, this is definitly your best bet on the console.
 
  Twice as good as the original. I can't wait for Condemned 3, although hopefully Monolith will 
 inject some originality into the proceedings as i feel the formula will start wearing thin unless 
 the developers pull something pretty amazing off.
  
  Oh yeah, the multiplayers a laugh too.
  
  +
  
  Gruesomely gorgeous graphics.
  Brutal 
 melee combat.
  Highly engrossing story.
  
  -
  
  Formula starting to wear thin.
  Can be slightly depressing at times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is the sequel to condemed criminal origins made by sega and warner brothers, and as 
 a sequel its great fizing a few flaws from the first one but getting a few more things wrong, the 
 brutal melee returns but gunplay has been seveerly weakened and that fact that your character cant 
 hold his gun straight without a drink makes just about no sense.
  
  Gameplay: The solid gameplay returns with decent level design and the great melee system from the 
 first one has been improved dramatically from the original adding to a great game, the story is 
 a bit predictable but still, the combat is so fun it makes beating crazed tramp up with a pipe 
 fun all over again. The bosses have returned and a better and more frustrating than ever with a 
 bit of trial and error gameplay.
  
  Graphics: These have also significantly been improved over the first with a better and cooler looking 
 character and just about everything else had been added a fresh coat of paint to look even better 
 except your college from the first one looks about 20 years younger than she did in the first.
 
  
  Sound: Sound really is good all rounder here with guns sounding great and bones cracking galore 
 makes killing satisfying.
  
  Multiplayer: Nothing special, quite bog standard.
  
  Overall: A great improvement over the first makes the sequal even better than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game and one most people should at least try out to see how good it is. 
 If you have played the first one and really like it them you'll feel the same way about this one. 
 There's so many great things in the game first off the story is really cool although it is weird 
 sometimes you'll really enjoy it. I ain't going to say anything about the story except that I thought 
 the story in the first one was a little bit better than the one in this one.
  
  Then you got the gameplay another really awesome thing about the game. Fighting is fun with your 
 fist and weapons and its fun to watch executions and stuff like that. Although you can get your 
 weapons knocked out of your hand and it got me frustrated some times but its not a big deal. And 
 the graphics are so great there not the best but they make the atmosphere in the game feel really 
 great. Then the sound is just so great and it's done so great. The sound affects are really nice 
 but sadly the game could use a great soundtrack to make it better.
  
  I still haven't had time to mess around with the multiplayer so I wouldn't know about that. The 
 replay value is high most people would want to play through it at least 2 to 3 times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishaboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first condemned game. When I first got condemned 2, I thought it sucked. I didn't play 
 it for very long before it got boring. But then I kept playing it, and the longer I played it, 
 the better I liked it. Then I realized that it was an awesome game. The graphics were great. They 
 could have been better, but they definitely weren't bad. The fighting might look exactly like the 
 first one, but it feels completely different. There is lots of new things added on and the gunfighting 
 is really fun. Something that is better than the first one is the environments. They don't all 
 look the same, and there is lots of variety. Also there is lots of different enemies. Just like 
 in the first one, the story line was very good but it didn't explain everything. The bottom line 
 is that this was a great game that should definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 bloodshot is a sequel to condemned: Criminal Origins and is better than the first game. 
 It improved in its weaker areas that were found in the first game. But some of the good parts found 
 in the first game has been taken out in condemned 2 bloodshot. Example is the number of puzzles. 
 In criminal origins, there were aplenty of them but in this game, there are only little puzzles 
 to be found. The combat in this game is awesome and there are awesome moves to finish off the enemy. 
 There are plenty of weapons ranging from a rifle to a toilet bowl. Enemies also uses weapon and 
 cover. They are smart and intelligent. However, our character cannot use cover and are often exposed 
 to shots. Enemies also range from types. there are SUVS, ghosts, zombies and many more. When enemies 
 attack you, you can block by holding RT and LT button. Then, you can counter-attack them when they 
 are confused. Boss battles are vey interesting and quite challenging for the first time as you have 
 to figure out how to defeat it. There is the knight boss, Factory girl boss , the magic man boss, the 
 demon boss and the main boss battle. The storyline is engaging and frightening ( to those who are 
 scared easily) . The atmosphere is so freking creepy and you won't know what is lurking in the dark 
 corners. To get the full experience, play this game in the dark (prefarbly midnight) and crank up 
 the volume. I personally think that this game is the best contender against FEAR for the ultimate 
 horror experience. Graphics are excellent and the sounsd is good. You can hear screams and moans 
 in the background. Framerate is always at a steady rate and visuals are crisp. Cutscenes are delivered 
 well and the character models are great. The enemy designs are also great.
  
  This game is not perfect. There are some bugs and gltches to be found and there are some issues 
 with the game. Your character would get stuck in something and it will be impossible in moving 
 him, thus needing to reboot the game. Sometimes, enemies would dissapear at nowhere and would respawn 
 back at you from behind. The map is not helpful if you have to escape from the enemy. It is so 
 small and you have to get upclose to the TV screen if you want to look at the map properly. Shooting 
 doesn't fit into the game. This game is a horror game and why is there guns in the game? And the 
 gun aiming is poor. If you aimed the crosshair at the enemy, after shooting, the bullets will fly 
 somewhere else. Unless you get a zoom-in view of the enemy, it will be hard to kill him. But first 
 of all, there shouldnt be guns at all in this game. I also hated the fact that there is so little 
 ammo in a gun. In a assault rifle, there are only 30 bullets capacity. In a battle, if the ammo 
 finishes and there are no ammo available, you have to go one on one with the enemy where he will 
 be shooting you and you have to fight using your hands, resulting you in getting killed.
  
  Neverherless, this game has a long and engaging storyline which should take about 9-11 hours to 
 complete, depending on the difficulty level and your skills. This game is not for children because 
 of its use of vulgar words, violence and gore and use of alcohol and drugs. Horror fans that are 
 looking for a good horror game, should get this 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Grab whatever you can find and start swinging! (Not literally.. Put that 2x4 down..) This kind 
 of game is not my favorite kind but it's now one of my favorites. If you played Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins. There is a great probability you will absolutely love this game. If you didn't.. You'll 
 still love this game.
  
  The Story: "My name is Ethan Thomas.. I am an alcoholic." You are an ex Serial Crime Unit agent. 
 Eleven months can do horrible things to a guy solving sick crimes like these. But a bit different 
 from the first game you are now completely insane at least, we all know that's better. A strange 
 thing has been effecting people from Metro City, causing them to go insane. (Like you but less 
 deadly.)
  Now.. How do we usually stop things in games? That's correct, we kill it.
  
  Multi-Player: We have some fun game modes to play in this game. Like most games with multi-player 
 options there are Death Match and Team Death Match. But those weren't that fun here, so we have... 
 Bum Rush and Crime Scenes. Bum Rush pits a group of bums player controlled vs SCU agents with guns.. 
 The idea is for the SCU agents to survive through the time limit. Crime Scene. One group of people 
 in this case the bums (or killers.. Whatever they wish to be called.) has 2 boxed with head in 
 them and they must hide them from SCU until the time has ended.
  
  Weapons: Ranging from the very toilet seat you're on to a shotgun. (I really hope you're not on 
 toilet while reading this..) There are very deadly melee weapons bed posts, toilet seats, crowbars, 
 fire axes, ect. ect. But not that many ranged weapons but it's not something that makes this game 
 bad. It makes it better.
  
  I haven't played many horror games but this one is the best I have played.
  
  Graphics: Everything 
 seems well done here, gritty areas, very dark atmosphere. Character models do look a bit odd when 
 you think of it, but it's done great. I can't say anything bad here.
  
  Sound: Perfect but the guns sound a little too clean.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 9/10
 
  Scenery: 10/10
  Story: 7/10
  Controls: 9/10
  SFX: 9.5/10
  Multi-player: 7/10
  Replay Value: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Condemned Criminal Origins and hoped Bloodshot would be just as good, and it was. 
 Bloodshot was not as "scary" because we're familiar with the concept from the first game, but that 
 does not detract from the game. Bloodshot tells an excellent story and does so with great graphics 
 and sound. The gameplay is excellent, and I think gameplay is better than on the first game. Voice 
 acting is very good, and i really liked the characters. As to the scary parts... IMHO the beast 
 at the cabin is one of the most frightening in video games... I guess cause it could be real. Weapons 
 are great, save points are not punitive and the overall gaming experince is very enjoyable with 
 minimal frustration. The various chapters break up the locations well, so you're not playing in 
 the same boring over and over. The story clears up alot left over from the first game, while leaving 
 the door wide open for another installment. All in all a great effort, highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  In some ways yes and in others no. Condemned 2 was a game that I was really looking forward to. 
 It felt like the first game that I had played be Sega that had some real potential (and we all 
 know how most of Sega's properties are doing right now) . The second game just doesn't cut the mustard. 
 I felt like it was Punch Out!! But with creepy looking bums fighting me. 
  
  Condemned 2 begins a little ways off from the 1st game. Mr. Thomas seems like a more gutteral, 
 in fact completely different person (they even have a different actor) which one can understand 
 with all that he's been through. But it makes you have to re-invest your time with caring about 
 the character. Something that I don't feel that I should have to do after I played as him for 10-12 
 hours in the first game. With very few people left from the first game you are introduced to an 
 new cast of cohorts. None of which you and the character you play really care for. 
  
  The graphics are good. In fact I am suprised that Sega was able to produce them. That along with 
 play control is something that I have been routinely harping on the them about. Condemned 2 doesn't 
 slouch in that department. In fact I wish the game was a little brighter so I could really appreciate 
 them. The animation seems spot on, the details are deep, in fact they are down right creepy pushing 
 the limits of what prior survial horror games have done. Making it difficult to see is actually 
 a knock at the game. 
  
  The voice acting is done well, and the sounds and music add to the creepiness of the game. The 
 story starts out with a bang (much like the first game) and ends with a what the??? About half 
 way through the game it suddenly goes from creepy to supernatural and the plot seems to completely 
 loose touch with not only the player but the characters involved. I feel that a little more time 
 could have been spent on plot and maybe less on the graphics you can't appreciate. Some of the 
 boss battles are a bit out of place too. In fact anything that has to do with killer dolls reminds 
 me of Chucky, and I laughed through those movies. 
  
  The controls are something that are lacking as well. They are poorly set up, combos are annoying 
 to complete and you find yourself relying on the same ones. Attacking with a melee weapon has become 
 cumbersome as most of the break in about two or three hits leaving you with your mitts. If I really 
 wanted to play Punch Out that badly I would hook up my NES. This doesn't make the game that much 
 creepier, just more frustrating. 
  
  In fact that is how I can describe this game. Frustrating. The level of difficulty is really high 
 and you can only take some much of that. Further more the puzzles (the few that they are) seem 
 almost stupid to attempt to do. Do I really want to play another game where I have to re-wire an 
 elevator? Hasn't Resident Evil and Silent Hill done this enough, now I have to do this on Condemned! 
 
  
  That's not to say that Condemned 2 is a bad game. As far as survival horror it's par for the course. 
 It's a good action game, and for that matter a good FPS. Although it's combat is clunky, it's still 
 gutteral like the first one. While the plot takes a sudden twist, its a relatively satisfying play 
 through you might do once and then discard the game. If you are a Condemned fan it'll wet your 
 mouth for the next one. If your an action adventure enthusist or new to the series, you may want 
 to just rent or pass this one by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvin201
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It has everything what made the original condemned amazing and just 
 expanded it to it. One thing I love about this game is the story. It has a lot of action and it actually 
 makes a lot of sense. But this game does have one bad thing. The game multiplayer is not that great. 
 Its basically dead at this point and if there is players on is basically pointless deathmathes 
 that really take no skill at all. Its only everybody punching each other. Other than that is amazing. 
 So here is how i basically lay it out.
  
  Concept: Its a fps that makes you use weapons or guns to destroy your enemies. Its also very scary 
 and theres plenty of gore to keep any horror fan satisfy.
  
  Graphics: Very good. It does have a few things that need to be smoothed out and also soemtimes 
 it is to dark even for your flashlight but most of the time the game looks good.
  
  Sound: Also really good. The voice work is pretty good. Also you can hear the person scream when 
 you hit them with a blow or their neck cracking when you rip apart the enemie's neck.
  
  Playability: It is very smooth. There isn't any glitches in the game and everything seems to be 
 working how they are suppose to.
  
  Entertainment: VERY Entertaining. Hitting enemies with gumball machines or throwing liquor at them 
 and then setting them on fire is always fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: The author of this review hereby states that he was unable to find time to thoroughly 
 play the multiplayer portion of this title. Thusly, no mention of the multiplayer mode will be 
 in this review, and the score will also not be influenced accordingly.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins was an excellent title that helped make the 360's launch line up more 
 attractive. It brought with it great graphics, unique gameplay and a dark and demented story. Condemned 
 2: Bloodshot not only improves on the graphics and the gameplay, but is also much more dark and 
 demented.
  
  Ethan Thomas returns, this time as a scruffy drunk who hears voices in his head and has constant 
 exchanges with a physical representation of his inner demons. Violence is taking over the city 
 yet again, and it's time to hunt down some more criminals while pulverizing ugly faces along the 
 way.
  
  Bloodshot has made a number of improvements over Criminal Origins, the most apparent being its 
 bloody, macabre and gritty atmosphere and presentation. Just about everything you fight is repulsive 
 and could give the Silent Hill franchise a run for its money. To further unnerve you, there will 
 be sequences where a voice will take over and begin to distort reality for Ethan, and you'll see 
 the graphics go darker, blurrier and even transform into a whole different dimension entirely. 
 It definatey isn't the same Condemned.
  
  Another improvement are the crime scene investigation mechanics. You use pretty much the same tools 
 of the first game, but the crime scenes are actually more engaging. You'll need to study everything 
 in the area and deduce exactly what happened. For instance, you'll come across a blood stain and 
 you'll have to devise how the victim was injured based on the pattern. You'll also be asked questions 
 by your partner so make sure you pay attention to everything that's going on so you can answer 
 properly. 
  
  Answering the right questions and deducing the evidence correctly results in a better rank at the 
 end of missions. The better the rank, the better quality of upgrades you get, such as brass knuckles, 
 rubber boots for sneaking and body armor. You'll also have other objectives to do to help with 
 the score, such as finding sonic emitters (which drive people violently insane) , radio and TV attenaes 
 (which inform you of ongoing news around the city) and other various mission objectives. These 
 are incentives to keep your eyes open when you explore the different levels.
  
  The combat has also been vastly improved. It's not just swing with an object and block anymore, 
 although there is still a lot of that going on. The hand to hand combat has been overhauled to 
 include bone shattering combos and special attacks that have you grabbing the enemies and hitting 
 corresponding triggers to initiate lethal finishing moves. You can also execute environmental kills. 
 When an enemy is on their knees stunned, you pull both triggers to grab them into a headlock and 
 then an icon will appear on anything you can slam their heads into. For instance, you can bash 
 their heads into an arcade machine and watch them choke on their own blood and broken glass, or 
 you can fling them over railings. 
  
  The gun play unfortunately seems to have been pretty much untouched. The only real change that's 
 worth mentioning is that you can drink alcohol to ease your nerves and steady your aim. It's always 
 fun to snipe with an assault rifle, or blast away with a shotgun at close range, but just like 
 the first Condemned, the real combat is hand to hand and melee, so the guns always seem like an 
 afterthought.
  
  One of the most standout features of this game is the level design. They are mapped out incredibly 
 well, accented with scripted events that make you jump out of your seat. Some of the most fun levels 
 are the museum, where all sorts of medieval weaponry is at your disposal, and a junk barge where 
 you use an electro magnet to haul armor clad enemies and drop them into a compactor. The only fault 
 with these levels is that sometimes there are pacing issues. Some are rather short, while others 
 are longer than need be, and some levels don't have enough action. To the game's credit, it's a 
 trade off for more a suspenseful feel. Also, the game could have benefited a bit with a few more 
 save points, as they feel sporadic in some levels.
  
  Graphically, the game's significantly improved over its predecessor. The textures, lighting and 
 especially the rendering of the faces are incredible. There are a few issues with the darkness 
 of the game, though. Also, when Ethan begins to be taken over by the voice and everything starts 
 to distort, it can really be hard to see what's going on, almost to the point where it's crippling. 
 It also suffers from a few really stupid glitches, like bodies being stuck in walls, and pieces 
 of evidence not showing up when they should be. It's also mind-numbingly frustrating to read some 
 of the text if you happen to play on a standard TV. Still, all faults aside, it's an absolutely 
 beautiful - if you call bloody and twisted beautiful - game to look at.
  
  This is one of those games where it would really do you good to play on a rather nice audio set 
 up. The sound effects are a crowning achievement here. The blows you inflict are wince-inducing. 
 The explosions are jolting. There's this electronic noise that is generated by sonic emitters that 
 is downright unnerving. The voice acting is also pretty well done, and the soundtrack fits the 
 game's atmosphere perfectly. Definately play this game with the volume turned up.
  
  In this day and age, it's rather hard to live up to the greatness of the first game when you're 
 making a sequel to it. Condemned 2: Bloodshot is one of those instances where not only did they 
 live up to the first, the easily surpased it. If you don't mind the game getting a bit slow at 
 times, you'll assuredly want to add this game to your collection, and if you loved the first game, 
 this game should be a part of your collection already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xprimentyl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Firstly, allow me to qualify this review by stating I am no expert on the survival horror genre, 
 but I've played/enjoyed more than a few, had a few jumps and laughs and have always prided myself 
 on my ability to distinguish reality from fiction; so when a video game makes me damn-near mess 
 myself on a routine basis... it's a good thing.
  
  I didn't play the first Condemned until the sequal came out, so I wanted to start at the beginning 
 and was pleasantly surprised. For a 360 laucnh title, Condemned looked great, sounded great and 
 had a fair share of "Oh *bleep*!" moments. It made me hungry for the sequal...
  
  Bloodshot ramps up everything I loved about the first one and then some. I'll cover the technical 
 stuff first:
  
  Graphically, it's amazing. The environments are realistically dirty, dilapidated and claustrophobic 
 which really lends itself to the "found weapon" mechanic that the Condemned series has thus far 
 leant on for its distinct flavor. Crawling through a hole in the wall from one depraved mess of 
 a room to another really makes you feel that "I've got to get the hell out of here... NOW" vibe.
 
  
  The sound is perfect. The producers really lean on eerie mad-ambiance to ensure that terror is 
 not far from your mind; just listening, you'll never feel safe. The deep, brooding bass moans and 
 the shrill strings coupled with the sound of people running upstairs and your own heavy breathing 
 lead you into believeing you've somehow found yourself trapped in the dark psyche of madness.
 
  
  Gameplay: as an FPS guy, I've never been much for melee... until Condemned. And Bloodshot makes 
 the melee system that much more rewarding with visceral, brutal and up-close-and-personal carnage. 
 You actually FEEL like you're fighting for your life and not just finding the biggest and baddest 
 "toy" to exploit one-hit kills. Your enemies are psychotic, demented and sustain beatings that 
 would kill a normal person after a hit or two. Top that with the meaty impact sound effects, the 
 schizophrenic ambient score of noise and the curses spewed from the mouths of your targets and 
 your heart will race with each swing of the fist, stick, bat, pole, etc. One gripe is the weapon 
 beaking; someone please explain why a lead pipe would break off of someone face? Game = suspended 
 reality, moving on.
  
  As for the story, one must first concede that this is a video game. A video game's main purpose 
 is to present interesting ideas in a fitting package. I feel Bloodshot succeeds here. Your main 
 purpose is to survive and the game devs drop you in more than enough situations where that is far 
 from guaranteed. But the immersion lacks a little in the patchy story and the cut-scenes. Bloodshot 
 obviously picks up where Condemned left off, but the transition is a little too grey for story-telling 
 purposes. I liken it to the transition from The Matrix to The Matrix: Reloaded; it's almost like 
 the first one had the "finished" feel the devs intended, but didn't bank on the level of success 
 the game received, so rampantly started in on an originally unintended sequal; they focused on 
 the "cool" and not so much the "why." In the cut scenes, where your character who has basically 
 been to hell and stared in into the eyes of the Devil, he comes across as a little too detached 
 and sarcastic. I don't care how much you've had to drink or how fatalistic your menatlity might 
 be, after creeping through a run-down doll factory and being chased by surrealistically animated 
 exploding baby dolls, I'm not cracking jokes or eager to get back into an even creepier situation 
 for curiosity's sake. This guy is like a badass on steroids and mind-altering drugs at the same 
 time; nothing seems to phase him as much as it should. Why was I left alone to feel rattled? Same 
 with the forensics portions: GREAT ideas, but not realistically realized. If I'm running for my 
 life, at what point in the middle of a bad situation, would I break out the UV light to look for 
 finger prints? So many times, I wanted to scream "Rosa, this REALLY isn't a good time to talk!"
 
  
  All that the story/believability lacks is forgiven for the sheer terror quotient which ranks in 
 the upper-to-mid 11th on a 1 to 10 scale. It starts off feeling "more of the same" when compared 
 to Condemned, but realtively quickly becomes something "else." In the right environment (*see below,) 
 this games hits on all cylinders when it comes to the genuine scares: I felt tension around every 
 corner. The surprises genuinely surprised (even when I expected them.) The survival events in certain 
 parts are second to NONE; there are several parts wherein the object of your fear is apparent, 
 but getting away is still a heart-pounding thrill! Again, the sound comes into HUGE play here; 
 if I had a nickel for every time I crept around a corner and the sound of my kicking a bucket, 
 knocking over a piece of wood or merely stepping on a piece of trash caused me to spin around and 
 shoot or swing at nothing, I'd be a wealthy man. This was the first horror game that made me actually 
 make audible noises beyond a small, quickly exhausted gasp; call it what you want, but I stand 
 firm that real men don't scream, we yell.
  
  Lastly, *the right environment. When I play scary games, I need to set the mood to get my money's 
 worth. I never play during the day, never have a light on and I ensure the volume is as loud as 
 can be tolerated (or with headphones.) I set the in-game video brightness fairly low (around 40-45) 
 to ensure my flahlight has more than novelty functionality. I played this entire game over a friend's 
 house on a large HDTV and Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound. I don't jump during scary movies and 
 most horror games are creepy enough to make me flinch once or twice... Let's just say THIS was 
 a uniquely terrifying experience and worth every penny. My next playthrough will be on a lesser, 
 brighter scale... around noonish! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Foreword : This review is for the single player portion only, which is a strong story based game. 
 If the multiplayer is an important factor in your purchase, I suggest reading other reviews.
  
  Ethan Thomas is a broken and haunted man. After the events of the original Condemned, his solution 
 for dealing with his problems has been to turn to alcohol. Months after those original events, 
 Ethan finds himself confronted by the vision of Malcolm van Horn, the man who helped him in the 
 previous game. The FBI, for whom Ethan used to work, receive a message from Van Horn, and supposedly 
 Ethan is the only one who can help. Thus Ethan is dragged back into a mysterious and chilling chain 
 of events that twist and turn throughout the game. 
  
  At first glance, many of the gameplay elements have changed or been tweaked, and early on I thought 
 perhaps too much had changed. Before long though you get back into the swing of things, and the 
 game delivers the same thrills as its predecessor. The first major change is to the combat, which 
 has really seen a complete overhaul. While the previous game used the right trigger to swing and 
 left to block, Condemned 2 has each fist assigned to a trigger, and pulling both blocks. That too 
 leads to another change; the fact that you can use your fists. The game also introduces a combo 
 system, of which there are various types, such as parrying, then attacking, or doing a left, right, 
 left combo. While this makes your final hit do more damage, you can't take damage during the combo 
 for it to take effect, which can be challenging.
  
  Of course it wouldn't be Condemned without a bunch of everyday objects to pick up and bludgeon 
 your foes with. While melee weapons were permanent in the previous game, in the sequel they will 
 eventually break. When a weapon is within reach, stats will appear telling you its damage, range, 
 speed and condition as compared to what you are currently holding. Sometimes you will have to make 
 do with whatever is handy such as electrical conduit or a lead pipe ripped from a wall, but other 
 times you will have heavy duty weapons you will want to hold onto, like fire axes or sledgehammers. 
 You can also throw any weapon, which is handy when you are standing next to a pile of bricks. Thankfully 
 gone is the contrivance from the previous game where specific types of weapons were needed to bypass 
 certain obstacles.
  
  The game does have some firearms, but for the most part these are fleeting. Due to going through 
 alcohol withdrawals, Ethan isn't a very good aim anyway. You can raise weapons up, but his hands 
 shake, making it hard to hit anything at a distance. You can find alcohol lying around, and drinking 
 it calms Ethans nerves and makes him a better shot. Most times when you find a gun, it will only 
 have a few bullets in it, so you will have to make them count. Once bullets are depleted, you can 
 use it as a melee weapon, but it won't be long before it breaks. When you only have a couple of 
 bullets left, it can be a tough choice whether to keep it, or ditch it for something that you are 
 going to keep a little longer.
  
  The taser also makes a return a short way into the game, but has been modified. Instead of slowly 
 recharging, which allowed you to rely on it in the previous game if you were patient, this one 
 has a limited number of charges, which are only replenished at the start of each level or when 
 you come across batteries. As a result I found myself forgetting it was there, but it does come 
 into handy against more brutal foes.
  
  The tension in the combat itself is much the same in the first game. Your life bar is now divided 
 into 3, and if you remain out of combat for a short time, a partially depleted segment returns 
 to full, and medikits can be collected to replenish a whole segment. I expected this change to 
 be detrimental to the experience, given that the previous game had a rigid health system that made 
 you wince every take you took a hit. However, the system is offset by the fact that combat timing 
 needs to be more precise and enemies are tough as nails. If you block at the right time, you parry 
 an incoming attack, which puts them off balance and usually lets you get in a free swing. A standard 
 block will prevent the damage, but does more damage to your weapon, breaking it faster. If you 
 are down to your fists, some weapons will still deal damage even if you are blocking. Of course 
 parrying isn't always so easy, as your enemies have different attacks with varying speeds. If you 
 have a weapon with decent range, you can always try and move in and out of range. Multiple assailants 
 can prove quite troublesome, but with some maneuvering you can make them hit each other with their 
 wild swings, making them turn on each other.
  
  Sonic emitters around the city are what is causing people to be so violent. Enemies vary from lithe 
 enemies who are coated eerily in shiny black slime (which I don't recall ever being explained, 
 but are suitably creepy nonetheless) , hobos, huge muscle men who will beat you senseless if you 
 put your guard down, among other things. It's not always clear what some of these enemies are, 
 or perhaps more accurately, were. The mystery surrounding them adds to the whole creepiness of 
 the situation.
  
  The forensics get a little tweak as well. As usual, the game tells you exactly what device you 
 need to have out, so there is still some hand holding. Your FBI contact Rosa will talk you through 
 some of the crime scenes you visit, and ask you to collect evidence. This usually means looking 
 closely at the crimescene, and choosing from multiple choice answers. For example, Rosa may ask 
 you for the cause of death, and examining a wound may look like a gunshot, which you can choose 
 from the list. Usually there are a sequence of these, and you are graded on your assessment out 
 of 5. At the end of each level, you are ranked on a combination of your forensic skills, and whether 
 you have completed other tasks. These include tuning in TV sets (which then displays part of the 
 story told by your adversary) , responses (which amounts to pressing A within a few seconds of being 
 prompted, so a piece of cake) , and destroying emitters.
  
  When you finish a level, you unlock a new feature, and your rank determines how good it is. For 
 example, when you unlock the taser, your rank will determine how many shots you get. This feature 
 feels good, and introduces you to mechanics gradually, while offering an incentive to go back and 
 replay levels if you want to check out the best stuff.
  
  It's the story that keeps you going, which is told through cutscenes at the end and beginning of 
 each level, through conversation with Rosa in-game, and through the scripted events in the game. 
 Ethan reluctantly helps out the FBI, and it appears that Serial Killer X is back. But is he responsible 
 for some of these latest killings? Who is putting all the sonic emitters around the city? Why does 
 Ethan have classified medical files?
  
  The scripted events shape the game just as much as in the previous game. Ethan will walk through 
 an area and start having a mental breakdown, visual filters will play over the scene, and imagined 
 enemies will flicker in and out of existence. Dogs will round a corner, only to let out a whelp 
 as they meet their end at the hands of an unseen enemy. Grotesque creatures that are perhaps human 
 will slither through small holes in walls dragging themselves along with only their forearms. Of 
 course, everything is dark, which is key to the atmosphere. This works extremely well as you frantically 
 look around when you hear the sounds of enemies, and you feel a sense of dread as you hear frantic 
 scurrying approaching. My only gripe is that in a few of the final levels I thought it was too 
 dark, and your torch does very little in penetrating the darkness in those levels.
  
  While the main story is creepy, effective and full of tension, there is also the Fight Club. The 
 sole focus here is on combat, such as how many enemies you can kill in a time limit, beating 3 
 specific enemies as quickly as possible, protecting cops, or just a practice arena where you can 
 set the types of enemies and weapons. Aside from practice, these are all listed on the leaderboards 
 if you are looking for a challenge.
  
  It is recommended that you play the original game first to gain an understanding of why Ethan is 
 so messed up in the first place, but is not necessary. Condemned 2 succeeds as a follow-up to a 
 great launch title, with excellent artistic design, great use of sound, an awesome atmospehere, 
 and a brutal combat system. Few games truly qualify for the category of thriller, but Condemned 
 2 earns it well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almighty-mints
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Playing through this game on single player has left a lasting impression, even after 2 months. 
 Ever since I played through it, some scary things just arent scary anymore.
  
  Condemned 2's gameplay is runs smoothly and has little to no quirks in the controls. 
  The Graphics 
 are pretty standard for a 360 game, nothing special here.
  
  The story line sucks you in and scares you almost nonstop until the very last level (the game takes 
 a very odd turn) . I cant tell you the amount of time I jumped out of my seat and nearly destroyed 
 my TV (yes i am puss when it comes to all things scary) .
  
  As for most games these days its just worth a rental (unless you plan on playing through it several 
 times) because its maybe a 12 hour game with a fun and innovative online (too bad the community 
 is nonexistent) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendaryscmt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot takes place a year after the events of the first Condemned game. The main 
 character, Ethan Thomas, has gone from Special Crimes Unit officer to a homeless alcoholic. As 
 such, his alcoholism has taken a hold of his life, making him see violent illusions. Because of 
 this, Thomas is much changed since the first game. In fact, many of the returning characters from 
 the first game have changed, which is actually almost one of the game's downfall. While some of 
 the character changes are great, they are so diverse from the original models, to the point where 
 they're almost separate characters. While new players might not feel the effects, players who have 
 gone through the original game might not like the drastic change. Another downpoint to the game 
 is the story. The first Condemned had an intriguing story from start to finish, while the sequel 
 starts off strong, just becomes plain stupid towards the end.
  
  What Condemned 2 delivers is the same experience that the first Condemned gave, except with a longer 
 single player, an even darker tone, and a better combat system. Moving through a level, you can 
 look around your environments and take items that actually suit the environment as weapons. for 
 example, in the first Condemned, you would find weapons that didn't quite fit the mood, such as 
 a fire ax inside a closet or a drained pool. In Condemned 2, the weapons are better suited to their 
 environments, such as picking up bricks from a destroyed wall, a wooden plank from a boarded up 
 door, etc. However, if you pick up a weapon, don't get too attached to it, because now weapons 
 do have their own durability, and will break. Don't expect a wooden board to last long, but some 
 of the other weapons such as metal poles and axes do last longer. 
  
  Now, unlike the first Condemned, whenever you wanted to block, you'd hit the left trigger, and 
 you'd hold up your weapon for a brief moment. In this game, holding both the triggers down will 
 raise both of your arms, or weapon, in a blocking stance, which makes combat a little easier, whereas 
 you can now hold your blocking stance instead of pressing the trigger, hoping that you'll block. 
 Like the first game, pressing the right trigger will ether swing your weapon, or your right fist. 
 Introduced with the new combat system is the ability to punch with your left hand too by hitting 
 the left trigger. This gives way to fighting combos that can do greater damage to the new variety 
 of enemies that Condemned 2 has.
  
  If you remembered the crime scenes from the first Condemned, you'd know that they weren't too hard 
 to figure out. In this game, crime scenes have become much more integrated, where you must find 
 and study pieces of evidence, and give your own summary of the scene to your friend at the SCU, 
 Rosa. Based on how you perform, you'll be given a rating from poor to perfect, which affect the 
 end score of the level, which in tern effect what kind of rewards you'll receive, such as a more 
 powerful combo or the ability to hold up to two guns. While this might sound nice, most of the 
 crime scenes are easily passed by without even noticing, like some of the secondary objectives 
 in the game.
  
  While the main game itself isn't too long, maxing out at around 7-8 hours, the game includes a 
 multiplayer side to it, along with some unlockables. The multiplayer to Condemned 2 revolves around 
 several modes, which include a SCU mode where players have to fend off others while gathering evidence. 
 Another mode allows you to fight off enemies in a battle royal type gameplay. However, the best 
 part of the unlockables in Condemned 2 is the FPS mode, which lets you play the game again, except 
 like a true FPS game, gives you guns with much more ammo, giving the game a little bit of replay 
 value.
  
  In the end, Condemned 2: Bloodshot plays a lot like the first Condemned, but with minor improvements. 
 Combat feels tighter than it did before, and this game does mess with your head from time to time 
 with its much darker tone. While it isn't that long, some of the unlockables might be worth playing 
 the game for a second, or even third time.
  
  
  The Good: Combat is improved since the first game, much darker tone to the gameplay, music and 
 voice overs are well done and really contribute to the games atmosphere, some shocking moments 
 that will ether scare or impress some gamers.
  
  The Bad: At times, the game is just too dark to see much, even with the flashlight on, story becomes 
 downright dumb towards the end, some story elements are explored well enough, leading to minor 
 confusions along the way, most characters are just too different from the original, multiplayer 
 feels a little tacked on with no real purpose, game relies too much on cheap, predictable scares.
 
  
  Buy, rent, pass: There's really no clear line between buy and pass. The game's length might be 
 a turn off to some, while fans from the original game would be welcomed back by a more deeper gameplay 
 experience. The good of this game really out weights the bad, and the single player experience 
 does give some intense moments here and there, but overall, I really can't say that you must buy 
 this game, or you must rent this game, but rather ether way you do it, it isn't a pass, and you 
 have to try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostmarine6785
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Alright, first off I'm going to say that I loved the first condemned, so this review may be a tad 
 bit biased. You pick up the game as fallen FBI agent Ethan Thomas, during the time between the 
 first and second games the affects of brutally beating a ton of people to death with his bare hands 
 have clearly messed with his mind. 
  
  He's now a bum and an alcoholic, some people thought this change in character was lame, I personally 
 thought it was pretty neat, and at least semi-realistic. The game then moves on through a relatively 
 boring beginning up until you are forced to fight tar monsters (from now on to be referred to as 
 "tar babies") screaming and semi-scary beasts that somewhat reminded me of the creepy sewer people 
 in the first game. This is where I first noticed how much better the fighting had become, the weapons 
 seem to do damage a bit more realistically and the fact that Ethan can actually use his hands was 
 a welcome change of pace. 
  
  However the scare tactics of the tar babies quickly wear thin because they are killed in one hit... that 
 is up until you are forced to fight through a department store completely covered in tar. The fact 
 that scrawny skeleton like things that will viciously beat you down can hide so easily in this 
 part of the level is the only thing that really makes it difficult, and it was a bit of a let down, 
 in the first condemned the opponents were difficult because... well they seemed to be very good 
 at smashing your skull in with a brick until pink liquid poured out of your nostrils.
  
  The next level introduces the use of guns into the game play, which again was a bit of a let down 
 for me, I bought this game because I wanted to beat people down with whatever I could tear off 
 the walls, but here it was giving me a gun at the start of the level. I soon found out that the 
 guns were more or less... weak. By that I mean it took 3 shot gun shells to kill a meth-monkey.. granted 
 I could have shot him in the head. Two seconds later I killed another person and... he dropped another 
 shot gun, and instantly I began to worry that this would become a poor FPS game. (even if the guns 
 are somewhat weak, when a game throws ammo at you constantly it's hard to not beat it) . I basically 
 blew through this level pretty quickly, the developers did do a great job of the sound on this 
 level, hearing the creepy laughter of a meth-monkey somewhere around you is dis-heartening, and 
 the crunch of garbage under your own feet gets to you after awhile. 
  
  The forensics of this game was GREATLY improved, I really had a blast doing it, and although some 
 of it required you to know a bit more about forensics than the average person, it was still fun.
 
  
  (with the first use of forensics however you have to follow a blood trail that looks more or less 
 like someone just poured bucket after bucket of blood down a hall way, for about 600 yards, all 
 of that blood from a single guy? it just kind of ruined the mood)
  
  Alright I'm not going to go through a level by level review, I just wanted to get those two out 
 of the way because they introduced the main aspects of the game. 
  
  One of the things people don't like about this game is the story, and yes... it's a bit out there. 
 But in all honesty it's a video game, I don't play them for realistic story-lines I play them to 
 have fun, and the abilities you get later in the game are just that... fun.
  
  Overall I had a great time with this game, but it could have been much more terrifying if the developers 
 used lighting as well as they did in the first condemned. Darkness isn't quite as scary as dim 
 light with lots of shadows moving around. If you can get past the weak story game then you'll more 
 than likely enjoy this game very much for its visceral melee combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Forensics, awesome, really great. The Bear? wow, awesome. Killing the Metal Men with the Oro bow 
 and the cranes, very cool. Some high points before I really have to harshly critisize this game. 
 It really didn't get too dark until I started wacking those meat sacks. The rooms were awesome, 
 except for the clown girl room, and where was she? I killed her and didn't even get to see my enemy 
 in pain or go down. Two items that made me quit the game right at the very last scene, melee. I 
 had a save that was right at the end, played it 20, 30 times and then... I just didn't care what 
 I saw next, if I shot him, if I didn't. Not to mention the story went way weak when I found out 
 who the main bad guy was. And where were all the Oro guys I saw in the vids in a crowd? I killed 
 only 4 or 5 to get to the boss. Oh no you didn't.... I couldn't believe they used this guy as the 
 boss, SFX was gone, no Magic Man, huh? Another duh was the response A buttons to get the gold at 
 each stage. My god, jumping down on a box before the cool Metal Man and saying Ewwww, just to get 
 a score on my total was a joke. This is my lead-in to say the overall controller input was unbelieveably 
 incoherent. How many buttons total do you think you pushed before the campaign was over? And part 
 of this was the melee system. Why didn't they keep the finishing moves on D-pad like they did in 
 the first one? I can't tell you how much I was looking forward to this. And I paid 64 euros which 
 was 75 dollars when I was working in Europe! Not to mention how much I love Monolith for giving 
 me FEAR. I recently bought Condemned: Criminal Origins and I'm so glad I did. At least I have this 
 game to keep the faith that Monolith can branch out with their twisted ideas. Multiplayer, can't 
 say, never even gave that a chance after the campaign let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake-lutze
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Alright, some people (only a few) strongly dislike this game. The only reason I can think of for 
 that is the fact that there are some parts that get VERY hard to see, and some secondary objectives 
 are a little... weird (don't fit the game) . But otherwise, this is a magnificent game that should 
 not be missed by anybody at all.
  
  Graphics: Good, not the best I have ever seen, but great. The graphics have a grimy, grainy feel, 
 that make it feel very depressing and creepy. Note, This doesn't detract from the game, it really 
 helps the games atmosphere.
  
  Sound: Oh, wow. where do I get started? The sound design is AMAZING. It sets a creepy atmosphere, 
 silence when necessary, otherwise, the music blends in to much to be remembered, sadly, the game 
 would be improved greatly by a good soundtrack. But, the sound effects are awesome, there's not 
 many things that are creepier than walking into a motel room, hearing some chairs rustle and hearing 
 someone shout "F**k you!" And attack right behind you.
  
  Game play: Great. Fighting with your fists is not only interesting, its not guaranteed death if 
 you use them. The combos are rather powerful, and fun to see when executed correctly. The Investigations 
 from the first one have been changed to an almost quiz like state. You search around for the answer 
 for a problem at hand, you get a better response from your informant the closer you get to the 
 real answer, which is a really fun thing, I was surprised. At first, you may not like it very much, 
 but it definitely grows on you without a doubt. The weapons are a little annoying this time, because 
 they can get knocked out of your hands, but if you block right, you will do fine. One of my favorite 
 parts of this game is the environmental kills. If you beat any opponent with your fists (or repeatedly 
 kick them =D) they will become dazed (like the last game) and you can grab them and carry them 
 around. When you come up to an icon that looks like a skull, and walk into it, it will trigger 
 a brutal (yet totally awesome) death scene (my favorite is crushing a head with a weird grinder-thing 
 in the doll factory.
  
  Story: Whoa... its WEIRD. I don't like it as much as the first, but it is very good. Its a little... 
 different, but it makes sense as a continuation of the first story. I wont say anything about it, 
 since ninety percent of anything I say about the story will TOTALLY spoil the story.
  
  Multiplayer: Didn't try it, sorry, I don't have XboX live :' (
  
  Replay Value: Pretty good, 
 Id expect most people to play through it at least twice.
  
  Overall 10: Amazing game, the best game I have ever played. There is nothing I can say bad about 
 this game without two more things that are good. It is just magnificent. Pick it up, its 17.99$ 
 at GameStop.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peecee1384
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought my XBOX360 2 months ago and this is the Fourth game I have played on it. The third game 
 I played was the original Condemned and I enjoyed it so much that I wanted to continue with the 
 sequel straight away. I purchased the game new for 40 Australian dollars, and my ratings reflect 
 that price.
  
  I will try to keep this short. I have rated the game 9 out of 10 because I thoroughly enjoyed the 
 whole experience. It is one of the scariest games I have played. Its also quite disturbing in places. 
 It has excellent graphics (I played in Full HD) and a great sense of realism. Creepy sound effects, 
 crazy characters and lots of tension and suspense. I like the interaction of having to make responses 
 by hitting the A button at certain points in the game. It's a minor touch which adds to the realism 
 and sense of truly being there. I enjoyed looking for evidence and helping to resolve what was 
 occurring during the course of the game. I also enjoyed hunting for Radio and TV antennas to tune 
 in. That woman newsreader was a hoot and I hope she makes reappearance in the next game! Loved 
 her funny accent. Anyway, I thought the first game had an over-abundance of weapons, this one has 
 far less which seems more realistic. I particularly liked the more unusual levels the doll factory 
 with those creepy dolls just like in the original Condemned with the level with the mannequins. 
 The Hunting Lodge level is excellent and scares the crap out of you especially when the bear gets 
 you (and it will!) . Games should have more memorable moments like this and it's worth playing for 
 this sequence alone. I can't think of too many games where you have to run like hell, heart pounding, 
 to get away from an enemy that is after you and cannot be defeated, and it's great. A similar thing 
 happens on The Barge level and really creeps you out.
  
  I must say the anticipation builds as the story progresses because you want to find out what the 
 hell is going on. Unfortunately I found the explanation a let-down, the idea of the Oro and the 
 ability to project noise from the chest cavity etc. is too far-fetched to be taken seriously, in 
 my view. It's my only negative point and I still rate the game 9 out of 10. I would definitely 
 be looking to play the next installment if it comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I loved Riddick and particularly its implementation of melee combat. Somehow missed Condemned but 
 picked up the sequel a couple of months ago. The melee combat is pretty good, but in my memory 
 Riddick felt better, Condemned 2 feels too stiff and convoluted to me for some reason. But yeah, 
 it works, as does the so called first person experience/body or whatever. The investigation gameplay 
 is also neat and fits snugly into the experience. The sound design is also pretty great.
  
  However, the game is **bleep**ing stupid. "Kill 10 ceiling sacks." it said on the screen. What? 
 And then there are these black sacks hanging from the ceiling which blurt out a tar monster when 
 you walk underneath them and you press a button and they just kind of liquidate away into nothing. 
 It summarizes the problems of the game fairly well. It contains large amounts of stupid design 
 and just plain stupid. The stupidness just ruins the atmosphere too. I don't know why they had 
 to go and make it so silly. I've heard the first one was much more down to earth and reminiscent 
 of something like Se7en. Why did they have to abandon that? In Condemned 2 you're a cussing hardass 
 bum fighting tar monsters, metal people and reportedly screaming people's heads off and fighting 
 alcohol demons later on. It's just stupid.
  
  A better example of stupid design would be this though. There's one part where you zipline over 
 to a railroad track. I ran around on the tracks looking for an exit for like 30 minutes, all while 
 being chased around by an endless supply of respawning psycho bums, causing me to reload a bunch 
 of times. Turns out the solution was to run down to a gate at the far end to trigger a script of 
 a guy walking away from the gate. Just like in reality, watching a guy walking away from a gate 
 obviously starts some sort of chain reaction causing a body to fall onto and break a fence further 
 down the track. I don't know why I had problems figuring out such an obvious thing. It also didn't 
 help that the graphics were so dark, noisy and grimy I never even saw this body, or the fence for 
 that matter. I don't have a problem with grime generally, I even cultivate a lot of it in my apartment, 
 but really, the visuals can be ridiculously overdone in its attempt to be grimy and "mature" or 
 whatever. A problem with the writing as well. It's all just too much.
  
  In another similar-ish sequence you're attacked by respawning exploding dolls as you're trying 
 to find a button to press in this grimy, monochrome level, and then take cover behind a case containing 
 one of these exploding dolls as it's exposed to an open flame. Luckily I had eyed a walkthrough 
 at this point and at least knew what I was supposed to be looking for and what to do.
  
  Personally I can't stand such utterly dumb, frustrating game design. In a later level, after being 
 unable to squeeze between two shelves like you could in the intro, searching for an exit for 15 
 minutes. and kicking a propane tank so it blew up and killed me I just quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Once again your in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, the S. C. U protagonist from Condemned: Criminal Origins 
 who had successfully hunted down Serial Killer X. Now, it seems, that weird and unnatural things 
 are happening in the city again, and Ethan is called back into action; especially when a Mr. Malcolm 
 Vanhorn contacts the S. C. U office opening up a new world of questions and adventures for Thomas.
 
  
  Basically, you run around in first person view, exploring the numerous areas that you find yourself 
 in such as alleyways, doll factories, and other lovely, exotic locations. You can pick up pretty 
 much anything you find, be it a lead pipe, 2x4, an axe, sledgehammer, paper cutter, crutches, and 
 whatever else may be available. What do you do with all these goodies? Well, you use them to bash 
 in the heads of random hobos and police officers that attack you throughout the game. Ontop of 
 melee weapons you can also do damage with your fists, feet, a taser, and guns that are sometimes 
 scattered around or left behind. To steady your aim, Thomas must now drink random half-drunk bottles 
 of alcohol.. yeah, apparently he became an alcoholic after the first game from all of his haunting 
 visions and stuff..
  
  Anyway, you can also do "chain attacks" which makes the game move in slow mo and you can do devastating 
 punches to your enemies. Like theres one where you grab the guys arm, break it, then stomp on the 
 dudes knee and break that, and then when he falls you jump on his back and break his neck. Its 
 pretty boss. Additionally, you can "finish" your enemies by grabbing them and using certain areas 
 in the environment to kill them such as slamming their heads into a toilet bowl or bashing their 
 heads onto a brick wall, then stomping on it.
  
  The story is lame, but revealing as well. To make a long story short, theres this ever-seeing, 
 all watching group called the Oro. Ethan's parents, as well as Vanhorn, were Oros, left the group, 
 and tried hiding Ethan before the Oro came and killed the Thomas' so he can live a normal life. 
 So, that explains Ethan's strength and stuff like that. Serial Killer X actually wanted to be an 
 Oro, so he went on a killing spree so they would notice him.. so that explains S. K. X.. this cop 
 named Dorland backstabs you and turns out to be an Oro as well, the reason everyone is going insane 
 and fighting is because of these sonic emitter things... hm, its like the more I explain it, the 
 more spoilers come out. Just go play the game.
  
  Overall, the game was pretty wild... wild and very very dark. But very brutal. I really suggest 
 fans of the first game, or people who like a lot of violence go and buy this game. Its only like 
 $20-$30 now so thats cool. Not to mention the multiplayer is a lot of fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  After playing Condemned: Criminal Origins, I really wanted to play the sequel. I found the first 
 one to be one of the most suspenseful and tense games I have ever played. I loved not knowing what 
 was around each corner, the utterly creepy environments, and the visceral combat. Condemned 2 cleaned 
 up the graphics, made it more story oriented, and tuned the combat up nicely-but it forgot the 
 terror, the suspense, and the horror.
  
  The story starts with the series' protagonist, Ethan Thomas in dire straits. He is an alcoholic 
 who is tormented by the events of the first game. When the wave of violence that plagued the city 
 in the first game continues, Ethan is called upon to stop it. To do this you must investigate the 
 levels and engage in furious hand to hand combat with a variety of crazed enemies. The story is 
 good, not great, and has an interesting twist which is rather unbelieveable. It takes the game 
 from horror to sci-fi/horror but it works in the context of the game.
  
  The graphics are a huge step up from Condemned: Criminal Origins. There is much more detail in 
 the character animations and in the levels themselves. Debris is strewn about and blows in the 
 wind, light reflects off of objects, shadows move, and the levels look downright filthy-which encompasses 
 much of what made the first game awesome. The problem is, they just aren't as suspenseful. There 
 were some levels that begged for utter suspense like the doll factory, bowling alley, and magic 
 theatre (which takes only 10 or so minutes) . There wasn't as much ambient noise and enemies creeping 
 around. Though the environments were aesthetically creepy, that's about it.
  
  The combat has been vastly upgraded. Blocking is much more effective and not twitchy like in Criminal 
 Origins. You can hold down block all day, but you'll take damage if you just block. If you time 
 it right, you can counter-attack with your fists or a weapon. Timing it isn't hard, but it's not 
 easy and it feels just about right. Attacking is much more brutal and visceral this time. Enemies 
 still relentlessly attack you and can take a world of punishment. This time you aren't helpless 
 if you have no weapon, you can use your bare fists. The mechanic works very well-the left and right 
 triggers controle left and right punches which you can chain into combos. You can also kick and 
 stomp to a lesser degree. This is necessary given that weapons now break after use. Guns have more 
 of a role, and now you can collect more ammo. The gun interface is solid, and though the game relies 
 on them more, it doesn't go overkill on them. Up until a certain point, because of your alcholism 
 you need to drink in order to steady your aim which I though was a cool touch. You also get the 
 taser later on in the game, even then you cannot spam it like in Criminal Origins which makes things 
 challenging. The other change is, your health bar is divided into 3 (later on, 4) bars. If a health 
 bar isn't completely emptied, it will refill. It is needed because the combat can get pretty intense 
 at times. It doesn't make the game too easy, but it does make it a bit easier.
  
  The investigation plays a greater role and there is now a reward for successfully investigating 
 scenes. You get to use tools (UV light, spectrometer, and camera) to get info on evidence. The 
 difference between Bloodshot and Criminal Origins lays in the layers of detail. Now you must get 
 information on the victim, decipher numbers, photograph evidence, and find signs and other information 
 in the level to complete your case. This was a tremendous upgrade from Criminal Origins and it 
 is an awful lot of fun. I just wish there was more opportunity to do it.
  
  This game also introduces Multiplayer... why, I don't know given that the game is primarily a single 
 player affair. It's standard MP faire, but it seems like it doesn't fit the nature of the game. 
 Unfortunately for achievement collectors, a lot of the games achievements are tied to multiplayer.
 
  
  Overall Condemned 2 is a worthy successor to the first game as it improved on things greatly. I 
 scored it less than the first game because it removed the best part of Criminal Origins-the terror 
 and suspense. Not once did I jump out of my chair, I didn't have to. I could hear enemies coming 
 a mile away, so much so, I could plan my attack and cut them down. There are few surprises and 
 shocks, as most of the horror is just that-moments that show you pretty graphic scenes. If you 
 are a fan of the first, definately try the second-just don't expect to get freaked out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  So the original Condemned: Criminal Origins wasn't revalutionary, but was an interesting change 
 to he First-Person set-up. Rather than gun down enemies by the dozen with a vast array of firearms, 
 your main weapons were pretty much anything you can find. Its an intersesting new view of things. 
 Now with Condemned 2: Bloodshot here, this is whats new...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Condemned's gameplay is a very interesting, as (like I've already said) firearms are a rare luxury 
 here. Therefore, this is a much more realistic experience. Your main weapons consist of Lead Pipes, 
 Wood planks, Bricks, Electric Conduits, Rebar, Baseball Bats, and pretty much anything that you 
 could use to hurt someone. Sometimes, if you are in a certain area ( lets say a hospital) you could 
 find weapons specific to that place, like a prosthetic arm or a krutch. One thing that wasn't included 
 in the game, but I thought should, is a syringe. And the dealiest of all weapons, are firearms, 
 which are only occasional, and don't last very long, but you can get your hands on them. The weapons 
 consist of...
  
  -9mm Handgun
  -.38 Calibre magnum
  -.44 calibre magnum (has a scope)
  -Pump Shotgun
  -Riot Shotgun
  -Lever Rifle
  -Uzi
  
 -Assault Rifle
  
  I might be missing one or two, but you get the idea. Although, your forced to watch your ammo level, 
 because you can only carry the ammo that is in the gun, and cannot carry extra. However, you can 
 reload you weapons by finding ammo on the ground or in lockers. 
  Crime scenes are also much more interesting this time, as you must determine the answers yourself. 
 You do this by entering investigation mode, and press the LT to zoom in on something, then make 
 the choice you want. This gives you a rating (1-5) on how well you did. These sections are both 
 very fun and compelling.
  The gameplay however, may be frustrating for some, as the standard movement is slow, even though 
 you can hold LB to run. Also, the combat is difficult, as firearms will take you down very quickly. 
 On the bright side, you can take down enemies with 1-3 shots from a gun. The fist combat, while 
 satisfying is hard as killing enemies with your fists proves difficult, unless you have a improvised 
 weapon with you. Blocking is essential as a succesful block will cause an enemy to flinch, giving 
 you a free hit. If your good enough, you can pull off combos, dealing extra damage. Overall, the 
 gameplay is well put together, giving it an 8/10.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The atmosphere in Condemned 2 is very gritty, and yet very pretty. You spend almost your entire 
 time in messy, dark, and "Condemned" enviroments that are only left to be inhabited by insane bums, 
 thugs, druggies, and the like. The graphics are excellent. Character models look disturbing, the 
 enviroment is dark where it is meant ot be and light where it is meant to be. I really can't find 
 any particular flaw, so I would have to give graphics a 10/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The games sound is great, just for the fact that there isn't much. For example, enemies make no 
 sound when moving, making it extra creepy. And when your in quiet areas, suddenly hearing a board 
 snap, or a mangled grunt can make you freeze where you are. All the characters sound great, as 
 voice-acting is stellar. Especially Ethan's (you) . He sounds great. However, the only flaw to the 
 sound is that it can get a little boring at times. For example, the sounds of smashing a metal 
 door into a victims skull just doesn't feel as satisfying this time. And many of the weapons sound 
 are recycled. Nonetheless, the sound is great and receives a 9/10
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  a multi-player compnent has been added in Condemned 2, and is a decent first attempt. Now, we really 
 shouldn't be expecting much here people, this is not only an extemely hard multi-player component 
 to manafacture, its hard to make it work. It sports 4 main game types, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Bum Rush, and Crime Scene. Bum rush is a game type where SCU agents, who get to start with guns, 
 must hold out against a constant barrage of thugs. The thugs don't get guns, but are allowed to 
 respawn, and SCU have assault rifles or whatever, but no respawning. Crime scene is where SCU must 
 find two peices of evidence the Influenced must hide. Multi-player, while fun, feels rather laggy, 
 and the way the characters walk really takes away from the feel that its actually happening. However, 
 it is extemely satisying to snap an enemies neck after beating their teeth in. For a first try, 
 its a good one, but overall, this can't match up to other games online today, so its getting a 
 6/10.
  
  
  Story:
  
  Taking place 11 months after the original Condemned, Ethan Thomas (former SCU agent and protagonist 
 in Condmned 1) is left drunk, homeless, and losing his marbles. When a tape is gotten from Malcolm 
 VanHorn, Ethan is called back in to help solve the mystery of the ever growing amount of violence 
 in the city. The story is even better than the original Condemned as Ethan is now a much more violent 
 and loose cannon person than ever. The story gets a 9/10
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Overall, this game is a definite rental for all FPS fans, but if your like what you rented, buy 
 it, as it is definelty one of the most innitiative games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Testify_exe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Story - 8.8
  Graphics - 8
  Sound-10
  Gameplay-10
  
  Condemned 2 is probaly one of the most (if not the most) violent game I have played to date. You 
 beat people in the face and thier face will swell and become drenced in blood accordingly. You 
 can impale people on rebars and shove thier faces into glass. Doing all of this in the first person 
 just makes you feel dirty yet exhilerated at the same time. 
  
  The story centers around the murder of all these people for some unknown reason. Your charecter, 
 as a ditective, has to find out whodunit in a crime tale that turns into a sci-fi horror type thingy. 
 IT gets non-sensical at the end but you don't really care, you just wanna beat some more people 
 up.
  
  Graphics are decent the best effects being your victims swollen, and bleeding faces.
  
  The 
 sound is awesome. The noise of weapons slicing through the air is superb. The noises of your hits 
 on poeple is just brilliant and the voice acting is great as well.
  
  Gameplay relies on hitting a few buttons and then pressing the combo button which allows you to 
 hit your target again with a "combo swing" which is really just a powerful one-timer but they are 
 allways fun to use and get quite deep. Theres also shooting but it takes backseat to the beating. 
 You gain powerups at the end of levels depending on how well you did. Also te game isn't all that 
 scary but when it is you will pee yourself (no lie) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsSentry
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  As soon as the first cinematic kicks in, you will ask yourself "Wtf just happened?". Ethan Thomas, 
 the main character of the franchise instantly comes across as a hardened rogue agent who is being 
 haunted by the events taken place in the first game, Condemned: Criminal Origins. These haunts 
 persist and lead him to a mad dash for his sanity while trying to uncover what is really going 
 on behind the mask of typical serial murders. At first, the controls are slightly unconventional 
 however the minimal learning curve allows players who know little or no about the franchise and 
 shooters, to jump right in a get scared, for a lack of better words, sh*tless. The single player 
 comes jam packed with high res details and in-depth maps, however the gameplay itself becomes a 
 bit repetitive and lackluster the more time played. The previous instant satisfaction of beating 
 a demon possessed civilian to death with a lead pip or a prosthetic arm becomes cumbersome once 
 the player realizes that not every intriguing looking object in the environment can be used as 
 a weapon. The online multiplayer adds a new dimension to the franchise, and provides a large amount 
 of crucial replay value. The cell shading, and map environmental engineering really makes playing 
 other human players a night in a horror cellar. All in all, this game is a must have for owners 
 of the Playstation 3 and the Xbox 360. This is a great addition to any horror fan's collection 
 and even for novice players, this game offers a wide range of twists, turns and mindf*cks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treva_D
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  The original Condemned Was an Action/Horror game that combined the elements perfectly. The combat 
 was solid and at times the game was terrifying to the point of not wanting to continue. Condemned 
 2: Bloodshot Improves upon the action and investigation elements to almost perfection but in the 
 process left out one of the most important parts of an Action/Horror game, the horror.
  This is not a scary game. It doesn't give you that constant feeling of dread that the original 
 did so well. While the first was almost disturbing, the sequel is filled with cheap scares that 
 plague modern cinema. you know the kind, it gets real quiet as you walk down a dark hallway you 
 hear some footsteps you turn around to check, nothing there. Then when you turn around... BLAM! 
 A Loud crack head is trying to stab you to death with a syringe. While alarming in not the same 
 kind of scary that made the original so great.
  The story follows suit taking lazy twists and turns to the point where it's almost comically predictable 
 and stupid. Also towards the end gunplay takes priority to the Gritty melee that make the game 
 so much fun.
  But if you can forgive the story and enjoy it for what it is, a brutal action game with it's share 
 of flaws you'll have your self a good, albeit flawed experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  If you own the original Condemned then you will already have a fair idea what this sequel feels 
 like to play, if not, then get ready to be immersed in a dirty, savage and most of all scary world 
 that is without a doubt the best horror game of the year.
  
  Condemned 2 will have you sitting on the edge of your seat and constantly look behind you (just 
 in case) . It's more deep and rewarding than any recent horror film experience and put you directly 
 in the action of crazed bums and corrupt cops who may not be exactly human.
  
  The basic gameplay hasn't changed much since the first game. You still go from dark creepy level 
 to dark creepy level finding evidence and killing any madman who jumps out at you. Only this time 
 they've upped the hand to hand combat to make you feel even more in touch with whatever or whoever 
 you are smacking the crap out of. They've then ended these fights off nicely with finishing moves 
 that range from simply smashing their head into a wall to ramming their head in a vice and turning 
 till their brain pops.
  These violent additions are fantastic and really adds another layer of rough and grit to the game.
 
  
  Unfortunately what still hasn't changed is the level designs maze like feel. 
  A few of the levels still have you wandering around in the dark looking for that one object or 
 door that you need to access to get through to the next section. 
  Also the weak link between each level that sees you move from a doll factory to a school then onto 
 a magicians theatre and the unresolved ending mean that the whole story doesn't always make sense.
 
  
  But these are just a few small problems in the single person campaign which is definitely a must 
 own game for any horror fan. 
  
  The graphics have improved to make everything seem even more intense, grotty and rusty and the 
 investigation sections of the game have you working out where the victims entry wound is and in 
 which way the blood has been splattered (great for any CSI fans) .
  
  The only problem is that although at around 9 hours it's a fair sized game, it still seems to be 
 over far to soon. But then that's the mark of a quality game.
  
  Roll on Condemned 3
  
  Must Own: 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REGAMER-X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I was late getting into Condemned, seeing that I was not into the next generation of gaming when 
 the first in the franchise was released on the Xbox 360. After I got my Xbox 360, Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins was one of the first five games I picked up for it. I had a lot of interest in the game 
 from reading in game magazine and seeing coverage on various game sites. Being a big fan of horror-themed 
 video games, I knew I would enjoy the game.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot was released on March, 11 2008 on the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 this time 
 around. I was also a little late on getting this Condemned, but I got it about a month or two after 
 its initial release. From the opening of the game you can tell it has the same dark and grim surroundings 
 and eerie sounds and shadows like its predecessor.
  
  One thing that's updated in Condemned 2 is the combat system. It's still the basic melee combat 
 with fists or weapons found around the within the surroundings, and fire arms found occasionally, 
 but with a few tweaks for the better. Unlike in Condemned: Criminal Origins, in this Condemned 
 you will do a left punch with the left trigger, and a right punch with the right trigger, blocking 
 is done with pressing both triggers down simultaneously. You also have buttons for throwing weapons 
 at the enemies, I'm not sure if that's available in Condemned: Criminal Origins since it's been 
 a while since I played it. Like in the first Condemned you have the choice to pick up from an array 
 of weapons found throughout the game. From simple pipes and 2" x 4"s to moose antlers and toilet 
 seats. There's even a sequence in the game where you have to use a nail gun with unlimited nails 
 to shoot off foes while you're unable to move. One thing that a lot of people saw as a problem 
 in Condemned 2 was that two-thirds into the game they felt it turned into more of a first-person 
 shooter than the original horror and up close and personal theme as Condemned: Criminal Origins, 
 and the majority of Condemned 2. This is mainly due to the player progressing to Dorland's (the 
 game's antagonist) facility where he has manly armed soldiers, thus many chances to get a hold 
 of a gun, and many foes firing back.
  
  I agree that it goes more first-person shooter towards the end, but I feel it's too keep with the 
 story and setting of the final stages of the game, I don't think it will be a continuous theme 
 in the games seeing as the Oro are more pro-sound waves, than pro-guns.
  
  Also new to Condemned are these "run for your life" sequences where you have to sprint away from 
 the enemy instead of trying to kill it. There's only two of these sequences in the game, would 
 be nice to see a few more, but they are a nice addition to the scary tone. Some more additions 
 to this game are these sonic emitters and news reports through out levels that affect your level 
 completion rate, and medal. The sonic emitters are what help drive the maniacs in the city to be 
 more rabid and crazed than usual. Destroy these help for the better. For the most part the emitters 
 are in reachable places, but there's some in harder to get locations, such as high up points or 
 past some immovable objects, where you'll have to throw an item or shoot them with a fire arm to 
 destroy. News broadcasts are found on radios and television sets spread out across the various 
 levels. To listen to them the player has to press A to grab the antenna of the television or radio 
 and rotate the antenna with the analog stick to get reception. These broadcasts are all different 
 and usually inform the player of what's going on around the city or near their current location.
 
  
  At the end of each level a screen appears with the rank given for how the player did on the levels. 
 Ranks go from bronze to gold badges and an award is given. The rank is determined by how many sonic 
 emitters are destroyed in the level, how many broadcasts did the player tuned in too, and how they 
 did in the optional objectives (for example: if they destroyed all the meth labs in the hotel level) . 
 There is also a reward given, the reward is always the same, no matter what rank the player obtained. 
 All rewards are to help you in the game. Some rewards are things such as a holster to store a small 
 side arm, such as a pistol, rubber soles on Ethan's shoes to make him have quieter steps, and an 
 extra segment to the player's health bar. 
  
  It would have been nice to have better rewards for higher ranked in levels, or more rewards along 
 with the rewards that are always given, for taking time to make sure you got all emitters, broadcasts, 
 and completed the side objectives.
  
  Now lets get deeper into the game. Level design in Condemned 2: Bloodshot is just as amazing as 
 in Condemned: Criminal Origins. The levels are all lengthy and well-made, filled with plenty of 
 objects you can pick up and bash a rioter or thug in the head with. This also gives me a chance 
 to talk about the crime scene investigation in the game. I wasn't disappointed with it because 
 it wasn't badly done. I was disappointed with it because it was so enjoyable and fun to do, but 
 there wasn't enough of it. You do a decent bit of investigating, but not near as much as in the 
 first Condemned. Speaking of stuff you don't see much of, you don't see a lot crime scenes of murdered 
 victims either. I'm not exactly sure how many there are in the game but I'd guess around 2 to 3. 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins are a few more, but I still would love to see more of the investigating 
 elements in the game. The investigating system is also tweaked for the good. Now when you are in 
 the investigating mode, you have options to choose from when examining say a bullet wound. You 
 have choices that more accurately describe the bullet wound such as if it was an exit wound, inward 
 wound, or what type of gun the bullet might of come from. After you complete the sequence you are 
 them rated on how you did, if the player got all options correct that get a perfect 5 score, and 
 if you missed one or two they get a good rating and it goes from there. The investigating system 
 as a whole is greatly upgraded, and definitely a step up from Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
  Another thing that's a step up from Condemned: Criminal Origins in Condemned 2: Bloodshot is 
 the graphics department. Condemned 2 doesn't have the best graphics in world, but they're definitely 
 at the top. If you look back at Condemned: Criminal Origins the graphics where great during game 
 play, the surroundings and enemies looked fantastic for 2005, but Condemned 2 really did a nice 
 update to the graphics and everything flows really well, and the cut scene graphics on the characters 
 look really great this time around.
  
  What really makes Condemned remember able and enjoyable is the game's plot and characters. The 
 plot picks up after Condemned: Criminal Origins where Ethan confronted Leland Vanhorn a. k. a. Serial 
 Killer X, and fought and killed a strange, macabre figure with metal pieces planted in his mouth 
 and body. It's been 11 months since the first Condemned and now Ethan is out of the SCU, and living 
 on the streets and staying in bars drinking all the time trying to forget the demons that haunt 
 him. Ethan is called back to help the SCU investigate a call for help by Malcolm Vanhorn asking 
 for Ethan Thomas. Ethan goes to investigate the area the plea of help was coming from, and from 
 there Ethan finds what makes him so special to the mysterious cult known as The Oro.
  
  In the end Condemned 2 is a solid horror themed game, that lives up to the first one and in some 
 aspects better than Condemned: Criminal Origins. This is a must try for any fans of survival horror, 
 and horror based games in general. There's more to this game than head bashing with blunt objects, 
 and foul language. The Condemned franchise in general has a great plot going for it and many interesting 
 characters and surroundings that make the games worth the time and money.
  
  As always, thanks for reading my review, and please recommend it if you enjoyed it, and if you 
 thought it was wrong, or disagreed with me you're also welcome to give it the thumbs down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Forgive me if I'm being biased, I'm a big fan of this genre, and of Criminal Origins, and I think 
 this is just as good as the first one, probably better!
  
  I didn't expect a sequel at all, Condemned: CO was an underrated game, and when Monolith did FEAR, 
 people rathered it, everyone was talking about how scary it was, let's be honest, I liked FEAR, 
 but you can't call it scary. I was happy when Bloodshot was announced, and I've finally got it 
 and I'm gonna break it down for you.
  
  The first thing you may notice is that the graphics are slightly better, there is alot more detail. 
 
  the gameplay is basically the same as the fist one there are some changes but you'll get use to 
 it in no time.
  Importantly the scare factor is as frightening as CO, probably more, though there's more pop out 
 type scares than environmental scares, there are times where you may feel uneasy, but shock tactics 
 (and I mean shock tactics) are used more on this one, the thing I was pleased with is that this 
 game throws you straight into the horror, not many horror games do that and pull it off.
  The replay value is decent, a few fun minigames that you can unlock are good, and the fact you 
 can replay levels, now you couldn't do that on the first one, things like that tell you that this 
 game improves on things that were weak in the first one.
  
  So get this game if you enjoy a REAL scare, or if you enjoyed the first Condemned, because trust 
 me, this game improves on almost everything that was weak on Criminal Origins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chicken_Helper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The combat system is one of the few things that have been improved in part 2. You can combine combos 
 together in way so that you can power up a big punch at the end of the combo. You also fill up 
 a gauge in the upper right hand corner of the screen that when full you can use to go into cut 
 scenes where you have to time button presses to on-screen ques. And you can even perform fatalities 
 with objects within the game. But there are long stretches in the game where you essentially have 
 to use a gun to battle, and this game makes for a very poor shooter. 
  
  The fights are pretty tough too, especially if you don't have a weapon in hand. Your enemies seem 
 to have much more health than you. But I guess this is a good thing since it makes the game more 
 challenging, although I did find myself dying a little too regularly. There are also a couple of 
 chase scenes that are pretty exciting. The gameplay all and all is pretty good but at times it 
 can be boring.
  
  The graphics are superb in most areas although a few areas do look kinda bland. The developers 
 did a good job at creating a horrifying environment that fits the game well. And the levels are 
 detailed and designed well. The audio is great too. You can hear creatures scurrying through walls 
 and your enemies running across the floor above you. All the voice actors were adequate if not 
 better. The monsters and madmen all grunt and groan realistically. 
  
  The story in this game isn't very deep and honestly doesn't make a whole lot of sense. And there 
 are quite a few parts were you'll probably get lost. There are also parts where you encounter enemies 
 you can't kill that make the game very annoying. And at the end of the day the fighting system 
 is repetitive and thin. But the game is scary if you are looking for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmdavenport
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  First, it features the solid A. I. that Marathon is noted for, and second, the  
 is a nice change from the typical shooter. My favorite weapon? The bowling ball! 
  You play the tortured soul, Ethan, and your mission is to bash, beat, and bludgeon your way to 
 salvation (sort-of) by saving the city from homicidal lunatics. 
  With little or no firepower, you work your way through dark (and I mean dark!) rat-infested alleys, 
 gore-splattered buildings and newly dedicated slaughter-houses that once had more normal functions, 
 like a doll factory or museum, but are now killing fields for the raging maniacs who will come 
 at you non-stop. 
  Forget about running and gunning, because firearms and ammo are scarce. You have to use whatever 
 you can scrounge up to defend yourself, or just resort to your fists. Fortunately there is plenty 
 of stuff to use, and you can also learn deadly fighting combos. 
  Meanwhile, you try to figure out what is causing the insanity, and are tasked with investigating 
 the causes and reporting back to the authorities. 
  Condemned 2 is a great time, and lots of fun to play in a dark room. Technically it is very good, 
 with only a couple of glitches here and there. My only disappointment was the last level, where 
 the game seems to veer off-course a little and move away from the environmental aspect of weapons. 
 But it is not so bad that I wouldn't recommend the game to someone who's looking for a solid game 
 that is different than the run of the mill shooter. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I find it darkly amusing that while Manhunt 2 gets kicked all over the place, Condemned's far more 
 gratuitous and realistic brutality slips past almost unnoticed. In Manhunt 2, much of the violence 
 is optional, but in Condemned 2: Bloodshot you have no choice but to pummel your assailants. (You 
 can see exactly how violent the game actually is in our recent Eurogamer TV show special.) Maybe 
 the moral nannies will catch up with it later (I can hardly wait) , but for now Monolith's excellent 
 sequel to the undervalued Xbox 360 launch game serves as a one-of-a-kind horror title with much 
 to commend, improved in every area - melee combat, investigations and production values among the 
 most noticeable.
  
  In the first game, the melee system had you swinging a pipe, axe or other instrument with the right 
 trigger, blocking with the left and doing a comedy kick by clicking the left analogue. You could 
 also use your stun gun now and then, but that was about as complex as it got. Bloodshot's much 
 deeper. You can actually use your fists this time, with left and right punches assigned to left 
 and right triggers, and blocking by forming an X with your arms, which is done by pulling both 
 triggers at the same time. Right from the off, Bloodshot puts you in the bear pit, forcing you 
 to learn advanced hand-to-hand and general melee combo techniques. Knocking opponents off-balance, 
 for instance, is the key to building up one-twos and numerous other combos that deal much more 
 damage than trigger-mashing.
  
  At first, you get your arse handed to you, and it's a little disconcerting, but patience and practice 
 quickly sees you through. Once you figure out the predictable timing to block and then strike in 
 one motion, it all slots into place, and you can go about decking all-comers with manic, frothing 
 abandon. You get a bit wide-eyed and feral while playing, and it's definitely not for those who 
 dive behind the sofa during the creepy bits. For once, the BBFC's 18 certificate is something people 
 should take very seriously - this is vicious, close-up pugilism full of desperate grunting and 
 the schlocking sound of metal on bone.
  
  It only gets more brutal. As you fight, successful blows build up a meter in the top-right of the 
 screen, which, when full, enables you to pull off crazed, close-up finishing moves. When the time 
 is right, the action slows down, trigger prompts appear, and a resulting neck snap or equivalent 
 fatality plays out for your displeasure. And if that's still doesn't hit the mark, stunned opponents 
 can be dragged in a headlock to their screaming doom via environment kills, which are signaled 
 by transparent skull icons. You can smash heads into TVs, fling people into the fire, or, best 
 of all, do industrial accidents on tramps' heads.
  
  Mind you, Condemned 2 isn't all about swinging punches and electrical conduits into people's faces. 
 As with the original, it drops in the odd shotgun, pistol and assault rifle, hauling the gameplay 
 into first-person shooter territory. Just like most horror titles though, you have to try and use 
 every bullet as efficiently as possible to survive the inevitable onslaught. Only one level in 
 the entire game really requires a concerted use of firearms, and Monolith deserves credit for steering 
 it away from being just another FPS (and being the only game I can think of where you down booze 
 to steady the shakes) .
  
  As much as the game's central theme is maximum violence, there's more than enough going on elsewhere 
 to justify it. For those who need a refresher, you play former FBI agent Ethan Thomas a year on 
 from the events of the first game. These days he's stinking drunk, slumming it with the bums and 
 saying no to personal hygiene, wracked with nightmarish hallucinations.
  
  Unexpectedly called by former mentor Malcolm Van Horn, Thomas finds himself - against his wishes 
 - back in the fold, chasing his arch enemy, Serial Killer X, and investigating a strange cult called 
 the Oro, who appear to have a grip on Metro City's homeless population by virtue of wall-mounted 
 sonic devices that make people insanely violent. With that in mind, you're not quite so put off 
 by the incessant tramp-bashing, because (apart from being a lot of fun) it's a necessary part of 
 getting to the root of all this evil. The narrative, while we're on the subject, is dynamic and 
 exciting, with top-class voice acting, lots of oddball characters and some unexpected twists that 
 keep you going until the typically baffling conclusion.
  
  Meanwhile it's all technically and artistically excellent, from the stunning, chaotically designed 
 and animated character models to the festering hellishness of the environments. The original did 
 well in this regard too (and was arguably the 360's most technically accomplished launch title) , 
 but more than two years down the line Monolith has ramped up the engine so it's among the best 
 of this generation.
  
  Best played at night with the lights off, you feel almost tainted by the disgusting, gloomy environments. 
 Knee-deep in unidentifiable matter, you find yourself peering through the gloom of abandoned houses, 
 crumbling bowling alleys, once-grand theatres and the obligatory disused warehouses and dimly lit 
 alleyways, before eventually finding the madman's lair. The quality of the game's environments 
 is variable, and some can feel so dark that you're practically blind even with your torch - but 
 any time the game feels like it's dipping in quality, something impressive and unique will turn 
 up to restore your interest.
  
  Also overhauled are the puzzling and investigation bits. Previously the game lead you by the hand, 
 telling you which piece of equipment to use, where to use it and when. Bloodshot, while hardly 
 very taxing, at least encourages players to pay attention to plot elements and forces you to be 
 more observant. You can now get one of four items of equipment out at any time, and choose whether 
 to gather evidence or not. As promised, investigating is optional; you can work out where the blood 
 trail came from, who the victim was, when they died, and so on, or just not. If you do though, 
 there are equipment upgrades and those ever-tempting Achievement points dangling as a carrot. The 
 initial puzzles are pretty lightweight and obvious to the point of stupidity, but some aren't all 
 that straightforward to earn a 'Perfect' mark for, and ensuring you scoop top marks should prove 
 interesting and may encourage replay value. It's a shame there aren't more puzzles elsewhere - 
 just blowing things up or turning valves doesn't really compare - but we're not going to murder 
 anyone about it.
  
  We've been largely positive so far, but Condemned 2 does lose its way occasionally. The Doll Factory 
 level, while good in terms of its creepy concept, look, feel and atmosphere, is a real slog, with 
 counter-intuitive puzzles. One or two other sections also threaten to derail your fun, but luckily 
 the game has a knack of following up its rare mistakes with something so intense that you quickly 
 forget what you were frustrated about.
  
  But quite what the point was of shoehorning in multiplayer, I'm not entirely sure. Bum Rush, Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch just descend into farce from the word go, with everyone raining blows on each 
 other comedically. Something which is fun and measured in single-player just feels clunky and wrong 
 in a multiplayer arena. The one mode of minor interest online is Crime Scene, where the 'Influenced' 
 (i. e. tramps) play against the agents in a measured game of hiding and seeking evidence. The combat 
 is still a bit crap online, but at least there's more to it than whacking each other with pipes 
 and bats. Another bit worth a quick mention is the Bloodshot Fight Club mode - notable not just 
 because of its quickfire, offline series of challenges, but for including an online leaderboard 
 to compete on once you've finished the game: seeing how many bums you can kill in five minutes, 
 or how long you can keep yourself and a bunch of guards alive while crazed loonies lunge at you. 
 It's all welcome if inessential.
  
  Overall though, Condemned 2 deserves hearty praise for improving on everything it did first time 
 around. The melee combat is brutally intense, the investigations play a bigger part, the visuals 
 are top-notch, and the whole thing's wrapped up with engaging narrative. The multiplayer's one 
 rather pointless and ill-judged addition, and a few sections of the offline campaign could have 
 been better, but on the whole Monolith has delivered a compelling, classy follow-up that horror 
 fans will happily devour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfan10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately an improvement over Condemned: Criminal Origins. It improves nearly every 
 aspect of 2005's horror game from Sega. 
  
  The game brings you back to the gritty city called Metro City. Ethan Thomas returns but with a 
 much more darker personality than before. Even the voice has changed. The character has grown out 
 his hair and looks dirty and crude. 
  
  The story revolves around Ethan, now drunk and homeless, being called back into the SCU concerning 
 his friend Malcom Vanhorn. The story delves deeper into the mysteries of the city and what happened 
 since we last visited Metro City. The story is great and well told. Towards the end though the 
 game loses its suspense and simply becomes a shooter. But that is at the end. 
  
  The fighting has been improved to include hand to hand combat. The melee is very rewarding and 
 for some reason seems more realistic to how fighting would be in real life. The weapons are varied 
 to include: bricks, bowling pins, bowling balls, glass bottles, gumball machines, and even a toilet 
 seat. This game brings back the electrical conduit, rebar, and the classic 2x4 with nails. The 
 game also has a much more integrated gun gameplay. Everyone remembers from the first one, there 
 only being a few gun sequences, but this one has levels based around guns. But once again, as soon 
 as the clip runs out, the gun is rendered useless. Overall though, the melee combat is much more 
 rewarding and well done over the gun sequences. The game also has end level rewards that help improve 
 your fighting skills
  
  The graphics in this game give a new life to Metro City. They really bring out the gritiness of 
 the city and the decrpitness of the enemies. The way the weapons gather dirt over the course of 
 their usage really shows the attention to detail that this game brings. The enemies also look better 
 and have facial expressions too. 
  
  The sound is also really good. The music really brings the atmosphere to life and the way the music 
 changes during each sequence. Also the way the rebar sounds when it connects to the face of your 
 enemy. Really believable. Or the sound of your bare fist hitting a concrete wall.
  
  The first Condemned had investigative sequences and they were scripted and mediocre at best. This 
 game improves the investigations with more in depth and thought provoking challenges. One really 
 difficult one is when you hav to decide if the blood stain on a door is an exit wound, body sliding 
 down, or random blood splatter. There are however some really stupid and easy questions that are 
 reused time and time again. However, this game improves the investigations greatly.
  
  This game also features some truly frightening sequences. Enemies run across the screen. And the 
 doll factory.... truly the scariest in a horror game. This game will leave you with nightmares.
 
  
  Overall this game is very good. The only gripes about the game are: Gunplay is not as good as melee, 
 and the story loses its focus towards the end. This is a must buy for the Condemned fans out there. 
 This game will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShapeBanger
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first Condemned and was looking forward to the sequel but no... once again a dev team 
 have decided to not bother implementing a lefty config rendering this game broken and unplayable 
 to those of us not born right-handed. What I really don't get is the fact the first Condemned HAD 
 a southpaw option but the sequel doesn't??!!! Ridiculous. Please don't email me saying get over 
 it and play games right-handed because it's simply not possible. Can't do it. Next time a game 
 I want to play comes out like this I'm going to write to the dev studio and ask that all their 
 right-handed artists use their left hand to control their mouse and see what kind of rubbish they 
 produce because it's IMPOSSIBLE TO DO. Grrrrr...
  
  ALL RIGHT-HANDED AND NO SOUTHPAW MAKES THIS ONE A DULL GAME
  ALL RIGHT-HANDED AND NO SOUTHPAW 
 MAKES THIS ONE A DULL GAME
  ALL RIGHT-HANDED AND NO SOUTHPAW MAKES THIS ONE A DULL GAME
  ALL RIGHT-HANDED AND NO SOUTHPAW MAKES THIS ONE A DULL GAME
  ALL RIGHT-HANDED AND NO SOUTHPAW 
 MAKES THIS ONE A DULL GAME
  ALL RIGHT-HANDED AND NO SOUTHPAW MAKES THIS ONE A DULL GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the many stages of this game my rating went from a 9 to a 10, down to an 8, and ended 
 with I thought was a solid 9. This game had certain levels that were absolutely 10's, but some 
 rough ones that 8 would be a stretch.
  
  Graphics  The attention to detail in this game was fantastic. The environmental graphics, including 
 documents, text, writing on the walls, etc. were some of the best I have ever seen. Character modeling 
 on the other hand was a bit week. Overall it played smooth and looked great at 1080p.
  
  Gameplay  The first two levels of this game had a creep factor that surpassed some of the previous 
 freaked out and bizarre games like Silent Hill and Bioshock X's 10. It is truly amazing what you 
 can get away with in a game vs. what we see in moviesthus the reason I prefer to play the game 
 than watch it. The controls were pretty straight forward and intuitive. But as is often the case, 
 a little too much button mashing for my tastes. They threw in the upgrade concept, yet it really 
 made zero difference in the game, didn't give you any options, and added nothing of gameplay value 
 in my opinion. The storyline was well done, and it definitely gets big bonus points for being unique. 
 
  
  Overall  A fantastic game that does the Survival Horror genre justice and is definitely a must 
 play for any fans of the games mentioned above.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is more a sum of it's components rather than anything else. You get some 
 really cool features which the game is made of and you abuse them as you wish. But there is something 
 in between the features that is missing. The glue that is supposed to hold these seperate thing 
 together is missing here, they seem to just float around. But I have to say the game still very 
 fun to play and overall a good enjoyable experience. 
  Here's a more precise account of my thoughts on the game.
  
  This is not a scary game. It is 
 more of a mystery thriller kind of thing. It doesn't really scare you, it makes you think "awesome!" 
 instead. You know, that special kind of awesome, when you're not really scared but you enjoy the 
 dark atmosphere, the violence and the gore. The makers of this game definitely did a good job in 
 creating environments. Some of them are sci-fi, some are old school horror-like. The level design 
 is really state of the art. In short, the game offers some thrills and delivers them in a way that's 
 still fresh. 
  
  The thing I enjoyed the most in the game is probably the combat mechanics. You are given 3 unique 
 things which alone make the gameplay outstanding. First, the combo mechanics. Second, the Chain 
 Attack. And the cherry on top of these two is the Environmental Kill. The melee combat system is 
 really something to applaud: it feels real, looks real and makes punching people in the face REALLY 
 satisfying. And the Chain Attacks and Environmental Kills are just little masterpieces that you 
 can do. Come to think about it, the 3rd level Chain Attack is probably the most awesome thing you 
 can do in this game. Saucy, so to speak.
  
  A couple other things worth mentioning: the gore is outstanding. The first body you encounter in 
 the game reminds of Silence of the Lambs. Really good stuff.
  The player response thing is also a cool feature, as well as the various effects which compromise 
 your vision in the game. Voice acting is pretty good. Cutscenes are good.
  
  Now, there's one thing that was annoying throughout the whole game. It was dark. I mean, literally 
 I there are times in the game when you can't see anything and you just run around in circles to 
 find a brighter area. I know the game is supposed to be dark, but at moments it's pitch black, 
 and this can be really frustrating.
  
  There's nothing more to say really. Each and every element of this game is made really well and 
 feels great. But in the end I felt somewhat disappointed. The story in the game is weak. When I 
 was half way through the game I thought the story is really compelling and interesting. But closer 
 to the end and after finishing, I realized that the mystery that I was to uncover in this game 
 was not really a mystery at all. The ending of the game is probably as obvious as it could ever 
 be. The second half of the game you're pretty much able to predict everything that's going to happen 
 in the story. The subject is old, and the events are linear, no surprises, nothing special. It's 
 like watching a remake of a movie, in a way. Still, maybe it's just me and the story has something 
 more to it that I wasn't able to see.
  Anyway, the game is just fun to play and it is worth your while. Just don't expect it to be one 
 of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt437
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  After playing the first condemned, i had high expectations for the 2nd. And those expectations 
 were fulfilled. This is why:
  
  The good:
  -The graphics are dark and grimy, Fantastic feel to the game
  -The game gives you a few jumps 
 at times when a addict appears from nowhere in the pitch black
  -Hand combat is awesome
  -Using the enviroment as a weapon is great fun, holding somebody and putting their head in a television 
 is always fun
  -Gory beyond belief
  -Knee capping somebody with a .44 always makes one laugh
  -Good challenge
  -Unlocking FPS mode 
 is a great asset
  -Multiplayer is fun when people are actually on : (
  
  The bad:
  -Nothing springs to mind apart from the achievements sort of suck
  
  Overall:
  -Great game 
 that is a must have for any horror or survial fan, would recommend to anybody that above the age 
 of 15! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Before I start this review I have to admit that I was genuinely scared throughout playing this 
 game. Bloodshot sets the pace perfectly as you wander around the city searching for clues to the 
 murders and the return of SKX.
  
  Well, the graphics look great, the sound is great (crank up the volume and play in the dark) , the 
 gameplay is interesting, you're given the option to become an actual CSI, meaning you'll have to 
 find out how a certain person died or what happened at the scene. It's pretty engaging stuff. The 
 hand to hand combat is awkward at times, you'll have to exectue a combo based on your left and 
 right triggers, but enemies will frequently screw you out of your combo which gets annoying, but 
 makes it more realistic.
  
  Verdict: It's worth a rent, it has many modes to choose from as well as instant action mode which 
 just adds more replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I cant say msh but wow, hell of a good game and even good in live too. Storyline just gotten much 
 better then the first. But thats all I can say and until then enjoy these great letters. hiegofqhrlyft 
 efghtr rt g ew gh wy hg tdya hgw te yh uy tugyhg trytui7 7 tyt r yuir yt y 76i 87e5 rrtyu7t y hetu 
 ythj767te6 yt 7ty h7 uty h jry utyt e7u yt7 e56r y 7 eyt r y6u7i8 uty ry 7i 7uyt r yki yuj hg fh 
 jki ty tg yh kityuj htg htyji kty ujhtg rf tyh uyu tr tg ju t yhjy tjyt y ttry yu g thyet y tyh 
 eyt j tj yt ujituy tt kr tyh gj gh ytj e6yhj 7uyh yhj ujy uj tyj yh fyt hj 7 uty juyik jh gf h 
 kuj yhg fhjki tjy hgf hykti ryt jiyuyj hj t j mr yjh gj ytt hjm , jg hf fh jk itj hgf bnvhmj g, k 
 tjyh gfbvn mjtyujyhfgf hj kityj hgf jyu ytf hjt ey tfhnmj y mj yt gmj ty hgj uyth jm y jy th yj 
 yhy hyr6 h y h ny et h y hjy hj n h g mh jyt r gh fjyh rtg hj gk jyhtg f gh jyt r gh jyt r hj yh 
 thyj uy tr hgj gkj hg j kgjyhtg f gg hj ktj yhtgf hg kj f ghj hg f h j hgf d hgj jhfg g hj j yhgf 
 g hj ktj hgf g h jk jhgf vbn m, k iy tg rf bnmjhkytrf ds fghjt ytrf g hj rty r gfh jk utyg rfd v 
 jh kiyu jthg fd njhkhl .hk jh gfds fvbn m, k ity hgf ds cvb njhk ity u grfds cvb nmjk, i tyr gfsdc 
 cvb nmj iky tyuj hgfd c c bhg jki ty rtyhr gfdc v gfh jk r tyhrg fdc v dhjkli kyujhgf dc vb jk 
 iy jthr gfrsd vfgb hj jkyt r gfds c vb nhjh k iyuj yhtg fdc ghjk tyjhfdtgf d ju t yhdg fs n jy 
 utyh dgrfd sf gnhj ki yt gfd ghj ki ty jut gfd cvf bghj kity jugr df g hjki ty tr des vbh jk ity 
 rt rgdf c fvg hj ki y t rg dfs fg h ikt yutrg dfsc fgh jmk i yjt rg dfsc fvgbh njmk i ytr gefds 
 fv gh juty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  If there's one thing the Condemned series can teach us all kids is that its better to use a lead 
 pipe than a crowbar for knocking a man completely unconscious and dismantling his perfect Crest-ified 
 dentistry work. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Put a man on the razor's edge in the middle of a serial killing infested city (with no resemblance 
 at ALL to NYC... yea right) give him unlimited melee weapons, roid him up and we've got ourselves 
 a redneck 4th of July. The gameplay hasn'y vastly changed in this sequel, although there may be 
 some consult as to if there is a little too much gunplay used for such a melee first person brawler. 
 There are intense, and I mean INTENSE sequences of brutal mayhem that prove to be lustful and indeed 
 gory and worthy of deeming the title Condemned. The combat is impressive, with some newly implemented 
 gameplay features such as timed combos, contextual button combo presses (Thanks God of War) and 
 advanced melee procedures which test endurance, reflexes and stamina. 
  
  Graphics:
  Truly gritty and non-remorseful are the only 2 words I can seem to fathom at this present time. 
 They are really a step up from its predecessor in terms of shine, polish and character animation. 
 The dreary atmosphere also is a plus and feels as if you've entered another dimension and underworld 
 of a dirty city on the brink of insanity.
  
  Sound:
  Is there a sound sweeter and more satisfying than the horrific sound of an electric conduit meeting 
 the elusive gruff of a man's sternum? I think not. The gruesome sounds of the melee structure and 
 combat of this game rise it above that of any other in its class. The subliminal environmental 
 sounds mixed with incoherant phrases from enemies and the crunching and ripping of flesh and blood 
 really make the sound come alive. Voice acting is pretty solid, although they made Ethan sound 
 a little too robust than his role permitted in the prior game.
  
  Control:
  The control may take some getting used to at first, however after a few missions, they'll become 
 almost second nature. There may be a few inconsistencies in terms of responsive reaction times 
 on the contextual button press sequences, but other than that, the melee and gunplay controls are 
 pretty solid overall.
  
  Overall:
  If you have a craving for blood and a lust for seeing a man beaten to the nth degree play this 
 game. If you had a bad day at work and wish to take it out on your boss but only can do so by pretending 
 he's a ruthless killer and beating him to a bloody pulp with a baseball bat or tire iron, pick 
 up this game. This sequel is generally good and the story can somewhat satisfy until the end which 
 can leave much to be desired. Voice acting could have been tweaked a bit, but that is pretentious 
 in comparison to the brilliantly devious sense of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter121Beta
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  As a child, my mother gave me a lot of rope. She took a hell of a lot of convincing but she did 
 eventually allow me to purchase Resident Evil 2 at the age of 11. Irresponsible you might say, 
 didn't do me any harm. I've continued to raise myself on a healthy diet of guts and guns in the 
 shape of Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Siren and more recently Condemned.
  
  This amazing combination of intense, visceral, hand-to-hand combat with its odd shooting segments, 
 coupled with CSI-style forensic investigation and psycho-horror set pieces makes up one of the 
 most atmospheric, unsettling and disturbing games I've ever played. With some of the sick stuff 
 that's ordained my games consoles over the years that's quite an achievement.
  
  For a series that started so simply - playing as police investigator Ethan Thomas checking out 
 a bizarre murder - it soon becomes a very intricate and twisted adventure that's dark, bleak and 
 at some points utterly horrific. Ethan spent the first game hunting Serial Killer X, or SKX, a 
 killer of serial killers - a 'serial-serial-killer-killer' if you like - whilst battling his own 
 psychological demons, complimented by an army of insane, violent, drug-addled lunatics and arming 
 himself with anything that wasn't bolted down - planks of wood, piping - even the odd artificial 
 limb.
  
  Now he's a bum, living out of a bottle and battling some increasingly apparent anger issues, exhibited 
 in the open cutscene as he beats the living daylights out of some dude in a bar. After the telly 
 tells him to find his old acquaintance Malcolm Vanhorn, uncle of SKX, Ethan embarks on a wild goose 
 chase around a dark inner city location inhabited by the psychotic junkies of old. Vanhorn proves 
 a difficult mouse to catch but when you finally catch up to him you'll know this is going to be 
 one hell of a ride.
  
  The basic premise of the game and the graphical engine remain largely the same as its predecessor. 
 The storyline isn't quite up to the original's standard but the other little improvements, like 
 the expansion of the forensic investigation aspect, new weapons and the addition of FPS Mode - 
 a nice little unlockable run-through of the solo campaign where you're provided with infinite ammo 
 - all add to this very worthwhile package.
  
  If you're at all tempted to pick up this title, check out the first one before you do. As for the 
 sequel, the multiplayer modes aren't worth your time but the single player campaign is an awesome 
 ride through the psyche of your protagonist with that little bit of extra replay value, and at 
 the sort of bargain price you can pick it up for online it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ska_dude101
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins was an X360 launch title that put you in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, 
 a Serial Crimes Unit detective, as you try to track down a serial killer while the whole world 
 goes crazy around you. It was known for its visceral first-person brawler combat (even though it 
 was a little stiff) and spooky atmosphere. The Condemned series makes another entry in the current 
 generation of consoles with Condemned 2: Bloodshot, and it has definitely improved on its predecessor 
 .
  
  Condemned 2 puts you back in the shoes of Ethan Thomas, no longer a detective, but a drunken brawler 
 trying to cope with his own demons that he picked up during the first game. As everyone starts 
 to turn into homicidal maniacs again, SCU hunts down Thomas in hopes that he can find the connection 
 between the strange rise in violent crimes and the death of an elderly man. The story starts out 
 as a gripping thriller about cults, the supernatural, and science-fiction that keeps you guessing 
 but, in the end, it disappoints, taking an almost laughable turn in the last level or two.
  
  Condemned 2, like its predecessor, is a largely first-person brawler game. The controls are 
 smooth and intuitive, as the left and right triggers act as Ethan's left and right arms, respectively. 
 Toying with how hard you press the buttons and the order you press them in, you can create some 
 rather nasty combos that will send your opponents reeling. You can also pick up most small objects 
 found in the environment, like rebar or wood planks or bowling pins or deer antlers and so on and 
 so forth, and bludgeon your opponents to death. A nifty new feature in the game is the combo meter. 
 It fills up as you deal damage to an enemy then, once it's full, you can double tap either trigger 
 to initiate a real-time sequence that doubles as a devastating, and often brutal, attack. Like 
 Condemned, occasionally you'll find yourself with a firearm at your side. Ammo is almost always 
 scarce, but later in the game you can holster your weapon to save the ammo for the right time. 
 The shooting isn't as polished as the hand-to-hand combat, but it is still serviceable, even though 
 hit detection may be slightly off.
  
  There are forensics scenes, much like in the first game, but these are far less guided. They force 
 you to use your reasoning skills. At the end of each level, you'll be graded depending on how well 
 you did in the forensics portions and how many of the extras (Sonic Emitters, TVs) you found. Grades 
 actually matter, though, because after each level you're given an upgrade. You'll either get the 
 Bronze, Silver, or Gold version of the upgrade depending on how well you did.
  
  There is an online multiplayer for Condemned 2, with several modes that largely involve beating 
 the crap out of other players across the globe with your fists or whatever blunt object you can 
 find. The most interesting mode is Crime Scene, where one team tries to hide two chests through 
 the map (Influenced) while the other tries to find them (SCU) . The catch is that the Influenced 
 has only blunt objects or molotovs or a jammer to start with, while the SCU can choose to start 
 with either a pistol or a shotgun. SCU also has a detector to help them find the chests, but that's 
 why the Influenced can pick a jammer to spawn with. It may sound unfair, one team having firearms, 
 the other not, but, when played correctly, the terms are even. The Influenced's MO is to hid in 
 the shadows, then clobber the SCU when their backs are turned.
  
  The graphics for Condemned 2 are stellar. Appropriately dark and gritty. The environments are fine, 
 but the character models are where the game shines. Most details on the hideous creatures you deal 
 with can be seen and marveled at. The gore and black-slime make for some of the best particle effects 
 out there.
  
  The voice-acting for this game is stellar, for the most part. Almost everyone sounds believable 
 and involved. The score is forgettable, but not bad. 
  
  Achievements are mostly earned through the single-player, but there is about 250 points worth of 
 online achievements as well.
  
  Synopsis: Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a wonderfully gory and scary game with smooth and visceral 
 hand-to-hand combat controls. The story is great until the end, where it lets you down. It has 
 great voice-acting and wonderful graphics, some interesting extras, and a passable multiplayer. 
 If you're a fan of the Condemned series, this is, at the very least, a rent. This is my first GotY 
 contender for 2008.
  
  Story: 7 out of 10
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  Graphics: 9 out of 10
  Sound: 9 out of 10
  Value: 8 out of 10
  Achievements: 8 out of 10
 
  
  Total (Not an average) : 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage5891
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is the sequel to Condemned that came out on PC and Xbox 360 about two years 
 ago, and although the sequel adds some new elements, not all of them are good.
  
  Graphics: This game certainly gets the run-down look that it is going for, although not all of 
 the textures are all that sharp. Characters and animations certainly are the highlights of this 
 game, both of which look almost startlingly realistic at times, especially the animations for when 
 enemies get hit look amazing. If only the background textures could keep up with the rest of the 
 game, this would be quite the looker, but as is, it seems almost like the characters and the backgrounds 
 were designed by two separate teams. Another major problem with this game is that it is so **** 
 dark. Seriously, if this game were any darker, it would be impossible to see anything at all. Even 
 cranking up the contrast on my television did almost nothing to help make the game easier to see, 
 and the pathetic excuse for a flashlight in the game does little to solve the problem either, so 
 if you are planning on playing this game, make sure that you at least play it at night and dim 
 the lights or you may quickly become frustrated at how hard it is to see anything in this game. 
 If only the game wasn't so damn dark and the scenery and background textures could keep up with 
 the character models and animation, I could have given this game more than a 7/10 for the graphical 
 components. It really is a shame that this game dropped the ball when it came to the background 
 textures because the first Condemned looked amazing when it came out, but it seems the developer 
 (Monolith) did very little to improve the non-character textures for the sequel.
  
  Gameplay: This game is creepy. Seriously, there are few games I have ever played that I would consider 
 truly creepy, but this game somehow manages to get under your skin and hold on to you whether you 
 like it or not. Although most of the real scares are something of a disappointment, this game will 
 throw the occasional fright at you, and it will probably succeed in making you jump out of your 
 chair at least once during the course of the single-player campaign. Beyond the chilling atmosphere 
 and scary moments, this game is actually quite a bit of fun to play through, mostly because the 
 combat system is so rewarding. As you run through the levels of this game, you will be set upon 
 by all manner of strange and sometimes horrific creatures, although most of your enemies are actually 
 human, even if it is hard to tell this fact at first glance. When you do run across a hostile creature 
 or person (which will happen quite frequently) , you will almost always be forced to beat the living 
 **** out of them in order to continue. Although you do gain access to firearms occasionally and 
 you are equipped with a taser at an early point in the game, these weapons are usually inaccurate 
 (unless you have taken a swig of whiskey recently to stop your hands from trembling) and tend to 
 run out of ammo very quickly, making it imperative that you become skilled in fighting with your 
 fists and whatever else you can grab off of a wall or out of a dumpster to hit your opponent with. 
 To those of you who played the first Condemned game, you will be pleasantly surprised to discover 
 that your ability to fight people in fist and melee combat has been expanded to include some devastating 
 combos and other techniques. Although you are still basically bashing people over the head with 
 a rusty pipe, at least now you have the option of adding a bit more finesse to the proceedings 
 in order to dispatch your foe more quickly and stylishly. Speaking of style, you can also deal 
 with opponents in a variety of gruesome ways when they are near death and kneeling on the ground. 
 After grabbing them by the neck, you can either knock them out, snap their neck, or drag them over 
 to some part of the environment where you can kill them in a particularly awful manner, such as 
 bashing their face into the corner of a desk, or impaling them on some rebar that is sticking out. 
 Although there is little point to it, murdering your enemies in particularly disgusting ways never 
 gets old and offers some of the more satisfying moments in gaming that one can have. Beyond the 
 expanded fighting (and killing) arsenal at your disposal, the game plays out very similarly to 
 the first Condemned, with you taking control Ethan Thomas as he tries to solve a mystery involving 
 an old friend and the events that spiral out of control after the initial investigation. During 
 some segments of the game, you can investigate crime scenes, which offers you more toys to play 
 with than the first game and also makes you answer questions based on evidence you can collect. 
 Although playing CSI can be fun, it is not really that much more relevant than it was in the first 
 game, and like that game, almost completely disappears during the second half. Although the first 
 half of the game is fun and the story becomes more complex and interesting, the second half of 
 the game becomes completely rediculus and throws such improbable plot twists at you in rapid succession 
 that you will wonder why Monolith decided to make the game into a science-fiction story during 
 the second half, especially considering the elements of creepy and macalbe realism that are present 
 during the first half that are completely thrown out the window by the end of the game, and to 
 make matters worse, the story ends on a complete cliffhanger! So not only do you have to suffer 
 through a bizarre and highly improbable ending, but you are also left wondering what will happen 
 in the next game! The game even goes so far as to give you superhuman powers by the end, changing 
 you from a washed-up alcoholic mess at the beginning of the game to a veritable superhero by the 
 end! If it weren't for the strange decision to ruin the atmosphere at the end of the game, I could 
 have given the gameplay a higher rating than 8/10, but even the satisfying and bloody combat cannot 
 help this game achieve a better score.
  
  Sound: I have to admit, this game has the most chilling ambient noises of any game I have ever 
 played. Every footstep you hear will make you look over your shoulder to see if something is creeping 
 up on you. Beyond the atmosphere, the sound effects in this game do a great job of immersing you 
 into the grittiness of the combat. Every time you swing a pipe at an enemy's head, you will cringe 
 when you hear the sickening thud of metal meeting skull. Especially the way the enemies scream 
 at you when they are enraged or whimper and moan as they die will make you feel like you are truly 
 experiencing this game, not just playing it. In fact, the only weak part of the sound design in 
 this game is the music. Although the music that is present does a good job of heightening the suspense 
 and creating a truly spooky atmosphere, it is usually very quite and subdued, or silent altogether. 
 Taken together, all of the audial effects and music in this game are worthy of a 9/10 for thoroughly 
 immersing the player in this game.
  
  Multiplayer: If there is one way that this game falters, it is in the multiplayer. The first Condemned 
 didn't have a multiplayer component of any kind, so it is disappointing that this game doesn't 
 have something better to offer players that enjoy experiencing games with others. Although there 
 are four different modes available here, I would not use he word "Fun" to describe any one of them. 
 Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch both play out similarly with players all congregating into a wild 
 flailing mass where any kind of strategy is useless and even the notion of staying alive is laughable. 
 Crime Scene is completely unbalanced because one team (called Influenced) starts off the match 
 having to carry boxes around and are only armed with crowbars and bricks while the other team (called 
 SCU) is able to start with firearms. I seriously could not believe my eyes when I saw how silly 
 this mode was. To make matters even worse, even if you are playing on the Influenced team and somehow 
 hide the box you start with in some dark corner of the map before you are mercilessly gunned down, 
 the SCU team gets to use portable scanners that show them how far away the boxes are, so any chance 
 of hiding or protecting the boxes is pointless. The last game mode is possibly the worst, entitled 
 "Bum Rush", you are divided into an SCU team and an Influenced team, and although the Influenced 
 team has numbers on their side, they can only wield pipes and bricks as weapons and die from a 
 single attack of any kind. The SCU team, on the other hand, although outnumbered, can take an insane 
 amount of damage and can use firearms. Needless to say, this gameplay mode tends to involve the 
 Influenced team madly rushing towards the SCU team in an attempt to close range with them or at 
 least get close enough to throw something at them while the SCU team can have a bit of a laugh 
 and drink some tea while they mow down the Influenced team at their leisure. After several hours 
 of playing this game mode, I gave up in disgust, having never seen the Influenced team win a single 
 match, only coming close during a 1 vs. 6 match-up in which the Influenced were communicating and 
 attacking in a coordinated way. And they still lost. Although I rarely saw the Influenced team 
 win a Crime Scene match, it did occur a couple of times and usually matches weren't completely 
 lopsided. The same cannot be said of Bum Rush however. To make matters worse, in every game I played, 
 there was a great deal of lag which made it even harder to enjoy the game's multiplayer offerings. 
 With these criticisms in mind, it brings me great sadness that I cannot, in good conscience, give 
 the multiplayer elements of this game a higher rating than 3/10.
  
  Miscellaneous: Even though it should be obvious to anyone with two eyes and a brain who is interested 
 in playing this game, I feel as though it must be said that there is a lot of disturbing content 
 on display here. If you are even remotely repulsed by gore, violence, alcohol, the occult, or foul 
 language, I would suggest you look elsewhere for your entertainment, because this game is full 
 to the brim with said elements.
  
  Final Verdict: This game is a great deal of fun in the single-player campaign, but the multiplayer 
 modes should be avoided at all cost. With that said, it is really too bad that I cannot give this 
 game a higher rating than 7/10, but the lackluster online options really keep this game from being 
 the classic horror adventure that it should have been.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 Gameplay: 8/10 Sound: 9/10 Multiplayer: 3/10 Overall: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  So, after playing the recently released alone in the dark, in hopes that it would be good, i realized 
 just how high the bar was set for horror games by condemned.
  
  Condemned 2 is a great game, plain and simple. Ill keep this short and divide the review into two 
 sections, good and bad.
  The good- Condemned 2 does far more things good than it does bad. The greatest aspect of this game 
 is the diversity in levels. No level is like the previous whether it be a doll factory, a winter 
 lodge, or a magicians theatre. The combat system is deep and visceral and you truly feel like you're 
 beating people to death with the various weapons that range from aforementioned toilet seat to 
 shovel to shotgun. The sound effects help add to the intensity and are some of the best in videogame 
 history. The story is interesting and, while not oscar worthy, will definitely keep you going. 
 Graphics are very well done and give off an eerie feeling, which they should in a horror game. 
 I didnt run into any glitches or framerate problems so thats a plus also.
  
  The Bad- The game isnt very long, clocking in around 8-12 hours depending on difficulty. There 
 is one point in the game involving big metal junkies that was tedious, but that was the only part 
 i didnt enjoy and it lasted maybe 15 minutes. The multiplayer was hit and miss with people. I loved 
 it but unfortunately nobody plays online anymore. The game isnt as scary as i was hoping, but maybe 
 its just because the original had me freaked out and i grew accustomed to the condemned style.
 
  
  Overall, condemned 2 is a great game that really advances the series in a very positive direction. 
 The ending is satisyfing, but not quite as good as the first, but at the same time makes it clear 
 that there will be another condemned. I recommend this game to anyone even remotely interested 
 in it, especially when you can buy it for 25 dollars used, which is a steal. What are you waiting 
 for? Go buy condemned 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Bloodshot is an atmospheric powerhouse. I haven't admired a game's environments this much since 
 BioShock, and the game has plenty of tense moments that will leave you hyperventilating like a 
 chubby marine about to charge Omaha beach. Which is why  since Condemned excels so well in certain 
 areas  that it's a little sad the game falters, if only slightly, in a few other places. 
  
  Since we last saw him, the years haven't been kind to our hero Ethan Thomas. The former detective 
 has fallen far from grace, landing heavily on alcohol and painkillers. Disheveled and far from 
 sanitary, a possible lice infestation is the least of his worries. Thomas is haunted by his experiences 
 from the first game, and the demons he's fighting are now are also internal. Some fans are bound 
 to be turned off by this change, while the darker character might resonate better with others. 
 However, as promising as the story may sound, Bloodshot's tale gets a little nonsensical and hard 
 to follow near its conclusion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiNbOw_sIx_veg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is the Sequal to 2005 360 lanch title, Condemned: Criminal Origins, which was the most popular 
 next to call of duty 2. You played as Ethan Thomas, an F. B. I investagater on a grisly, gore fest 
 adventure to track down multiple serial killers, once SKX is to be thought dead, a year later the 
 bodies are piling up once again, and Ethan tomas in socities last hope to over come the rising 
 madness.
  
  STORY
  
  well, its very important that you play the first game in order to understand a single thing in 
 bloodshot. One of the worse things about the story is no matter how well you understand the first 
 games story, bloodshots story is very confusing, but it has good characters, plots, and scares 
 that make up for it.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is were bloodshot exels. the brutal hand to hand combat is very satifying, and its all very 
 realistic. You can use almost anything for a wepon, 2x4's, toilet seats, bowling balls, guns, fists, alchool 
 bottles, tazers, etc etc etc.
  The wepons also will break if they are used for a long time, and when you beat down a bum, sometimes 
 he will be dosed and you can pick him up and preform an enviroment kill ( Throughing the bum through 
 a tv screen, or crushing his head in a simple machine) . the only negative side is that mele is funner 
 than gun play and it will be hard to survive tworads the end of the game if you dont use guns.
 
  
  
  GRAPICHS
  
  Just plain supurb, visualy stunning. the enviroments, enemies, and charcter desings are just as 
 beautyful as they are hideous. the only issue is the frame rate droping seveal times during a game. 
 it improved form how bad the frame rate was in criminal origins. this was a problem that i really 
 didnt want to see come back, but its not going to effect the gameplay all that much.
  
  SOUND
  
  One word, perfect. the haunting set peices, and Realisic sound effects set a truly 
 terrifying atmostphere. the voice acting is so good it sound like a movie. the only issue with 
 this involves when the frames screw up then the sound doesnt sync in with the action happening. 
 but otherwise its great.
  
  LEVEL DESING
  
  well, when i played criminal origins, i nearly tore my head off becuase of the confusing level 
 desing. when i picked bloodshot up i was hoping that it improved, it did. with the eception of 
 a few levels the level desing is less confusing this time around.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  this is were bloodshot fails misserably....... The multiplayer is jut plain boring, and useless... 
 you may only play it to unlock achivements, but the single player makes up for it
  
  OVERALL
  
  Bloodshot is a solid tile that can be missed, its great!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  im not gonna write a big review cuzz there are already so many out there so im gonna keep this 
 short.
  
  if you've played the first game, you'll know what condemned is all about.
  
  like alot of people have mentioned, it is more of the same.. but let me tell you, how can more 
 of a great game be bad? :p
  i played through condemned 1 in 1 playthrough, it took me 2 days to beat part 2 tho.
  the game 
 has improved alot, adding awesome combo's, cool cinematic button sequence finishing moves, surrounding 
 kills (like manhunt etc.)
  
  also the detective part, when ur investigating a corpse has improved, the game doesnt hold you 
 by the hand this time, you have to make your own conclusions and fill in the blancs, if you're 
 wrong you'll get a bad rating and it will cost you info or you wont get a sweet item for next level 
 etc. (tho i didnt really care about perfect scores so i dont know if you would get extra items 
 if you do get perfect scores.)
  
  action sequences are pretty good, some great parts when you're walking through the baddies homebase, 
 you'll see alot of torturing machines with people actually in them (think of the movie SAW etc.)
 
  
  the action has improved in this part tho, melee isnt as boring, you got combo's and if u do it 
 right, finishing moves with button sequences.
  shotting is pretty good, but when u get a gun it doesnt turn the game into a FPS shooter, no it 
 Stays a survival game , giving you only 1 clip , so you have to keep your bullets for hard parts 
 etc. also gun shooting isnt as easy as in other fps's, but thats a Good thing imo, because in some 
 survival games, getting a gun means you'll make headshots np , making the game a breaze and not 
 even scary anymore.
  
  so all in all: great survival horror game, good action sequences with melee and gun (not clumsy 
 like in other survival/horror games) and its scary too and some levels i felt like i was in a detective 
 movie, like se7en or something ;) when i had to search a appartment complex for a body, the building 
 was filled with junkies and a very scary mood was in there :o
  
  also sometimes ur running from monsters and the level is very interactive, stuff breaking, **** 
 falling down in front of you, last second escapes, jumping from platform onto another platform 
 right before it collapses etc. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuck1289
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  I loved Condemned: Criminal Origins and i loved this game too it is possibly one of the few games 
 that make me jump! With new fighting combos and etc it adds to the fun from the first game.
  
  Though, It isn't perfect it has a few bugs and some things are stupid in the game. Take the 
 last level for example there is an enemy that when close to you freezes you so your unable to do 
 anything at all. I found this VERY annoying seeing that they could die very easily too but all in 
 all everything is improved from the first condemned.
  
  Now lets focus about the scary stuff... Well lets be honest it is not as scary as the first condemned 
 and if you played the first one you will all know how those damn mannequins haha.
  
  Should you buy this game? Well it has been out for a while now so im guessing it has gone down 
 alot in price so yes go for it buy the damn game it is good and it will give you many hours of 
 peeing yourself and fun.
  
  I gve this game a 8.5 which i think is a good score so all in all i hope there is a next condemned 
 where they can improve this game to reach perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  what makes Condemned 2 Bloodshot quite nice? be Ethan Thomas, a former SCU agent with seriously 
 bad temper and drink habit. He fight through the city (or should i say hell city) full of lunatic 
 people tries to beat the s**t out of him. The story goes quite interesting with nicely done video 
 with stupid look of agent Dorland. Why i say stupid? because every guy on this game seems to have 
 no neck and have a very big body with little head (maybe with small brain too) , it sure not look 
 proposional. I hope Monolith can make a change for their next game (fear origins)
  
  The graphics look dark, scary, and disgusting. I like the cut scene when Ethan show his emotion 
 through his responds and when Ethan take an action on several part of the game like climb up, duck 
 under, and take the ladder, from the first person view, it looks real and nice. Too bad the blood 
 of your enemy disappear after a short time.
  
  Next, the gameplay of this game is interesting. Ethan will be rarely get a gun on his hand. Otherwise 
 he can punch and kick or he can grap electric conduit, pipe, wrench, axe, brick, bowling ball, 
 lolipop saw, nailed 2x4 plywood, or anything else that looks hard enough to be able to hit his 
 enemy! Melee attack is the main force of Ethan. It looks to be a great idea, but it sure hard to 
 kill a guy with just a plywood. As Ethan, it's hard to view your attack range. If you get too close, 
 you will be beat like s**t if you get too far, you will hit the air. But, when you able to grap 
 your enemy then stuck his head to a grinder machine and then juiced his brain, it's fun.
  
  So, the game looks great and worth to play, but after i finish it at the first time, i prefer to 
 play it again on the FPS mode (which unlock when you finish the game) with lots of 9 mm pistols, 
 assault rifles, smg, and shotguns. Last, i have a question, is Monolith only able to make a horror 
 fps? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot takes place after the first installment Condemned: Criminal Origins. You 
 play as the drunk Ethan Thomas who is tired from the police force and is now suspended from the 
 force. You take on missions with a better fighting style unlike the first installment. The game 
 is creepy at times and could give you a scare once and a while. The fighting style as I said before 
 is a lot better. More bloodier and more graphic. The weapons you have are shotguns, 9mms, assault 
 rifles and regular tools you find in the missions. The only thing I have a problem with is the 
 ammunition. Unlike the first game, you get tons of ammo to use. In the first game you would get 
 a couple of bullets/shells and would have to use your ammo wisley. Other than that, this is a great 
 game. If you played the first game and want it, get it. If youy never played the first game then 
 plsy the first. The story will make much better sense after you complete the game. Condemned 2: 
 Bloodshot is awarded with an 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robomate
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Now if you are a sucker for horror games with slick stories, this is a must buy.
  I'll start off by saying that you don't need to have played the first game, Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins, inorder to follow the story in this game, though it problably would make it a bit more 
 understandable. 
  In any case if you feel confused or lost between the character stories and backgrounds, you can 
 just read the first game's entire storyline on Wikipedia. com, which is what i did. 
  Now the game is very gritty and gory, don't feel like taking pictures of a decapitated body coated 
 in blood? well then this game isn't for you. 
  
  The overall tone of the game is also very dark and ruthless, the city is filled to the brink with 
 psychopaths and criminals and is falling apart, the tone and atmosphere of the game catches this 
 quite well.
  
  The graphics are stunning, especially if you have a HD-TV which will enhance the game's gritty 
 tone even more. 
  Music and sound effects are also very well done. Everything from the music produced by an insane 
 magician and his carnival, to the cursing and growling of drugged up psychopaths is also very well 
 done.
  
  The combat in this game is very special for a 'horror-action-adventure game'
  You can throw punches and kicks and you can even do combos which will stun your enemy. 
  And 
 when you have delivered enough pain to the sorry bastards, you can finish them off by pressing 
 buttons simultaniously which will result in you being able to ram them into your object of choice, 
 be it a television or an electric fence, it's all violent and and ruthless to look at. 
  You are also able to equip different types of weapons throughout the game, which are different 
 in some ways, some are small and fast others are big and slow. 
  There are also the occasional times where you are forced to pick up a firearm, theese don't feel 
 as action packed as the melee weapons but the shooting is enjoyable nonetheless. 
  
  The story in the game is well written and interesting, with twists and depth.
  Ethan Thomas, 
 the main character, is on the verge of insanity and is constantly battling his inner demons and 
 alcohol abuse. 
  Ethan's washed up look and raw approach to the other characters in the game make for a very likable 
 character. 
  
  There aren't many issues with the game, besides a few annoying enemies and the occasinal frustrating 
 fighting in the dark.
  
  With all this said, Condemned 2: Bloodshot is highly recommended by me, im not even really into 
 horror games, yet i found this one to be very entertaining and fun. 
  Bottom line, the goryness, the level design and the brutal combat make this game highly recommendable 
 and a must buy for horror and action fans alike. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I got to the 360 a year late, so the first Condemned, a launch title from Sega had long come and 
 gone from gamers minds. And honestly, for good reason. There really has not been much like it on 
 consoles before, and while it had moments of brilliance, it really was a very specific experience, 
 one that not everyone would appreciate. But what I didn't understand was why the game was passed 
 over by so many fans of survival horror like Silent Hill and Resident Evil. Well, we all get a 
 second chance with Condemned 2: Bloodshot, and horror fans should take notice this time around.
 
  
  If you didn't play the first title, you don't have to worry. This game picks up after the other 
 left off (If you even understood the end of the first one) in a city where madness is taking over, 
 the streets are dominated by crazy hobos, and dead birds are everywhere. You pick up with the hero 
 from the first title, who is an alcoholic at this point and is still suffering from his involvement 
 from the first game. Got it? Good, because that might be all you get. After about halfway through, 
 it goes all kind of weird and never comes back. You won't care however, because it is just an excuse 
 to throw horrible things at you in increasing intensity and not try to justify why. Additional 
 story is given through news broadcasts in-game, which I like much better than cut-scenes that take 
 you out of the action.
  
  Give in and turn on the lights, the game is terrifying in parts. If the designers had one thing 
 right, it is atmosphere. Everything oozes horrible and fascinating at the same time. Not just abandoned 
 buildings, but living horrors at every turn. Mucky black tar and abandoned doll factory. Some events 
 are scripted but work well. It is easy to really get sucked into this horrible world from the get 
 go. Pacing plays into everything. While you are playing from a first-person perspective, this is 
 not a shooter, even if you do occasionally get a gun. You walk slowly and deliberately. There is 
 no skating from doorway to doorway and it works. Just like the first game, it's all about tension. 
 Sound design uses this to perfection giving you silence until just the right moments. Soundtracks 
 are spare and used for atmosphere. Voice acting is fine and doesn't get in the way. You'll hear 
 your foot falls and breathing while you move from abandoned room to room, only to be scared **** 
 by someone in the shadows, yelling as they come at you.
  
  Combat is improved from the last title, giving you some combos and more finesse. Weapons are back 
 and bloody as ever, bringing back the faves like pipes and such and adding more environmentally 
 specific ones, like bedposts from bedrooms, ect. Now you can pummel baddies into submission and 
 use environmental finishers. Everything from crushing their skull in a toilet to vice presses in 
 factories are available. Collectibles are back, like the dead birds from the first game, but a 
 bit more interesting with the addition of optional objectives. The forensic sequences are back, 
 and they tried to make them better by giving you options while you investigate, giving you a better 
 score if you deduce evidence on your own. While it adds a bit to the very controlled experience 
 from the first game, it's still no CSI. Kudos for trying though. If you liked the first game, there's 
 little to dislike here. Its a lengthy, scary game that succeeds where other horror titles fall 
 flat, especially with it's visceral, intense combat. As a sequel, it does everything the first 
 did, but much better. If you like horror games and didn't try the first game, go buy that for $10. 
 It should not have been missed. One final note, one that I often don't take the time to do: This 
 is an adult title in every sense. If you don't like blood or gore, adult themes, horror and horrible 
 things, please don't bother. Don't let your little kids play or even watch you play this game. 
 I will actually say that GTAIV is more appropriate for minors. If you are like me, it makes it 
 a perfect guilty treat for while everyone else is asleep... although getting to sleep yourself might 
 take a minute after playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Condemned: Criminal Origins. It was without a doubt the creepiest and yes, scariest 
 video game I've ever played. So needless to say I looked very forward to the sequel, Condemned 
 2: Bloodshot. My best way to describe Condemned 2 is you lose a little and you gain a little from 
 the original Condemned.
  
  Graphically, the game looks very good, maybe a bit better than the first one. The brutality is 
 even more graphic and the finishing moves are nicely over the top. If you played the first game 
 you will notice that a certain lady cop got a lot better looking since the first game. The audio 
 is excellent and adds greatly to the atmosphere.
  
  The story is not great. At all. One could argue that it is flat out dumb compared to the more realistic 
 vibe that Condemned 1 brought to the table. Condemned 2 goes off in a sci-fi/supernatural direction 
 that is quite unnecessary and really ruins the style of the main character, Ethan Thomas. Heaven 
 knows where Condemned 3 will go from here. Don't get me wrong, the single-player game is still 
 very enjoyable from a creepiness standpoint but if you played the original, it misses the mark.
 
  
  There is good news! What the game lost in a quality story it gains in a series of very fun multi-player 
 modes. It's just total chaos that anyone can jump in and mix it up. Crime Scene (a form of capture 
 the flag) is my favorite but they are all fun to play. The one multi-player flaw? Well, it's not 
 the games fault but there are not a lot of players online at any given time. Getting into a full 
 game with a bunch of players can be a challenge. It's really too bad because this game provides 
 one of the better multi-player experiences out there.
  
  In conclusion, Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a worthy game to buy for survival horror fans and/or achievement 
 junkies and an absolute rent for a more casual gamer. Neither style of player will be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthrockfan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all, its a good game and there is no reason not to buy it. The graphics are nice, not 
 perfect, but enjoyable. The hand to hand combat is fun but takes some getting used to. The story 
 line is rather short, but is not bad and builds well off the first. 
  
  My favorite part of the game is the hand to hand, and the fact that there are not many "bosses". 
 If anything drives me nuts about older games, its the bosses. In condemned 2, all the enemies are 
 about the same level of difficulty, the game gets harder by tossing more and more at you with less 
 health supply lying around.
  
  The worst part of the game, in my opinion of course, is the weapon control. The guns are clumsy 
 and useless many times. I often find myself tossing down a perfectly good rifle because at close 
 range, it is nothing short of horrible... you cannon even block with the rifle if you still have 
 ammo in it. If the firearms were made a little more usable, i think the game would get a 9.0 with 
 the only flaw for it being so short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irockandroll
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is definately better than its previous title. Although there are a few things 
 wrong with it, this is definately a game that players who can take a good scare (or a massive scare) 
 will want to pick up. One of the setbacks is probably the game's legnth. Although the other features, 
 graphics and things like that make up for it, Condemned 2 is not the longest game. So gamers who 
 like a long game may be a bit disapointed. Over all, this is a very fun and action packed horror 
 game that will bring the player alot ( and I mean alot) of entertainment.
  
  "I can't lie. This game probably freaked me out more than any other game I've ever played." - My 
 brother Grant
  
  "Holy **** dude you are not gonna believe how fun and freaking Condemned 2 was!"- My best friend 
 Sindey
  
  "Wow. Just wow."- My friend Sammy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  when i bought the new condemned game i was hoping for more brutality and more gore, but everything 
 is pretty much the same, literally, i felt like i was treking through tthe same environments from 
 the previous game, which ist too bad, due to the environments in the condemned series making it 
 the one of a kind bash the crap outta baddies horror game it is.
  you start out the game once again as ethan thomas, now an ex detective, he looks entirely different 
 to the previous game, which is a fantastic thing, you feel rugged and worn out while playing as 
 him, and the games creaters have exelled in that part of the game. your also an extremist alcoholic, 
 which gives the game a reason to add some supernatural themes to the bag. once again the environment 
 gives the game its horrific touch as its prequel, the horrific murder scenes are much improved 
 and the dark half rotted environments provide an exellent area for some crazy nutjobs that want 
 a beating to dwell in. the combat and sound effects are amazing this time round' i have never felt 
 enough satisfication then when beating someones head in with a electrical conduit, almost therapudic.
 
  
  overall a fantastic game for fans of horror, and its not THAT scary so dont let that put you off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soups24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrific. Though not as scary as the first one is still freeky. The hand to hand combat 
 has been greatly improved mostly in the form of blocking and combos.. Though it is quite linear 
 I somtimes needed the help of a video walkthrough. (Thanks www. nextgenwalkthoughs. com) .I also 
 love the fact that you can get diffrent rankings. My only negative is that there acctualy arnt 
 that many guys to fight in the later levels. The great single player experience plus the online 
 keeps me coming back for more. The game hast vastly improved over the first one and I cannot wait 
 for Condmened  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy10009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Condemned two was a great adition to the horror hit a few years before it. They obviously took 
 time to improve the storyline and even the fighting techniques. the new addition to waepons, the 
 new graphics, and even the a. i has taken a good step forward. now most people buy condemned for 
 the random "scares", and for the first 3/4ths, thats exactly what you will get. the new addition 
 to the fighting styles was the idea of the custom kills, which instead of being "custom" is really 
 just button prompt kills. thats still pretty cool, but it turns out that all of the random enviroment 
 kills are just about the same. now a word about weapons. HAND TO HAND is just as bad-ass as the 
 first. cracking out teeth, pissing off enemies by socking them in the back of the head, ect. if 
 you've played the original conemned, theres not to much more to cover for hand to hand other then 
 the combo kills, which im still undecided about. then theres the random pipes, 2x4's, electrical 
 conducts ect. that you can swing without mercy, which again is just simply bad-ass. they have infact 
 added molotovs, but i never found them to trusty because i often mistook the enemies in proportion 
 to distance (due to dark atmosphere) , and ended up undershooting, toasting myselff. firearms were 
 always a luxoury in condemned, concidering the VERY limited ammo and rariety of the firearms themselves. 
 but in con 2, i found the firearms were a little useless. of couse, yes, the shotgun would blow 
 the hell out of the ememy, but in terms of ammunition capacity and even effectiveness at MEDIUM 
 range was pretty dissapointing. this may only happen to me, but i found that occationally the audio 
 would glitch, resulting in a supriseingly silent handgun. pretty annoying. The gameplay could have 
 been longer. the story had DEFFINATLY a better plot outline, so i advise you to enjoy it while 
 it lasts.... because after it does.... thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  As one of the better launch titles for the X-Box 360, Condemned: Criminal Origins was a perfect 
 blend of mystery and suspense for fans of scary video games. 
  
  Using a first person perspective and an effectively simplistic melee combat system, Condemned dragged 
 players kicking and screaming into level after terrifying level of visceral crime and violence. 
 
  
  Storywise, the game revolved around Ethan Thomas, a likeable Special Crimes Unit investigator voiced 
 by Greg Grunberg of Heroes fame, and his exploits to stop the deadly vigilante SKX, or Serial Killer 
 X.
  
  As Thomas' search for SKX continued, the plot tumbled deeper down the rabbit hole of conspiracy 
 theories and occults, eventually being resolved with the stop of SKX, only to have the end left 
 open for much scarier ideas and villains. That's where Condemned 2: Bloodshot comes in, unfortunately.
 
  
  Ethan Thomas, now a bitter and homeless drunk voiced by a significantly less talented voice actor, 
 has hit rock bottom with the terrors witnessed in Criminal Origins. Unable to shake the idea that 
 society's violent tendencies are linked to an unseen supernatural presence, Thomas is soon plunged 
 back into the world of criminal investigation by his former employers as a familiar serial killer 
 resurfaces to hunt.
  
  While a bit clichd, this is certainly not a bad setup for the second game in, most likely, a three 
 part series. Yet, the problem with Bloodshot is that it quickly shovels way too much plot in way 
 too little a time. Instead of the secrecy of a behind-the-scenes cult controlling society, players 
 will find out the name of the cult, exactly what the cult is, what they look like, how they operate, 
 their special controlling abilities, everyone in the cult (which is literally almost everyone in 
 the game) , and pretty much everything else except individual cult members' social security numbers. 
 
  
  Not only that, but this pile of farfetched information and plot detracts from the Criminal Origin's 
 more realistic setup and mythology. No more simply hunting a crazed serial killer because you play 
 as one of the best criminal investigators around, now the plot moves to the ever-tired "chosen 
 one" angle as Ethan searches for who he is exactly and what he's capable of, i. e. becoming a lame 
 plot device.
  
  Disappointing plot aside, Bloodshot thankfully retains all of its brutal first person melee action. 
 Players can once again rip pipes off the wall, pick bricks up off the ground and pretty much use 
 any item at their disposal to crush crazy people skull.
  
  But the much smarter addition in this installment is the ability to use Ethan's fists to fight. 
 Players can now link different types of punches and attacks together to create devastating combos 
 for extra damage. 
  
  Even environmental kills are introduced, and it certainly broadens the melee combat a bit. However, 
 halfway through the game, the action really starts to head into first person shooter territory.
 
  
  Back again, but found much more frequently, are the use of firearms. The sparse ammo is still a 
 hindrance, but many bad guys in later levels carry their own guns which can be used to reload. 
 
  
  While some will see the gunplay as a welcome addition to the oftentimes repetitive fisticuffs, 
 Condemned loyalists will see this as destructive to the suspenseful atmosphere. Running around 
 with an assault rifle in hand, as opposed to a wrench, is much more reassuring when spooky enemies 
 are nearby.
  
  Even though many negative things can be said in proxy of the first Condemned game's ideas and execution, 
 Bloodshot does stand on its own as a successful and fun game. 
  
  In comparison, level designs are much more complex, the game looks infinitely better, and online 
 multiplayer keeps the game alive even after the somewhat short single player story is finished. 
 
  
  It's just a shame that for every good aspect found in the game, the experience is brought down 
 by horrible lines delivered by voice actors or players going through an entire level without so 
 much as a startled jump.
  
  Fans of Criminal Origins should be wary of Bloodshot if they found themselves enveloped with the 
 original story and characters, but if said fans are willing to dig a new, more fantastical, direction 
 for the series, then Condemned 2: Bloodshot is definitely worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  It was a happy day when the news broke that Monolith was making a sequel to their visceral and 
 atmospheric first person brawler Condemned. The first game was an experiment in how to take a FPS 
 fought with your fists to the next level. It was tried before in games like Riddick and Breakdown, 
 but the focus in Condemned was almost totally on your ability to punch and pick up weapons in the 
 environment to bash dudes over the head with. It was an effective and thrilling ride, culminating 
 in a very memorable boss fight against Sin.
  
  This sequel picks up a couple of years after the original game and alot has changed. For one, the 
 main character Ethan changed. Gone is the voice of Heroes star Greg Gunberg and the clean cut, 
 but troubled, SCU agent from before. In his place is a noticeably gruffer voice and raging alcoholic 
 mess of a man who is barely keeping himself together. Ethan's now a former SCU agent being dragged 
 back into a story that involves him in ways he doesn't understand.
  
  Also changed is Ethan's main SCU contact, Rosa. In the original Rosa was a short, chubby african-american 
 woman with glasses. In the sequel she's obviously hired a personal trainer and beauty consultant 
 because Rosa is now a hottie. At first I thought changes like these were going to throw me off, 
 but as it turns out, the changes work just fine. The voice acting and the characters fit the story. 
 
  
  What hasn't changed is the brutally violent and extremely satisfying combat. Whether you are fighting 
 with your fists or choosing amongst a variety of weapons strewn about the environment, one thing 
 is certain, you will feel as if you are beating someone to a pulp (minus the bruised knuckles) . 
 
  
  It is in the hand to hand combat that Condemned really shines and in this sequel the combat is 
 dialed up a notch through the introduction of a combo system. Build up your meter in your upper 
 right hand corner and then double tap either the left or right trigger buttons and you will launch 
 into a timed button press combo. There are 6 different combos and each one is cool to watch and 
 deals a significant amount of damage to your foe, many times completely taking them out.
  
  One change that isn't quite so welcome is the new emphasis on guns. In the original the emphasis 
 was clearly on fisticuffs, as guns and ammo were very scarce throughout the game. Not so in this 
 sequel. You will find more guns and some levels are entirely gun dependent. It doesn't ruin the 
 game by any stretch, but it doesn't feel any different from any other shooter on the market when 
 you've got a gun in your hand. The hand to hand combat is what sets Condemned apart - when you're 
 shooting your way through levels it takes away from the game's uniqueness.
  
  Embedded in the game is a number of adventure game and survival horror elements. Crime scene investigations 
 are the most fun, usually involving your tech toys to locate clues and unravel more of the story 
 in a CSI kind of way. The story is pretty out there, but it's interesting and engaging.
  
  I did not play around with the multiplayer, so I can't offer any feedback there. However, I spent 
 a good deal of time in the Bloodshot Fight Club option. This is basically an arena option where 
 you can set the number of enemies coming at you, what weapons (if any) are in the environment and 
 a whole host of other options and scenarios. If you're looking to blow off steam for 15 minutes 
 and just pummel dudes, this is the place to do it. It's a great addition to the game.
  
  The single player game should take you 8 to 10 hours to complete and it is broken up into 11 levels 
 total. Once you complete the game you will be rewarded with the option of being able to play through 
 the entire game with guns. Gold medal the last level and you will get unlimited ammo for those 
 guns. Given my criticisms above, I don't know that it's all that compelling to go through the game 
 in that manner, but it's cool to have that option.
  
  While there will be plenty of gamers who will avoid Condemned 2 because of the graphic content, 
 the brutal violence and the inherent fright factor - those who enjoy these types of games will 
 find that this game is one of the best on the block. Survival horror fans take note - this one 
 should be part of your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: np1001
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I personally liked it because I played and beat the first game. It was scary and it made me jump 
 alot (Mainly because i had my volume turned up loud) . If you have never played the first game, 
 this will explain the story from the first game while following the story from the first game. 
 You play as Ethan Thomas, an ex cop of SCU. He is drunk and angry. (I wont ruin the rest) . I gave 
 this game a 9.0 because its graphics were good, especially the physics, becuase if you shot a guy 
 in the head with a rifle or shotgun, you would blow his head off, and blood would squirt out for 
 a couple of seconds. This is a must play game. I recommend it for fans of the first game or just 
 someone looking for an awesome action game. If they make another game of this I will most definitly 
 buy it, 100%. Feel free to track my reviews any time or send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I was a hardcore fan of the old Condemned, and while its predecessor was good, it wasn't all that 
 i had hoped. While the new combat system is a lot more advanced than the old, and reward system 
 is pretty neat, there are some things that drag it back.
  
  Graphics: Nothing fancy but pretty solid, mood was kept dark and scarey, but the characters faces 
 didn't seem all that defined. 8
  
  Character Style: I had a few problems with this. The fallen hero approach with Ethan Thomas was 
 pretty cool, but Rosa went from "punkish lab tech" to "fashionable street cop." And the main bad 
 guy (i wont give his name away) seemed just way to stereotypical moronish for my taste. I like 
 my villians dark and smart, thank you very much. 7
  
  Story: Somewhat confusing but, if you pay attenion, you should understand what's goin on pretty 
 clearly. I really can't say to much, don't want to give anything away. 8.5
  
  Combat: Way better. The old system was cool, but this one is somewhat like assassins creed with 
 the buttons, and seems to even improve on their formula, in this humble (cue laughing) game reviewers 
 opinion. The finishers, while not to much fun on multiplayer or the arenas, are absolutely brutal 
 in story. Ex, putting one of the deranged pychos head into a some sorta pressing machine and pulling 
 hard on wheel that squeezes it shut more... more.... and more... until... you get the picture. 8.5
 
  
  Multiplayer: Suprisingly not that bad. When i got this game i honestly thought it was just gonna 
 be a one of those 5-6 sorta things that was just there because every game needs multi now for some 
 reason, but it actually is somewhat cool. You battle in differant scenes from the story using a 
 whole array of weapons that suit the particular spot your at. Access is limited, but there's enough 
 space for an 8 player game. 7.5
  
  Difficulty: Parts where there was extremely easy, parts that were extremely difficult, and some 
 were that were just right, gives it a solid rating. 8
  
  Other: The scenery is good, online connections are stable, and oppenents are fairly intelligent, 
 though you can't really expect much outta coke heads now can you? The grading system is decent, 
 giving you better upgrades depending on how well you completed the mission. The most substanial 
 improvment, in my eyes, was the investigation addition. While the old Condemend had one, it was 
 less investigating and more following orders. In this one, you observe your surroundings, then 
 report back to Rosa what you think happened or what something is. Based on how accurate report 
 is, you get a star between 1 and 5. It really lets you feel like a investigator and not just some 
 stinking lousy drunk with a newly grown beard.... wait....
  8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thpghalo3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Condenmed 2 Bloodshot is a perfect balance of a great story solid mulitplayer and a whole bunch 
 of memorbal moments and a few scares.
  The story casts you as Ethan Tohmas (From The First condenmed) But more whacked out then ever. 
 in Bloodshot ethan is a total drunk you have to drink alchocal to gain a steady aim the fighting 
 mechanics have ben improved dramaticly it does take about 5 to 10 hits to kill someone but if you 
 hit a guy with a combo it takes about 3 hits to kill him. on to the story the game starts off after 
 you get into a fight in a bar and get kicked out you go outside and give a bum the Finger and then 
 you help him finialy you get to try out some of the new fighting mechanics including punches, grabs, 
 combos and blocks finialy when you test your skils on the thugs the guy wh you beat up in the bar 
 KO, s you with a brick and then the crazyness begins. 
  the story is not scary at all depening on you being scared or not. Now the Multiplayer is solid 
 as a brick there is no glitching or laging the graphics are execlent there is 4 game types Team 
 Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Bum Rush and crime scene although the maps are great but there is only 
 about 7 maps. so all and all Condenmed 2 Bloodshot is one of the gretastest games out on the market 
 and only $25. i give Condenmed 2 Bloodshot a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplitxXxSkulls
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Ok I already reviewed this game, but they deleted it because it was innapropriate? As you see I 
 gave the game a 9.0. That's for the single player portion of the game. On the other hand, the multiplayer 
 I give it a 6. I think it was an amazing concept, but making it as good as it sounded was pretty 
 far-fetched. Everything in the multiplayer is great, except the combat. When your in a fight with 
 someone, it has nothing to do with skill. It's just about who gets lucky and gets the kill. It's 
 just annoying. The single player is amazing. It's easy to get into, and it's immersive. Single 
 player combat is just amazing and brutal. You'd have to play it for yourself to see though. It 
 really isn't that scary though, just jumpy. The story is pretty classic, especially how it takes 
 off from the first Condemned too. I think there's a lack of good truly scary games lately, maybe 
 it's because I got older, or they are running out of good concepts and artists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flushedorgen
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off just by saying OMG THIS GAME IS SWEAT!!! 
  
  Combat: This new first person hand to hand combat game is really uniqe in combat its not like when 
 you tap a button until the dude dies it's really.... real. Every punch Ethan does feels real when 
 i was playing I was moving back and forth because how real it felt. (also you get guns but you 
 onl get like 5 ammo)
  
  Story: In the game you play as Ethan Tomas a old drunk who needs to kill killers ( who are really 
 messeed up) you battle it out with evil toys that blow up and people who re coverd in blood NOTE: if 
 you are under 14 dont even think about this game its scary as h***.
  
  SCARYNESS: The game is really scary. You will be walking around in a old building and you will 
 here creaks and noises and then.......... somting flyes at you screaming its face off then starts 
 killing you. This one time I was walking around in a aparmint building and i was in one of the 
 rooms and i went into a bathroom and and saw a mirror i looked at it and i saw a thing behind me. 
 pissed my self and killed it (I really didnt piss my self)
  
  
  SCORE: This game was sweat and almost better than Zelda ocarina of time. ITS A 10 OUT OF 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 25, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Well this won't be a big review because frankly this is really the same game. In terms of telling 
 you what it is, whats new... etc. Yeah they added some new combos, guns... etc. But its really the 
 same game at heart.
  
  This may sound like a lot of complaints but overall its still a great game and these really aren't 
 as bad as they sound to me at least. I just want to point them out. There are positives mixed in!
 
  
  Now you earn new stuff to use depending on how good you are doing things in game like combos, finding 
 hidden items (sensors, antennas,) , doing your whole CSI thing. Some of it is pretty good. But if 
 you want the best you have to get "Gold" versions. Which means find everything, get good combos... get 
 in every level. Really its just an excuse to get you a useful item for the current level.
  
  They also added some other features like a singleplayer "brawl" kinda mode where you fight 
 guys in various ways. I think its basically for Live scoring boards to compare to other people 
 on fastest times. I found out kinda boring. You basically spawn and for instance in the one room 
 you stand above a jail room and shoot or throw bricks at buffed up enemies attacking cops. 
  
  In the game itself they tried adding more variety but if anything I think it made it annoying 
 and less fun. Such as your problems are enemies. A tar like blackish creature. Who non the less 
 can kill you quickly and vica versa. By problems I mean since your a drunk for instance thats why 
 you always see these creatures because its your alcoholism. Really stupid.
  
  The CSI stuff is fun this time around and you can look at multiple things at a crime scene and 
 each thing will bring up a list. Like if you seen a bullet would it would say "Exit Wound", "Entrance 
 Would", "Stab Would", "Cut"... etc. And after you answer everything you submit it and you'll get 
 scored on it. All counting towards your items at the end of each level to earn. Those gold items 
 I was referring too.
  
  The horror factor is increased in this game which is fine but sometimes actually isn't scary since 
 at times the game doesn't tell you jack on where to go so you lose your "Dang this is creepy" feeling 
 and get angry until you realize that hole in the ceiling you passed 1,000 times was your way out.
 
  
  Yet another thing they did was make guns useless. In order to actually shoot straight and not waste 
 ammo you have to drink. Which to me is silly. Ok maybe its funny the first time but later on its 
 a pain in the butt. And since the guns are bad to begin with it just makes it bothersome.
  
  I cool element that doesn't work is "Fatalities" as I call them. When you injury someone enough 
 you grab them by the head and can drag them anywhere you want where you see a white skull icon 
 and you perform a really sweet environmental kill. Problem is most of the time you kill people 
 so you never get to use this cool feature or your being attacked by multiple people and can't stop 
 to do it and/or they aren't really "human" to being with.
  
  Puzzles can be fun or not. Sometimes you get it right away and your stoked about how cool a puzzle 
 was or other times you'll die alot because you couldn't figure it out. And lots of times the puzzles 
 are involved with killing people so prepare to die alot not knowing how to kill someone.
  
  They added MP this time. Why I have no idea since usually no one is on. Could be because is really 
 glitchy and its just not fun. You'd think it would be but its not. 
  
  Overall despite some things I pointed out the game is still great even though the MP is bad. I'd 
 rent it if your not sure about somethings I mentioned but they don't affect to much really. Its 
 a buyer though if you liked the first one, its the best one out of the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  .. well.. what do i say.. i was a great fan of condemned when it came out first and was ever since 
 looking forward for its sequel if ever it was coming out.. then alas it came out.. condemned 2.. and 
 as i expected it was in every word worth the wait... first of all hats off for such a deep and dark 
 game play giving you chills down the spine through every nook and corner, the originality of the 
 game is beyond words, a truly realistic combat system using your own fists as your ultimate weapon 
 was gorgeous.. then comes the crime scene investigation which is much modified than the first part 
 and is truly detailed and wonderfully made.. a really good story as tracking down each clues makes 
 you gripped to your chairs more.. stealth forms an integral part, environment plays a vital role 
 as for some amazing finishing moves, amazing combat moves, excellent graphics and visuals, very 
 much haunting sets and horror filled environments full of surprises, just about anything and everything 
 for a great fps, adventure, horror, and above all a masterpiece.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I never played condemned 1 very much, but when the second came out I felt like playing a good scary 
 game, so I picked it up. And I was very pleased right from the beginning.
  
  The story mode is good, however, there is ONE MAJOR problem, the paranormal aspect to it, I will 
 not spoil anything but suffice to say this guy is schizophrenic, and REALLY schizophrenic, thats 
 what holds it back, although out of the ten or so missions, about 3 have this almost Doom 3 feel, 
 which will scare you the first time, but then gets somewhat aggravating and not very fun, the exception 
 of this is the last level. Aside from the one bad thing, there is a lot of good to it as well, 
 the melee system is very fun and in depth, although it is unfortunate that guns aren't nearly as 
 useful as a drive shaft. The investigatory parts are interesting too, adding an RPG element to 
 it, solving the questions that will lead to a solved case are both fun, and challenging.
  
  The multiplayer is more of a hate it or love it. Deathmatch is not very fun, as there are way to 
 much spawn killing, however Crime Scene is one of the funnest multiplayer modes I have ever played, 
 one team equips themselves with either a: Drive shaft, Sledgehammer, Molotov Cocktail, Or a Sonic 
 Emmiter (will be explained later) , now after you have chosen your character model and weapon, 2 
 of the people will have red and green coolers that they must hide wherever they want (on the ground 
 that is) , hide them in the shadows or behind things, its up to you. The other team is a police 
 force, who are trying to "scan" these coolers they are equipped with either a shotgun, or a pistol 
 and baton. While the police have their scanners out, 2 numbers appear, showing 0-100, this indicates 
 the distance away from the coolers, but does not show altitude, so you may have to go to different 
 levels of a house for example. If the criminals can kill all the police, the criminals win, however 
 the police has the 1 objective of scanning the coolers, so killing the criminals does not give 
 you a win necessarily. The sonic emmiter weapon screws up the police forces scanners, and must 
 be destroyed or else any scanner in the area will be disrupted. Flashlights and darkness are the 
 biggest weapons in multiplayer, as getting the jump on your opponent can lead to an entire team 
 being killed by one guy, so this mode REALLY stresses team cooperation and communication.
  
  
  The story is good, just not as good as multiplayer, however, like I said, the multiplayer 
 is solely a hate it or love it game, so even though I am giving it a 9, it might be a 1 to someone 
 else, but if the description made it sound fun, then you can bet it will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 dropps you off as Ethen. A mean alcoholic agent of sorts who looks like a photo copy 
 of the new Sam Fisher. CONSPIRASY??? I'm not sure, but what i do know is that the story of this 
 game is probably the weakest element. The game starts out with you chasing down a killer during 
 a riot caused by by machines that let out a sound that causes people to go berserk. It gets weirder 
 from there, and ends with you getting a super power, so i'll spare you the details of the story 
 except for that IT WASN'T SCARY AT ALL! If you're expecting a F. E. A. R like expeirience that will 
 cause you to soil yourself every time the lights flicker then GO PLAY F. E. A. R. This game doesn't 
 even give you any cheap gross outs (maybe it's because we're already decensetized to far.)
  
  Graphically the game is solid. Nothing to really prais or crucify the game for there. It gives 
 you what you would expect from a game nowadays.
  
  The game play is a mixed bag. The melle combat is fun, interesting, and once you get used to it 
 EXTREMLY EASY! The shooding is what's to be expected, aim for the head, and they go down in one 
 shot (getting wasted to increase acuracy is a fun novelty, though) The detective side missions 
 are fun, and innovative, although sometimes expect you to know more about the inteworkings of a 
 doll factory than you're opt to. An annoying part of gameplay is the whole entanna deal. I mean 
 it just isn't worth it. The only reason to do it is for powerups, and it slows the pace of the 
 game down so much to make sure that you found everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  First off I'd like to take a shot at all you gamers that think all games need multiplayer. This 
 is simply not true and this was a perfect example of why. This game is not suited for it. The game 
 play dose not have anything to suggest a good multiplayer mode. However you asked for it so they 
 had to do it. So instead of taking the time to spend on the actual game. They wasted time trying 
 to come up with some multiplayer modes for you. It's sad that they feel the need to do this because 
 they know that there are people that will not buy a game because there is no multiplayer and there 
 for no "replay value". It makes me wonder how much better the single player game could have been.
 
  
  Ok now on with the review. The single player being the heart of the game plays very well. I live 
 the new environment finishers and the hand to hand combat system. Both were huge upgrades fro the 
 first game. Another great improvement from the first were the crime scene investigations. More like 
 mini game unto theme selves but a very fun upgrade from the first games use of your investigation 
 equipment.
  
  I played through the game three times and I found it to be a very fine story. It just was not as 
 scary as the first one for me. It just felt more sci fi than horror somehow. Not to say it was not 
 a good game because it is. I would recommend this to anyone. Just not the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zcrimson07
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  last summer i wanted to catch up on the best games of the first generation of games for 360 so 
 naturally i rented condemned: criminal origins. great game, real visceral action and creepy atmosphere. 
 i didn't have many complaints about that game aside from the fact that i got lost a little too 
 often. since i was a fan of the first i was pretty excited when 2 came out so i went out and rented 
 it as well. unfortunately i didn't have quite as much fun with this iteration (though it looks 
 like we're looking at a trilogy) . of course this game's graphics and audio are superb and the action 
 is a violent as ever which are really the best parts. unfortunately in this condemned they shifted 
 from fighting crazy hobos and mannequin look-a-likes to fighting monsters more or less. which is 
 a shame because monsters don't really have that "real world" creepiness to them like hobos. during 
 my playthrough i jumped maybe once (whereas during the original i was jumping around almost every 
 corner) . in terms of content there's little to no replay value and the multiplayer is a joke. a 
 typical game consists of a bunch of people in a corner hitting each other with random weapons and 
 occasionally someone will break loose of the scrum and get chased by someone else like something 
 out of a benny hill movie, sans the music unfortunately. despite my complaints condemned 2 is still 
 a pretty solid game with an interesting, albeit confusing, story. 
  
  moral of the story: if it's friday the 13 and you have nothing better to do, rent this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Last Fall I played the original Condemned and it was one of the most memorable videogaming experiences 
 I've had. Putting an action-heavy survival-horror game into a first person perspective turned out 
 to be a great success, not only because of the gameplay but the intriguing story as well. I knew 
 that Condemned 2 had made some changes and was really looking forward to seeing how this would 
 affect things.
  
  Gameplay (9) - As much fun as the gameplay was in the first game, it is improved for the second. 
 You now can attack with both the LT and RT and press them simultaneously to block, as opposed to 
 only having the RT to attack and LT to block. This makes combat much deeper, giving the opportunity 
 for various combos. Another great addition is that Ethan can use his fists this time if he is temporarily 
 w/o a weapon, and his fists are quite effective as well. There is also the ability to use "environmental" 
 kills if your enemy is low on health. You'll get a few seconds in which to drag your enemy to a 
 particular place in a room and perform a gruesome finishing move, such as placing their head in 
 a vise or impaling them on a spike: P There is a much greater variety of melee weapons available, 
 ranging from broadswords to toilet seats! Guns are much more prominent this time, and there are 
 several levels where you will have to use rifles in order to survive. Some may not like this and 
 want to stay with only melee attacks, but I thought it was done well and made for a nice change 
 of pace, though admittedly the melee attacks are still much more entertaining. The forensics are 
 also improved, being much deeper and requiring a lot more thought. The nice thing about this is 
 that the better you are at the forensics, along with finding other side items, the better your 
 bonus will be when you finish a level. For instance if you just rush through a level to the end 
 your reward may just be a single shot taser. If you do a bit better it will be a 3 shot taser and 
 if you cover all your bases you'll get a 5 shot taser. It works out nice in that it's not required 
 to find every item or do perfect investigations but if you do you'll get some nice rewards.
  
  Graphics (9) - Just like the first game, Condemned 2 does a fantastic job bringing some of 
 the filthiest and scariest environments you could imagine with photo-realistic quality. Lighting 
 is naturally top notch as you'll be using your flashlight almost constantly (fortunately it doesn't 
 need to be charged) . Highly detailed characters look great as well, and there seemed to be a greater 
 variety of enemies this time as well.
  
  Sound (9) - The sound is another area that has been great for both games. Sound effects from fights 
 sound as realistic as if they were happening in your house, with each of the many different weapons 
 having their own unique sound. Great voice work from all of the main characters, each was very 
 believable and never sounded like the over acting you hear from so many other games.
  
  Value (7) - A mixed bag here. On the one hand Condemned 2 does offer much more than the original. 
 For the first time multi-player is available. I haven't played it and though I've heard it's not 
 the greatest I'll give them credit for trying. Another addition is the Bloodshot Fight Club. These 
 are minigames (five in total I believe) that you can jump into and then compare how you did on 
 leaderboards. It involves such games as seeing how many kills you can score withing a time limit, 
 seeing how lonmg you can protect someone, etc. Again, these games in themselves aren't too addictive 
 but it was a nice effort to give some extra playing time or a little diversion. The problem is 
 with the length of the main story. There was no timer but all I can say is that it certainly did 
 not take very long to complete the game, as it had to be well under 10 hours. If it wasn't for 
 the MP and Fight Club I would have given this category a 6.
  
  Overall (8.5) - Basically it comes down to if you enjoyed the original you'll certainly want to 
 play this. If you think this is the type of game you'd be interested in I'd recommend playing the 
 original first. It's not necessary but will certainly make the story easier to follow as it picks 
 up after the first game. Needless to say this game is not for children as it had some of the most 
 excessive and realistic looking violence you'll see in a videogame. Due to the short length you 
 might want to wait until the price comes down a bit but the game was put together very well and 
 I'd definitely recommend it to fans of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The first game was really brilliant and this one is no different. The hand-to-hand combat is still 
 amazing and amazingly exacuted. I love getting random weapons like pipes, bowling balls, gumball machines, and 
 axes. I love the brutal button mashing combos. Ah the glory of snapping someones neck then getting 
 an axe and killing their bum friend. Now the story is beautifully exacuted. A continuation of the 
 first DOES not end in a conclusion. They give you the whole "I will be back" thing. I won't tell 
 you what happens at the end but it is a good ending minus the cliffhanger. Some people complain 
 about the darkness of the game but at the beggining it lets you change the lighting and if you 
 put it all the way up you can see perfect. The concept of scare the guy until he cries to his mom 
 is still there and will still happen. The additions at the end of the levels are nice but some are 
 just useless. The best ones are the screaming thing, tazer, health, and the hollister. The achievements 
 aren't done to well but I don't mind that to much though. Through my first run through of the game 
 I got 120 gamerscore points. Gamespot said that they didn't enjoy the gun combat to much but I enjoyed 
 it pretty nice. The graphics are amazing and smooth. I read one review and they didn't like the fact 
 you can't hold to many bullets at one time. That my friend is realism and they also want you to 
 experiance the amazing hand-to-hand combat
  
  Now the multiplayer: It isn't to amazing but it will give you some satisfaction for a night... wait 
 that reminds me of someone.. ah well back to the game. The only really fun multiplayer mode is Crime 
 Scene. The rest are just like blah. They are very plain and nothing more of some add-ons to make 
 some extra multiplayer modes.
  
  
  Extras: The Fightclub isn't bad but not good either. They should add some extra content to it and 
 it would be a little interesting but wouldnt give you much fun.
  
  
  End It!: This game is still beautiful and pretty tough and scares you almost every level. But there 
 won't be nothing more after you have beat the great single player. Because the extras and multiplayer 
 are real bland you want have this for more than a week. So I say rent this one it will easily be 
 worth a rent
  
  
  Real score:8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Though very fun, Condemned 2 isn't really the "horrifying" game that it's said to be. Sure it can 
 make you jump by surprising you at times, but is that really something that you can call scary? 
 Absolutely not, scary is when your stomach curdles and you shake from head to toes, not when you 
 flinch because a looks like oil covered, biohazard suit wearing demon jumps out at you. And as 
 for the sound effects, very cute, we have the classic screaming girl noises and and heavy breathing, 
 like who are we kidding here cmon. Besides the fact that this game fails to deliver what it's made 
 for though, it all comes down to gameplay and I did enjoy playing it, and for that, I gave it a 
 moderately high score. I just wish that I could have had nightmares over it like I was hoping for. 
 I wouldn't recommend this to horror lovers, but I would recommend it to hand to hand combat lovers/ 
 people who like to laugh at people's pitiful attempts at horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaJesus232
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Back in the fall of 2005, Monolith released two fantastic horror games. One of them was called 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins, which was a First-Person Melee Action Horror game. It had terrific 
 gameplay, being able to use pipes and 2x4s from the enviroment to beat the crap out of crackheads. 
 The atmosphere was superbly done, the music and sounds kept me on the edge of my seat throughout 
 the entire game. Though I thought Condemned: Criminal Origins was a great game, it did have many 
 problems. One major problem was how the forensics system was set up. When investigating a crime 
 scene your told what to do and the game selects the correct tool for you to use. It would've been 
 nice if we could do alittle observing and being able to select what tools we want to use. But since 
 we couldn't, the forensics in Condemned 1 didn't qualify as a gameplay element. Other problems 
 included only one mode and a story that was a bit confusing and too short.
  
  2 years later, I hear that Monolith is making a Condemned 2. I was so SO excited... but I was also 
 worried. I was worried because I was afraid that Monolith would forget to fix any of the problems 
 from the first game or even add anything new to make the sequel better than it's predecessor (which 
 are what many game developers forget to do when making a sequel) . When you make a sequel, your 
 suppose to fix every problem that people had with the first one and do all you can to make it better 
 than the first one in every way possible, and it turns out thats exactly Monolith did with Condemned 
 2.
  
  Finally on March 12, 2008, Condemned 2: Bloodshot was on the shelves at my local Gamestop. I picked 
 up a copy that day and as soon as I got in my house I immediately started playing it. After playing 
 it for nearly 10 hours I am still having so SO much fun playing this game. Monolith had fixed all 
 the problems everyone had with the first and added alot of new things like a new combat system, 
 a new forensics system, and more modes like Bloodshot Fight Club and Multiplayer. The story in 
 Condemned 2 is also much better than the first.
  
  The story in Condemned 2 takes place almost a 11 monthes after the first Condemned. By than, former 
 SCU agent Ethan Thomas had become one of the vagrants he had killed a year ago. After the events 
 of the first game, the city appeared to be back to normal.... until now, a year has passed and all 
 hell breaks loose yet again. Starting when the SCU (Serial Crimes Unit) recieves a very disturbing 
 and frightening message from Malcolm Vanhorn, an old friend of former SCU agent Ethan Thomas. Immediately, 
 pyschoes and addicts start appearing in large numbers again, killing each other as well as civilians. 
 The SCU than tracks down Ethan Thomas, brings him back and the hunt for a serial killer begins 
 once again. Throughout the game you will find TV's and radios that you can listen too to get a 
 better understanding of what is going on in the city, which is a really neat addition. As I said 
 before, the story is much better than the one in the first. Remember in the first game, there were 
 dead birds all over the place and you didn't know why? Remember in the first game, there were these 
 supernatural humanoid monsters that you learned caused all the madness, but you didn't know who 
 or what they were? Well, in Condemned 2, the answers to these questions (as well as any others 
 you may have) will be revealed.
  
  The combat system in Condemned 2 is also much better than the Condemned: CO. Along with using melee 
 weapons from the enviroment and being able to perform kicks, you can now use your fists to fight. 
 Press the RT button to have Ethan throw a punch from his right arm and press the LT button to throw 
 a punch from his left arm. You can perform combos and brutal, HARD-hitting chained attacks that 
 can often be deadly against your opponent. Melee weapons can also be thrown at your target and 
 if you use the same weapon long enough, it will eventually break. You can also perform enviromental 
 finishing moves against your enemy, such as smashing your opponent's face into a TV screen or tossing 
 your opponent off of a balcony. The use of fire-arms in Condemned 2 is also better than the first. 
 There are more weapons that you can use, you can aim down the sight this time, and you can take 
 ammo from other guns instead of just switching your empty weapon for the same gun. Also, about 
 aiming a fire-arm, Ethan's aiming will get really unsteady if he is lacking alcohol, so drinking 
 liquor makes the aiming more steadier. The gunplay is better than the one in the first Condemned, 
 but I don't really care about it, because I'd rather kill my opponent with an axe or by snapping 
 his neck. Along with all these great additions and improvements, the game has very good controls 
 and they are easy to learn too.
  
  The forensics system has recieved a BIG makeover in this awesome sequel. When investigating a crime 
 scene in Condemned 2, you will have to use your observation skills to solve the mystery of the 
 crime. You can now select which tools you want to use for investigating the scene. After investigating 
 a scene and collecting evidence, you submit your results to Rosa (your lab assisstant) and you 
 will be graded on how well you did. If you get a perfect score, you'll earn upgrades at the end 
 of the chapter. But if forensics isn't your thing, than you don't have to do them if you don't 
 want too, but than you won't get the upgrades, which you don't really need to get passed the game, 
 the upgrades are just something extra thats all.
  
  The atmosphere in Condemned 2 is very creepy and will keep you on the edge of your seat throughout 
 the whole game (especially if your playing at night with all the lights off and the volume on high) . 
 As you move through each area of the game, you'll hear every little sound, which will keep you 
 alert and making you watch your back. The music is some of the creepiest I've ever listened to, 
 right beside the music from Condemned: CO and F. E. A. R.. The darkness also adds to making the atmosphere 
 creepy. Since it's hard for you to see anything, you'll have to rely on your hearing, listening 
 carefully to every sound you hear as you move along.
  
  Though Condemned 2 is a great sequel, it does in fact have problems. One being the darkness, while 
 it does add to making the atmosphere creepy, alot of times it gets way too dark making it very 
 very difficult for me to see. Even if I turn up the brightness level on my TV it's still kinda 
 difficult for me to see. Never really played Multiplayer much, but I've played Bloodshot Fight 
 Club and both modes could use some improvements. In Bloodshot Fight Club I didn't really like the 
 fact that all the enemies were all against you. I'd like it better if they were all against each 
 other as well as you, like they were on the train tracks level. Basically what I'm saying is that 
 Bloodshot Fight Club would've been better if it was like the Commuter tracks level, where it was 
 every man for himself and there were more than 3 enemies fighting at a time. Also, the ending of 
 the story was kinda... weak...
  
  So there are problems in Condemned 2, okay so what....
  
  Remember, adding new things will always develop a new list of problems to take care of.
  
 
  Overall, Condemned 2: Bloodshot was a great sequel. Monolith tackled every problem with the first 
 and added new stuff to make it better than it's predecessor (WHICH are what game developers are 
 SUPPOSE to do when making a sequel) .
  
  If your looking for a game that scares the **** out of you BIG TIME or if your looking for a game 
 that has BRUTAL and FUN gameplay than try out Condemned 2: Bloodshot, you won't be dissappointed.
 
  
  Also, even though I said the ending was weak, it did seem to leave an opening for another sequel. 
 Please Monolith, PLEASE make a Condemned 3....
  
  Anyways, try out Condemned 2: Bloodshot, you'll have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calebkid75
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  The gameplay was amazingly crazy. I think the hand to hand combat definitely sets the level for 
 next-gen games. The survival based gameplay in a setting like this really makes for a good game, 
 also. It's a good game all around. The one thing that I didn't care for was the random trashcans 
 and wheelchairs rolling out of nowhere. It seemed everytime I turned a dark corner, something would 
 come rolling, flying, or, on certain occasions, floating. Oh, and if you are a young'n, this game 
 will seriously freak you out. I would say you're gonna have nightmares for the rest of forever. 
 But hey, get it. It's good. Just don't come crying to me when the "big bad bloodsuckin zombie man" 
 comes and eats your cat. But overall, I would definitely say that this game kicks the first Condemned 
 out of the water by 2893475624 miles. The first one was good, but this one is totally better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TravellinJack
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I consider myself a connoisseur of the horror genre, and I believe Condemned 2 to be one of the 
 best games in said genre. If you're looking for a game that can issue tense, white knuckle atmosphere 
 with sudden, brutal scares throughout, thou shalt love this game.
  From a gameplay standpoint, Condemned is a crown jewel. The game will almost constantly throw otherworldly 
 horrors at you, only to have you brutalize them with your own fists. What better way to face your 
 fears than with a nice kidney shot? The controls are smooth and responsive, and once you've mastered 
 them, cracking skulls is a lot like cracking eggs.
  Graphically, Condemned triumphs over many of the Xbox titles I've seen. Almost every texture in 
 the game is smooth and gritty. And most of the environments are suitably haunting. Most of the 
 animation is quick and believable, my only qualm would have to be the lack of power behind the 
 straight punches. 
  Although not as straightforward storywise as its predecessor, Condemned will keep you swinging 
 to the end. The purpose of the wily Ethan Thomas manages to stay confusing, but reasonably enthralling. 
 Mr. Thomas's character is at first pitiable, but this ultimately serves to motivate you toward 
 the end, to try and make you want peace for Ethan.
  The sound work in Condemned may be its most noteworthy achievement. There are few things more frightening 
 than hearing a crazed drug addict through thin walls, or frantic footsteps on the floor above. 
 Sound like this is what makes a horror game.
  All in all, Condemned 2: Bloodshot is an outstanding achievement in the first person, brawler, 
 and horror genres. Its intense single player action and notable multiplayer make it a game worth 
 the money. I can't wait for number three. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a great experience, the atmosphere, fun combat system, crazy ass hobos 
 and such just make the game great. I have scared the piss out of so many friends and i love it. 
 I laughed at the enemies swearing at you when you beat them with a lead pipe, it was pretty entertaining 
 to hear and watch. And the environmental kills or The F**K You Kills are amazing to watch, heads 
 in vices, impaling on bars and throw the SOB through a TV. The first FU Kill i made i put my arms 
 over my head and all i could say was Sweet!
  This is a great game but is definitly not for the faint of heart, if you dont like blood gore and 
 are scared easily avoid this game. The story is well put together too. You take on the hobos and 
 such as Ethan Thomas an ex forensics agent. He became an alcoholic after the events in the first 
 game. He ended up homeless and in the gutter. But his former agency picked him up and got his life 
 back up again.... sort of. They grabbed him from the gutter and told him that hes needed to save 
 the people of the city.. well whoevers not insane anyway. Combat kicks ass too. Anything that will 
 lay some hurt on the bad guys can be used from bricks to 2x4s to assault rifles the variety is 
 great. 
  The kick in the ass though is any weapons you ignore the bad guys can pick up and used upside your 
 mouth. This game definitly deserves an 8.5 Gamespot got this one right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is messed up. It really scared me. No joke. I don't get scared easy but this game got 
 under my skin. I love how you can finish off people all sorts of different ways too. And I don't 
 agree with GameSpot about the gun-play not being very good, cause I thought it was fine. And I 
 thought the multiplayer was fun too. But I do agree that there has to be a sequel, cause it really 
 left me hanging and kinda ticked me off. Oh well though, cause overall the game was great.
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  Pinguin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dhani-X
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Of all the horror games that ive played this is by far one of the best, and one of the most brutal. 
 second only to the Manhunt series, but besides the brutality of the game it also has an engaging 
 story that makes you want to keep playing through the interesting environments. It also has a sort 
 of C. S. I. minigame where you try to figure out whats going on and it rates you on how well of a 
 job you do. the game keeps giving you new enemies and locations throughout. it also does a good 
 job of keeping you interested in the game. The only bad things in the game that really stand out 
 is the hand to hand combat dosent kill enemies very quickly and it relies heavily on a parry / 
 counter system.
  
  Aside from the corny hand to hand system the combat is quite entertaining. you use anything from 
 throwing a brick to beating someone to death with a lead pipe. the game also has plenty of health 
 in all the right places so you dont really have to worry about that. there are a few annoying parts 
 where you have to turn a valve or open a lock but besides that the game is pretty straight forward. 
 In the end I would give the game an 8.5, the gameplay is so fun that the good heavily outweighs 
 the bad.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctorpalle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  i have kust wrote 5 things i hate and 5 things i love about Condemned bloodshot. 
  good
  1.
  
  the fighting, i loved everything about the fighting. Killing one with a pipe, throwing 
 another into a wall, break the arm/leg, or just kick. It is really good they evolved the fighting 
 symstem so much.
  
  2.
  
  i simply love that you can play detective on a crime-scene, find the evidence our-self, not like 
 in "Condemned: Criminal Origins" where they found the forensic tool u needed. But i feel like the 
 only time you really were a detective where in the Preston Hotel.
  
  3. 
  
  the upgrades, i think the upgrades is a cool feature, especially the weapon holster and the Little 
 dagger. The upgrades really made you search every corner on each level, search the on the crime-scenes 
 for perfect result, and of course they made you think twice before answering. Hehehe
  
  4.
  
  the TV's and radios made you feel like your were in the moment, most of the broadcasting 
 were really fun to see/ listen, some of them were actually creepy.
  
  5.
  
  the surroundings, even trough the game wasn't scary, the surroundings where, like in the school 
 and magic theater, blood on the wall, ****** writing on the walls, gave it a extra point on the 
 scare-factor. Whole metro-city was creepy 5 stars
  
  
  Bad things.
  1.
  
  the fact that Condemned Blodshot, is not scary. I think the tried really hard on making it scary, 
 but it is not scary when you are getting attacked every second, in C: CO the enemies had it most 
 in the mouth, but in Bloodshot they attack on every chance they get.
  2.
  the firearms, it was cool at first to have advanced weapons, but it is not scary when you have 
 a weapon on you all the time, but you can't drop it because you need it to kill the armed enemies, 
 when you got a weapon in C: CO you were likeYUUPII I GOT A WEAPON YEAH!!!!!!!" but in Bloodshot 
 you are like**** i got a weapon crap kill me already" the last chapters were just like the game 
 FEAR, i hate FEAR.
  3.
  the story, i was good at start, but it just went stupid, after you learned all about the oro, and 
 the last chapter were they have some special Oro devices WTF!!! I say again, it was fun until i 
 crossed the border from normal to big time bizarre!
  4.
  the visions, you knew when he was dreaming and when he didn't, when he 
  did you were prepared 
 for the worst which was not scary at all.
  
  5.
  the MP, it was not fun, waste of time, you could not live into the universe, -5 stars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 Blood shot takes place several months after the first condemned game. In the first 
 game you take the role of Ethan Thomas a S. C. U investigator (FBI) . Ethan's gives into the bottle 
 and now questions what is real and what's in his head. But when a friend from the first game goes 
 missing he's reluctantly thrust back into S. C. U. The story starts out as a true sequel to the first 
 game but the story slowly goes into a disappointing direction that leaves you asking by the end 
 of the game what the **** is this! The antagonist in the game is boring and the ending boss is 
 a joke.
  
  When first starting Bloodshot you have access to single player and multiplayer. But the farther 
 you get in the single player you unlock the fight club mode and more stages for fight club. So 
 fight club is just what it sounds like, you are through into a small area were you have access 
 to some weapons and a horde of bums come and you fight them. This is a novelty that you play once 
 or twice and then never play again. There is one stage were you can set how many guys you want 
 to fight, what type of weapons and how many guys at a time. This is only good for people looking 
 for achievements and nothing else.
  
  The game play feels very similar to the first game but that's a good thing. There are about 20 
 new weapons for you to swing and throw at enemies. But this time around Ethan can throw punches 
 and block. The fist fighting is actually Farley deep in the sense that you can pull off combos 
 as well as getting damage boosters for them. The biggest game play flaw is that, sense Ethan is 
 a drunk when he has fire arms if you haven't found a bottle of booze and drunken it his hands get 
 shaky and it's almost impossible to hit you're target. This is annoying when theirs no booze in 
 site and you only have a few shots, this is an interesting idea in theory but it's executed very 
 poorly. Another new addition is environmental kills, when you beat an enemy enough he/she will 
 get on their knees and you can grab them in a head lock and either throw them over a ledge, smash 
 their head into a TV etc. These never get old and aren't frequent enough to get dull.
  
  One of the biggest complaints from the first game was that their wasn't enough freedom in the "CSI" 
 segments. This time the game has given you limitless amount of freedom so now you have to find 
 clues you're self. This makes the segment a lot more fun to carry out because now you feel like 
 you've actually accomplished something. At the end of each mission you are rewarded with a grade 
 ranging from poor to perfect and based on all of your rating from that level you are awarded with 
 an upgrade for you character. Upgrades include gun holsters, steel toe boots and a taser.
  
  Graphically Condemned 2 looks greatthat is when theirs light. Most environments are insanely 
 dark and the question has to be asked why the **** don't I have a flashlight? But enemies look 
 crazed and environments look destroyed.
  
  One of the best parts of the Condemned games has to be the sounds. You can usually hear the enemies 
 before you see them but it's still creepy to hear a crack head rambling and not knowing wear he 
 is. The weapon effects are a sickening as ever; you can literally hear the bones of you're enemy 
 crunching after hitting him with a pipe.
  
  There is an adversarial online mode but it's hardly worth mentioning. There is death match; team 
 death match and the only worth while mode were one teams hide's severed heads and the other team 
 tries to find them and scan them. There are only a handful of maps and one team starts with guns 
 while the other team starts with melee weapons (besides the Molotov cocktail) so it feels a bit 
 unbalanced. The structure how ever is great meaning connecting to games is a breeze while finding 
 games (no matter how bad online is) is easy as pie.
  
  All in all Condemned 2 Blood Shot isn't enjoyable enough to warrant a purchase. Poor story, boring 
 multiplayer and same old mechanics don't seem to be able to save this game yet the CSI segments 
 are great and the first few levels are fun.
  
  Graphics-8.5
  Story-5
  Game play-8
  Sound-8
  RENT 7.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mognificus
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Despite being really excited about the prospect of playing this game, this is the most frustrating 
 peice of software I've ever played. Good graphics and mature stoyline with some genuinely 'swallow 
 your tongue' scares can't make up for the endlessly annoying combat and almost invincible enemies. 
 There are some interesting puzzle elements, but these too are sometimes vague. The camera seems 
 to have a life of it's own, often swerving off and confusing your viewpoint. Your varied weapons 
 seem to be about half as effective as anything employed by your enemies, and break alarmingly quickly. 
 If you're looking for guns forget it, as when you do find any you need to be able to manage one 
 shot kills every time or you soon find yourself without enough ammo, which is harder to find than 
 an honest politician. The requirement to keep drinking booze in order to keep your aim steady seems 
 to have been included purely to irritate those who claim that gaming leads our youth into evil 
 ways and is silly. Add button bashing mayhem and a gas mask that totally obscures your view and 
 the result was, for long periods, an utterly confusing, joyless experience. All hype and no substance. 
 Avoid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  In short :
  
  The Good :
  
  - The tension is there most of the time, with some chills to go down your spine
  - It's really 
 dark enough if you don't crank up the visibility to your favor
  - Not too challenging. There wasn't a single place I got stuck after figuring out what I needed 
 to do and how. 
  - Nice animations
  - Fighting seems like fighting
  - Investigating was fun and needed you to pay attention too
  - The reward system was decent. 
 Silver level is easy to get, but you have to do some work for gold.
  
  The Bad (or just not good) :
  
  - Eventually the strange plot takes a turn to even more strange, 
 eventually being more sci-fi than thriller/horror
  - Towards the end the gameplay went from hand-to-hand to gunfight, which doesn't work too well 
 in the game, since you can get most shots without the enemies moving at all, etc.
  - Sometimes you have no clue who's hitting and from where, and you get to try again from the nearest 
 quicksave (which are quite well placed, though)
  
  Gritty and violent thrill-ride through the slums and other places, fighting your way through the 
 weird stuff around you. Less spine-chilling than the first Condemned, but still a very enjoyable 
 experience with a pretty good length.
  
  
  Longer version :
  
  I can't say I really recalled the plot of the first Condemned, so I had to cheat and read some 
 from Wikipedia, so in this light it could have been a good thing to have a recap of somekind. For 
 example, while Malcolm Vanhorn's name rang a bell, I couldn't remember why.
  
  So here we are again, as Ethan Thomas, going up-close & personal with the underbelly of Metro City. 
 But things have changed, as our ex-FBI agent has become an alcoholic, who see's neat illusions 
 pretty much non-stop, one of'em being his masked alter ego. I just hoped Ethan would've sounded 
 less like young Keanu Reeves. Definetely an opportunity to make a movie here, wish they'd make 
 it happen and not just hold the rights in their safe.
  Anyway, Thomas gets a call from Vanhorn, but doesn't want to take it, eventually regretting it 
 as he needs to track him down. But something strange is going on... which isn't anything new in 
 Condemned.
  The plot takes the player through various places, including a bowling alley, school, downtown residents, 
 a doll factory and so on. Loooot of weird stuff happens in weird places, and everything you find 
 are no short of weird. Especially the few bodies you get to find, they look often very mutilated 
 and thus create a proper atmosphere for the game. That said, the gore is indeed there, but I still 
 wouldn't say it's excessive, since it's not over the top; the places you see it are most often 
 in plot-driven murder places and have some meaning to the plot.
  
  One of the enchanced things from the first Condemned is investigating on those bodies and other 
 clues. This time you get a hint of what you need, but eventually you have to come up by yourself 
 with the results. The good thing is, that if you're paying attention, you know what they are or 
 how to answer or ask the proper thing. It's also nice that on some cases there's misleading things 
 to pay attention to, so there's still a chance of making bad choices if you're just fooling around 
 with it.
  
  The choices won't stop you from progressing in the game, but they will lower your "score" which 
 is determined in the end of the mission. The score gets determined usually by how many of those 
 noisemakers you've found, how many news reports you've seen/heard and if you've completed all optional 
 things in the mission, for example.
  Getting a poor grade won't matter in completing the game, but you usually get better version of 
 the same item the better grade you get. For example, I scored a silver (bronze-silver-gold) on 
 a mission where you got a taser as a reward, which resulted me getting two shots with it before 
 the battery is depleted. I read that gold would have gotten me four shots, so supposedly bronze 
 will get you only one.
  The balance with this is also pretty good; silver is easily obtainable, but getting gold will require 
 you to keep your head up when you're walking around the levels.
  
  And then, there is the fighting. Condemned 2 uses a two-button attacking system instead of Condemned 
 (1) 's one-button, which results to you being able to make combo-attacks and possibly ending the 
 fight a bit shorter than it would be by just beating the guy to death. It works pretty well, but 
 since I have a problem with LB and LT due the lack of my left hand, it often got a bit frustrading 
 for me to fight, since over half of the melee is relying on well-timed blocks, requiring you to 
 press both triggers at the same time, timing that to proper moment. So, once again, I'd hope gamemakers 
 would make adjustable settings for buttons.
  The Thing with Condemned's generally is that there's lot to hit the people with. You got your 2x4's, 
 various pipes, wooden boards, golf clubs, prosthetic hands, cruches, wrenches, fireaxes... not to 
 mention the bricks, bowling balls and so on. Everything has pre-set values of damage, reach, speed 
 and how much beating can those take before they break, so it's relatively easy to determine what 
 you bring with you to the next room. On top of that, there's some firearms, albeit they are rare 
 for most of the game. And for a good reason, because one proper headshot, and the opponent is gone. 
 And I have to admit, after trying the FPS mode after completing the game, it is much more boring 
 that way, altough fun for a while (since the ammunition won't run out anymore on FPS mode) .
  And while the weapons are scarce, so is the ammo, so you try to preserve the precious ammunition 
 and try to get a proper shot on every bullet, which always adds some tension.
  
  The tension and chilling moments have lessened since the first Condemned, but there is still some 
 around. Sadly though, the general tone of the game flunks a bit at about 75% mark, when you SWAT-like 
 SCU-forces against you, with assault rifles. Their A. I is quite poor, and I never found myself 
 in mortal danger, even on moments when they surprised me and got half a clip free on me (they couldn't 
 hit much) , so it was a bit lackluster performance. Also, since you didn't have to care about running 
 out of ammunition on those missions, the tension lacked a bit. But then again, beating only bums 
 and whatnot's throughout the whole game would have been perhaps even more boring and I can't put 
 much complain on this, since it was a rather small portion of the game. Generally the game has 
 pretty good variety of places and foes, ranging from bit less than decent to good. On variety, 
 there's couple of "RUN FOR YOUR LIFE!" -events which I found to be quite thrilling, especially 
 the bear. You'll see what I mean...
  
  So is the game worthwhile for newcomes and people who have played the previous Condemned? Yes, 
 I'd say so, albeit the newcomes may feel a bit out of the loop for the plot, but so was I.
  
  Condemned 2 is enhanced Condemned : Criminal Origins. With updates graphics, new plot and slightly 
 changed melee engine, the game comes only a bit short of it's precessor in the elements of thrill. 
 And while the end of the game holds a bit dull and different kind of gameplay for a while, it's 
 still a solid package and an excellent experience for a player who can sit in the dark and feel 
 the Metro City around him/her. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleNicky6669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic 
 etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, 
 strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay 
 is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. 
 Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great 
 graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very 
 gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. 
 Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly 
 addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer 
 is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, 
 multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. Great 
 game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, strategetic 
 etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay is solid, 
 strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. Gameplay 
 is solid, strategetic etc. Great game, multiplayer is highly addicting. Very gory... great graphics. 
 Gameplay is solid, strategetic etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuhan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, I was quite surprised with with how much fun this game was. Often, I will refrain 
 from playing games with horror elements within them, but I could not resist. It gives an immensely 
 realistic feel to it, not only with the in-game mechanics, but how it makes you feel as though 
 you are actually there, which in retrospect makes the game even more creepy, I suppose. One of 
 the elements that I most enjoyed in this game was the ability to conduct forensic investigations, 
 in the same manner that is done in real life. It adds further to Condemned 2's realism, in my opinion.
 
  
  Another element in the game that ironically peaked my interest was the horror features. It felt 
 as though I was in a nightmare of which I could not escape. Well, unless I turn the game off ofcourse 
 lol. I think this game is very interesting, and certainly worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + Fantastic sound design
  +Freaky environments that make it hard to play alone in the house
  + Brutal melee combat
  + 
 Gore fest
  
  Cons
  - Unnecessary multiplayer
  - Little framerate drops
  
  
  NOTE: I don't like the 10 point system sites such as Gamespot use. I prefer the 5 star scale used 
 by X-Play and Giantbomb. com
  
  4/5
  
  If faced against a psychopathic meth addict would you be willing to beat him down with a riped 
 off toilet seat, or smash his face into a meat grinder? If you answered yes, then you might be 
 prepared to drop down in Monolith's latest horror entry, Condemned 2: Bloodshot. The sequel to 
 Sega's Xbox 360 launch title returns to the gritty Metro City, and engages players on a thrill 
 ride jam-packed with the intense horror, and melee combat that made Criminal Origins such a standout. 
 
  
  Bloodshot picks up several months after the events of the first game, and the city has seen better 
 days to say the least. Special agent Ethan Thomas, returns as our protagonist, but he's not the 
 same clean-cut nice FBI agent we became friends with back in 2005. In result to the events in Criminal 
 Origins, Mr. Thomas is in bad shape after leaving his job at the SCU. Now and alcoholic, Thomas 
 spends his time wondering through bars, and battling demons both imaginary, and real. Without intention, 
 Ethan Thomas is dragged back into the SCU to uncover the force chock holding the chaotic Metro 
 City. 
  
  Purposely obtuse and disorient like its predecessor, Bloodshot's gritty atmosphere is its greatest 
 strength and truly evolves both the series and genre. If you've played the first Condemned, then 
 the environments will be somewhat familiar, yet still as spooky as ever. You'll quickly discover 
 Metro City is a nasty place, trash is everywhere, is seemingly every object in site is broken and 
 rusted. Traversing you from repugnant back streets, to dark abandon apartments, to a disturbing 
 burned down doll factory, Bloodshot naturally sets you in horrific environments built for scares. 
 While obviously taken from 80's horror movies, Condemned 2 throws frights that interlace perfectly 
 in its context. I found myself searching through a medicine cabinet, then closed it to see the 
 reflection of an axe wielding enemy behind me, just one of many "scream like a six year old girl" 
 moments which keeps the momentum moving. 
  
  Like Criminal Origins, Bloodshot's combat revolves around melee. Rather than have obvious weapons 
 laying around, Condemned 2 challenges you to find them yourself. This includes ripping steam pipes 
 off walls, breaking a bed apart for a chunk of wood, or even using the environment itself to kill 
 your merciless foes. If pulverizing a psycho with a wrench doesn't tickle your fancy, then why 
 not smash his face into a T. V.? Your options for brutal fatalities are what really separates combat 
 from Criminal Origins, and this sequel. If your a squeamish person who couldn't sit through a gory 
 movie, then combat in this game is not for you, its brutal, and not for the kiddies to see. Their's 
 a specific scene that forces you to kill a psychotic woman by smashing her skull in a crushing 
 machine. Rated M for Mature. 
  
  Multiplayer does exist in Bloodshot, but it's just a distraction and doesn't belong in this type 
 of game whatsoever. The multiplayer is just deathmatch variants, and various forms of objective 
 team battles. This failed attempt at multiplayer proves melee combat doesn't work in the context 
 of player v. s. player environments. 
  
  The single player game of Condemned 2 shines as the pinnacle of videogame horror, and contains 
 some of the richest atmosphere ever seen. It's a hell of a time that any Eli Roth fan would hail 
 as a triumph. With this said, if your stomach can handle excessive amounts of violence and gore, 
 pick up a copy of Condemned 2: Bloodshot. 
  
  Steven_Beynon
  gamertag: EpicBomb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorWinters101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  The first Condemned game was very much a 'sleeper hit', even I didnt get round to playing it till 
 a lot later on (when it was priced at only 15/30$) , but I loved it more or less from begining 
 to end.
  
  Because of the enjoyment from the first game I was really looking forward to the sequel, though 
 with some speculation still in mind as many sequels have let down their fans before (Halo 2 being 
 a prime example in my experience) . After playing Condemned 2 to death (3 times through and a whole 
 heap of multiplayer) i can safely say that this sequel should not be relegated to the dissapointment 
 bin.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The updated engine is a very welcome upgrade from the original, great use of lighting and subsequently 
 the shadows (particularly useful in multiplayer, when you can actually hide out in shadows) . All 
 of the character models are well made, and all the environments really convey the feeling of a 
 city gone to the dogs. The variety of backdrops is a little on the short side, but what you expect 
 from a squallid city is all there. There are areas that have issues with framerate from what i 
 experienced, if it gets really busy on screen, expect slowdown to occur (bar multiplayer where 
 things seem to more or less always run smooth, excluding instances of lag) . Overall, Condemned 
 2 will win no awards for its graphics, but they are technically competent and convey the atmosphere 
 intended.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The mechanics of the game have not changed much from the original, something that I personally 
 was very pleased about because that was something that made the original so great. The biggest 
 change of course is with the melee combat system, where we now have a left and right combination 
 combined with chain combos. All of which work really well and make the player feel far more involved 
 in the combat than the original swing and block. Collision detection is also really impressive, 
 for example if you hit an enemy in the shoulder with a firearm or melee weapon he will reel backwards 
 clutching the appropriate area. Also if you smack someone hard enough in the head they really are 
 going to feel it. The discoverables are also fun, especially the antennas.... though the whole Sonic 
 Emitter thing is a kinda far fetched idea. Forensics is another area were great improvements have 
 been made, you are no longer 'spoon fed' everything you have to do, and you do on some occassions 
 have to use your own noggin to work out what the right response is to what you see.
  
  Story:
  
  Definately the weak point of the game, in the begining there dosnt even seem to really 
 be a story... except that you are now a drunk and very disturbed Ethan Thomas. As a story starts 
 to appear, it slots very much into the old conspiracy theories, and then comes to a completely 
 bizarre ending. The worlds violent episodes are caused by an organisation that makes people go 
 barmy through sonic devices? sure.... i guess.
  
  Sound:
  
  Not much to really say here, apart from the sound very much does it job. When you hit someone with 
 an object it makes the right sounds, there isnt much of a soundtrack to comment on, and there isnt 
 much in the way of shocks that will come from any sort of audio source.
  
  Longevity:
  
  The singleplayer will probably only take a couple of leisurely playing days to complete, it 
 is longer than some of the current offerings (Army of Two, Call of Duty 4) but it isnt going to 
 be something you will be playing for a few weeks to come (like i did with Bioshock and Lost Odyssey) . 
 The Multiplayer of course adds to its replayability, and so does FPS mode (which is suprisingly 
 enjoyable) .
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Ok so Condemned 2 isnt a game that i would have even expected to see Multiplayer in, especially 
 as the first certainly didnt lend itself to the idea. However, i was actually suprised at how enjoyable 
 it can be. The standard modes of deathmatch and team deathmatch are even fun to play, especially 
 when you embroil yourself in a 6 way fist fight and then someone comes and steals everyones kills 
 with a shovel. The original modes, Bum Rush and Crime Scene are novel.... but arent actually as 
 much original as youd hope. Bum Rush just pits two SCU agents against a group of "Bums" that do 
 their best to chip away at the agents health before being one-shotted. Crime Scene is very much 
 like a CTF mode where the flags can be moved. Overall though, multiplayer has been for me a suprisingly 
 good feature.
  
  Overall:
  
  Condemned 2 breaks no boundaries, makes no dramatic leaps forward in its genre or in its franchise, 
 but that is partly what makes it so fun to play. It has stuck to what made the original the hit 
 it was, and has made subtle tweaks that (mostly) make for an improved experience. The originals 
 sense of shock and awe is lost as things take a far more fantastical edge in this outting, but 
 this should not put you off from stepping back into the shoes of Ethan Thomas and taking out more 
 trash with your faithful lead pipes and 2x4's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JEHUTY-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Personally I never got chance to play on the first, so I cannot judge it as a sequel but for what 
 it is. And that's probably the best horror on the 360 to date.
  
  The setting's do excellent jobs of keeping you on your toes. alot of the time with only a torch 
 light to guide your way you can never relax. Things scurry past or echo in the distance, definate 
 feeling of suspense which is what you play these games for, you never know whats round the next 
 corner.
  
  Fighting in this game is brutal, and most of it will be done with blunt objects such as pipes, 
 bats and all sorts of exotic instruments you find along the way. You really feel as though your 
 slugging it out with these guys, they give it as well as they take it and you need to keep on your 
 toes.
  
  Obviously no game is without its fault and the story only took me around 10-15 hours or so to complete 
 but it does have online capabilities that are there to be taken advantage of. Also the story may 
 be a little vague, but you'll soon forget about that when your caving someones head in with a hammer.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was with out a doubt, one of the most underrated launch games for the 360, it was creepy, 
 intense, and unique. The problem with the sequel is that it lacks that certain something that was 
 found in the original. This may be because the sequel just makes good on the original and isn't 
 that different thus not leaving a big imprint. 
  
  Anyways... you once again play as (now ex) FBI agent Ethan Thomas who is now an angry drunk alcoholic. 
 The game starts 11 months after the original and the FBI is out looking for Vanhorn, Ethan's "friend" 
 from the first game. As you go through the game, more or less the same stuff crazy stuff from the 
 first story pops up but the problem is they explain things WAY too much. The first game never told 
 you why everyone was going crazy and attacking you, but within five minutes Bloodshot tells you 
 that it's just some thing on the wall... really? Come on, was something more creative that hard 
 to come up with? Hell, an explanation wasn't even needed. The story gets even more cliched and 
 with out giving too much away I'll just tell you to watch the Zero Punctuation review of the game.
 
  
  Gameplay wise, not much has changed here either. Its hit, back up, hit, block, hit again. They've 
 added a combo system that really doesn't amount to much, a environmental kill system which just 
 has you drag enemies to certain spots, and chain attacks which are cool, but not that impressive. 
 The core formula has had a few things added but the fighting just is more or less the same. Other 
 elements changed are investigation which no longer holds your hand through the whole experience, 
 you must actually investigate things. On top of that, guns are more prominent in this game which 
 is not really needed due to there not being a good aiming system to begin with. 
  
  I was excited to hear tat Bloodshot had a online component, but found that it was more or less 
 forgettable. In most of the modes it just boils down to you and someone else hitting each other 
 and it can get a bit dull from match to match. There really isn't much to be had here.
  
  Visually, the game looks great... I think. Its just so dark... you can't really see much. Other 
 than that you can tell that the game is a high step over the original. Another technical aspect 
 is the sound which will leave you on edge at all times.
  
  Overall Bloodshot is a good game, but it is definitely doesn't leave as much as an impact as the 
 last one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 bloodshot has some really stunning visuals and some great gameplay now those two don't 
 always come together but in this game they go hand in hand i don't this game would be as fun if 
 it didn't look so good at the same time. I gave this game a 9.5 because visuals are great gameplay 
 is great but sometimes the game is a little to hard for its own good but over all you get over 
 it and also bear with me i put it on hard so that's another reason. But to be true although the 
 game is gruesome and a little creepy it's not all that scary but that doesn't make it any less 
 spooky to play around with the hand to hand is fun to use and with all the combos and everything 
 it's fun not having a weapon sometimes UNLESS you have more than one enemy on you then i becomes 
 tedious and hard to time so you find yourself running away to find a weapon which isn't normally 
 that hard to find. I think it's a masterpiece in a sense that it's an amazing game with really 
 great graphics and fun gameplay. But i guess the only problem is that it gets a little hard to 
 find where to go sometimes and that the enemies can take a bit to take down. Also its realistic 
 that your weapons break after awhile but it gets annoying when you find something great and it 
 either runs out of ammo (if you haven't gotten the holster yet) or it breaks and it warns you before 
 it breaks but it makes the situations much more tense but over all its a great game and i can see 
 myself playing it for a long time and i recommend it to anyone who likes either the series or the 
 genre altogether i think its fun to play and anyone who wants to i say go get it ^_^ or at least 
 rent it ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  having played the first game and never really enjoying it, i was pleasantly suprised when myself 
 and bag liz ended up playing this to completion. I actually rented this title because i wasnt expecting 
 much, but me and lizzie got totally engrossed in the story. the graphics are fantastic, and on 
 more than one occasion liz filled her kegs with the scares that come along the way. the hallucination 
 scenes were a little confusing at times as me and liz just wanted to get back to doing the foresics 
 and bashing sum trogs head in with a 2x4. the forensics part of the game was really enjoyable, 
 searching for clues and doing your best to get the correct answers. jips delight all the way for 
 sum pant spoling fun. skidders galore. so if you enjoy a few shocks along with solving some crimes 
 while your girlfriend cacks herself next to you, then as captain birds eye would say - TUCK IN 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is the sequel to the reasonably popular Condemned: Criminal Origins, the 
 first condemned was widely acknowledged as a game that took melee combat to a new level and scared 
 the living senses out of most people, and this does exactly that. You reprise your role as Ethan 
 Thomas a former SCU agent, but after the first game life for Ethan Thomas has gone downhill, so 
 downhill he relies on alchohol, alot of alchohol.
  
  The storyline in the first game was confusing and hard to follow (especially at the end) but this 
 time around the story is extremely straight forward and easy to follow which is really a relief. 
 The only downside is the game begins to feel a bit lackluster the further in you get which lets 
 down the game quite a bit.
  
  But Condemned is'nt about the story its about the awesome melee combat which returns better than 
 ever in this game. It adds environmental grapples which are extremely refreshing to watch at first 
 and the brutal combos certainly help. Watching blood and sweat flying across the screen is very 
 satisfying to think that its you who are doing this. Whether you choose a toilet seat or a bowling 
 bowl, each unique melee weapon is just as good as the last. The only thing i have to complain about 
 the combat is the over use of firearms, and even a first person shooter mode which is nothing compared 
 to the melee combat.
  
  Just like the first Condemned Condemned 2 is bone chillingly scary and highly reccomend playing 
 in the dark if you are a fan of the horror genre or if you just want the best experience from the 
 game that you can get. The graphics are great and to an extent quite artistic, which helps the 
 gloomy atmosphere of the game. The framerate holds up quite well with it only dropping a few times 
 during the more action packed sequences.
  
  The forensics sections of the game has been vastly improved. In the first Condemned it was simply 
 the task of pushing a button to extract the clue you need, but, in Condemned 2 its more challenging, 
 you actually have to use your head to figure some of the game out which makes the game a lot more 
 immersive than the previous game. The sound (which is great by the way) also helps you immerse 
 yourself into the game.
  
  There is also an extra mode after the game which is called 'Fight Club', which is just small missions 
 that you can compare your progress in these with other people on online leader boards. The multiplayer 
 in the game is no way great. It consists of an 8 player death match which justs doesn't work in 
 my opinion. A slightly better multilplayer mode is 'Crime Scene', you pretty much play as a crazy 
 guy and have to stop the SCU from getting a box with a head in it.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a great game that features excellent melee combat with a wide range of 
 weapons available to the player. The graphics are crisp and the framerate hold up well except for 
 in the more hectic fight scenes. The sound is brilliant as is the ne forensics system that helps 
 you get yourself more involved with the game. Condemned 2 only lets itself down by becoming lackluster 
 as the the game draws out and possibly a bit to much gunfire for a game that has outstanding melee 
 combat.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty: 
  5.0
  So Easy........... Hard Mode Is Like Normal On Any Other Game..........
  
  Length: 
  7.0
 
  Quite Long Game But Extremely Repetative And Boring In The Middle Of The Game.............
  
  Map Design: 
  4.0
  Amazingly Annoying It Is Boring Dark And Extremely Frustrating When 
 You Get Lost.............
  
  Story:
  4.5
  Terrible It Is Confusing It Explains Nothing And It Gives More Questions Than Answers.........
 
  
  Graphics:
  5.0
  Hard To Tell Since I Couldnt See Anything In The Frustratingly Dark Enviroments and The Bad Frame 
 Rate So I Have Given It An Even 5.........
  
  A. I
  4.5
  This Is Supposed To Be Next Gen MY GOD the A. I is sooo terrible you can just make the enemies follow 
 you to a point where they cannot travel anymore and throw things at them while they are standing 
 there lifelessly waiting to die!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  7.0
  Better Than The First And The Only Good Thing About This Game!!!!!!
  
  Multiplayer:
  5.0
 
  Not Fun At All Its Just Madness With Crowbars!!!!!
  And Noobs Running Around With The Assault Rifle!!!!!
  
  Overall:
  6.0
  Dissapointing
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 follows hot on the heels of the original Condemned. You play disgraced Serial Crimes 
 Unit (SCU) detective Ethan Thomas who has become an alcoholic since losing his job and coming to 
 terms with the terrible events of the first game. This time around Malcolm Vanhorn, Thomas' mentor 
 from the previous title, has gone missing and SCU have brought you back in to follow the trail. 
 Along the way the story becomes much more "supernatural" than in the original game and the scares 
 come thick and fast.
  
  Condemned 2's visuals are designed for one purpose, to keep you constantly on the edge of your 
 seat. You'll explore an abandoned hotel, a junk barge and a mountain top lodge amongst various 
 other dark and dank locations. Like the first game you are almost constantly in the dark, except 
 for a story based section half way through in the SCU HQ. Considering that you don't see much, 
 the visual quality is very high. The character and environment models seem more detailed than the 
 first game and what lighting there is is executed very well.
  
  In many ways, the sound design in Condemned 2 is more import than the visual fidelity. Because 
 the game is so dark you find yourself listening to any sort of sound to try and predict what's 
 around the next terrifying corner. Playing in 5.1 surround or wearing headphones is definitely 
 recommended if you want the full visceral experience.
  
  The single-player game plays very similarly to the first game. The level design is mostly very 
 linear and the bulk of gameplay comes from the combat, rather than exploring the environments. 
 At the most basic level of combat you have melee weapons taken from the environment (like pipes, 
 bars and bricks) and firearms. The new addition to combat comes from the ability to fight with 
 your fists. Each fist is assigned to a trigger button and combos can be created by adding in kicks 
 by pressing in the right stick. This sounds great, but the weakness of these moves in combat means 
 you won't use them much.
  
  Other additions to the single-player include much more detailed forensic investigations. Rather 
 than simply picking up items of evidence like in the first game, you must now search them out using 
 3 different forensic tools. Once found you must choose exactly what to send back to the SCU lab. 
 Depending on the quality of evidence you send back to the lab you will learn more about the case 
 in hand and therefore gain a greater understanding of the story.
  
  Of course, you can't talk about the single-player in Condemned without talking about how frightening 
 it is. Compared to the original game, Condemned 2 is much scarier. I found myself jumping out of 
 my seat every few minutes at least and I can only remember jumping once or twice during the first 
 game. It's much creepier than the first game because of some of the new supernatural elements to 
 the story.
  
  The single-player game is also given extra life by the achievements which encourage you to play 
 through again to achieve gold rankings on all the levels and beat the game on the hardest difficulty. 
 Also, once you've finished the game you unlock "FPS Mode." This gives you a firearm on each level 
 and unlimited ammo to play with. This makes a second play-through great fun because you very rarely 
 have guns the first time through and when you do you are limited to what little ammunition is in 
 the weapon when you find it.
  
  Finally, there's the online multiplayer. And quite frankly, it doesn't work well at all. There's 
 the usual deathmatch type game-modes and also one which involves police searching for evidence 
 while the other team (as bums and addicts) attempt to hide it. Where the online fails is in the 
 nature of the game. Melee combat in first person (or any other genre) is dependent on very little 
 lag in order to make the timing of blocks and combos fair. The slightest amount of lag online ruins 
 Condemned in multiplayer, so it's very difficult to find a match worth taking part in.
  
  Overall, Condemned 2 boasts a unique, visceral single-player experience and is one of the few genuinely 
 scary horror games being made in this generation. On the other hand, the online is almost completely 
 pointless and it certainly isn't for those who scare easy. If you're a fan of the first game though, 
 its definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatesy917
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Brilliant. Condemned: Criminal Origins was the first great game on the Xbox 360 and Condemned 2 
 has held that title with Condemned 2: Bloodshot, it is one the greatest games you can ever play!
 
  
  The Single player is the only reason you need to purchase this game, taking nothing away from the 
 great feel of the first game and a brilliantly updated game!
  
  Graphics are superb hand to hand combat is something truly epic and the new action of EPA [Enviormental 
 Pwnage Area] were you can use the enviorment to kill you opponents, the first time this happened 
 I was like WTF? and suddenly ive throw this guy through a TV! Wicked!!!
  
  You continue the roll of Ethan Thomas [Now a Bum] who has more reason to get nasty and beat the 
 crap out of those P**S heads!
  
  Online mode is pretty blank apart from Crime Scene were you have to be a policeman and gather evidence 
 and the other players [The Influenced] have to protect the evidence by any means nesceracry [ or 
 however u spell it]
  
  ANY STOP READING THIS AND BUY CONDEMNED 1 & 2 PEACE OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Single Player -- The single player is outstanding and so far in 2008 is second to none. The gameplay, 
 which takes the standard FPS formula and adds hand to hand combat and hand held weapons (bats, 
 gumball machines, bowling balls, swords, axes, etc) , is very well done. There are still guns in 
 the game but if you have a choice between shooting someone or beating them down with a foosball 
 bar (with the guys still attached) then what are you going to pick? Using atmosphere, dim lighting, 
 strange noises and a gruesome assortment of bad guys, the game does a fine job of totally immersing 
 the player into the game. 
  The story picks up a little while after the events of the first game but even if you haven't played 
 the first game the story isn't too deep that you would be lost. So far I am pleased with the story. 
 There are a few things in the story that could have been more fleshed out but the spectacular gameplay 
 more than makes up for it. 
  Multiplayer -- I have only tried this out once and the lag was so bad that it made it almost impossible 
 to play. I guess there were a couple of almost lag free games and those were a bit of fun but at 
 the time those were hard to come by. There are 3 or 4 modes with Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and 
 a couple of other modes thrown in for diversity. I couldn't find a mode that had guns added but 
 that was just me. It could have been right in front of my face. I will definitely try this again 
 to see if the lag is any better now that the game has been out for a while.
  Overall -- The game deserves a high score strictly because the single player experience is that 
 good. Even though the multiplayer has some bugs, namely lag, the single player more than makes 
 up for it. Without the lag though the multiplayer portion could be a fun diversion when you have 
 played one too many games of COD4 or RB6: V2. This game is a definite buy in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shame-usBlackley
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 isn't a fitting successor to one of the scariest games ever made. Nor is it a competent 
 shooter, even though it wants to be at times. 
  
  It's not all bad. It's just not very good, either. The fighting system is actually deeper and more 
 fleshed-out than the first game, as are the forensic tools. Fighting is much more fun in this new 
 game, even though it feels like you can hit people from about five feet further away than you would 
 in real life. The forensic events are much more interesting and varied, and actually require some 
 thought and attention on the player's behalf. Also, the graphics are pretty well done, a noticeable 
 step up from the first game's visuals.
  
  That's where the positive comparisons end, though. The story is bland at first, and veers on awful 
 at the end. Condemned's feet seemed firmly trenched in reality, while Condemned 2 veers off on 
 the tangential. The last boss encounter looks like it was ripped straight from the game Prey environment-wise, 
 and while the first game seemed like a videogame version of Seven, the sequel feels like a Trent 
 Reznor video directed by Mel Brooks.
  
  But where Condemned 2 really falls short is in the scares department. The first game doled out 
 heartstoppers seemingly at every turn, while Condemned 2's scares are few and far between. Players 
 will likely miss memorable locations like the cabin and the mall from the first game. Condemned 
 2 also blatantly apes a level from Bioshock as well, which, contrary to popular opinion, is not 
 a good thing. 
  
  There's also a ho-hum multiplayer component thrown in the game like a piece of meat for wild dogs. 
 Why a game like this even needed online multiplayer is beyond me, but here it is, in all it's milquetoast 
 glory. The game would've benefitted from more single-play polish and less of this garbage (which, 
 if you want the achievements in, you better play fast, because no one will play this a second longer 
 than they need to) . 
  
  Everything generally works as it should in Condemned 2, it's just that it isn't as powerfully evocative 
 as the original. It doesn't match its predecessor from a horror standpoint and it's certainly not 
 a very good shooter, which means it's just sort of average. 
  
  Much like Ethan's whiskey, this game is watered-down, and the results are disappointing. A rental 
 at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Get this game now! This is for your own good!
  Why?!
  Because
  it 
  is 
  one
  of 
  those
  sequels that makes you say "WOW!" 
  
  Condemned 2 IS a lot better than the 
 original. 
  What's new? There are loads of new stuff to check out in this game like:
  - The new combat system and new hand to hand combat!
  - Button smashing (Woo hoo!!) 
  - Loads 
 of new weapons (more firearm than the original!)
  - The ultimate thing ever = Multiplayer!
  - And lots more 
  
  The graphics have improved but not hugely improved, BUT it's nice to see 
 some now destructible environment now.
  So what's really changed that may change the way you play - 
  - ZOMBIES! (well not literally) 
 but they look like and attack like them :D
  - Aiming with your firearm more accurately than ever!
  - Throwing weapons!
  - Slow motion attacks
 
  - Physically brilliant (better physics)
  - Counter-attacks and parrying!!
  - More realistic = better gaming 
  
  Good/Bad:
  Outstanding visual graphics/ But frame rate 
 does get a bit shakey
  Darker lighting/ But sometimes hard to see
  Gameplay improved/ But firearm makes you feel overpowered
  Fantastic level designs
  Multiplayer/ 
 But lag does occur sometimes and Crime scene is the only mode that's actually good and fun
  
  Get the game because it's damn worth it. 
  Don't miss out -
  Think for yourself not reviews. 
 
  Have a nice day - 
  We will see condemned 3 in 2010 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  I will going straight forward to describe this game. 
  Graphically, many of the slight issues I had with the title have been cleared up. Everything continues 
 to maintain a dripping wet or bloody moist look, which adds to the creepiness. Additionally, faces 
 are quite realistic, even when they're meant to be grotesque people-like forms. Even better than 
 just appreciating the nasty nature of all that's going on here, gamers will love that there are 
 basically no loading times inside the game itself. And I didn't notice lock-ups in periods of intense 
 action.
  Lighting is much better than on most of the jump-out-and-scare-you games. Not only can you carry 
 around a flashlight, but also you can seriously adjust the darkness, if your TV gets to look too 
 much like pitch.
  Sound is also phenomenal. Music and outstanding background noise creates a subtle haunting atmosphere 
 that permeates each desolate locationand enhances the fear factor.
  The combo system and the bloody finishing movesincluding environmental killsare all I got to 
 experience in the first level, and I was already hooked. The game then puts some ranged weaponsshotgun, 
 pistols, submachine guns, etcin your hands, and it continues to be a devastatingly good time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh... horror games... so awesome. I am a HUGE fan of horror games. Games like, silent hill, silent 
 hill 4, fatal frame and ff2, eternal darkness: sanity's reqeuim, and the suffering. My favorite 
 games are in the horror genre: 1. Eternal Darkness (all time favorite) 2. CONDEMNED 2.
  
  Pros: I was scared. That is hard to do. I love my horror movies, and I don't get scared by them. 
 This game downright scared me. The lighting is so realistic, and it was hard to see what was in 
 front of me. The music is erie, the fighting is hard (which makes it more realistic and fun) , the 
 enemies can really pop out of nowhere, the enemies spawns are at the perfect times (ie. look into 
 a mirror, and a crazed pig mask wearing crackhead will pop out at you to great you with a hammer 
 to the head) , the overall puzzles and gameplay were fantastic and I thought added to the suspensful 
 and difficult game style, the crime scene investigations are awesome as that they make you really 
 examine and really decide for yourself how you think they died, the images and random scenes of 
 horror and dissapearance are just mind boggling, the doll factory was the scariest level ever produced 
 in a game, enemy AI great, animation and movements are smooth, the multiplayer Crime Scene is so 
 fun especially if your the infected as you can hide and scare someone like a haunted house (except 
 with violence, killing, and weapons) , numerous amount of weapons.
  
  Cons: Only complaint is the voice acting.
  
  Overall: if your a fan of condemned 2, buy it. 
 If your new to the serious, Buy it. however this game is extremely violent, gory, and frightening. 
 So play it in the dark ;) . Have fun kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  -Great graphics, very nice looking game.
  -Melee combat is great for what it is.
  -Creepy and unrivaled atmosphere.
  -Those mannequins are still intimidating.
  
  Cons
  -Multiplayer 
 really had no thought.
  -The story is confusing.
  
  You play as Ethan Thomas, a ruthless drunk in the sequel who isn't going to be messed with. You 
 ready your pipe for more bum-bashing action. The story continues the first one, albeit in a more 
 confusing approach. The game, even from the onset, you can tell is very atmospheric and relies 
 heavily on the ability to take you out of your usual setting. This means you'll never know what 
 to expect, when a door will open with a naked bum, when a powerful bum will crash through the wall, 
 or when you'll find a gruesome murder. The melee combat is straightforward, triggers control each 
 hand, both triggers control a parry, combine triggers with an analog stick to uppercut or kick 
 an enemy. You can kill enemies within your environment, or repeat the same buttons of a combo to 
 utterly destroy your opponent by cracking his neck, breaking his leg, or just punching him hard.
 
  
  As far as your combat goes, you're not just limited to melee with fists. You can pick up a variety 
 of weapons from your environment, even a couple guns (which are mostly scarce) , combined with the 
 aforementioned combos. When you're done with single player, multiplayer offers up the average. 
 Deathmatch and the like, a "CTF" of sorts where you scan evidence but the enemies can move it, 
 or even a SCU greatly outmatched to Influence, but SCU is powerful mode. So really it's all the 
 same, gets tiring fast, and with the combat being the same, there's a lot of "back up, try to parry, 
 go in for a swing, get parried, die."
  
  The achievements will take about a week to get if you work hard. The game itself is very polished, 
 and since I've never played the first one (just a demo) , it was awesome to experience this game 
 for myself.
  
  Difficulty: Just Right; nothing really stands out as frustrating.
  
  Time Spent Playing: 10 to 20 Hours, got a bit more single-player to go, but I've played more than 
 enough to know what I'm reviewing.
  
  Classification: Immersive, nothing strikes you harder than being in a dark room with only a flashlight 
 and a pipe, unknowing where danger will strike from.
  
  My Score: 8.5, a great sequel that maybe could have used a couple more additions, and limited firepower 
 moreso. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak4Blade
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Have to say just after one hour I was very bored, yes it looks brutal and all that, but your weapon 
 lasts about 10 hits, you cant carry more than 5 or so bullets, it is way to dark full of linear 
 corridors, all the doors are locked apart from the one you have to go through. All and all dont 
 spend money on this game if you have to rent it first and make sure it's the free one you get before 
 going any further. I played the game before this one and was just as dissapointed, i got this one 
 believing it will be improved and all that but noooo sadly its not so. So in a nut shell 
  Dont judge this game by its cover cause it look far better than what it really gives. Some people 
 have compared this to bioshock and the like, please dont believe that tripe, All you end up doing 
 is walkin trying to crack a guys skull open with a 2by4, pipes, someones artificial leg or elictric 
 conduet, no sorry guy's its lame, its also a shame that gamespot gave this such a high rating as 
 I do almost always go on here first before going down to the rental or game store to buy or rent 
 and was caught out badly this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfandango
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  I never played the first game but I got this game as a rental due to the grousome cover synopsis... 
 To be honest, I'm glad I didn't buy it as after only a few hours I'm bored!
  
  I've been a fan of first person shooters for years but the trend of style over content can't compete 
 against classic gameplay and I wonder why they bother to release bland games like this.
  
  Initially I thought the atmosphere and weird cratures attacking me were quite appealing but the 
 linear gameplay and shallow plot lost me pretty quick.
  
  The combat is fairly tough but incredibly gory and sometimes you just get hurt for no reason or 
 can't see the thing attacking you. Also the weapons don't last long enough and you can only carry 
 five bullets for your gun (where's my pockets?!)
  
  The investigation/forensic elements are a nice idea but not strong enough and the dark corridors 
 are just annoying.
  
  This game is only a few steps away from a linear rail shooter but if you like to switch off your 
 brain and mash buttons in a spooky world, go for it. Otherwise I'd compare it to a puny child of 
 Max Payne & Half Life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game blows my mind. The fighting is the realest I've ever seen and the characters make scared 
 faces sometimes when you are swinging at them. Makes you feel like your really messing someone 
 up. The gameplay is really good to. Pretty much everything like that is done nicely. The graphics 
 are stunning during cut scenes the characters facial expression are some of the most realistic 
 I've ever seen. There are many details that you don't really think about until they are done really 
 well. Even the way you walk feels real you can look down and see your feet and legs and when you 
 do other things like climbing ladders and such you see a really realistic view of yourself. My 
 two favorite game genres are first person shooters and survival horror. So being a perfect mix 
 of the two I fell in love with this game it's the most brutal game ever!!! You nee to play this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammytza
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  what the hell is wrong with just making a good shooter. why do we keep striving to come up with 
 new barriers to breach??
  how about we bleed THIS gaming era dry before we go on to the next.
  and what the hell is it 
 with not being able to hold more ammo than what's in the gun???????????????
  what..... no pockets????????
  
  and another thing.... BUTTON MASHERS SUCK!!!!!!!!!
  that's 
 why i have a 360, because ..... BUTTON MASHERS SUCK!!!!!!!!!
  
  and who out there is the m. r. n who compared it to bio shock.
  
  here's a structure to go by 
 from now on, if you can point and shoot or point and cave in a scull AND carry 200 extra ammo AND 
 your aluminum baseball bat doesn't defy physics and fall to pieces after you hit a few bad guys, 
 it a good friggin game.
  
  there's a reason why "doom" was so good. alot a guns, alot a bullets, and no realism whats so ever.
 
  my work here is done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  
  [The Good]
  
  - Unique   This game plays like... hmmm... the 
 first game and it still works well. It's really odd that no one has followed the visceral, heart-pounding 
 emotional experience that it has.
  
  - Melee fighting   No one does it better but there should have been some extra training for the 
 more complex combos.
  
  - New enemies   The one in the lodge was pretty cool, nuff said.
  
  - Investigation   Much more elaborate than the first game, the optional questions and more 
 tools. The next game should add a more refined RPG element to the game such as upgrading weapons 
 and armor, that would be a big plus.
  
  - Story   It was ok, first game was better though, not enough mystery and your quest is not so 
 clear and specific as the first, but overall not bad.
  
  - Radios/TVs   Not a bad idea to go look for stuff that gives you extra info/news instead of just 
 collecting birds.
  
  - The Mask   Without spoiling anything, it's a nice add-in.
  
  
  [The Bad]
  
 
  - Multiplayer   Not needed, why even bother? Put all that effort in the single player to make 
 it better instead, add those RPG elements.
  
  - Achievements   Really bad, i'd rather look for those birds and metal pieces guys, come on! There 
 should be some for beating levels or bosses and drop those multiplayer achievements, COD4 got it 
 so right, everyone should learn from them. Monolith needs an achievements consultant!
  
  - Variety   I might be asking too much but even though there were extra weapons, new enemies and 
 new environment, there was no major new feature that would have made the game a significant step 
 ahead of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cocomaan
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The sophomoric sequel to a brilliant game fails to live up to its hype. While I found its predecessor 
 to be engrossing, Bloodshot simply was too scattered. As if the developers couldn't decide which 
 direction to go in, half the game sees Ethan Thomas holding an assault rifle, while the other half 
 is distracted by the strangely difficult fist-fighting-system.
  
  While the plot is quite original, and compelling enough to see through to the end of the game, 
 the voice acting and script this time around pale in comparison to the last game. Some of the lines 
 uttered by main characters are just cringe-worthy. The villain form the last game is brought back 
 only tangentially, for no good reason, and the new characters introduced are only alive long enough 
 to get killed. The overarching plot has its merits, but you'll find that the beginning of the game, 
 going through the slums and fighting hand to hand, far outweighs the endgame, which is frustratingly 
 hard. In fact, I can't even tell you where I was by the end of the game, because it ceased to make 
 sense. Thus, you don't really care about the plot, but instead try desperately to finish the game. 
 
  
  The combat, while potentially intensive, ends up feeling much more trial and error - you will inexplicably 
 die, and there's nothing you can do about it. The fact that the developers allowed you to reload 
 with full health tells you that they were fully aware of the difficulty of the game. 
  
  Many of the scripted sequences, which are also potentially brilliant, are thus broken up by the 
 not-so-obvious solutions to the chases you participate in. One, involving a large mammal, is memorable, 
 but I ended up dying at least a dozen times before figuring out the solution (turn around and push 
 the cabinet, FYI) . 
  
  I've been playing games for awhile, so its rare I find controls I can't handle after a little learning. 
 However, I never truly felt I was completely in control of my character. I don't think the devs 
 meant this to be the case, but there it is.
  
  Overall, I have to say I was disappointed. I bought into the hype surrounding this game, but I'm 
 going to go back and return it, and put my money elsewhere. I will probably be renting Condemned 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIIEurekaIII
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Not to say the game isn't scary its more eerie than scary, the first 2 levels will be the ones 
 the frighten you, after that it doesn't hold a candle to the first game.
                                                             
  This game does do a few things better 
 than the first; Forensics are improved;
  melee combat is improved although the combo system is more annoying than helpful. There is also 
 about 10 guns in the game from .38 Revolvers to Shotguns and Assault Rifles. The games fun but 
 lacks on the multiplayer, everything in Multiplayer is fine except for team deathmatches; you will 
 rarely get a kill, Crime scene is fun, deathmatch is a blast, and Bum Rush really utilizes team 
 work.
                                                             
  Overall the Game is great but not as scary as the first.
  If you like horror survival this is 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafimuhd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  CREDITS TO 
  SWISSDAG
  
  "While the melee gameplay is fun, the story itself actually seems to lack, and it's not as scary 
 as it's hyped up to be."
  
  Go at it alone your second play through. Try playing it without 6 of your friends watching. Just 
 you, the TV, your surround sound on blast and the contrast way down. Wipe your mouth, change your 
 underwear and come back and write another review imo. Monolith has done it again. This game is 
 definitely NOT for kids yet old people will say it is too violent for kids which it is as if video 
 games are just for kids anymore but they still seem to think so. This game makes the fact that 
 videogames are for adults as well even more apparent. Go and grab your copy before Congress finds 
 out about it and gets it banned and yes, they WILL try once they hear about this game. The Hotel 
 stage and the SCU stages are by far the creepiest levels in the game. (Warning) Until "Dead Space" 
 comes out, this will be reigning champ as scariest game. This game is VERY disturbing. Scariest 
 game of all-time probably. VERY DISTURBING!!! 
  CREDITS TO 
  SWISSDAG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  What defines horror anymore  monsters surprising people by jumping out of shadows and closets, 
 or blood and guts with generous amounts of graphic violence? Games like Condemned 2: Bloodshot 
 understand the most effective form of horror is a combination of the two, possessing the ability 
 to both frighten and offend its players. Doesn't sound like your idea of a good time? Well, Bloodshot 
 certainly doesn't forget the true purpose of a video game: to entertain.
  
  The fact that a video game can even claim to be legitimately scary deserves merit. Technology has 
 advanced to a point where realistic shadows and lighting are possible, allowing Monolith's sadistic 
 visions for the game to come to fruition. Bloodshot clearly borrows inspiration from Hollywood 
 for its scare tactics. It offers just as much, if not more, visual gruesomeness and other-worldly 
 paranoia as any Saw or Ring film.
  
  Therein lies the beauty of video games as a medium for delivering horror experiences like Condemned 
 2: the player is in control. The player looks through the eyes of someone in this demented world. 
 The player must find the courage to progress forward. Whereas those who watch horror films remain 
 detached from the experience, games like Bloodshot offer a greater level of intimacy.
  
  Things aren't as nerve-wracking as they sound, though. Players will be fighting back against the 
 horrors as Ethan Thomas, a former forensics expert turned homeless alcoholic that finds himself 
 helping out the SCU informally to solve a murder mystery. Unsurprisingly, things are not as simple 
 as they appear. And I'll leave it at that, to avoid spoiling the experience.
  
  Most of the gameplay in Bloodshot consists of the player beating up other things with fists and 
 blunt objects in first-person. To deter the temptation for players to mindlessly swing at whatever 
 approaches them, enemies retaliate faster than Ethan can throw a second attack. Blocking and parrying 
 is crucial to survival from start to finish, with thankfully generous timing windows for both techniques. 
 Thankfully, the act of bludgeoning the psychotic bums is satisfying enough that the general creepiness 
 and horror won't discourage players from coming back to finish the game.
  
  Ethan gets a gun every now and then (seems odd that the SCU can't bother to equip him with even 
 a handgun, but whatever) , but the melee weapons are true stars of the show. Their sheer variety 
 provides some moments of brutal satisfaction and even comic relief, and they're lying all over 
 the place. Lead pipes, rebar, 2x4s with nails, fire axes, electric conduits, bricks, bowling balls, 
 bedposts, paper cutters, baseball bats the list goes on. Really, what's not to love about fighting 
 off deranged psychos in a museum full of medieval weapons just ripe for the picking?
  
  Controlling Ethan can be somewhat troublesome, unfortunately. He can run, but not backwards, making 
 it difficult to get out of an enemy's way before he strikes. The aiming sensitivity and turning 
 speed also take some getting used to.
  
  Forensics tools (camera, UV light, etc.) were a minor consequence to the gameplay of the original 
 Condemned, but the sequel requires more critical thinking on the part of the player. Other characters 
 will, at some points, ask you to describe your surroundings or recall past events to the best of 
 your ability. Characters' names, story details, and visual clues are all fair game. By the end, 
 you'll probably wish the game had told you "Pay attention  there's a quiz on this later."
  
  For some reason, Monolith thought placing optional collectible items around the levels would 
 be a good idea. Players shouldn't have to detour off the linear path that the developers intended 
 in order to collect a few things for completion's sake. The feeling of "I need to survive this 
 hellish nightmare and get the hell out of here," contradicts the feeling "I better take a few minutes 
 to find that hidden item first," yet the game encourages both.
  
  Bloodshot does offer online multiplayer modes, but the game's up-close melee nature makes the standard 
 deathmatch affairs fairly pointless and boring. Crime Scene, on the other hand, is raucous and 
 sadistic fun  a dangerous game of hide-and-go-seek where the shadows are dark enough to conceal 
 other players, making cold, calculating surprise attacks the name of the game. A surprisingly worthwhile 
 addition overall.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot earns its M rating with flying colors; it's a true test of intestinal fortitude. 
 Not in its difficulty, necessarily, but in its explicit gore and brutality. Those with the necessary 
 stomachs and desensitization towards violence will find Bloodshot an excellent and rewarding experience 
 from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcondemned
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  1: Criminal Origins (a. k. a CO can't be bothered to write both words every tyme.. :P ) came out (officialy) 
 on November the 16th of 2005! At that time period I was occupied with F. E. A. R so I would judge 
 every game based on FEAR's graphics. That was a mistake (cuz u dont judge a game based on the graphics 
 only on the 1st place...!) . CO's graphics might not be as FEAR's but they let u get in the spirit 
 of the underground, and dirty pavements and streets where nobody steps in unless if he wants to 
 get r*ed, beaten, and killed! Therefore, the essense of being that detective who was trying to 
 prove him self innocent while catching the SKX (the "bad guy of the story") , was liturally transfered 
 to the gamer efficiantly! So and Bloodshot now tried to do the same thing! They actually took some 
 steps closer to reality.. (by taking away the DNA scanner and all those fancy gadgets u used to 
 carry on CO.. they left u only a camera, a black light (a. k. a UV light) , and a devise for detecting 
 sonic emmiters (bonus objectives that need to be destroyed) . Bloodshot tried to land on more realistic 
 level! When you'll be facing a dead body you will have to report, as correctly as your knowledge 
 lets you, back to the police station, based on your experiense and sometimes on your UV light! 
 In CO you used to have all the fancy looking gadgets pointing (liturally pointing out) the piece 
 you have to collect!
  Also Bloodshot has a more vast of selection of melee weapons that you can choose! And ranged weapons 
 as well! There are also secret stuff that you unlock with every mini objective you complete (and 
 get an overall rating and get what you deserve..) . And the character looks cooler too! His more 
 buffy he's got the cool lookin' bear, the cow licked like hair, the bandages on your arm, etc.. 
 While in CO u look fat and ugly! BUT! Bloodshot is an XBOX360 game, while CO is an XBOX game.. 
 Bad thing about Bloodshot is that the game might have landed on realistic levels when it comes 
 to the detectivi.. ic part.. but there are plenty of UNrealistic stuff and people in the game! (people 
 made out of slime, alcohol demons, Coperfield's, Giant robots, Creepy no mouth people.. Oh! u even 
 get a superpower! Common..! A superpower..! What is this? the birth of superman? That superpower 
 thing really let me down.. I mean it is cool using it but not in Condemned..! Anyway! they are 
 both great games.. but I think that this is one of those times that I gotta go with the sequel 
 instead of it's leader..! So I go with Bloodshot! Although, the story is a contineu from the first 
 game (Condemned: Criminal Origins) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  I'm always aware of sequels and how they aim to make things bigger, better and more clever. Does 
 the new Condenmed do this over the original? Well yes and no. I'll leave the best part about this 
 game until the end and tell you now that the only down fall it has is in its single player campaign 
 and its longevity. I personally found it to be half the size of the original and whilst it holds 
 extras to make you (or attempt to make you) go through the game again and find everything and do 
 the optional objectives, the story just isn't compelling enough to make you. The story isn't as 
 mysterious as the first Condenmed and seems to try too hard to fit into a movie structure introducing 
 a more supernatural vibe taking away some of the more realistic serial-killerness of the first. 
 Whilst this is no bad thing, it's just short and could've been stretched out a bit more with further 
 depth to surrounding characters and a half arsed conclusion.
  
  As one can see though, the game looks great and runs very nicely with almost no sign of slow down 
 and glitches. Some filters of noise and motion blur can be overly used in spots and the contrast 
 is increased in areas making hard to see what's going on, even when your torch is on. Sound is 
 tremendous and possibly the scariest aspect about the game.
  
  The most enjoyable part of the gameplay is the taking of evidence in my opinion. It's so much more 
 interesting than the typical fps of shooting and killing although very linear. Melee combat is 
 more polished than using guns but still great in terms of variety of weaponry. However it hasn't 
 changed greatly from the first game.
  
  The most impressive aspect of Condemned 2, for me, is just how animated the protagonist is and 
 you the player feel from his movements and interaction with the environment and characters. The 
 bobbing up and down whilst walking or running, the climbing up some debris to get to a higher level, 
 the overall speed that it takes you is so much more realistic than any other fps I've played in 
 recent years that it actually got to be a bit disorientating.
  
  Overall it's an enjoyable experience, just not compelling enough to warrant another play even with 
 it being rather short. Buy it if you've not played the first one, rent it if you have or just buy 
 the first again lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Condemned 2, I practically shat myself fourteen times. I loved the first game, 
 and while I acknowledged its many flaws, it was one of the most frightening and personally terrifying 
 survival horror games I had ever had the fortune of experiencing. What was key to this terrifying 
 atmosphere was the knowledge that reality wasn't static, and at any moment you might fall into 
 a terrifying hallucination sequence, many of which were incorporated into the gameplay in a way 
 that felt as natural as terrifying schizophrenic hallucinations can feel. There was no real explanation, 
 just more and more questions, and that level of storytelling through not giving any real answers 
 is, in my opinion, one of the best routes to go with survival horror. By leaving the rationality 
 of it all to the players imagination, the possibilities can be as dark as the player's mind is.
 
  
  ( (some spoilers follow.) )
  
  This is where Condemned 2 fails. The hallucinations are still there, but they take the form of 
 a black covered world vaguely reminiscent of Silent Hill's otherworld, where a joker faced 'alcohol 
 demon' torments you. It seems a bit convoluted and silly. Furthermore, the hallucination sequences 
 are nowhere near as natural or terrifying as they were in the first, this time seeming forced and 
 out of place. The plot is explained far too much, and the last fifth of the game is entirely too 
 sci-fi for a survival horror, seeming more like the game decided to entirely depart from the previous 
 effort and start channeling F. E. A. R. and Half Life 2. 
  
  What made Condemned such a great game was, you didn't know what was going on, it was just urban 
 decay. Hell, for all you knew, everybody was going nuts, just like you. No explanation, and that's 
 what made it so creepy. But in Bloodshot, they force the plot in an unpleasantly campy direction, 
 and give entirely too much form to the relatively formless masterpiece Condemned was. By limiting 
 the hallucinations and overdefining the plot with bad sci-fi, it felt like seeing the Matrix Reloaded 
 after watching the Matrix. Too much fantasy, not enough believability was what killed the creepy.
 
  
  Still, that's not to say the game isn't scary. It's terrifying. It's a great game, with a number 
 of flaws. But what it does get right is done spot on.
  
  The plot for the first part of the game is rather well done, despite my complaints, featuring our 
 once sane and functional protagonist Ethan Thomas. He's now gone entirely down the drain, and is 
 a violent, psychotic alcoholic. In the first sequence he beats a guy into a pulp because of a random 
 hallucination. He's a worn down alcoholic who looks more like one of the hobos you end up fighting 
 than an ex cop. Still, he's got his edge, and more so. Living on the streets for that long means 
 he's gotten better at fighting, and that's definitely obvious. Where in the last game, Ethan was 
 a fair fighter, in this game, he's a killing machine. The fighting system, while occasionally overly 
 complicated, is amazingly badass. You can throw weapons, do environmental kills, break bones, and 
 do any number of horrible things to those who get in your way. The only bad part about the combat 
 is the weapons seem to degrade a bit too quickly. Sure, a brick will eventually shatter if smashed 
 against someone's head enough times, but some of the weapons seemed a tad bit too frail. Another 
 thing that they did very well, that I was sad to see wasn't used more, was the CSI aspect. In this, 
 while inspecting a scene, you are asked a series of questions pertaining to how the victim died, 
 what happened, etc. It's much more detailed and analytical than the first, and adds some cool puzzles. 
 
  
  Another thing I felt was done very well the early atmosphere. While not so much a hallucinatory 
 trip to WTFsville, the feeling that the city has gone to ultraviolent hell is very real. You wade 
 your way through riots, have to deal with psychotic looters in a museum, and even make your way 
 through a meth house full of crazed junkies. Happytown, this is not. The eerie dream sequences, 
 while frustrating and very difficult to see in, (think Doom 3 level darkness) , are fairly interesting 
 and unnerving, but still seem a bit forced and overdone. The key to the terror of Condemned 1 were 
 scenes that left you screaming, "Oh my god, did you just see that? I could have sworn I just saw 
 a shadowy thing run by..." and the like. Condemned 2 has fully immersive hallucinatory environments, 
 but by doing so it ruins some of the terror by making it less fleeting and more boring.
  
  The graphics are a definite improvement, which was good. There are also a good number of skins, 
 enough so that you rarely see the same enemy twice, and even if you do, you're too busy fighting 
 them off to get a good look at them. The music is also improved, having an melancholy violin solo 
 that occasionally strikes up at appropriate times, and the sound is beautiful. 
  
  Where this game shines the most, I feel, is the combat. While somewhat complicated as I said earlier, 
 it feels real. It's intense, unnerving, and brutally horrific. It feels real, and it's not something 
 that you want to do too much of, as it tends to be fairly deadly. Thankfully there is the option 
 of self recharging health to some extent, but it only moves up to the nearest health bar.
  
  Another thing that I felt was a welcome addition was the end level achievements. If you did 
 well enough on a level, you got an item, and the better you did, the better the item. A bronze 
 medal would give you a tazer with one batter, a silver one with two batteries, and a gold one with 
 three batteries, stuff like that. That way it rewarded good gameplay and investigation, while not 
 seeming silly and petty.
  
  Where this game ultimately fails is the final fifth of the game, which seems like it's out of some 
 strange science fiction. You fight trash golems on a boat with a magnet crane. You end up fighting 
 against cultist marines with assault rifles in what seems like a scene from F. E. A. R. You end up 
 on a tower that looks like it's out of Half Life 2, and you find a room that looks like Silent 
 Hill meets the GlaDOS chamber. It feels convoluted, forced, and overall very silly, and sadly ruined 
 the game for me on a lot of levels. They tried to push the story a bit too hard, and ended up failing. 
 What made Condemned 1 so amazing was the excellent storytelling through minimalistic story exposition 
 and confusion. Condemned 2 failed on that miserably. The one redeeming factor is the reappearance 
 of a horrifically scarred Serial Killer X, the extremely nasty murderer from the first game who 
 shot himself in the face/you shot in the face at the end of the game, depending on how you played 
 it. He is much more terrifying this time around, and sadly, the game goes on to explore the cult 
 instead of focusing on SKX, whose antic have gone from horrifically disturbing to appalling war 
 crimes against the homeless. In a particularly memorable scene, you discover his lair, and find 
 a half dozen homeless people attached to torture devices, and those you are able to free only go 
 on to attack you in their horrifically disturbed state. That was good, and very creepy, but sadly 
 SKX wasn't used more.
  
  Even so, I'm hesitant to say I didn't like the game. I had an immense amount of fun playing it, 
 and it was good to go back to that world, even if it didn't feel the same. There will always be 
 a soft spot in my heart for the hobo beat-fest that is Condemned. And all in all, it's a great 
 game. It just wasn't the first game, and if you go in expecting more of the same, you're bound 
 to be disappointed. Still, the combat rocks, the graphics are really improved, and it has some 
 genuinely scary scenes, and ultimately, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWesker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 takes place a few months after the first game. Ethan has gone into an alcoholic rage 
 depression where he has no friends and works for no one. Demons are haunting Ethan, real and figuratively. 
 Ethan has become so much of an alcoholic that he can't even hold his gun steady unless he downs 
 a bottle. Yes, this is a part of gameplay and it's an interesting effect for sure.
  
  Whether Ethan wants it or not, he is back in the main storyline finding an old friend. Van Horn 
 from the first game is missing. Condemned 2 is a survival horror game, so it should be seen as 
 no surprise that things get insane quickly. Before you know it, you are fighting all kinds of supernatural 
 beings. The confusing story of the first game is not present here, as there is a cutscene before 
 every mission displaying what you needed to know.
  
  The gameplay of Condemned 2 has been largely improved over the first Condemned title. It still 
 focuses heavily on melee combat, but adds variety to make it one of the better melee systems out 
 there. You now have combos and environmental moves at your disposal. Smashing your opponents head 
 through a TV never gets old. They have also added quicktime events. This all culminates into a 
 huge jump from the first game almost making it preferable over traditional first-person shooters.
 
  
  Although the melee combat is exceptional in Condemned 2, it's also its weak point. Often times, 
 I found myself in a gunplay situation without ammo and without a bottle of alcohol. This resulted 
 in many deaths and frustration. It shouldn't be this difficult to shoot in a first person shooter. 
 The melee combat is where it's at, and I wish the developers would have just left it at that. Beating 
 enemies with anything from a toilet seat to a wooden plank to a sword never gets old. Almost everything 
 is fair game, although not everything can be used which can lead to a few confusing moments.
  
  Forensics played a small part in the original Condemned game, but play a larger role in Condemned 
 2. The investigations are more than just pointing your cursor at something and learning about it. 
 The game takes a more active role by letting the player choose the outcome of the situation. The 
 player won't have to watch a season or two of CSI to understand what's going on, but they will 
 be graded on the outcome. The game will display a question and list a few answers, it's as simple 
 as that. It's certainly an interesting game mechanic that adds quite a bit of immersion to the 
 game.
  
  Although immersion is here in bunches, there are a few things that bog it down. The framerate hitches 
 up a few times and the physics can be troublesome in a few areas. Occasionally, I would find an 
 object randomly floating in the air and a box that shouldn't take more than a swift punch to move 
 but to no avail. It's something that is a bit annoying but doesn't take away from the experience 
 to the point where it's unplayable.
  
  There are a few things preserved from the first game that are welcome. The artistic direction is 
 still here in all its grittiness. Monolith has a good idea as to what should come from a horror 
 game, and it shows. Often times I found my heart racing not knowing what to expect as I explore 
 an abandoned bowling alley or running from a rabid bear in a gigantic lodge. It's all very frightening 
 and not for the faint of heart for sure. Something else done right in the first game were the graphics 
 and they're improved in the sequel. Everything is beautifully repulsive and nice to look at. It 
 compliments just how far high definition development has come in the past two years.
  
  Although Condemned has some extra features, they are not as pleasing as the single player experience. 
 There is a Bloodshot Fight Club mode that is just as ridiculous as it sounds. All it consists of 
 is fighting a few enemies mindlessly and hoping to rank up on the online leaderboards. It's not 
 very interesting but can be fun to fans who just can't get enough of Condemned.
  
  There's also an 8-player online mode that is barely worth mentioning. I know that a first person 
 melee online game sounds like a lot of fun, but I assure you it is not. Even though there is four 
 modes, the only one worthwhile is Crime Scene. It pits some psychos versus some SCU agents that 
 are trying to locate a head in a box. It's nothing more than that and shows that not a lot of time 
 was put into multiplayer.
  
  Condemned 2 is a great single player game. If all you're looking for is more Condemned, then you 
 got it in large doses. It adds some excellent new melee features that makes it significantly better 
 than the first game. Although I had a very fun time with the single player campaign, the game is 
 only about 8-10 hours long and the extras are barely worth mentioning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swisdwag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  "While the melee gameplay is fun, the story itself actually seems to lack, and it's not as scary 
 as it's hyped up to be."
  
  Go at it alone your second play through. Try playing it without 6 of your friends watching. Just 
 you, the TV, your surround sound on blast and the contrast way down. Wipe your mouth, change your 
 underwear and come back and write another review imo. Monolith has done it again. This game is 
 definitely NOT for kids yet old people will say it is too violent for kids which it is as if video 
 games are just for kids anymore but they still seem to think so. This game makes the fact that 
 videogames are for adults as well even more apparent. Go and grab your copy before Congress finds 
 out about it and gets it banned and yes, they WILL try once they hear about this game. The Hotel 
 stage and the SCU stages are by far the creepiest levels in the game. (Warning) Until "Dead Space" 
 comes out, this will be reigning champ as scariest game. This game is VERY disturbing. Scariest 
 game of all-time probably. VERY DISTURBING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  i played it's CON1 1.5 years ago and enjoyed it so much; i did not notice any bad or disapointing 
 content on it; that one week was the best week for me because there was no match for this game that 
 days;
  now the second is the best these days and i finish it 2 weeks ago but i did not write the review 
 because i must choose that i like gamespot or not, but finaly i mention myself that it has something 
 that the others has not; (justice)
  the game start and finish on a level; a high one; make regular content so mystery to you and hunt 
 you with huge story and perfect graphic; when you must see a calm and refresh scene, you see the 
 blood and flash; the game that is for nights and non-lighted rooms; fix itself with your eyes and 
 make them follow the things that they not see them; the air is full of noises that make rat loose 
 thier tails and make you to play with your lips; the walls are alive and corpses are not solid; the 
 places are all modern but they have the feeling of the ancient ones; the whole story is around one 
 thing: who are you and what are you doing here?;
  the good way of telling a story is show the major thing and make the player imagin and explore 
 the details in own mind;
  this game is one of them;
  only when you finish it, you notice that you have done it one week; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my first stabs at an X360 game and I loved it! Very greusome and fun, the game is 
 violent and scary and a blast to play. But when you have to fork out $60 for a game for the xbox360 
 it can be dissappointing when the game is over with so shortly.
  
  I beat the game in just 2 days, took around 8-10 hours or so to have the game done and through 
 with, which is dissappointing when it costs $60 to buy. I would suggest this as a rental ONLY for 
 that fact that you can rent it and finish it in a short period of time. 
  
  Graphics are killer and enjoyable and very lifelike. I would prefer a third person perspective 
 style of game like Resident Evil 4, as I tend to get a little motion sick when I play first person 
 shooter games from moving aorund so much. 
  
  I would suggest playing this game if you like horror games but suggest renting it as you can complete 
 it fast enough to fell better for spending $8 for a rental instead of $60 to buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICE01dead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2, where to begin? I haven't had the chance to play the first one so with some inside 
 scoop I was up to date on this story. So your Ethan Thomas and it has been a year since you were 
 on a serial killers case. Obviously it hasn't stop hunting you though.
  
  The gameplay on this game suprised me for a survival horror, with an awesome combat scheme this 
 game actually lays a solid B + on combat. Movement and other gameplay is awesome. Chills fill your 
 back as you step into darker corners and a murderous crime scene. The forscenic tools made me feel 
 like I was on CSI kind of. I give this part an A. 
  
  The sound can also give you the hebee jebees as crack heads run around sounding like beavis and 
 butthead. The visuals can make you jump as you don't always know what to expect.
  
  Not suprising this game does not carry a strong enough multiplayer, but it is worth trying out 
 the addictive "Crime Scene" which pits the influenced against the SCU in a hide n seek Condemned 
 way. 
  
  Overall I wouldn't mind throwing the money to play this or its orginal and I recommend playing 
 it if you like Saw and CSI mixed together. Also don't forget to turn the lights of for the full 
 experince! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  At long last, fans of the first Condemned and newcomers shall rejoice. Condemned 2: Bloodshot is 
 hell of a ride. This game manages to fix and improve upon every aspect of the last game. Firstly, 
 the fighting mechanics has improved dramatically enabling you to beat the hell out of the bad guys 
 with deadly combos and devastating finishing moves. Most of the moves are fun to watch like shoving 
 a bum's face into a wall of glass and watching him scream with shards of tiny glass stuck to his 
 face. You can execute this combos with ease and once you get use to it, you will find that the 
 controls works fluidly. The graphics and voice acting is great, bringing you into a dark and gruesome 
 world of Condemned, shadows are rendered smoothly there is no problem with the frame rates, spooky 
 sound effects will make you jump. Character models looks great and look REAL. The story is a twist 
 and once you dive in, you will be hooked because you are not only playing for the action, but you 
 are also waiting for the plot to turn and to find out whats going to happen next. You also have 
 the chance of performing certain Forensics tasks where the game makes you think about your decisions 
 and your detective distinct will come into play. As you explore the world of Condemned, you will 
 come across many crime scenes and blood trails which will keep you entertained. Overall, a fine 
 game - not for everyone of course. Well done Monolith. Now that I am done, I'll be happy to say 
 that Condemned 3 is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Ex-Agent Ethan Thomas had one hell of a trip in his first video game outing and what Condemned 
 2: Bloodshot attempts to do is up the ante. For most part it does this successfully but it messes 
 up the original's formula along the way. So instead of exceeding the original it ends up pretty 
 much its equal.
  
  Boy does Ethan look like he's fallen on some hard times. All is not bad for him though. When he 
 was an uptight agent, he looked like he was in his mid forties, in Bloodshot; Mr. Thomas looks 
 like an early thirty year old bum. The change in voice really wasn't noticeable to me; it was just 
 the change in looks. Maybe I'm mistaken but I don't think so.
  
  Speaking of voices, the person that voices Ethan makes the only flaw in the sound department. Sometimes 
 his lines are delivered way too dramatic to the point where I thought in my head that he really 
 needs to calm down, he's flipping out over nothing. At one point, Ethan is getting questioned and 
 the replies were damn near yells. I didn't see the need for the hostility; a frustrated voice would 
 have worked a lot better. Serial Killer X's performance easily stole the show in both voice acting 
 and plot wise.
  
  The story of Bloodshot answers certain questions about this and the previous game such as who the 
 freaky bondage guy at the end of the first one was, and why these bums were going crazy. However, 
 that's not to say everything is good in this story. I'd say the last quarter of the game jumps 
 off into the deep end of absurdity. The story for the most part is a good one but it's just the 
 one part that just made me think "What the hell were they thinking?"
  
  Another thing that I disliked about Bloodshot is that it seems guns take a front seat in the action 
 while melee weapons hop in the back. In Criminal Origins, guns were almost like holiday fruitcake, 
 they were nice ideas but weren't that good. In the sequel they are bountiful and powerful meaning 
 that, unless you like to bash heads in, for the most part you'll be upgrading that toilet seat 
 for a shotgun.
  
  Those are the negatives and they're out of the way. Let me start off the positive by saying that 
 they are many more variations in enemies and the glossiness of the characters is gone. Overall, 
 everything in the graphics department has been improved. The different foes, while they may not 
 behave that different from one another, are a welcome addition. Lighting plays a significant role 
 once again and the locales are as dingy and run down as ever.
  
  The crime scene investigations are vastly improved and more emphasis is placed on perception this 
 time around. The gadgets unfortunately are utilized less this time around though. Overall, Condemned 
 2 does a good job of keeping things varied whether it's from the melee to firearms changes, the 
 quick time events from a foes assault or the investigations themselves.
  
  Another improvement is that the developers seemed to have made Bloodshot much more visceral and 
 melee combat much more satisfying. Ethan can now perform combos, and environmental kills along 
 with good old fashioned bludgeoning. I would like to have seen weapon specific finishers or at 
 least weapon specific power combos but I guess they can throw that in Condemned 3.
  
  In closing, Condemned is a mixed bag. Ethan's character is much improved but his voice and look 
 is confusing. The story answered some serious questions but got seriously goofy at the end. The 
 combat improved in everyway except now there's less emphasis put on melee and more on firearms. 
 For every step forward, the game takes about an equal step backwards and I can't say with much 
 certainty that it's better than the original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Condemned 2 in magazines and over the internet i thought it looked like it had 
 a game that had taken a lot of risks.
  I thought it was going to be one of those games that was going to be either fantastic or terrible.
 
  The new combat system looked cool but i wasn't sure how it was going to turn out. The online play 
 i thought was a huge risk but then again if done well it could be great.
  And i was afraid that the more first person shooter parts of the game could suck seeing that condemned 
 clearly shines in it's first person beat em up genre.
  But what i did feel was a great improvement was it looks like they've upped the terrors in this 
 game. I think they've realized that the first condemned game was really scary and in my opinion 
 the scariest game ever but in the first game the horror could have gone a whole lot further they 
 could have really pushed it but the game was concentrated on its high tech police equipment part 
 of the game, but now they're scaring you to a whole new level.
  When i pre-ordered the game it was another huge risk because this game could have been rated from 
 6.5/10 or 8.5/10 and I'm glad it was rated 8.5 (thank god i didn't buy Jericho) .
  When i started playing the game it was great!
  The combat system couldn't have worked better, 
 it didn't move too far away without still being a condemned game and it was just as scary as i 
 expected. For people who loved the first game your definitely going to love this one and even for 
 people who have never played the first one you can easily get into it and this new game is much 
 better than the first.
  It was violent, bloodthirsty and gory and i love to see that in a game.
  Like the first game 
 the story is creepy and awesome and leaves many things open which makes you want to keep playing 
 to find out. In the end you do not find out everything but the game leaves it open for another 
 sequel which will probably reveal everything so the whole leaving it open thing doesn't worry me.
 
  There were plenty of cool moves you could pull off with the new combat system and that was a major 
 success to the game play.
  Throughout the game creepy things keep happening e. g skinny evil things flinging off the wall into 
 your face and running into a room with a mirror and having some horrible thing leap onto you and 
 rapidly hit you. These things in the game i loved. Graphics have greatly improved from the first 
 game and voice acting is brilliant. Ethan's character is now cooler and completely nuts
  and adds the game whole bad-ass feel.
  And yes the game does have outstanding visual design which 
 would make it compete with the fantastic Bioshock.
  I loved the sounds in this game like the noise the dolls made in the doll factory was creepy and 
 the evil carnival music playing in the magic theater was again creepy.
  I didn't find this game particularly hard nor did i find it easy some parts however were frustrating 
 in the way you'd be left not knowing what to do and you'd be walking around for ages and then realize 
 that the exit of the room was a huge hole in the roof, this happened a number of times in the game 
 and it was annoying.
  The online multi player however was ok, it was occasionally glitchy and a bit ordinary but still 
 worth playing a couple of times. I would highly suggest not just playing the ordinary brawl and 
 playing the cops and junkies games like the hide the evidence if your a junkie and find it if your 
 a cop those kind of games are actually quite fun and worth playing a number of times.
  I also noticed a number of glitches in the game but it wasn't enough to actually ruin the game 
 in any way at all.
  I see in Condemned 2 they have improved on the saving system now as well, you don't have to go 
 back as far every time you die now and that was really great. But it was true about the gun play 
 parts where far behind in awesomeness compared to the rest of the game.
  The crime scene stuff has improved now giving you more freedom and and system rating you on how 
 you went at the end.
  I liked to see some of that Crash Bandicoot style of running away from horrific carnivorous bears 
 or giant sworded monster men or huge metal plated monster men that was cool. And in Condemned tradition 
 enemies look even more horrific.
  Actually i didn't really find Condemned 2 short at all and I'm not saying it was long just i think 
 its average for a game nowadays and it has some great replay value and it will take you a while 
 to master everything in this game because it is fairly challenging. It took me about a week to 
 complete and i try my hardest not to rush games i really try to enjoy them and get the full experience.
 
  Overall i think Condemned 2 bloodshot is an excellent game and definitely worth picking up if 
 you think you can handle a large amount of horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinyTizz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  I rate games on their single player campaign's and not so much on the game's multi-player. There 
 are very few games that are even worth mentioning for their multiplayer aspect so I have decided 
 to to try to concentrate on the core of the game! This game I found a little challenging and that 
 is VERY GOOD! I had a ton of fun learning the first game and this one does not disappoint! Not 
 since Resident Evil has there been a satisfying horrifying game such as this! Most of the game 
 is melee combat and in your face scares! There is gun play, but this games mechanics are based 
 around the melle aspect. This will of course cause some people to not enjoy the game. I personaly 
 get bored with games that have you fire uncountable amounts of ammo and allow you to stand far 
 away and unload on target's! This game WILL challenge you even on the normal difficulty. If you 
 like to play with your nerves on end... this game is for you!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Holy dung! This is a game that really takes a whole new look on FPS and gaming all together.... 
 Hard not to like this one, the learning curve is a bit longer then I like and it takes a couple 
 hours getting use to, and even more longer if, like me, you didn't play the first one..... But 
 once you catch on this game really delivers. The melee is like nothing I have seen and its more 
 satisfying to beat folks over the head with a lead pipe then shooting a gun.... Never thought I'd 
 say that. But this game focuses alot on hand to hand combat and the ability to actually kick from 
 FP point of view is refreshing as well. But besides the great melee this game has a CSI factor 
 to it, that at first I thought would be a kill joy but in reality it is actually pulled off real 
 well, unlike other games that try this PUZZLE ELEMENT but fall flat on there face. 
  
  The Story is well brought together and there is plenty to learn as you go through the game. Its 
 one spooky tale and the backdrop to this story is highloghted by the GREAT visuals this game offers.... The 
 framerate is not the best and it deffinatly "jumps" at times but for the most part you get use 
 to this and its just a minor flaw..... But the graphics look just as good as BIOSHOCK...... With 
 the dark overcast feel of it all.....
  
  All and all the single player game of CONDEMNED 2 is sweet but might not be for everyone, its different 
 that is foresure, but for me this was one of the better games I've come across in a long time.... Its 
 a very risky move to put this kind of game together but I think you'll be glad someone took it.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwoSaints52
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Yes, children, I mean what I say. So many moments in this game had me shouting those fateful words, 
 non-acronym. Whether it was a scripted scene, or just some raving lunatic hopping out from behind 
 a trash can and beating my head in with one of the various and interesting tools provided for head 
 beating, This game will rip you a new one. 
  
  While I wish it was longer, it delivered what it was supposed to. The element of suspense was one 
 of the greatest assets this game had. Sometimes the parts where you weren't being assaulted by 
 a grumpy homeless guy were far more nerve-wracking because you didn't know when some one was going 
 to step out of the shadows, run up behind you, or do something equally as creepy. The dark atmosphere 
 and the occasional strange noises won't help you stay calm.
  
  The investigation part of the game was nice, but not frequently enough. It made you rely on your 
 intelligence and observation skills, by deliberately placing red herrings to throw you off track. 
 Not all of these were convincing enough to do so, as long as you passed third grade, but it was 
 definitely a fun addition. 
  
  Another great element was the story. The first game was pretty confusing at parts. You heard bits 
 and pieces about a cult, and knew Ethan Thomas was somehow tied into it. The second game kept you 
 in the dark for a portion, dropping you little tidbits of "What you should know", and them brought 
 it to a close beautifully. 
  
  Best way to play this game is with a big tv, and surround sound, with the back two speakers positioned 
 behind you, and of course, in the dark. It's a scream.
  
  If you like games that really mess with you, this is your ticket.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efielret
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Grab whatever you can find and start swinging! (Not literally.. Put that 2x4 down..) This kind 
 of game is not my favorite kind but it's now one of my favorites. If you played Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins. There is a great probability you will absolutely love this game. If you didn't.. You'll 
 still love this game.
  
  The Story: "My name is Ethan Thomas.. I am an alcoholic." You are an ex Serial Crime Unit agent. 
 Eleven months can do horrible things to a guy solving sick crimes like these. But a bit different 
 from the first game you are now completely insane at least, we all know that's better. A strange 
 thing has been effecting people from Metro City, causing them to go insane. (Like you but less 
 deadly.)
  Now.. How do we usually stop things in games? That's correct, we kill it.
  
  Multi-Player: We have some fun game modes to play in this game. Like most games with multi-player 
 options there are Death Match and Team Death Match. But those weren't that fun here, so we have... 
 Bum Rush and Crime Scenes. Bum Rush pits a group of bums player controlled vs SCU agents with guns.. 
 The idea is for the SCU agents to survive through the time limit. Crime Scene. One group of people 
 in this case the bums (or killers.. Whatever they wish to be called.) has 2 boxed with head in 
 them and they must hide them from SCU until the time has ended.
  
  Weapons: Ranging from the very toilet seat you're on to a shotgun. (I really hope you're not on 
 toilet while reading this..) There are very deadly melee weapons bed posts, toilet seats, crowbars, 
 fire axes, ect. ect. But not that many ranged weapons but it's not something that makes this game 
 bad. It makes it better.
  
  I haven't played many horror games but this one is the best I have played.
  
  Graphics: Everything 
 seems well done here, gritty areas, very dark atmosphere. Character models do look a bit odd when 
 you think of it, but it's done great. I can't say anything bad here.
  
  Sound: Perfect but the guns sound a little too clean.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 9/10
 
  Scenery: 10/10
  Story: 7/10
  Controls: 9/10
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Multi-player: 6/10
  Length: 9/10
  Replay Value: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmoney2587
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot stays with the same element from the 1st condemned but adds alot more in 
 new and better ways. I like the fact that the weapons in the game have increased alot , although 
 it would have been nice to pick up anything and use it as a weapon. The story mode is very good, 
 and has a more whole side than the 1st condemned which at times the story mode didnt seem to make 
 since. C2 completes this in which all 11 levels where spooky, and couple would make you jump in 
 fear. There were more firearms in this game but played too much of a role, taking away the key 
 element (street style combat) from the game. C2 adds Bllodshot Fight Club, which is great but will 
 get very lame after awhile. The multiplayer adds to the replay value of this game (which is moderately 
 high) , although some of the MP game types are mediocre. Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a game to buy, 
 and enjoy for months, thats why i give it an 8.5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Scary is a sweet spot somewhere between seeing too little and seeing too much that very few 'survival 
 horror' games actually find. Silent Hill 2 did during the infamous Pyramid Head voyeur scene. Fatal 
 Frame 2 found it as well, and is probably the most frightening game I have even played. Condemned 
 2 never does, instead becoming the video game equivalent of Hostel: interactive torture porn, and 
 the bums being crushed between electrified metal bed frames aren't the only ones feeling the pain. 
 The player gets his fare share as well. 
  
  Condemned 2 is the first game I have every played that has managed to go too far. The environments 
 and sounds are the most immersive since Bioshock, but more then a few are so unpleasant that I 
 could not wait for them to be over. I have no problem with blood in games. On the contrary, when 
 used appropriately it can be the perfect frosting on a nicely violent cake, but injuries and torture 
 rendered this sadistically and with as much realism is more then a little to far. If Condemned 
 2 had Rockstar on the cover instead of Monolith and Sega it would have never come out. When the 
 game isn't trying to find out what the player had for dinner it does manage to pull off a few good 
 scares, but never enough to justify seeing a man whose chest had been torn open and throat removed 
 in un-glorious high definition detail, or popping a bums head in a press. It's just too much.
 
  
  Staying true to its intent, the game is actually at its best when it is most focused on showing 
 somebody's insides on the outside. The investigation sections from the first Condemned are back 
 and are much more interesting. The player is asked to look at a crime scene and actually do some 
 investigating. Imagine: critical thinking in a video game; amazing. As disturbing as they are they 
 work very, very well and there are not nearly enough of them, presumably because poor Ethan (the 
 main character) is no longer a cop but a drunken bum who suffers from alcohol withdrawal shakiness 
 whenever he tries to fire a gun. Never fear, there are bottles of Jaegermeister scattered about 
 that will steady his aim. Having never been an alcoholic, at least not that I remember, I don't 
 know if this is how it really works. But it is the only point of levity in the entire game, so 
 I'll take it.
  
  Inevitably the detective work comes to an end, the crazy homeless guys show up, and the game falls 
 apart. First person, hand to hand combat has been done right only once: Breakdown, go buy it and 
 join my hatred of Namco for not making a second. It is clear that the developers have never played 
 or even heard of it because the combat from Condemned, which was passable at best, has somehow 
 deteriorated into a floaty mess in Condemned 2 in spite of the addition of more moves, weapons 
 and combos. It is almost impossible to know the range of any given weapon, either the players or 
 the enemies, which is only made worse by the dark and murky lighting. This leads to catching a 
 rusty pipe in the chops or missing a parry over and over. Nothing kills tension or fear faster 
 then frustration, making Condemned 2 its own worst enemy: it wants to be an action game and a scary 
 game, but the action is so bad that it kills whatever scary is left after being grossed out by 
 the over the top gore. It is actually less then the sum of its parts.
  
  Condemned was one of if not the best Xbox 360 launch titles. It was an original IP, played well 
 enough while showing off the hardware and had some pretty weak competition. Condemned 2 does not 
 have the luxury of going up against atrocities like Perfect Dark Zero. There is already a dark, 
 scary, great looking game with good combat and an excellent story out (that just happens to take 
 place under water, would you kindly) so there is little room for a game that means very well but 
 stumbles over its own design choices this badly. Even without the competition of a game of the 
 year in the genre it is very much a sophomore slump. More Eli Roth then Alfred Hitchcock (or even 
 John Carpenter) , Condemned 2 did not know when to stop and the player ends of paying the price.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattooMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a very creative, well made game, but it's nothing like I expected it 
 to be. The first one was more of a psychological thriller game, but the second one is more the 
 blood, the gore, and the violence, not saying that Condemned 1 wasn't, it's just that the first 
 one is more creative. The only levels that are even similar to the first game are the Preston hotel, 
 and the Trenton district levels. The rest of the levels were more fast-paced FPS quality, which 
 is a coincidence since they do have an FPS mode. There are some interesting new features, like 
 finishing moves, chain combos, more firearms, and strange dolls, black gooey creatures, and giant 
 metal behemoths. Overall, I give this game 8.5 out of 10, and if you enjoyed the first, you should 
 consider at least renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lepuke
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game a couple days ago, and I tend to agree with the review.
  Definitely more enjoyable than the first I would say is the bottom line for Condemned 2: Bloodshot.
 
  
  Especially in terms of level design, I really didn't get lost at all in Condemned 2. 
  This was a big problem in the first game due to the fact that the environments, while incredibly 
 detailed, were also recycled a lot. Making it easy to get lost and think to yourself "Have I already 
 been here?" constantly.
  Bloodshot also has a GPS system to help guide you through the levels. This would have been a great 
 addition in the Condemned 1, but in this current incarnation of Condemned I barely used the thing. 
 
  
  The locations also set this game apart. While they may not most original idea's, they certainly 
 work in terms of the fright factor.
  A couple of the levels had me thinking "Oh great, not this kind of place" before I even started 
 moving around the level.
  So yeah, the levels are memorable and put together great.
  
  The story isn't incredibly bad, and is a continuation of the first games. Of course, this means 
 it isn't incredibly good either.
  It does in fact have a few bright moments, especially during some of the investigative scenes. 
 Good voice work and overall sound design creates a great atmosphere for the setting and also helps 
 move things along at a decent pace.
  
  Come for the dark atmospheric brutality, stay for the fairly unique and satisfying combat system 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  About the game:
  This game take place in the same story but much darker and scarier atmosphere. You place as a darker 
 Ethan Thomas who is more depress then ever and you are now recruited once again to find this particular 
 serial killer. If you every played the first condemned game you will enjoy this game as well, this 
 game takes you more into depth whats really going on in this corrupt city. Now you will learn more 
 about the serial killer and who killings as well. More upgrades such as weapons, fighting graphics 
 and music has changed through this game. They also added an on-line feature so that you can play 
 with others.
  
  Graphics/Music:
  This game has changed a lot since the first game came out originally. It improved a lot, more darker 
 then the first one. The atmosphere is more darker as well so when you play it at night it more 
 scarier. Sometimes it can be a bit blurring as well in most part of the game. Sometimes it difficult 
 too see even though you have to flashlight it still kind of hard to see where you going and. Even 
 the characters have changed. Now the music is much darker and when you go through each of the apartments 
 or any other buildings the people who are behind you can make you jump. I recommned to play this 
 in the dark to make it more interesting to play. 
  
  Combat:
  Now you have more weapons and more fighting styles you can use as well. But the guns mostly are 
 hard to get even when using the stun gun it does not have enough batteries supplies to help you. 
 Now you can able to get use more the environment such toilet seats, dolls and much more. You also 
 learn a scream attack as well through the games. Sometimes the weapons can be slow at most part 
 and even when you are punching it can be difficult to block or punch when you are trying to make 
 a move to hit the enemy. I also like when you hurt your health goes back to full bar even though 
 if you have two bars at least you can recover once you find a Medicine kit.
  
  On-line:
  I only tried once and this part isn't that good, this game does not really need it at all. But 
 at least they try to make something different for this game.
  
  If you are interested in this game try the first condemned: Origins this will give you some background 
 whats going on so you can get an idea of the game. If you did play the first game and still have 
 not decided to get this game get it!! it's really fun and now you getting more into depth of what 
 really going on with Ethan Thomas. I hope everyone enjoy this game as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Volta
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is a pretty fun game -- yes, much better than the original title. Yet it still has a 
 bit too many flaws for me to consider it great or awesome. The story is weak mostly, and makes 
 little sense from the get-go (although playing the original helps...) ; the melee combat is good 
 and fun, yet at time it can be hard to master and/or direct; the gunplay is very weak, though luckily 
 it takes up little of the game; the graphics are usually fairly nice, though at times some very 
 weak rendered-shots peek through.
  
  The game itself is pretty short, clocking in at something like 8 or 9 hours -- but this is still 
 long enough for a decent rent. Now for the most important factor: the scariness. The game, at time, 
 manages to be relatively scary; however, it does not live up to the hype many reviewers have been 
 lavishing upon it. There are a few instances of classic "scary" (such as enemy-jump-outs and things 
 of that nature) , but the story and atmosphere seem more cheesy than scary most of the time, with 
 many of your enemies looking like front-men in bad black-metal acts. 
  
  The game relies too heavily on darkness, which at times can be way more frustrating than it should 
 be -- making you feel like you should have your TV brightness all the way to max just to see a room, 
 until you realize you are not supposed to be able to see -- but to feel disoriented instead. The 
 flashlight does little to help this problem in most cases, as it has a very weak and identifiably 
 "horror" range. This causes for many instances where an enemy will appear at your toes when in 
 fact it has been walking towards you for hours, you just haven't been able to see it. It is not 
 scary after the first few times, but rather annoying. 
  
  Still, the game works well, and the innovative melee combat makes it serve to be a relatively sharp 
 package. It delivers if we're talking a weekend rent, but it does little to serve its packaging 
 price for those who are considering owning it.
  
  Worth a play -- maybe two, and worth a weekend rent, but not too much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good, no doubt about it! The graphics are pretty good and so is the story line. 
 Now I didnt have the 1st one but it seems like a good story. The aspect that made me want to by 
 this game is that I heard it was scary. Now I know some people are going to try and be cool and 
 say its not scary but this cracks my top ten on the scariest game list. Its not as scary during 
 a cut scene but sometimes you would jump if you get hit from behind without knowing, or when a 
 creature tries to grab you while hanging on the seiling unexpected, etc. The fighting is fun and 
 the combo system helps. But the most fun thing is when you grab an enemy and use the the objects 
 around you to finish him off. They could of worked on the online a little bit more because its 
 just plain but the campaign just keeps you busy. Well thats it, if your a fan of horror games or 
 are just good game hunter buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Well let me say that this might be one of those games that offers something different thant the 
 usual sequels. An example is RV6V2 ( Rainbow Six Vegas 2) this game offers nothing different for 
 my taste. In the other hand Condemned is different, more obscure per se. If you like blood in your 
 game with a good control , great graphics and intelligent A. I. this is your game. 
  Condemned offers you different ways to kill the enemies and whoa it feels good that monolith continues 
 the same line offering something new. In this days its hard to get something your money is worth. 
 The game offers you something different thatn the original. and if you paly the first when you 
 are playing Condemned 2 you will see what i am talking about. I m my opinion this game its not 
 for rental this game is a must buy. Something that gamespot Reviewrs do not telll us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Downloadking16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  To begin I have played the first game of the Condemned series, Condemned: Criminal Origins and 
 thought it was VERY good, mostly because it was one of the best launch titles on the 360 and greatest 
 in its genre, but the only problem that I really had with it was that the story was soooo confusing. 
 If you enjoyed the first like i did, the second is a MUST play. This game obviously shined the 
 most through the single player campaign, finally shedding some light on the story line, the amazing 
 detailed environments, the awsome new combat with SO many different ways to kill the scum of the 
 city, and the violence which got so much more bloody than the first. Condemned 2 also has a new 
 added multiplayer which can be fun, but in my opinion only really has potential in the Crime Scene 
 mode where you are either on the SCU, searching for two coolers with evidence or on the Afflicted? 
 which has to guard and hide the evidence in the map. Overall this game is definately worth the 
 money to buy just, because it is an instant classic with so many memorable moments, has great replayability 
 with a new single player mode that is quite fun, and will want you begging for another sequel which 
 will be sure to scare the crap out of us as much as the first and the second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Condemned part 2 is an excellent continuation in the story line of the first game, graphically 
 impressive, with visuals that are up to par on todays modern next gen systems. You play as Ethan 
 Thomas a member of the SCU and are hunting down someone from your past, going through abandoned 
 buildings and defending your self against the cities worst undetained future criminals, with just 
 the worst of the worst, using mainly anything you can to defend your self, such as rebarb, pieces 
 of scrap wood, metal conduits , pipes etcetera. As you are going through the city you are trying 
 to find clues, the game is definitely fun, and the best part of all on the kicker to this is the 
 fact that it will scare the heck out of you. Freaks and homeless bums will jump out at you with 
 a weapon from behind a wall when you least expect it and there loud screams are something that 
 gives you a bit of a jitter, but it is what makes the game most exciting and intensifying to play. 
 You track through ten crazy levels and the better you do the more items you can unlock on your 
 path. I give Condemned 2: blood shot a handsome 8.5 out of ten for its creepiness and excellent 
 visuals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot puts you back in control of Ethan Thomas, who was a Investigator, but has 
 since turned into a homeless drunk wandering the streets. 
  
  The game itself is a little different from the original in ways. Most obvious is Ethan Thomas appears 
 a whole lot different to us the viewers. The fighting system has become more advanced and there 
 are several new weapons available for the user to crack skulls with. The enemies seem to have better 
 AI and of course there are many new faces to encounter.
  
  The video and sound quality of this game are great. They both add for the horrific ambiance and 
 put the player through a living hell on earth so to speak. 
  The game controls are equally good, they are not too hard to understand.
  
  Overall I say that 
 Condemned 2 is a great addition to anyones' ever growing classics collection and the game does 
 a wonderful job of carrying on the reputation of this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Dark, disturbing and extremely intense storyline, improved melee combat, sprint button, 
 ability to reload a gun, melee punching, environmental kills and combos are very welcome additions, 
 has it's share of terrifying moments, online modes are pretty good as well as instant action. 
 
  
  The Bad: Gunplay is a bit weak, story becomes a bit disjointed near the end, blatent sequel set 
 up at the end, although the entire game is creepy, it's not as scary as the first one.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  One of the most suprisingly good 360 launch titles was Condemned: Criminal Origins by Sega and 
 F. E. A. R. developer Monolith. It was something different, combining a horror like story with first 
 person melee combat. It turned out be be a really good and really creepy game that was a blast. 
 Now, 3 years later, Condemned hero Ethan Thomas returns for another round of melee beatdowns with 
 disturbing bums in Condemned 2: Bloodshot. This time, Thomas, who is now retired from the SCU, 
 is an angry drunk who can't differenciate nightmares from reality. When a close friend is murdered, 
 Ethan returns to help the SCU uncover the dark secret behind why the city is so filled with crime 
 and disfigured criminals. 
  
  Essencially, the gameplay of Condemned 2 is the same as the original, but several features that 
 were lacking in the original game, that fans really wanted, were added to the second game. This 
 time, in addition to the crazy melee and gunplay, you are now able to punch foes while unarmed. 
 A sprint button has also been added, so the game is faster paced than the last one. Also added 
 are combos which will help give additional damage to foes as wells as slow mo sequences for instant 
 kills. Environmental kills have also been added for more bloodthursty results. 
  
  CSI is back, but this time it feels less forced upon you, and instead is more useful. You recieve 
 a grade for each bit of investigation you do, and these grades will boost your level grade at the 
 end of each level. The grades will actually unlock additional abilities at the end of each level, 
 so getting perfects on investigation segments will help get you the best grade and best upgrades. 
 Your grade is determined by the following criteria: locating sonic emmitors and destroying them, 
 finding TVs and Radios hidden thoughout the game and crime scene investigation grades. If you find 
 everything, or close to everything, you will do quite well throughout the game. Thomas' drunkenness 
 is actually useful during gameplay, though. Grabbing a bottle of alcohol and drinking it will help 
 steady your aim with a gun or projectile weapon.
  
  The storyline is much more focused on supernatural substance than realism like the first game did. 
 It is much less realistic than the first game. With that being said, it is still really good overall, 
 but not quite as scary as the last game, and the ending is a bit lacking. Especially near the end 
 of the game, the story goes all over the place, but still, it's one exciting ride. 
  There are a couple segments where you must run for your life from some terrifying situations, which 
 are interesting, but more irritating than they are cool. There are boss fights, just like the first 
 game, but they aren't quite as exciting. The environments are really disturbing, as they've always 
 been, but overall they aren't as creepy as the last game's. You do return to one infamous level 
 from the first game, so be prepared. Even though it doesn't seem like it, I would highly recomend 
 playing the original Condemned before venturing into Condemned 2. The second game actually ties 
 a lot of the loose ends of the first game together, before coming up with it's own set that an 
 eventual Condemned 3 will hopefully tie together.
  
  There are also some new gameplay modes in addition to the single player game. Instant Action pops 
 your right into a multiplayer game, similar to most games' quick match. Challenges give solo gamers 
 some additional things to do by themselves and there is online multiplayer for up to 8 players. 
 The online mode basically consists of beating down eachother with a variety of dangerous random 
 melee objects on several popular single player levels. This mode can be quite fun, but it's not 
 exactly something that will draw you in like F. E. A. R. or other FPS style games.
  
  This game does a lot right, but it has it's weaknesses. First, similar to the last game, the last 
 few levels involve the game becoming a first person shooter. Almost every enemy is carring a gun, 
 and you are basically forced to use firearms in order to survive. The gunplay unfortunately isn't 
 as strong as F. E. A. R. making these segments feel weak compared to the rest of the game. The storyline 
 also becomes a bit disjointed near the end and can confuse the crap out of you. The game isn't 
 quite as scary as the last two levels of the first game, which is disappointing, but it is still 
 pretty spooky. The "run like hell" segments are more annoying than they are teriffying, but they 
 are at least something different. 
  
  Overall, Condemned 2 is a fantastic game that is a lot of fun, especially for those who completed 
 the first game. It's still very creepy and features plenty of chills and spills. Additional modes 
 and tough achievements make this a game that's easy to go back to for another go round. 
  
  Gameplay: Disturbing, creepy yet oh so satisfying first person melee romp.
  
  Graphics: Solid 
 visuals, which have been greatly been improved over the first game.
  
  Sound: Solid voice acting and very creepy sound effects.
  
  Value: If you like the game, I'd 
 say it's worth owning to complete it 100%, but if you just want to beat the game, I'd say rent 
 it.
  
  Final Thoughts: Is this a nightmare, or is this real?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onep
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. If you played the first Condemned then you already know the general vibe 
 that this game has. The sequel improves on every aspect of the original while maintaining the sinister 
 vibe that made the first so haunting.
  
  Melee combat- Big improvements include the use of both L and R triggers for the left and right 
 hands. You can now put together combo's instead of just wildly swinging as you did in the first. 
 You can also activate a combo sequence that slows things down a bit and throws you into a GOW style 
 button pressing sequence to deliver extra damage.
  
  Shooting- While the game is still a very melee based game, the few guns you get your hands on are 
 easier to aim and can be reloaded. An interesting game mechanic is you actually need to slam back 
 some liquor in order to keep your alcoholic shakes under control, thus helping you steady your 
 aim. Awesome. "Aw, guns! Thats no fun!" theres only a couple brief spots where the gun is mandatory, 
 stop whining.
  
  Forensics- You still have your little CSI kit but this time around you actually need to do some 
 "investigating". When you come across a crime scene you are asked questions and need to use your 
 tools to find the correct answer, wich your graded on BTW. I found this to be the perfect improvement 
 on an already innovative game mechanic.
  
  This game is just plain awesome. The story takes some odd turns but the levels are definately unique 
 and lend themselves to some very fun and unusual melee weapons. If you are a fan of survival horror 
 games (and 18 or older of course) this is a must buy. Definitely not for the faint of heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Violent fun for the whole family to enjoy, okay maybe not the whole family, but some of the family. 
 Your Ethan Thomas again in condemned 2 but this time your not sober, The second Condemned is really 
 good they added online and fight clubs, and a little bit of a longer story line. The story line 
 is alot harder to understand this time around, but the game is alot funner, with new weapons, combos, 
 environmental kills, better graphics, and better voice acting, condemned 2 can deliver some grisly 
 violent thrills. Playing the first one made the second one not so scary, i'm waiting for them to 
 scare me but they don't.. the most obvious corners they come from. Condemned 2's online is really 
 good but it only has 4 game modes that can kinda get boring. The maps are really great and one 
 of them is kinda like the one level where you chase SKX in the first one that house with the attic 
 and the basement and the two floors. This game is really great and its underappreciated, the online 
 isn't mediocore its actually really intense and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimeToPartyHard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  The first Condemned, Criminal Origins was creepy as piss. There isn't a person who played it that 
 would not agree. For everyone, there was 'that level' or 'that scene' that really left a lasting 
 impression, and the game as a whole did the same. It had an interesting story line, even though 
 it might not have been that special. But, the key element of Condemned was pure high tension, creepy, 
 melee terror.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot, however, doesn't have most of that. The high tension terror is almost completely 
 lost in exchange for interesting and fun, but difficult, melee combat. The story, which now answers 
 some of the questions of the first game, ends up being pretty lackluster and uninteresting. And 
 it ends on a note that just leaves a bad taste in your mouth. You expect a little more, but that 
 apparently is left to the next installment.
  
  I absolutely adored the first Condemned. It had an element of terror that no game has ever had 
 before. Probably due to it being a first person survival horror, adding a personal element to it 
 and allowing for lots of close up encounters with enemies who just loved to pop around corners 
 or creep up behind you, and you were forced to deal with them in said fashion because it relied 
 heavily on melee combat. Plus it had Greg Grunberg, which was awesome.
  
  Also, whats up with Ethan looking like he's half undead? Here's hoping that Condemned 3 will keep 
 the current combat system, but return to it's roots and bring back the element of fear and caution 
 that, at least kept me, tip toeing around corners and constantly looking over one shoulder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeMakinBacon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  There are few games that have bugged me as much as Condemned II. I freaked out during this one. 
 This is one of those games you have to experience at night with all the lights out to get the full 
 effect. The 'full effect' with this game pretty much means you'll end up scooping out your undies. 
 
  
  The thing that makes this game so creepy is the effectiveness in which the developers immerse you 
 into the mind and body of Ethan Thomas. The visuals and reactions of the main character during 
 gameplay is something i noticed like a gut punch. I felt like i was the guy... The way the view 
 wobbles and whatnot while you move adds boatloads of realism to the game. Not to mention seeing 
 your feet and sometimes your own body while playing, and seeing your reflection in mirrors was 
 all done very nicely. This game gives you a fantastic 'feel' of the character.
  
  The gameplay seemed great but somewhat repetative and during fist fights i felt almost like i was 
 buttonmashing. I really enjoyed the Crime scene investigation though and felt like this was the 
 best part of the gameplay. Graphics were pretty good but seemed like some if the motions of AI 
 characters could've used some refining. 
  
  Overall i think the 'spook factor' is the main reason to try this game out. And to end all i got 
 to say is if this game doesn't give you chills and make you scream like a girl, I wanna be you 
 cuz you're my hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Condemned was one of the most impressive early games for the Xbox 360. The first-person combat 
 really packed a wallop, and the game was also an impressive piece of art design, with extremely 
 creepy, gritty environments and chilling sound effects throughout. Now the sequel, Condemned 2: 
 Bloodshot, is here, and it's both a step forward and a step back from its predecessor. The combat 
 has seen some nice improvements, but the story and overall scariness of the game fall short.
  
  In the original game, you played as Ethan Thomas, an SCU agent who was tracking a serial killer 
 who had framed him for murder. Also, there was some goofball nonsense about Ethan maybe having 
 some sort of superhuman powers, but the game didn't really develop this too much so I kinda forgot 
 about it. The second game goes way more into this sort of comic book territory than the first game 
 did, culminating in a final confrontation with a villain whose lair would make a Bond villain proud. 
 You wind up taking on the Oro, a secret organization who believe that sounds can cause people to 
 commit evil acts, and, having heard Avril Lavigne's song "Girlfriend" about a thousand times while 
 playing Burnout Paradise and now wanting to kill Avril Lavigne myself, I can see their point. Personally, 
 I wish the series had stayed closer to the realm of reality, as I think a series of games about 
 a forensics officer who actually solves somewhat realistic crimes would have been a whole lot more 
 interesting than a series about a cop who discovers he can emit noises that kill people. But maybe 
 that's just me. In any case, while the first game's story certainly had its shortcomings, your 
 pursuit of Serial Killer X made for a strong throughline. The plot here feels really weak by comparison.
 
  
  When the game starts, 11 months after the conclusion of the first, Ethan is just a shadow of his 
 former self. A very drunk shadow. He's such a drunk that you actually benefit from drinking liquor 
 from bottles you just find lying around, as this steadies your shaky hands while aiming a gun. 
 Condemned 2 is probably the first game in which at one point your objective is "Defeat Alcohol 
 Demon." Lots of people struggle with their personal demons when it comes to alcohol, but none quite 
 as literally as Ethan Thomas. Perhaps to go along with Ethan's new hardcore image, he is no longer 
 voiced by the likable Greg Grunberg of TV's Heroes. That's too bad, as the new guy (Andre Sogliuzzo) 
 just tries too hard to convey what a nihilistic, alcoholic badass the new, unimproved Ethan Thomas 
 is.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll explore a bunch of dimly lit places, including a creepy museum, a creepy 
 doll factory and a creepy bowling alley, though none of the places in the game are quite as creepy 
 as the coolest locations from the first game. (Creepy department store, anyone?) In these places 
 you'll encounter plenty of drunken hobos and people who fight like drunken hobos. Even the museum 
 security guards fight like drunken hobos. The people you fight make all kinds of awesome guttural 
 exclamations and swearing noises that sound so authentic, you'll almost think they got actual crazy 
 people to provide these voices. And the combat itself is as good as the sound effects that accompany 
 it. You can clobber people with your bare fists, but you're usually better off picking up something 
 lying around, be it a steam pipe, battle axe, bowling pin, or what have you. Each item you grab 
 can only dish out so much punishment to the homicidal homeless people of the city before it breaks, 
 so you'll have to keep picking up new items as you progress. The combat in Condemned 2 hits as 
 hard as ever, and there are a number of nifty combos you can now pull off if you can avoid being 
 hit by your wildly flailing foes. There are also brutal new finishing moves which allow you to 
 use aspects of the environment to finish off weakened enemies. Many players felt that the combat 
 in the original game was too basic, and that as a result it got repetitive by game's end. The added 
 depth to the combat in Condemned 2 helps keep the combat enjoyable throughout.
  
  There's also a bit more emphasis on gunplay this time around than there was in the original, particularly 
 during a few sections where you have to fight off assault-rifle-wielding agents. These sections, 
 while not quite as hard-hitting as the close-range combat in the game, are competently done. The 
 fact that you can blow dudes' heads clean off, though, seems like an unnecessary byproduct of the 
 game's desire to come across as even more brutally violent than its predecessor. Also, your opponents 
 will make good use of cover, kicking tables over and crouching behind them and so forth, and while 
 this is kinda cool, it also calls attention to the fact that you can't do anything like that yourself.
 
  
  In between all the fighting, you'll also periodically have to examine crime scenes. Sometimes these 
 sections are fun, and sometimes they involve a bit too much pixel-hunting as you try to figure 
 out exactly what it is you're supposed to look at. Sometimes they're humorously easy, as when looking 
 at a victim's cap and needing to decide if it's a policeman's cap, fireman's cap, hard hat, or 
 baseball cap, and at other times they're a good bit tougher. (Blood spatter analysis? Do I look 
 like Dexter to you?) Also, you'll sometimes be given a choice between three possible questions 
 to ask your partner Rosa to advance the investigation, and some of the choices are so boneheadedly 
 hilarious that I wanted to select them just to see how Rosa would react. "Have human beings even 
 been around for 2000 years?" "How do you spell Oro?" You're rated on the accuracy of your investigation, 
 as well as your performance in completing other objectives throughout the level, and as you progress 
 through the game you earn upgrades based on your performance like added health, a stun gun, and 
 so on.
  
  The game will probably take you about 12 hours or so to complete. After that, you unlock FPS mode, 
 which lets you use guns throughout the game, but that kind of seems to take away a huge part of 
 what makes Condemned Condemned. If you want to play a first-person shooter, play Call of Duty 4. 
 There are also some multiplayer modes available, but they leave a lot to be desired. If you want 
 to play a good multiplayer game, play Call of Duty 4.
  
  Many players will probably find Condemned 2 to be an improvement on its predecessor thanks to the 
 deeper combat system. For me personally, aspects like mood and story were at least as crucial to 
 making the first one a great experience, and because this one can't match up in terms of creepiness 
 and because the plot goes so far into typical video-game sci-fi you-are-the-prophesied-hero territory 
 when I was hoping for a series about a cop who hunts serial killers, I came away from Bloodshot 
 a bit disappointed overall. But there's still a good deal of impact to the game's combat, making 
 it a worthwhile playthrough for anyone who wants to punch people in the face without actually punching 
 people in the face.
  
  7/10 whacks with a foosball rod
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awakening124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I played Condemned: Criminal Origins when it first came out, and I was instantly a fan of the series. 
 I was pretty excited to sink my teeth into the sequel, and here's what I found:
  
  Graphics: It's basically just as pretty as the first one, but with one major improvement - people's 
 faces. In the first one they all had squat, rubbery looking faces and everyone was fugly. Thankfully, 
 in the sequel they decided to make everyone look human for a change. The lighting effects are very 
 haunting and realistic, but I've gotta say that the shadow you cast is pretty ridiculous at times.
 
  
  Sound: Sufficiently creepy, with different things scattering about and doors creaking open, not 
 to mention times when your footsteps are the only sound in the room. 
  
  Voice Acting: Yay! They replaced the voice for Ethan with someone less annoying! All around, the 
 actors do a pretty good job with a pretty good script, save for a couple of weak points. It's not 
 revolutionary, but it didn't cause me pain either, and considering the track record of voice acting 
 in video games, that makes me happy.
  
  Gameplay: In this regard, Condemned has improved on all fronts (forensics, melee, and gun play) . 
 Battles are still as intense and brutal as ever. Guns are a little more present, but the emphasis 
 is definitely still on fists and anything you can get your hands on. Hopefully in the next game 
 they'll expand the interactivity of the world so you can use a bigger variety of objects.
  
  Characters: Ethan was pretty unmemorable in the first one (until the very end) but thankfully 
 they've made him a very compelling leading man now. He's darker, more pissed off, and is generally 
 just more interesting to watch. Everyone else is good enough, the only supporting cast member that's 
 really interesting is SKX... for obvious reasons.
  
  Story: It succeeds in connecting the first one to the (inevitable) third one and doesn't really 
 have a slow spot. It's a well paced story mixed with crime scenes, mystery, and psychos. While 
 the ending doesn't really answer very many questions, that's to be expected with a third one in 
 the future and all.
  
  Scare Factor: While it maintains a dark, gritty, intense feel, there was only one moment that really 
 scared my pants off. 
  
  General Complaints: I didn't mind certain objects eventually breaking in the first one, but it's 
 become way too common in this installment. A board breaking after a couple of hits I can understand, 
 but a PIPE? Far too many weapons break way too quickly, often leaving you with only your fists 
 to defend yourself.
  
  What the Series Needs to Do Next Time: I'd really like to see Condemned break out of its mold a 
 bit, or at least get more creative with their level design. Also, they need to quit with piles 
 of trash, there are other ways to make an area look broken down and crappy then to throw random 
 piles of debris everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuhjem92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2: Bloodshot is one of the most fun games i have played in years. Mass Effect has its 
 immenseness, and halo 3 has its multiplayer, but nothing comes close to Bloodshot's campaign. The 
 only real gripes I've had with this game were the "RUN FOR YOUR LIFE MOMENTS", which had you jolting 
 mindlessly from terryfying bears and iron monsters. With both of those moments I have had to replay 
 over 10 times tring to find the right path. None the less, each mission hase several unique gameplay 
 objectives like defusing bombs, using supermagnets on metal foes, chucking "Blow-up Dolls" at a 
 psychopathic lollipop saw wielding acrobatic,
  and cranking sound emitters to literally explosive volumes. Each level is well played out with 
 a lengthy time and loads of surprises.
  To be honest, the only part that scared me was in the lodge with the bear.
  Melee combat would 
 be perfect if it wasn't with those damned chain attacks.
  Maybe it was just me, but i could never break some goons arm, no matter how hard i tried. Accessing 
 these chain attacks is simple but it can get in the way of combat. When you have the adrenaline 
 pumping, trigger pulling is going to be rapid, and having those chain attacks disrupting my combos 
 is a huge pain. 
  Other parts that i found interesting were puzzle moments, although without warning, provided a 
 fun and challenging experience (you try figuring out how to walk past a ferocious jet of flame 
 while exploding babies are going full on terrorist on you.) 
  
  All in all, this is a great game with an unbelievably immersive campaign and, even with its unnecessary 
 multiplayer, will stay with you forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Lets think back for a moment: You're drunk, you're angry and your sleeping on the streets ready 
 to tear itself apart. Could it be Ethan Thomas. YES! CONDEMNED 2 IS FINALLY HERE! Its been six 
 months since the original game when ex-FBI agent tracked down Serial Killer X and if you come to 
 the sequel, you'll get some... just not enough.
  
  First, the Positives. The game has a deeper, skill-rich melee system. As well the game will make 
 you jump out of your seat going "HOLY S*IT!" a lot.
  
  However, the ending to the game feels like no questions were answered and it makes the plot feel 
 like a filler.
  
  Overall, the purpose of the game was to mess with your head, and boy does it. It is good to visit 
 metro city again. But the town has changed a lot in six months, some changes for good, some changes 
 for worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightWis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant. i ve finished this gmae amout hours ago. and i loved it.
  Hand to hand combat is amazing and fear factor is very scary.
  Using gun is also very good and 
 response system is very funny i think. According to other fps games this game will give you a very 
 diffrent experience. Like in the first game physical movements are amazing and atmosphere is very 
 dark and scary. At the dark areas you have to use your flash light because otherwise you cant see 
 anything. Hand to hand combats are very pleasureable. you can make combos at hand to hand combat. And 
 when enemy downs to his knees your creativity steps in.
  While you are using a gun you have to aim because there is no dot or something like reality.
 
  Your crime scane investigations are more pleasurable than the first condemned. If you want to solve 
 crime you have to take a look closer.
  You have to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Of course, after beating Condemned 1, we all knew that a sequel was just around the corner. After 
 a 2 year and 3 month wait, Bloodshot is presented to us. In my opinion, this game is awesome, but 
 don't be surprised if you piss your pants a couple times. Why? Read on...
  
  C2B takes place 11 months after CCO. The main character, Ethan Thomas -- I'm guessing traumatized 
 from his involvement with Serial Killer X in CCO -- has hit rock bottom. He's homeless, living 
 off the bottle, suffering sudden (and often violent) hallucinations, being more violent and more 
 darker. And guess what? he's being called back into action to investigate a murder commited against 
 his mentor, Maicolm Van Horn. That's right, you get to go back to beating the s**t out of crazy 
 psychopaths. Bloodshot has some moments that will probably have you screaming and checking your 
 pants simultaneously (you may want to keep that light on) . Want more blood? You got it! Bloodshot 
 has some graphic (but memorable) finishing moves that will either (1. Have you laughing and saying 
 "I want to do that again!" (2. In awe of what just happened. (3. "WTF?!" (4. Sleeping with the 
 TV on the Weather Channel. Maybe you can create moments of your own. The basic hand-to-hand combat 
 system has fine-tuned; now you fight with your fists, and string together some interesting combos. 
 Anyways, take care in playing this game. Warning: this game is DEFINITELY not for the squeamish.
 
  
  If you can ignore all the blood and guts, Bloodshot is a definite must have. Superb graphics and 
 gameplay -- strung together with some awe-aspiring moments -- really sets Bloodshot apart from 
 the rest of the survival horror crowd. Keep a light on, have someone with you, and maybe bring 
 an extra pair of pants and boxers, and enjoy Bloodshot to your hearts content (just don't get a 
 heart attack from what you see) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gruesome, horrifying atmosphere, excellent melee combat, satisfying story
  
  The Bad: Useless multiplayer and fight club modes, all the item hunting get distracting
  
  
 
  I'm sure you've played the 2005 awesome survival horror game Condemned: Criminal Origins, and if 
 you haven't go pick it up (you can get it for less than $15 now) then come back and read this review. 
 Condemned 2 leaves off where Ethan Thomas slowly becomes insane after trying to figure out all 
 the violent crimes in the city. The game's main attraction is the new combat system. In the first 
 you hit with RT and blocked with LT but now you can control the left and right hand with each trigger 
 and you block by holding them both down. We get a lot more melee weapons such as toilet seats, 
 bowling balls, bowling pins, and even bricks! The game also has more for you to search for in the 
 game such as destroying sonic emitters, finding "antennas" which gives you tidbits from the news 
 and "responses" which is a given time to hit the A button to respond to certain scenarios. (the 
 reason why this cult is making everyone violence) . While this adds more depth it's very distracting 
 when you're trying to hear who's stalking you and trying to get sucked into the atmosphere. Speaking 
 of that the game is very very scary. The game also is VERY dark to where you can't see anything 
 and you have to turn your brightness up, and not to mention the almost useless flashlight. The 
 game's gun play is better this time but isn't nearly as satisfying as the melee combat. The game 
 also has a useless multiplayer mode where you play criminals vs. cops and you have to hide the 
 evidence as criminals and find it as cops. This is both boring and stupid because the maps are 
 very small and the cops have guns so it's almost cheating. There is also a useless fight club mode 
 where you go into different arenas and fight to the death. This is both boring and still practically 
 useless. The game also has a hard to understand achievement system. If you loved (or hated) the 
 first game you'll love this game for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyranyVaunt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this game will make you question your own moral character. It is graphic and the means 
 of killing thuggish meth attics are plentiful. Anyone who missed Condemned 1, but enjoys the genre 
 of gaming that brings scare to your console or PC, like Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Manhunt... 
 Will find this game to be worth the investment.
  
  By far the game exceeded my expectations with its improved graphics, dead on sound, and masterful 
 soundtrack - which in its own right can be down right dreadful when all you have is a flashlight 
 and a 2x4 to protect yourself.
  
  The first person perspective can sometimes make you feel claustrophobic, which adds to the fear 
 tactic - you never know what might be lurking behind you. And just when you are admiring yourself 
 in the mirror - a junkie comes lunging at you from behind!
  
  There are only two things that I would like to have seen upgraded - which could be addressed in 
 future Condemned titles...
  
  I. Physics engine
  
  There are multiple areas and scenes where it would've been cool to pick up a TV and throw it, or 
 push a barrel over, or simply be able to flip on and off a light switch. Unfortunately, not all 
 of your surroundings are interactive... Some are, but not nearly enough in my humble opionion. 
 Fantastic physics and interactive environments is what made games like Max Payne so enjoyable. 
 Incorporating a next generation physics engine like those that Remedy has used in the past - and 
 will introduce for the upcoming Alan Wake title would make a game like Bloodshot that much more 
 enjoyable. Would love to see Monolith take this into account in the future releases.
  
  II. Head shots animation
  
  While a majority of the game is melee with fisticuffs flying, re-bar 
 or some other weilding flair... I found the head shot animation to be bloody and grusome, but a 
 little too arcade like. For instance, you can use a 9mm pistol and blow a thugs head completly 
 off - clean at the neck as if you used a samurai sword with one fell swoop.... But the same decapitated 
 head shot occurs for a dual barrel shot gun? Come on. Show an area for the gun shot wound with 
 the hand gun. And then as the weapons get larger in fire power... Increase the damage of the head 
 shot. This would've made the kills a little more realistic, giving the game that much more of a 
 darkness. I don't know... I guess I have seen too many Saw movies to feel one animation is worthy 
 and would've perferred an arsenal of bloody head shots.
  
  Overall, outside of these two items... Condemned 2: Bloodshot has been a gruesome 10+ hours of 
 solo game play, which keeps you on the edge of your seat, begging for daylight. I highly recommend 
 this game for anyone interested in the Survival Horror genre or someone who simply enjoys being 
 scared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  The story isn't too satisfying, but the atmosphere is excellent. The artistic direction and clever 
 use of filters keep this game appealing from start to finish. Turn up the volume and play the game 
 alone for maximum effect. The improvements are exactly what was expected out of a sequel. The core 
 concept feels a bit diluted by the end. Most of the new features outside of the main game are throw 
 aways. Condemned 2 doesn't make as big of a splash as its predecessor, but it does everything necessary 
 to make a quality sequel. There are more features, fan complaints are addressed and it's still 
 as spine tingling as ever. The story, though less akin to Swiss cheese than the first one was, 
 is not as gripping and the game feels as if it lost its focus in the latter stages. As a sequel, 
 the game doesn't have the originality the first had going for it and, as such, the shortcomings 
 are more noticeable. The gameplay improvements are strong enough to overshadow these for the most 
 part and you're still left with a wild ride.'
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Pro's:
  -great graphics and sound effects/voice acting
  -really well put together (creates a very creepy atomosphere)
  -control system is very fun
 
  -a lot of gore and brutal fight moves (chain attacks)
  -achievements are a lot of fun to get
  
  Con's:
  -the multiplayer sucks, plain and simple...
 
  -the storyline starts out good but gets a bit farfetched (and non-connected) towards the end
 
  -at some points the visual effects make it almost impossible to even see whats going on on screen.
 
  
  Overall Condemned 2: Bloodshot is a great game as long as you enjoy gore and violence (cause theres 
 a s**t load of it in this game) . Some points in the game are very freaky (i was forced to turn 
 the game off at some points due to being scared s**tless) . The control system is great, the graphics 
 are awesome and the sound effects are good aswell. As far as visuals go the only problem i found 
 was that in an attempt to create the creepy atomosphere that encompases the game, the creates went 
 a bit to far by making the screen so dark and/or fuzzy that you could barely see what was going 
 on. The storyline is OK, not good, not bad... just ok. It starts out good but ends not so great 
 in how it seemed very farfetched (which doesnt really suite this game) . The multiplyare is really 
 the only major downside to this game. Fun at first but gets extremely boring pretty quickly. If 
 your an achievement junky youll be playing it for awhile, but you probably wont be enjoying it 
 much. That fact can be overlooked seeing as how the multiplayer in this game is meant to be just 
 an added feature, its evident that the main focus is on the single player mode. If you like blood, 
 guts, and gore, Condemned 2: Bloodshot is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Back in November of 2005, a game was released for the Xbox 360 by Sega called "Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins". It was a game that stood out for it's unique hand-to-hand combat, great visuals, and 
 chilling atmosphere. Condemned 2 is essentially a survival-horror game, played from a First-Person 
 perspective. You play the role of Ethan Thomas, a jobless and homeless lowlife doing drugs and 
 boozing his way through life on the streets. Needless to say, this game explores some very mature 
 themes. 
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Some of the elements from the first game remain intact - the brutal, visceral hand-to-hand combat 
 returns, with added layers of depth and complexity. This time, you can string together combos with 
 hooks, straight punches, blocks and kicks, to create damage multiplyers. This was intended to give 
 the player a feeling for fighting for his life on the streets. The problem is that the system is 
 too complex and unwieldy, even for Condemned veterans. It responds fairly well, but with alot of 
 action on the screen, sometimes the games' framerate will chug, causing one of your button presses 
 to be delayed, or ignored altogether, cancelling your combo. This doesn't happen often, but when 
 it does, it adds unnesecary frustration as you can find yourself dying over and over in crowded 
 sections of the game. Another factor is that during combat, you are faced frequently with multiple 
 opponents. One hit during a combo, and you're back to square one. Most importantly, there are no 
 combos or gameplay elements for fighting mutliple opponents - only frusrtation and repitition. 
 The scares here are also skin-deep. Whereas Condemned part 1 haunted your psyche with lighting 
 tricks and ambient noises, Condemned 2 drowns in horror-cliche overkill. Overly dark areas intended 
 to add to the terror only lend confusion and frustration to the combat and enviromental puzzles. 
 The idea of wearing a gas-mask while traversing a burning doll-house may have sounded creepy on 
 paper, but here it just feels doesn't carry much weight.
  
  This time, guns play a much more prominent role in the action. The aiming and gunplay feel essentially 
 the same as they did in Condemned 1 -passable, but lacking the polish and fluidity of a full shooter. 
 Not only are there more types, but from an upgrade recieved early in the game, you can holster 
 a fully loaded gun to use at any time. Guns are very powerful here. And plentiful. And a problem 
 with creating a survival horror game with lots of powerful weapons is obvious - the player no longer 
 feels adversity. Certain sections of the game I cruised through with a fully-loaded assault rifle 
 on my back that I never even had to use - the ammo for my main weapon - a lever rifle, was so plentiful. 
 Which brings me to another curiosity - the game's difficulty, and pacing. The beginning of Condemned 
 2 is definitely the hardest part of the game, and you will die often. You are often faced with 
 multiple enemies (which I mentioned above is poorly handled here) in rooms that are pitch black. 
 There are also a few early bosses that are frustrating, and require quite a bit of patience from 
 the player very, very early in the game. This is in stark contrast to the last half of the game, 
 where you will rarely retry levels.
  
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Graphically, Condemned 2 is generally very impressive. The enviroments are quite diverse, detailed, 
 and entertaining. Forrests, Cargo Ships, Hospitals, and Libraries are just a sampling of what's 
 here. The developers realized they couldn't create another game of nothing but dilapidated urban 
 enviroments, and they succeed. Kudos to the art department. The character models don't fare so 
 well - during the cinematics in particular, the characters look wooden and move robotically. After 
 the cinematic grace of games like Mass Effect and Bioshock, terrible character models should be 
 a thing of the past. Another worthy mention is the motion blurring - used to absolute excess here 
 to create confusion for the player in certain situations. 
  
  
  Sound:
  
  Condemned 2 sounds great. Enemies talk to you as you fight them, insult you if you run away, and 
 scream when you kill them. The music is good, but sparse, filled with lots of cello and violin. 
 The voice acting is a mixed bag - Ethan Thomas is good, Rosa is so-so, and the rest of the characters 
 range from average to quite poor. It's hard to be scared of a villian who sounds as corny and rediculous 
 as some do here.
  
  
  
  
  PROS: Great graphics and sound, atmosphere, mature theme, occasionally scary.
  
  
  CONS: 
 Hand-to-hand combat frustrations, uneven difficulty, worthless mutiplayer, terrible storyline, 
 weak ending.
  
  
  
  Condemned 2 is a flawed but sometimes enjoyable effort, if you have the patience, and a love for 
 the survival horror genre, you may want to check it out. Otherwise, this certainly won't make the 
 wait for Resident Evil 5 any easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketMasterH2F
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 Bloodshot is the sequel to 2005's horror game Condemned Criminal Origins. Condemned 
 2 picks up 1 year after the events of the first game and Ethan Thomas (the protagonist) has gone 
 through several changes. He is unshaven, a drunk, and a huge mess. his life is in shambles and he 
 has left the SCU. After malcolm vanhorn goes missing, SCU agents Rosa (she helped ethan in the first 
 game) and Dorland track down ethan and ask for his help. The game still features hallucinations, and 
 a bunch of crazy bums wanting to kill you.
  
  The game's graphics are superb! Condemned 2 took 2 steps up with graphics since the first game.
 
  
  The gameplay has also been improved. The game features fist fighting, combos, and more weapons to 
 hit bums over the head with. The investigation parts of the game have also been improved. Now you 
 have total freedom with your investigations. You also earn upgrades at the end of each mission depending 
 on how you did with completing secondary objectives. Though the upgrades are nice, the feeling of 
 your character being just a normal guy doing all of this is lost and it now feels like your character 
 is getting stronger by the end of each mission instead of just being your average joe.
  
  The game's atmosphere is one of the best things about this game and its predecessor. The game's 
 11 levels will take you through creepy environments such as a Hotel, Museum, and a Lodge in the forest! 
 There also many tense moments in the game that will keep you on edge. Though, no level even gets 
 close to the scares of the 9th level in the first game A. K. A-The Apple Orchard
  
  The game's story is where the game stops been so fabulous. Its a good story but what was a great 
 normal serial killer/mystery story has now turned into a sci-fi/mystery story. And honestly, I found 
 the ending to be a little confusing but its nice knowing a sequel has to be in the works with an 
 ending like that. Also, i found the last boss to be really disappointing. The last boss in the first 
 game was great and a blast to fight, but the last boss in this game is very bland and just unsatisfying.
 
  
  The online multiplayer and Fight Club are 2 new additions to keep people playing. The online multiplayer 
 isn't too great but decent but 1 mode called Crime Scene is very fun to play and is what multiplayer 
 what it is, A Great New Addition to a great franchise. The fight club is something thats hard to 
 describe but its basically a bunch of single-player modes that include fighting many bums.
  
  Condemned 2 Bloodshot is a great game and fun to play. The single player campaign is great to 
 play and fun to play over and over and The online multiplayer and fight club are great reasons 
 to keep playing this cool game. Though the game is not as scary as the first and its story can be 
 a little far fetched sometimes, it is still fun and a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best horror games to come out in the past 10 years. It had its work cut 
 out with the 1st game but this game tops it. The blood effects are truely awesome in every way. 
 This game is brutal! It is one of the best sequels as well. The story is very cool but gets weird 
 fast. The main part of this game is the atmosphere, it is just astounding! It is one of the best 
 atmospheres af all time! Another great point in this game are the characters, they are all messed 
 up and you want to see them die. I personally like this game alot but it gets annoying some times 
 but it is such a great franchise you will know its worth it. The multiplayer I find is really fun, 
 the best is deathmatch because you have 8 people beating each others faces in. I would check this 
 out if you love horror based games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JiminydaKricet
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  u got it, i love games like these and this one waz much better than the first. more blood and guts 
 and mor ways to learn how to kill someone with you bare hands. Ethan Thomas is way better than 
 any other game character. that's right better than sam fisher, master chief, & commander shepherd. 
 Az Ethan u will still solve crimes but tha story line is a little weak, tha developers seemed to 
 try to have the story fit but, personally i waz to busy thinkin about how to kill my next opponent. 
 u got it! the fun part is when your beatin tha crap out of dudes with any weapon u like. but be 
 for warned if u didn't like F. E. A. R. or tha 1st condemned because of tha blood and shredded bloody 
 body parts u won't like this game. This game is strictly for people who love horror and don't have 
 a conscience. PLAY IT AT NIGHT ALONE!!!!! this will really give u tha full effect that Monolith 
 is tryin ta give ya. All in all love this game is slicka ti smooth and if people get tha right 
 movie director on it, it can be a great scary movie that would make SAW look like a comedy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosnitsttam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Review is for the single player mode only.
  
  Monolith makes excellent games with very few flaws. No one lives forever 1 &2: awesome. Alien Vs. 
 Predator 2: awesome. F. E. A. R.: awesome (the other stuff, minus the first expansion, wasn't done 
 by them) . Condemned: flawed but still awesome and now condemned 2 follows suit. 
  
  First, the game is GORGEOUS. The fact that this is only their 3rd game for next gen consoles is 
 VERY impressive. The cut scenes are fantastically cinematic. The level designs are amazingly detailed, 
 appropriately creepy and sometimes claustrophobic. Character models look great and expressive with 
 lip-syncing thats ALMOST 100% spot on either in the cut scenes or during gameplay. You can literally 
 SEE the anger in Ethan's face when he's pissed. his eyes narrow his brow lowers and his lips start 
 to shake as his mouth forms into a snarl. I also love how committed Monolith are to the first person 
 perspective. EVERYTHING you do in game is done in first person. Granted you are taken out of the 
 view for cut scenes, but few first person games (not halo, half-life of even bioshock) actually 
 show your feet let alone toss your character down the stairs or shake your view when you're hit. 
 The graphics aren't PREFECT, though. Random slowdown (sometimes for no reason) , and a few instances 
 of stalling (the game just freezes for less than a second) mar the otherwise fantastic presentation. 
 Neither problem happens often but it still happens and takes you out of the experience.
  
  
  The audio is nothing to sneeze at and is probably the best in any game i've played. Voice acting 
 is overall very good. Greg Grunberg from 'Heroes' has been replaced by someone less talented but 
 he does an OK job and the rest of the cast does a decent job as well. Monolith has always been 
 great at creating atmospheric games but this is their best effort yet. Every little creek, whisper, 
 thud, etc. is meticulously layered to deliver a horrifying audio experience. I recommend a nice 
 set of headphones to really immerse yourself into the game. More than once i jumped due to a loud 
 noise that would suddenly happen as i explored one of the levels of this game.
  
  The game plays really well. The dev. really built on what was already laid down in the first game. 
 Ethan can now use his fists effectively in combat to string together combos that give increases 
 to damage dealt. Guns play a bigger role and theres enough ammo in some levels to get through the 
 whole game with only firearms. Of course, smashing someones face in with a blunt (or sharp) object 
 is still the main appeal of this game and the game doesn't disappoint with more choices ranging 
 from the usual '2x4 nails' all the way to bowling balls and broad swords. On top of that are the 
 environmental finishers that range from lame (throwing someone off a ledge) to brutal (crushing 
 someones head with a giant vise) .
  
  Aside from beating people to death with random objects, you will get to investigate crime scenes 
 as well. This is the most improved aspect from the first game. Instead of the game holding your 
 hand, you need to pick from a list of possible solutions to determine what happened, how it happened 
 and WHERE it happened. the downside is that you sometimes just have to GUESS what the answer is. 
 also the forensic sequences doesn't happen often enough in the game and after the 6th mission you 
 don't do it at all. so it's neat, but there should have been more of it and it still needs tweaking. 
 
  
  Another flaw is the story. I like that they tried to make sense of what was going on and the attention 
 to details from the first game was cool, but ultimately you're left with more questions and the 
 ending is kind of a letdown (lame cliffhanger alert) . It's also a little on the short side and 
 the final 'boss' is a pretty lame fight. 
  
  FInally, the autosave system is both a blessing and a curse. It saves at various checkpoints but 
 sometimes right at the moment you are going to die, so reloading from that point means reloading 
 right before you die and you have to start the mission over. Or it doesn't save often ENOUGH and 
 you have to play through a long difficult stretch of the game over and over until you reach the 
 next save point. Also, i tried to replay a mission in 'FPS mode' (where you start with a gun and 
 all guns have unlimited ammo) and i lost my save data so i have to play through it all over again 
 if i want to try that mode again (which i do) .
  
  Overall i thoroughly enjoyed the game despite its flaws and recommend it to anyone who's looking 
 for something a dark, brutal and damned creepy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Condemned was somewhat of a mixed bag. It offered some intense scares and a good first person combat 
 system. Condemned 2 tries to replicate the magic of the first one but with a shoddy hit and miss 
 record. 
  Bloodshot opens up sometime after the first ended. Ethan Thomas has hit rock bottom and through 
 mysterious circumstance, ends up back at CSU. 
  I thought this game started off brilliantly with the creatures of the black goo. It was a supernatural 
 thriller in the vein of its predecessor. But as the game begins to drag on so do the scares and 
 combat. The frights you got at the beginning from the fear of the unknown, become replaced with 
 some sci-fi elements that aren't frightening and are just stupid. The brutal first person combat 
 is quickly opted out for poor gun play that revolves around drinking to steady your aim. In case 
 you didnt know hes a raging alcoholic and if you drink you practically cant miss. Both of these 
 elements were a total letdown for me.
  Speaking of stupid, the story isnt much better. Again we go from the supernatural serial killer 
 stalker to some science fiction tripe involving an evil company and your dark past. They shamelessly 
 leave it open for a 3rd installment but if its anything like this one, id prefer they leave it 
 to your imagination.
  The crime scene elements in this one are much better and are often a lot of fun, with the exception 
 of finding some bombs scattered throughout a cabin. But for some reason, when there's pools of 
 blood on the floor it doesnt show up on the UV light. For some other reason the flash light works 
 fine but towards the very end of the game although functional, doesnt shine as bright as it once 
 did.
  In the end this game has very little going for it. Its extremely short even on hard. The unlockables 
 arent much to write home about either. Some pictures and a mode where you have unlimited ammo to 
 replay the campaign mode. I cant see multiplayer taking off either. Just because it has very limited 
 modes and i dont see it taking people away from Halo 3 or COD 4.
  All in all its a very forgettable game with an equally forgettable story and cast, thats barely 
 mustard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyhale
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  A must have for any scary game fan. This game has improved over its predecessor by 100%. The game 
 feels the same as far as the environment only with much improved graphics. The melee is fun, but 
 yet more challenging than one would think. This game is balanced well overall. We knew it was supposed 
 to be better than the first especially since it was a launch title, but this game is actually good. 
 
  
  The graphics are great and the gore is hard core, but yet not in your face all of the time. The 
 game starts with action from the first level. I finished 5 levels the first time I sat down to 
 play and that is a longer while for my usual sitting. The game flows well and becomes more scary 
 and involved the further you progress. The levels offer great diversity just like the first one 
 did.
  
  The only reason for my rating of 9, was due to a shotty story and the forsenic games. Some may 
 like those and they are lot more in depth than the first game was, but it is also a little more 
 challenging for those of us that just want the action of the game and they due take some time. 
 I guess it was their way of putting a little Half-Life problem solving to the game, but it was 
 more annoying than fun. That's only my opinion and if you like that sort of stuff, than they have 
 done it well. I just don't as much.
  
  I'm not sure if I got bored of the story, or just couldn't wait until the next mission started..... I 
 think it was a little of both. This game is a definite owner!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Canas-
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I was admittedly excited the last few weeks leading up to the release of Condemned 2: Bloodshot, 
 and actually made an extra trip to the closest electronics store simply to see if the game had 
 been released yet. Unfortunately, my enthusiasm was met with a large degree of disappointment, 
 as Bloodshot failed to live up to the hype of its predecessor, and my own personal standards. How 
 silly though, that a game clearly striking up an advertising deal with Gamespot should garner such 
 a brilliant and overbearing score... at least their priorities are clear.
  
  If I were to describe this game in one word, it would be "frustrating". That should not be the 
 case for a game that hops several genres. The first few minutes you find Ethan Thomas getting kicked 
 out of a bar after slaughtering some erratic, menacing hooded bar fly. And in great Monolith fashion, 
 it takes less than three minutes for the game to get completely ridiculous. The storyline takes 
 rather jolting turns, dipping in and out of sensible writing to just plain confusion. Despite the 
 utterly murky plot, the cut scenes remain rather entertaining, and the characters drip with the 
 familiar and nostalgic Sega touch. 
  
  The combat system is much more advanced than the first Condemned game. Combo's become an interval 
 part of the gameplay; and although you may not ever use more than three, it is completely necessary 
 to utilize these combos to obliterate your foes with much greater efficiency. Plus, it looks a 
 hell of a lot more cool. Blocking your opponents strikes becomes far more difficult as well, thus 
 adding to the depth of the game. Enemies are completely erratic and unpredictable, and sometimes 
 you get hit with more limbs than you thought your opponent had. The weapon variety is as deep as 
 ever, ranging from simple bricks to high-tech assault rifles. Throwing weapons is also very gratifying, 
 as I found myself laughing on several occasions at the reaction of my foe after a tire iron bounced 
 off his face. Although for some reason, most of the blunt objects you find don't seem to capture 
 the same "umph" as they did in Criminal Origins. Regardless, the fighting is still very satisfactory, 
 and perhaps the only remaining shining light in this series.
  
  The horror aspect of the game, perhaps the most important, is completely lacking. At several points 
 during the story, the developers seem to turn to cheap "boo" tactics having you only genuinely 
 afraid out of surprise, rather than fear. It should be noted that I played 100% of this game in 
 the complete darkness, and for each session I would wait for nightfall simply to play. Regardless, 
 the atmosphere felt far less threatening, and is really a joke in comparison to games like F. E. A. R, 
 and even BioShock. Admittedly, there are some genuinely frightening moments. When for example you 
 are trying to escape from the lab with an unnamed S. C. U. officer and you keep getting blinded by 
 your own ghostly hallucinations. One of the biggest problems with Condemned: Criminal Origins has 
 been addressed in the sequel, and that problem is that the maniacal behavior of the locals never 
 seemed to be explained. Unfortunately, Bloodshot attempts to give too much background in to the 
 storyline, and genuinely takes away the complete thrill of the unexplained. What made Criminal 
 Origins so intense was the fact that the player did NOT know what was going on, and it is the exact 
 opposite that is the downfall of Bloodshot. The plot goes from realistic to completely sci-fi, 
 as if the writers simply ran out of ideas that made any sort of sense. The transition does not 
 bode well for the atmosphere, and as the game comes to a close one will find themselves questioning 
 whether or not the explanation behind the madness was at all reasonable.
  
  Some parts of Condemned try desperately to succeed, but fail rather miserably. On at least twenty 
 different occasions I found myself dying over and over again trying to complete a portion of the 
 game. And on each occasion the game gives nothing in the way of advice. At one point, I was supposed 
 to know that I had to slide a drawer infront of a door and block it, and I actually had to look 
 up on the internet how to pass that particular part just to complete it. At another frustrating 
 interval I found myself fighting the same person over and over again, yet after a half hour I was 
 supposed to know that I have to put them in a headlock and drag them to a vice hidden away in the 
 corner of the room. Several investigations also leave you with little idea how to complete them, 
 as the game prompts you with "simple" advice like, "replace the blown fuse". Instead of being genuinely 
 terrified, I found myself generally frustrated every half hour or so. There are at minimum twenty 
 or more "What the $#%! do I do?!" moments during the game, and with no hint system it becomes completely 
 irritating.
  
  Other parts of the game feel completely unnecessary. The investigation system got completely revamped, 
 and is actually quite satisfying on most occasions, but some aspects feel entirely redundant. The 
 GPS system is a useless tack-on added by the developers, and not once did I find myself using it. 
 Other aspects feel like they could have been utilized better, as I would much rather the camera 
 have a more practical use than only sending story-driven pictures to advance to the next checkpoint. 
 One part of the game also seems awkwardly added in, and to anyone who has played Bloodshot in its 
 entirety, they know exactly the chapter I speak of. The Magic Man is a five minute long detour 
 that proves nearly completely useless in the advancement of the story and atmosphere. Moments in 
 to the chapter, you are very thanklessly reminded of Sander Cohen, but not in a good way. More 
 of a "direct rip-off of BioShock" kind of way. Just to make things easier on myself, I decided 
 to carry around the wrench and use the taser ad nauseam. Boy did I mess up those splicer-... rather, 
 crackheads. It genuinely felt as if half way through creating the game the developers picked up 
 a copy of BioShock and decided to write the rest of the plot with one hand while playing with the 
 other. Even the final boss bares a somewhat eerie resemblance Atlas, especially in theory. At least 
 the shocking jolts of storyline in THAT game were reasonable, quite possibly because BioShock remained 
 completely unreasonable the entire time, instead of the two-faced world of Condemned.
  
  All in all, Condemned 2: Bloodshot is still a very satisfying experience. And for most people, 
 it will be a genuinely terrifying one. Unfortunately, it does not live up to the same intensity 
 as other Monolith titles, most notably F. E. A. R. or even Criminal Origins. And on several occasions 
 Bloodshot tries to blatantly steal from other games. Guns deter from the whole idea of the franchise, 
 and as the game progresses they gradually become more and more prevalent. Many other aspects of 
 Condemned 2 are frustrating at best, and several attempts at suspenseful gameplay only lead to 
 complete irritation. Running away from an eight foot tall bear in a run-down wooden mountain-palace 
 sounds exciting in theory, but when executed in this case, only becomes entirely infuriating. The 
 storyline takes an unfortunate turn in to the sci-fi, and as a result the tangibly horrifying atmosphere 
 is replaced by a strange and unrealistic mess. I still recommend that anyone who thoroughly enjoyed 
 the original, or games like F. E. A. R. and BioShock, rent this title. Rent it, complete it, shelf 
 it, if only to remind you of how much better it could of been, and how much better the other games 
 were..
  
  and never think of it again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserKahn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't like the first on the scare meter. I only jumped once or twice during Condemned 
 2, where as I was dangerously paranoid playing Condemned 1 throughout the entire campaign. Although 
 this sequel is not nearly as scary as its first, it is certainly more intense. There are some points 
 in the game where adrenaline is pumping, some minor events where paranoia surfaces, and some regular 
 FPS fun in other events. Many have said that towards the end of Condemned 2, the story runs off 
 in an odd direction. Sadly, this is true, but I will not spoil what actually happens. Basically... it 
 diverted from a Detective theme to a Sci-Fi theme. Graphics aren't anything special, but the combat 
 is really fun and immersing. This game is definitetly worth it if you were really into Condemned 
 1, but you may be disappointed. I recommend renting before buying, however, you may need to buy 
 the game if you want to get all the achievements.... Unless your willing to spend 12 hours a day 
 for 5-6 days. However, if your expecting to be hunting serial killers like the first (like I was 
 expecting) , then there is a good chance you will be disappointed, considering your not really hunting 
 serial killers as intently as you did in Condemned 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  But a buddy happened to rent this game over the last weekend, didn't like it and let me play it.
 
  
  I'm amazed at this game. Extremely fun.
  
  Now I know every game has flaws and this game is no different. But the amount of things you could 
 consider a flaw or bad was to me, issues concerning, "well maybe if I had this type of weapon" 
 or "I wish I could do that.".
  
  To me I don't consider that a flaw. I judge a game on the content it has within it and that alone. 
 Unless it's content such as saying the game "The darkness" had no parts in the game where it was 
 dark. Though that of course is a lie, I hope you get my point. Missing content in my book is a 
 genre of a game better have something relating to that type of label.
  
  Condemned 2 is an Action-Adventure-like game and it fits that bill perfectly.
  
  PROS: 
  
 -Compared to the first Condemned (Which I played and beat) these graphics are wonderful. 
  -Technically wise, it ran smoothly for me and I didn't experience any drop in frame rate
  
 
  -The atmosphere of the game is just dreadful (in a good way) the walls would be covered in a nasty 
 thick black blood/tar on some levels, others were haunting doll factory, a drab (in a good way) 
 museum that felt empty of content from looters but filled with thieves and dread. Run-down apartments 
 and other such levels played there part.
  -Varied level design btw
  
  -Brutal hand-to-hand combos that add depth and a feeling of last resort when your weapon breaks 
 in the middle of a fight.
  -Varied melee-weapons added more depth then the last game.
  -The blood and gore of this game is excessive and beautiful whilst it flows from the foes you beat 
 down or shoot.
  -Gore in its own part is more evident then the last game and that to me is a good thing.
  
 
  -Some parts of the story can be gripping when you pay attention enough.
  -The new forensic system is more deep then the last game and pretty engaging.
  -Characters (Main 
 ones of course) are likable or hateable enough.
  -More boss fights make it interesting
  -Extras in the game like practice mode is pretty cool
  
  -The sound of the game is haunting 
 and creepy and scary and intense and all that good stuff.
  -The crunch and smash of punches, melee sound terrific.
  -Guns sound good.
  -Enemies are funny 
 to listen to.
  
  
  CONS:
  -Story on the most part at the end just confused the hell out of me.
  -Voice acting is passable 
 at best
  -Multiplayer is just way too tacked on.
  -AI needs a little encouragement to be triggered sometimes.
  -A giant metal crazy man can be 
 killed with one arrow?!?!?
  -I would have loved at least 20 hours of gameplay instead of 10.
  
  
  ALL-IN-ALL:
  Fantastic 
 gruesome engaging scary violent game with depth in the fighting and forensics systems. Some light 
 flaws such as multiplayer issues and story complications are evident but do little to hamper this 
 game for me.
  
  A rent for wary gamers and a must buy for fans of the original. 
  
  But hey, this is my opinion, you don't like it, whatever, it's me typing this all out not you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is the sequel to Condemned criminal origins, a game where you played as a cop named 
 Ethan Thomas solving murders and killing serial killers. Condemned 2 contiunes on this trend, but 
 while offering a darker story, online play, and also by adding some new mechanics to the game's 
 combat. In the gameplay department the combat is vastly improved, on the already fun combat in 
 the first condemned. The mian reason why it is so much better is that there are a lot more options 
 when it comes to the killing. Instead of just having one attack button and one block button, you 
 can now string together combos with your fists, with blocking and you can also do a forehand slash 
 and a backhand slash as well. This aspect of the gameplay alone makes the combat a lot better, 
 but now you can also do some timed button pressing sequences to execute an enemy. These sequences 
 really do require perfect timing, and if you are a second to late or early, you will miss out on 
 the execution oppertunity. The enemy a. i. hasn't been improved to much, but the enemies are still 
 fun and exciting to fight. You can also throw weapons at enemies now, and of course you can still 
 block these attacks as well with perfect timing. One aspect of the first condemned that wasn't 
 so great was the shooting. I am happy to report that in Condemned 2 it is so much better. You now 
 can aim a whole lot better, with the left trigger, similair to Call of Duty 4, and in some levels 
 all you will get is guns. This occurs mostly when cops from SCU are trying to kill you, and the 
 enemies tend to be pretty smart, by staying behind cover, and walking around only when they have 
 a group attacking you. Also when you beat the game you unlock the fps mode, which lets you play 
 the game with unlimited ammo. This aspect of you having unlimited ammo is countered by the enemies 
 able to kill you in two to three hits depending on who you're fighting. I haven't beaten to much 
 of the game on fps mode yet, but from what I played it was really fun. Another aspect of the game 
 that is greatly improved is the aspect of the forensics. In the first game every time there was 
 a forensics moment, the game would litterally hold your hand, telling you what to press to collect 
 evidence. In Condemned 2 however, when you are studying the crime scene or just giving someone 
 information, you will have to study it greatly and decide the best response to give to Rosa. The 
 forensics is overall much better in Condemned 2 and it does much more than just break up the action. 
 One aspect of Condemned 2 that isn't near as good as the original, was the story. You felt like 
 the story of the first Condemned could take place in the real world, and it made much more sense 
 than Condemned 2. While the story of Condemned 2 certaintly has it's moments, like in mid half 
 of the game the story starts to get great, but then by the last chapter loses some of it's greatness. 
 The story gets a little supernatural, and you end up being really confused, which is a bit dissapointing. 
 Condemned 2 does do a great job of answering any questions you may have had from the first game, 
 but I just hope in the 3rd Condemned the story could be a little better. Condemned 2 is the first 
 game in the series to offer online play, and it is overall a great addition. It adds a lot of value 
 to the game, and tends to be really fun. There are four game modes to the online including, deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, bum rush, and crime scene. The deathmatch and team deathmatch are pretty standard 
 stuff, but it is pretty enojyable running around the different maps and beating people to the death 
 with multiple wapons. In the bum rush game there are two people you are trying to kill that can 
 kill you in one or two hits, but your team also has six people so it feels pretty balanced. The 
 most interesting game mode is probably crime scene. In crime scene one team is the SCU and the 
 other team is the bad guys. The SCU team is trying to recover the evidence which the bad guys have, 
 and they get a radar and guns as well. The bad guys don't get any guns, but the SCU has to kill 
 them and scan the evidence before the three minutes is up, so it feels pretty balanced. Overall 
 the multi player experience is very good, especially for the first time in the series having online 
 play, but the experience isn't very deep and can get a little boring after awhile. Yet there are 
 plenty of people playing the game online, so you should be able to find games at any hour of the 
 day. Overall 9.5/10 Overall Condemned 2 is just a really fun and addictive game to play. It's multitude 
 of gameplay enhancemnts, better graphics and sound, and the new online play makes this game much 
 better than it's predocesor. It doesn't quite reach a 10/10 thanks to a confusing story, and somewhat 
 simplistic online play, but these small flaws shouldn't stop anyone from playing the game that 
 owns an Xbox 360. This game is not nearly as scary as the first, so people that get scared easily 
 should still have plenty of fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, I spent my entire weekend with Condemned 2, I will have to tread lightly with this review, 
 I know a lot of people LOVE this second coming of Ethan Thomas, but for some reason I thought it 
 was only "entertaining", I will try to explain why. I am not sure if it's because I was sick as 
 hell since Thursday, or if maybe, I just expected too much.
  
  
  I started playing this game last Wednesday night, waited for it to get dark so the mood was right, 
 the darkness would also help me be able to see the game visually, I knew the game was going to 
 be very dark, based on the very first intro screen that asks you to adjust the brightness on your 
 TV. After adjusting, I dove into the single player campaign.
  
  
  Ethan Thomas is back, and looking pretty much like how I felt, like hell! At the beginning of the 
 game, fans of the first Condemned game will feel right at home with the controls, and environment. 
 The typical FPS controls apply here, RS & LS to move around, left and right triggers to attack, 
 so even if you never played the fist game, you will have no problem adapting to the easy, yet clunky 
 controls. 
  
  
  Graphics & Environments :
  
  Ok, here we go The level detail, as in the first game, is awesome, they really give you the feeling 
 of "being there", but, I feel they tried to make this game too dark, there are areas within some 
 levels where not even the flashlight helped very much. Also, there seems to be some frame rate 
 issues every once and a while. They did not really affect the game play much, just more of an annoyance. 
 One of the other small things that I found annoying was the over exaggerated head bobbing motion 
 of Ethan when we walks or runs, it just seem a little to much.
  
  
  Controls:
  
  As mentioned, the controls are very easy to use, and nobody will have an issue with them, until 
 you try to pull of some of the new combo attacks that have been added. I am not sure if it is a 
 direct result of the frame rate issues, or just bad timing on my part, but I missed many an opportunity 
 to get combo points because I was already into my next attack move by the time the combo icon would 
 show up on the screen. I found myself having to slow down on attacks in order to keep pace with 
 combos and finishing moves. How ever, those finishing moves ARE worth the small displeasure with 
 the timing. 
  
  Speaking of finishing moves, they are not new to Condemned, but Environmental Kills are. What are 
 they you may be asking? Well, if you are trying to finish off a baddy, there will come a point 
 where they get into a "stunned" position, thus giving you a chance to finish them off. At this 
 point, the area you are in will suddenly have little white circles/targets spread around. Those 
 targets may be the edge of a desk, a window, a door, or even a press, you can drag your victim 
 over to any of the targets and use what ever object it is to finish them off. I personally got 
 great pleasure when I used the press machine on the psycho cheerleader chick, it was a beautifully 
 horrific scene when I put her head into it!
  
  One thing I did find different in the combat was just the difficulty, this game seems harder, I 
 seemed to die a lot more then I did in the first game.
  
  
  
  Story: 
  
  This is where I really thought this game was going to shine. After playing the first game, I was 
 very much sucked into the story, and wanted to find out where it was going next. The only thing 
 I can say here is, now, the story feels discombobulated. Not confusing, just sort of like they 
 did not really know what do next, as if they were caught of guard by the first games success and 
 didn't really have a plan for the sequel. Again, it was not BAD, just not what I was looking forward 
 to. It also seemed to lose it's creepiness that was soooo dominating in the first game, this one 
 just did not have the scare factor I was looking for. 
  
  
  
  Forensic Investigation:
  
  This area of the game has probably seen the most improvement. They 
 still give you more guidance then probably what is needed, but the open-ended questions, almost 
 RPG like, are a new twist to the game. You will need to ask questions, and figure out clues in 
 order to get graded at the end of each mission. Having only played the game once, I am not sure 
 if it takes a different path if you ask/answer questions differently each time. Along the exploration 
 part of the game, this time through, instead of dead birds and metal chunks, you will be looking 
 for TV's and radios that transmit news stories which are relevant to the games main story. You 
 will also be looking for transmitters, I will let you figure that out as you play the game, don't 
 want to ruin anything here for ya.
  
  
  Online Multiplayer:
  
  Of course, what would a game of any kind be today without it's online feature, even if the game 
 type does not warrant it? Well, Condemned 2 is the game that did not need online play. Sure it's 
 fun to run around and bash people in the face with a toilet seat, but after about the first 15 
 minutes, or first match you will soon be saying "seen it, done it" There really was not much to 
 offer here.
  
  Over all, this was "entertaining", just not the awesome experience I thought we were in for. The 
 satisfying head thumping you get to dish out is still there, and even though they included more 
 weapons, and different finishing kills, the game just falls short. Add to that the boring story 
 line and odd visuals at some point, this games gets a 7.5. Worth playing, just don't expect to 
 much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxale
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  There aren't too many games that have made me genuinely scared. But this game, at one point, made 
 me afraid to continue the game. I had to put the controller down and take a break before finding 
 out what was making the frightening noises I was hearing. But anyway, this game is good.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins was, in my opinion, the only launch title game for the 360 that took 
 advantage of the system's capabilities. And now Bloodshot steps up to the bar that Criminal Origins 
 had raised for horror games, and beat it to death. In other words, what the first game has done 
 this game has done so much better.
  
  First of all, the graphics are beautifully disturbing. There is great deal in every character whether 
 it be the facial features or their animations. And has anyone else noticed how much time they took 
 making the blood look so... bloody.
  
  Sound is at it's finest in this game. Whether it's the excellent voice acting or the soundtrack 
 that fits ever moment perfectly, you will never be displeased.
  
  As for the combat, fighting hand to hand with hobos is as fun as ever. Every time you hit them 
 and you receive a hit, you can pretty much feel it. And it hurts. Just try to ignore the fact that 
 there is no way someone can be standing after getting smacked in the face with an axe... but that 
 isn't too important.
  
  But it isn't all good. First of all, there should never be a multi-player component to a horror 
 game... that's what I believe at least. Instead of adding in multi-player, they really outta have 
 added a bit more length to the campaign. I mean, I'm sure there are people out there happy to play 
 multi-player, but I frankly don't give a crap about it.
  
  Overall, this game is a frightening experience has will have plenty of sections for fans of this 
 genre to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all I never played the original Condemned release, so I can't compare it to this one. 
 But I will say it is a good game. Trudging through dark alleyways and abandoned buildings with 
 nothing but a few flickering lights and your trusty flashlight, it really sets the tone for a dark 
 and evil environment. Your goal is to unlock and solve bits and pieces of a much larger trail of 
 your sought after serial killer. Weapons can be found sporadically around you, such as broken pipes, 
 2x4 boards, and various prosthetic limbs. Melee attacks are vicious and require some quick thinking. 
 The controls are somewhat awkward, particularly the sprinting button. One of the minor things I 
 dislike is the fact that your character (Ethan) has no ability to jump. Kinda makes things one 
 dimensional at times. The enemies are pretty scary in their attacks and if you're not quick enough 
 to block attacks, then you'll be dead pretty quickly. Overall, the game is a good horror action 
 game with plenty of moment to make your spine tingle. Bottom line, turn off your lights turn on 
 the 360 and dive into Condemned 2: Bloodshot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  You are Ethan Thomas, a former FBI agent who enjoys killing homeless junkies, who wish to kill 
 you as well. Due to mental issues from the events of the first Condemned, you are an alcohollic 
 bum yourself! Irony, anyone? I would love to tell you all about the story, but I can't tell much 
 without spoiling it. If you have played the first one, then Bloodshot will give you bunches of 
 twists and turns and thrills that will leave you on the edge of your seat from the beginning, to 
 the very end. This is all thanks to amazing level design, very ominous sounds and sights, and practically 
 no lights except for the weak one on your shoulder. Now you have a very creepy atmosphere. The 
 fighting system is a big part of condemned that unfortunately is not perfected yet. Sometimes it 
 gets downright annoying, especially when you are overwhelmed by enemies. I mean come on! You can 
 only block so many attacks. And the story still leaves some things unexplained. Once you beat the 
 story you unlock FPS mode. Lots a guns! Lots a ammo! Lots a fun! There are also challenges you 
 unlock for beating the levels.
  
  So now we move on to multiplayer... There is Deathmatch, team dethmatch, Crime Scene, and Bum Rush. 
 The first two are self explanitory, however Crime Scene and Bum rush are different, Crime Scene: 
 The influenced team hides evidence and guards it, while the SCU team tries to find it and scan 
 it. Bum Rush: SCU tries to get to point A to point B. Influenced tries to stop them. At first it 
 is very fun, but it gets old fast.
  
  Overall, great game, with some flaws. Worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman127
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Horror is not "omg a werewolf." Horror is were something terrible, unthinkable, or unholy is taking 
 place, and it can happen in our world. From heroin addicts to rabid bears, the hell you face in 
 Condemned 2 is unlike no other, and thats a fine thing.
  
  If you played the first one, then this game WILL awnswer the VERY many questions in the first game, 
 if you havn't then don't worry, you won't be left in the dark (well you will either way but you 
 get it :) . You are Ethan Thomas, a renegade SCU agent with a alchohal problem and a serious attitude, 
 brouhgt back from the life of a bum to becoming the cities only hope.
  
  The story is great, plot twists and scares lurk behind every corner, hullucinations tear your mind 
 and work against you. The length of the game is about 12 hours and will keep you on eage every 
 step of the way. The graphics are great, but there are better looking games.
  
  The combat is much improved over the first (which had great combat to begin with) . You can now 
 use your fists and the blocking system is no longer a split second but a full fleged block. You 
 can also throw weopons such as bricks and alchohal, which can lead to some pretty intresting fights.
 
  
  Now this game is not perfect, I had some problems with the flashlight not working at all in the 
 nightmare sequnces and some frustrating deaths occurd because of the problem. The guns sound like 
 cap guns and I did encounter an annoying glitch in the SCU building were the guy got stuck to the 
 floor preventing me from advacing.
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic. The flaws are minor and they don't really ruin the experionce. 
 I recomend this to any one......... just don't expect to sleep for a few days :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I picked it up at Blockbuster at about 8 PM on Saturday night. I played it 
 after watching a movie at about 11 pm. I have to admit, after playing it for about 10 min, i had 
 to turn my lights on cause i was so creped out. The visuals were great, the graphics were amazing. 
 All of the maps were perfect and had you not wanting to walk around a corner. The crime scene investigations 
 are a blast and its pretty cool. The only bad thing about this game is that the fighting is a little 
 tuff. Thru the first 2 levels you don't get that many weapons to chose from and the fighting is 
 kinda like beating each others heads in one at a time. I hit, they hit, and so on. After that thou 
 when you start getting guns and more things to use it gets better. Overall its a great game. The 
 achievements are cool and its a fun game to play. The multi player is alright but can get a little 
 boring. Other then those two things this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsdhagljkgh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  When I got the first game of the Condemned series, I was a bit upset with the constant reminder 
 about how Xbox 360 is new, and with its new controller, you can "Do so much more", I was sceptical 
 about how the sequel would turn out. Alas, I purchased the game a few days ago, and it reversed 
 my thinking upon the game. The constant dark rooms, and the dim flashlight use reminded me of the 
 game "Call of Cthulu", where senses were tested, and playing the game in the middle of the night 
 is not the best idea. Condemned 2 has a great effect of survival horror, where nothing is like 
 what it seems, and there are eyes watching you at every moment. One of my personal favorite fixes 
 from the sequel is the evidence lookup, where the user's intelligence and observational skills 
 are tested to get a "perfect rating" on figuring out a crime scene. To make a potential long review 
 short, Condemned 2 is the best game to have in your stockpile when you want to get scared senseless 
 in the middle of the night, while having a great time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Condemned 2 is the sequel to the Xbox 360's launch game Condemned: Criminal Origins. With much 
 better graphics, ground breaking game play and truly amazing story telling C2 breaks 08' wide open.
 
  
  Graphically is really the only place C2 struggles. Though much better then the original C2 suffers 
 from VERY inconsistent textures and character models. Some areas of the game put Gears of War to 
 shame others barely get the job done. This never really hurts the game but is really the only problem 
 other then some minor graphical glitches which is seen in almost any game on a PS 3 or 360. The 
 most noticeable drop in graphical quality happen during less important areas giving me the filling 
 they were left less detailed do to there lack of importance, so I say fair enough. Most of the 
 game though will truly blow your mind with their amazing detailed environments and life like character 
 models.
  
  Game play has been much improved. Though relying mostly on Melee combat much like the first game, 
 it makes melee as intense as any shooter. With each trigger controlling a hand you can easily beat 
 your way through a slew of crack hands and finish them off with a brick to the head. Gun play though 
 second to melee is much more involved then the last game especially in the later levels. New additions 
 such as Online multiplayer and the C2 fight club which is some what a arcade survival game make 
 its total package online and off almost perfect. Online is brutal and addictive, though it needs 
 some DLC in the future to truly flesh it out, such as more playable characters and so on. The fight 
 club is a collection of offline challenges in which you are given a mission and complete it as 
 quickly as possible or kill as many enemies as possible and so on. The fight club is simple and 
 strikingly fun to try and climb up the leader boards as you mindlessly beat the crap out of creatures 
 and meth heads. Now that the action is perfected you would think the investigative side would suffer 
 but actually it is also perfected as well allowing more freedom which feels a lot more like you 
 are actually doing something rather then following a prompt. 
  You can actually fail to find clues and move on through the game. It is all up to you. You are 
 also fully in control of what tool you use and can actually select them any where in the game but 
 rarely have any use outside of the designated areas. 
  
  One odd note though. Both the lead character Thomas and his friend Rossa have under gone extreme 
 make overs. Thomas is white for one thing, muscular instead of chunky and more.... emo. Rossa lost 
 100 lbs, is 10-15 years younger and less...... ugly. This was a straight up switch- a-roo and not 
 do to the timeline. It's weird but in the end it is very much for the best. I live in the fat ugly 
 world. I want to play in the pretty one. 
  
  All and all it is the best FP survival horror game to date. Yeah thats right better then Bioshock. 
 Content alone expands C2 far beyond Bioshocks offline offering and the story mode in C2 finishes 
 the job.
  
  
  Dollar value $70-$80 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  In a word- yes. Condemned 2: Bloodshot delivers what fans such as myself loved about the original 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins. 
  
  The atmosphere is still thick with insanity, violence, and death. Dark corridors, rooms, and all 
 manner of environments lay waiting for players with the cojones to explore them to make their way 
 down them. Make no mistake, this game will scare the piss out of you. Enemies are deranged, lurking 
 in shadows, corners, anywhere they can hide to take a cheap shot at you. The combat will feel very 
 familiar to those who played the predecessor, which is a good thing. Weapons still connect with 
 a thud that sends the psychotics of the city reeling. Old weapons such as locker doors, electric 
 conduits, and 2x4 return, along with a plethore of new armaments such as deer antlers, fooseball 
 arms, and deformed dolls that can be thrown like grenades. The gun combat works, but it's not what 
 Condemned was known for. The weapons handle loosely, but are absolutely necessary in certain circumstances. 
 Arguably, the most improved aspect of this title is the forensics. No longer are players limited 
 to finding strictly the correct answer to progress, with a few exceptions. Rather, players investigate 
 the scene and piece together the scene by choosing what they believe are the right answers. Granted, 
 you should still investigate the scene rather than choose answers haphazardly. At the end of every 
 mission, you are rated based on accuracy of forensics, conversation with other characters, "responses," 
 optional objectives, tuning in radios and televisions, and destroying sonic emitters. Higher ranks 
 mean better upgrades at the end of the mission.
  
  In terms of the story, it does well. It nicely ties up the loose ends from the original and tells 
 a new one. Ethan Thomas is an alcoholic and delusional. Even so, the SCU needs his investigative 
 brilliance and fearlessness to investigate the continued crimes. Without spoiling anything, his 
 character is fleshed out nicely. While the story does have some stereotypical aspects, it is still 
 largely original and fits well into the world portrayed in the original Condemned.
  
  Fans of Condemned: Criminal Origins should play this game. If you haven't played Condemned, don't 
 worry about missing too much as a lot of it is explained. If you want a game that delivers psychological 
 warfare on all fronts, this is your game. Seriously, if you scare easy or cannot handle disturbing 
 images, DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME. Otherwise, Condemned 2: Bloodshot is an engaging experience that 
 keeps the twists and scares rolling until after the credits roll (do watch the credits so you can 
 see what happens after they're over...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullsfan1512
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  *Spoliers*
  
  Ok, first off, if you haven't played the first Condemned, then go play and beat that first to get 
 caught up on the story... wait, maybe you shouldn't play it.... because that would mean you would 
 be listening to the better voice cast. That is truly the only downfall for C2; the voice cast. 
 The orignal VC had unquie voices that truly matched the character they were playing however, in 
 C2, its gone from grade A++ to B-. They voices sound stereotypetypical; Ethan sounds like a "i'm 
 a hardass cuz I wanna be, not cuz of my f**** up past." Rosa sounds like she belongs in a b rated 
 horror slasher flim. Malcom Vanhorn sounds just plain goofy and SKX sounds dorky. The only good 
 voices are that of La'rue (it just sounds badass when your popping a guys head with the shotty 
 and he yells out "yeah, get that mother f*****!" and the Director of SCU (its Colonel from Metal 
 Gear Solid Series! So, that just equals badassness)
  
  Aside from the negative voice acting, EVERYTHING has been improved from the 1st, which is what 
 makes this a 9.5 game. Hand-to-to combat vastly improved with many combos and Enviromental kills 
 rule. Firearm combat could have use a reload button (espeicaly after unlocking unlimted ammo for 
 FPS mode) , but otherwise very solid. The ablitly to check your progress with achivements vastly 
 helps with finding TV's and other things. Mulitplayer could have used a little more fleshing out, 
 but other wise, quite enjoyable and unquie. Overall, extremely great game, not for anyone under 
 17, better than the 1st... almost. IF ONLY the had the same guy voice Ethan, I would give it a ten 
 for that, but no Ethan, gets you just a 9.5! Can't wait for the 3rd! p. s-Please get the orignal 
 voice cast back please Sega! =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightseed
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  After completing Condemned: Criminal Origins, I couldn't wait but to see the progressions of Ethan 
 Thomas, and after over a year of waiting, I was once more cast into the compelling story surrounding 
 the former FBI agent. Don't worry kids, no spoilers here.
  
  Condemned 2: Bloodshot picked up a lot of what Condemned: CO put down, yet it lacked in the most 
 successful department of its predecessor, a bold storyline. After the amazingly detailed and gripping 
 storyline that Criminal Origins gave us, Bloodshot was a major disappointment. With a strong story 
 that soured and had more predictable "twists" than a M. Night flick, BS was simply what it's initials 
 were meant to be. 
  
  Sure, the gameplay was a major improvement, and the visuals were something to behold, but after 
 incorporating so many systems that were more of an annoyance than entertainment . 
  
  The thrill factor was what made this game get the 8.0. The fact that I was scared to the extent 
 of tears at certain points in the game as I progressed through the Doll Factory, and later, the 
 School. The atmosphere and feel of the game truly lived up to it's former title, and the villains 
 were as horrific as ever.
  
  The length of the game was nothing special, with only one or two good sit downs to play through 
 it, and the major cliffhanger after the credits doesn't do much to suit my taste for yet another 
 Condemned.
  
  The multiplayer is worth a try or two, but unless you get a talkative and funny party, it's definitely 
 not worth spending your time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheograth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game overall. I have not completed it, but would recommend it to any Xbox 360 or PS3 
 owner. It retains the creepy atmosphere of the original while increasing the pace a little. Firearms 
 are more available but still scarce, and the developers have basically mastered the art of first 
 person melee combat. Bludgeoning thugs with 2x4s has never been this fun. The game is incredibly 
 atmospheric and will keep you at the edge of your seat. Levels can be a bit too dark at times, 
 but nothing that detracts from the gameplay. The art style and level design is great, and the technology 
 behind the graphics engine is good as well. One negative I found early on is that the frame rate 
 dips from time to time, nothing that affects gameplay but worth noting. Sound is excellent, be 
 sure to play it in a dark room with the sound turned up, and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  We all know that the first game was a sleeper hit. It scared the crap out of us and really brought 
 a new meaning to FPS suspense. Condemned 2 not only brings that all back but it adds much more 
 to the table. Check it out below.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Very detailed enviorments and charcters. The game is dark but not to dark. The flashlight in the 
 game keeps you feeling edgy and once in a while you feel like turning those lights on in the house. 
 There is much detail in pretty much everything you look at. Whether it be the ground your walking 
 on or the bum digging through the trash can.
  Everything is in a first person view. Climbing ladders or falling through a hole. You will always 
 be seeing the game through Ethans eyes.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound effects really keep the suspence going strong. You may be walking around for a few mins 
 hearing nothing until you enter one room where you hear a crazy drugged bum laughing in freakish 
 manner. Sounds come from behing and in the corners. Hearing a flock of birds fly away in surround 
 sound is quite impressive. Its the little sounds in this game that really keep it going. Less is 
 more in this case.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  There are some no additions to this sequel. One being that Ethan is now an alcholic and needs to 
 drink just to keep his nerves down. Alcholhol is scattered throughout the game.
  Forensic evaluations are a new part of Condemned. You get to determine and evaluate the crime scenes 
 and upload the information yourself. Is the dead body a male or female? How were they killed? Was 
 the body moved at any point? You are evaluated by how close you can come to the right answers.
 
  TV sets and radios are also scattered throughout the game and when you find one you must adjust 
 the antenna to get a signal. You get frequent messages from the killer and bonuses from finding 
 all TVs and radios.
  
  Overall 9.25/10
  This game also features a multiplayer mode but I have yet to try it out.
  Condemned 2 brings 
 a whole new feeling to a FPS game. The added objectives and new forensic analysis makes you feel 
 like a real detective. If you liked the first game then you will love this sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f798182
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I never play the first one, i just read the first story in detail. And since yesterday, i play 
 Condemned 2 bloodshot for about 2 hours. And... wow! What a great game! Beautiful graphic, almost 
 nice than Bioshock! And superb sound effect, music, ambiance, scenario. I 'm in complete love with 
 that game, who's so immersive and so intense in every corner. And i loved the character Ethan, 
 and the great use of the Action button. The story is really cool, and the use of the environnement 
 is almost perfect. I love the control too. Even if i don't play the first game (criminal origin) 
 i don't feel lost or confuse. You have to play that game in a dark environnement when it's possible, 
 with that, you can fell the pressure of the darkness and the beauty of the shadows, even yours! 
 To date, i don't see any bad thing in the game and i just want to get back to my 360 and continuing 
 to play! An instant classic for the 360!!! Don't miss it! njoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins was one of those games that started out with a splash, then slowly 
 vaporized. The fighting was brutal and entertaining, then grew boring. The forensics were a neat 
 addition, but frustrating to use. The environments, while creepier and less boring than F. E. A. R. 
 still managed to confuse many a player in its myriad of human depravity.
  
  Bloodshot doesn't do a whole lot to improve on many of those shortcomings, but its new additions 
 and nearly equally thrilling gameplay make the adventure something to write home about. The environments 
 vary from public areas that smack of The Darkness (it's a good thing) , and some that reminisce 
 of the basement of Buffalo Bill. The effect it has on the gameplay is understandably difficult 
 to describe to someone who hasn't played, but if you were impressed with those in the original, 
 you'll be extremely satisfied with what can be found in the sequel. The areas seem smaller, but 
 it's a small price to pay for a less confusing environment, something which I can confidently say 
 was the biggest problem with the original. The graphics are decidedly next generation, and while 
 both environments and character models are great conceptually, the lack of color variety mars (a 
 little bit) what otherwise would seem perfectly acceptable.
  
  It's a real merit for a game to make players lose the very clear idea that they're playing a video 
 game. I can't in good conscience detract points, since what immerses one player detaches another. 
 Then again, it's rarely the subject matter that consistently attracts or repels the gamer, but 
 how the game sounds and plays. Audio in this game is kind of an ambiguous affair; the soundtrack 
 is on par with Hitman's Jesper Kyd, and perfectly compliments the environments. Unfortunately, 
 the voice acting in many cases is just too corny. Ethan Thomas has no shred of joy whatsoever, 
 which is understandable for a disgraced wino living in an urban wasteland, but unfortunately this 
 depression which is conveyed rather well makes the voicing too surreal for my taste.
  
  The controls feel clunky, a problem with the last game. This is in part due to a combat system 
 that focuses on melee weapons. Everyone loves them, but put them in a completely first-person environment 
 with limited depth perception and you're guaranteed some frustrating fighting. The combat has improved, 
 though they are a bit bare. There isn't much of a learning curve to be found, since it's hard to 
 actually learn timed button mashing if you aren't that good at it. There are alternate-handed attacks, 
 blocks, parries, special combos, and damage multipliers, but none of them make the combat feel 
 a whole lot better.
  
  The game no longer automatically chooses your forensic tool, which is a bit of a neat addition, 
 but doesn't make any real difference in the end. There's now an action button to do things like 
 environmental kills, vocal reactions and the like, but that doesn't improve on the original much 
 either. The fear factor in the game probably is higher all around, but criminal origins had some 
 moments that were the scariest in video gaming. I'm a guy who isn't scared easily, but the combination 
 of environments, soundtrack, and suspense do make for an eerie gaming experience most of the time. 
 It doesn't rely so much on pop-up frights, a definite plus in my book, but moments like the basement 
 in brill or the butcher encounter in the school aren't quite replicated here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  As good as the original Condemned was, this improves on everything by a huge margin. This review 
 is for the single player as i haven't tried MP yet.
  
  First the gameplay. Fighting is dramatically improved. You'll fight with your fists, weapons and 
 use the enviornment to down your foes. RT and LT control your individual fists and the fighting 
 is much deeper now. Using timed button presses in conjunction with on screen prompt, you can inflict 
 high damage attacks and chains. Weapons are improved as there are 3 times the amount of them over 
 the original and all of them can be thrown. Guns make a comeback and you'll need to watch your 
 ammo as always, but also drink booze to steady your aim.
  
  The sequal also improves the visuals, but not by a huge margin. The game looks good though and the 
 characters looks great. This game seems to be more heavy on the actions at first as you'll fight 
 mulitple enemies at one time. However, the scares really start around 1/3 through and keep you on 
 your toes. 
  
  Music is eerie and fits the onscreen action perfectly. Sound effects are great, although the guns 
 sound a little weak.
  
  Forensics are back and also much improved. No longer are you given the right tool atoumatically, this 
 time you have to pay attention to detail if you're going to spot everything in the crime scene.
 
  
  Overall, this is the sequel we've been waiting for as it takes everything that was great about the 
 original and improves upon it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Where to begin.... If you are a fan of the first one you will definitely enjoy this game. Everything 
 is still there from the first but now enhanced and so much richer.
  
  At first I was skeptical from reading a review in EGM that rated it well but said the last half 
 of the game isn't nearly as good as the first. being passed the half way mark, I can tell you this 
 game doesn't lose any of its steam along the way. I'm not the type of person to jump watching a 
 movie or playing a game, but this game has had some pretty intense moments. 
  
  The fighting system in my opinion is great. You get a left jab and right jab done by using the 
 left and right triggers. But also you get multiple other attacks. When linked together you are 
 looking at maybe like 10 different combo attacks, not to mention the grab moves. The grab moves 
 let you take out your enemies quickly or you can use the environment to dismember your enemies. 
 
  
  The graphics are amazing for this type of game. The developers realized this and added in so many 
 puzzles you need to figure out by looking at stuff in the environment. Whether it is a piece of 
 paper on the floor, or directions to operate something, it adds a realistic effect to this already 
 great game.
  
  I haven't tried the multi player yet, but from what I know about the single player experience, 
 this is a must own game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Finally a 2008 release that makes good on it's promise. After sitting through one disappointing 
 release after another since the new year i'm talking to you Devil May Cry, Army Of Two, Lost Odyssey. 
 Condemned 2 breaks the trend and delivers a immersing next-gen experience with a nice shiny black 
 & blood soaked coat of paint. This is survival horror meets fight klub in the best way. The game 
 picks up a few months after Orgins left off and are boy Ethan Thomas has developed a massive drinking 
 problem, hey don't judge you would too after what he went through in Orgins. So the game opens 
 with Ethan in a bar enjoying his favorite drink will some pills. Long story short he's called back 
 in to duty to find someone you may remember from the original Orgins, no spoiler here spoiler boy. 
 The first chapter is really well done and introduces you to the new combat system that Monolith 
 has added. Which includes a new combo system with finishing moves. Think if mortal combat & fight 
 klub had a baby it would be called Condemned Bloodshot. Once you have a enemy dazed you can pull 
 in the left and right triggers to put them in a choke hold when this is active skulls pop up within 
 the enviroment. Take your victim toward say a TV and smash there head through it or how bought 
 the toilet over there that has not been flushed it quite some time and you get the idea. The graphics 
 are done really well and coated with a thick black blood soacked detail that looks sick. The levels 
 consist of back alleys abandoned warehouse's & a creepy second chapter that if you have seen Kubricks 
 The Shining you will feel right at home with by the way "Stay away from room 203". Also of note 
 the foresinc tools from the orginal are back but have recieved a significant upgrade. Now when 
 you use theses tools you are asked a series of questions about the evidence you have collected. 
 Get them right or almost right and you will recieve a upgrade at the end of the mission. I'm about 
 have way through this one as I write this but I would have to say this is one worth the investment. 
 The multiplayer is a bonus but won't keep you for very long. That said this is not a multiplayer 
 game like Silent Hill and Resident Evil you play this for the single player experiance. The best 
 complement I can give this one is I played it for 5 hours straight in the dark and the hairs on 
 the back off my neck stood up the whole play through. See you in the dark. -Stu- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoJaMcco
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Regardless of the somewhat cliche story concept, this well surpassed its predecessor. The enhanced 
 combo system adds intensity and a sense of self-accomplishment to the already brutal action, and 
 the upgrade system adds an RPG element that is a new trend in FPS games that is more than welcome. 
 Gameplay aside, there is one thing that actually impressed me more than anything: THIS IS ACTUALLY 
 SCARY! I have never been scared by a game, but this actually made me jump on several occasions 
 and had me on edge looking in every corner for enemies who, by the way, are some of the most vicious 
 and unsettling in the genre. With the enemies, sound effects, and morbid atmosphere, this could 
 make even the most avid SIlent Hill fan clench their security blanket. I have yet to try multiplayer, 
 but I am optimistic.
  
  P. S. If you have a friend and/or girlfriend that scares easy, play this with them and get plenty 
 of cheap laughs at their expense (just try not to get assaulted in the process) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdny1975
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Wow, talk about a brutal multiplayer!!! its painful to play longer then 30-45 min, thats about 
 how long it takes for the great graphics of multiplayer to wear off & you realize running in circles 
 slamming people with bricks gets old quick. I bought this game cause i loved the 1st one & intend 
 on beating the single player, if my purchase was based soley on the multiplayer, i'd be one pissed 
 off person right about now. Thank god for a strong single player!! The single player is just like 
 the 1st game. I didnt play the single player long yesterday, but it looks as awesome as ever from 
 the little i did see. I gave the multiplayer a true chance & it was getting more painful by the 
 minute to keep playing, i was wishing someone would come smash me in the head with a brick & end 
 my multiplayer nightmare!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I wont go deep into the story but I will go into the combat. RT is for your right fist and LT is 
 for your left, and if you hold both of them down you will block. If you just tap RT and LT and 
 the same time you will perry and that will send the enemy back. If you double-tap RT or LT you 
 will you can start the chain-attacks where you have to press on-screen prompts in-order to complete. 
 Presing the promts will do attacks. Now this is Condemned so there is execution moves but they 
 are enviormental. If someone gets down on their knees you press RT and LT to pick them up and than 
 just walk them to a skull icon that are scattered around and you will do things from throwing their 
 head into a tv to throwing there head in a printer press... and yes, their head does get crushed. 
 Than there are the combos. Executing combos will give you the multiplier. And yes, you can feel 
 that it is more powerfull because of more vibration. Combos are things such as parrying and than 
 giving the enemy the ole' one-two. Than there is multiplayer which has 4 gametypes. One called 
 Bum-Rush where 2 SCU agents have to get to a certain area and the bums have to stop them. Than 
 there is another where there is a container with a head in it and the SCU have to get it and investigate 
 it and the bums have to defend it. Than there is Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch. Finally there 
 is the "Blood Shot Fight Club". It is good for 3 reasons. 1 it's good for practice. 2 it's easy 
 to just jump in, bash some skulls and leave and 3 it's fun. Basicly it is where you will be just 
 put into an area to fight. You can choose what weapons the enemys have and what kind of enemys 
 and how many enemys you'll be fighting at a time. Than there are the challenges to do in Fight 
 Club but those are for later ;) . If you liked Condemned 1 or you like survival-horror games, you 
 will love Condemned just like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AminoonimA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Amazing Game And Should Not Be Missed
  
  "The story isn't too satisfying, but the atmosphere is excellent. The artistic direction and clever 
 use of filters keep this game appealing from start to finish. Turn up the volume and play the game 
 alone for maximum effect. The improvements are exactly what was expected out of a sequel. The core 
 concept feels a bit diluted by the end. Most of the new features outside of the main game are throw 
 aways. Condemned 2 doesn't make as big of a splash as its predecessor, but it does everything necessary 
 to make a quality sequel. There are more features, fan complaints are addressed and it's still 
 as spine tingling as ever. The story, though less akin to Swiss cheese than the first one was, 
 is not as gripping and the game feels as if it lost its focus in the latter stages. As a sequel, 
 the game doesn't have the originality the first had going for it and, as such, the shortcomings 
 are more noticeable. The gameplay improvements are strong enough to overshadow these for the most 
 part and you're still left with a wild ride.'
  
  Ya SPAWNandVENOM Some People Actually Read IGN REVIEWS ;p; P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPAWNandVENOM_
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The story isn't too satisfying, but the atmosphere is excellent. The artistic direction and clever 
 use of filters keep this game appealing from start to finish. Turn up the volume and play the game 
 alone for maximum effect. The improvements are exactly what was expected out of a sequel. The core 
 concept feels a bit diluted by the end. Most of the new features outside of the main game are throw 
 aways. Condemned 2 doesn't make as big of a splash as its predecessor, but it does everything necessary 
 to make a quality sequel. There are more features, fan complaints are addressed and it's still 
 as spine tingling as ever. The story, though less akin to Swiss cheese than the first one was, 
 is not as gripping and the game feels as if it lost its focus in the latter stages. As a sequel, 
 the game doesn't have the originality the first had going for it and, as such, the shortcomings 
 are more noticeable. The gameplay improvements are strong enough to overshadow these for the most 
 part and you're still left with a wild ride.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
