-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Denied Ops
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/crossfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced and loaded with explosions.
 Good allied AI.
 Co-op multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission goals.
 Awkward sniper controls.
 Annoying music and dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 432 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Feb 12, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A little dumb and a lot dated, yet still marginally enjoyable if you're into retro shooters with 
 lots of kabooms. 

  For the fifth game in a series, Conflict: Denied Ops sure doesn't show any signs of evolution. 
 This may actually be the simplest edition of the shooter franchise that developer Pivotal Games 
 has produced, with gameplay so out of date that it might as well be wearing a plaid flannel shirt 
 and listening to Alice in Chains. But even though the action is a good decade behind the times, 
 the game's rapid-fire pace blurs the fact that you're shooting the same bad guys over and over 
 again. Cooperative play is a highlight and earns the game some applause all by itself given how 
 this shooter feature is so often asked for and so rarely delivered. This mindless shooter is ideal 
 for those moments when you want to switch off the synapses, though some awkward control issues 
 occasionally get in the way.            If there were milk jugs in this game, they'd go up like 
 TNT with a single shot     

  As with the four previous games in the franchise, the theme here is military and the gameplay is 
 stuck in the neutral zone between one-bullet-and-you're-dead hardcore action games and the more 
 absurd stuff where you can soak up lead like a sponge before meeting your maker. The story in the 
 campaign is typical of these middle-of-the-road shooters, with you taking charge of a pair of Special 
 Forces operatives working to unravel a nuclear-arms conspiracy through 10 missions spread across 
 the globe. Perspective has been switched to first-person from the third-person featured in the 
 previous Conflict games, however, and your squad's been cut back to two commandos from four. These 
 changes don't make a great deal of difference to how the game plays, though. Being able to switch 
 between sniper Graves and heavy gunner Lang is actually so seamless that you might as well be playing 
 a single character.  

  That said, teamwork can be a key component of Conflict: Denied Ops. Your buddy can be ordered around 
 and healed with quick clicks of the right mouse button, and the smart artificial intelligence adeptly 
 handles firefights. Storming enemy-occupied rooms, for example, is a snap. Just send Lang up to 
 the doorway, where he'll automatically lay down suppressing fire while you sit back and shoot survivors 
 with Graves' scoped sniper rifle. You can always count on your comrade to kill a fair number of 
 enemies if he's positioned correctly, and you can even assign him to take out level bosses such 
 as combat helicopters. The only problem here is that your squadmate takes orders too seriously. 
 He typically won't yield the position you've ordered him to assume even if you're trying to get 
 past him, causing congestion in tight corridors until you issue a new movement command. Likewise, 
 you have to be careful when directing your pal when he's at the wheel of the hovercrafts and other 
 drivable vehicles in the game; he's more than happy to roll right over you if you get between him 
 and his assigned destination.  

  Other than this smooth-and-simple buddy stuff, there isn't much here out of the ordinary. Level 
 design is the very definition of routine, although the campaign is jazzed up somewhat with the 
 ability to choose the order in which you handle some assignments. While the graphics are detailed 
 and attractive and the missions feature varied scenery representing such diverse locales as the 
 Venezuelan countryside, a Siberian castle, an icy Russian whaling depot, and the dusty streets 
 of a Rwandan city, goals are never more involved than shooting everybody you see and blowing things 
 up. You occasionally steal data from computers and set explosive charges, but generally this is 
 a Point A-to-Point B killing spree.  

  At least the pace keeps the proceedings from getting too dull. Even though you're gunning down 
 the same thugs and soldiers over and over, you do so at a pretty fast clip. This isn't Serious 
 Sam or anything, but the speed is zippy enough to keep you from feeling bogged down in endless 
 enemies or eternally difficult choke points (although there are quite a few of the latter spread 
 throughout the game's levels) . Further excitement is provided by being able to blow up damn near 
 everything. Levels are strewn with barrels, gas cans, and propane tanks ready to go boom at a single 
 shot, and it seems like you can't turn around without running into some catastrophic incident like 
 a helicopter exploding in your face. Sometimes it seems like the simple act of shooting a wooden 
 box causes Fourth of July-style fireworks to go off. All of the speed and pyrotechnics give the 
 game an exciting, if awfully dimwitted, Michael Bay-ish feel.  

  Sometimes, however, the two console versions of Conflict: Denied Ops are a little too crazed. Given 
 that the game was clearly designed for the precise mouse controls available only in the PC edition, 
 a gamepad doesn't really cut it in the speed department. This is a particularly irritating problem 
 with Graves, since aiming his sniper scope is much tougher with the right analog stick of a gamepad 
 than it is with a mouse. Unless you're a true pro when it comes to console shooters, expect to 
 spend a long few seconds properly lining up each long-distance head shot... and getting regularly 
 gunned down in the process by the quick-draw baddies who have no such control complaints. So both 
 console versions of the game feel a fair bit different from their PC cousin. Whereas it's probably 
 best to take charge of the sniper as much as possible in the PC game, relying on the ability to 
 snap off quick, precise shots with the mouse, on the 360 and PS3 it seems smartest to wade in with 
 heavy-gunning Lang and leave the finicky sniping up to the AI. At least the AI does a good job 
 with this task, quickly taking out dug-in enemy snipers and soldiers with insta-kill head shots. 

  Visual and audio quirks are further irritants. Graphics are solid (if not cutting edge) in the 
 360 version of the game, but the color palette is too dark and the text is very tiny. This gives 
 everything a murky, dim appearance that has you squinting all the time. Disappointingly, these 
 flaws are even more apparent in the PS3 game, which also suffers from some occasional drops in 
 the frame rate. Poor audio quality is a major drawback. Although the 360 and PS3 versions of the 
 game don't have the PC edition's weird echo effects that turn every conversation into a simulation 
 of shouting across the Grand Canyon, the voice acting remains hard to endure. Dialogue here is 
 confined to awful buddy-movie stereotypes, with Graves being the grizzled veteran who's gruff but 
 lovable and Lang being the cocky young dude who adds "mother****er" to the end of every sentence. 
 The music is just as obnoxious, too, a cornball blat of generic rock that sounds as if it were 
 clipped from the soundtrack of an '80s cop show.            Awkward gamepad controls make sniping 
 a lot more arduous on the consoles than on the PC     

  The inclusion of cooperative play is a plus, though. You and a friend can play through the entire 
 game together online or at home via split screen. Relatively few shooters offer this feature these 
 days that it's more than welcome here, even in such a simplistic game. But the other multiplayer 
 modes are generic takes on deathmatch, team deathmatch, and conquest, so there isn't much here 
 beyond the co-op. Few people seem to be playing the game online at the time of writing anyway, 
 although there's certainly more of a crowd on Xbox Live and PlayStation Network than there is on 
 the game's PC servers.  

  Go in with low expectations and an appreciation for simple retro shooters and you won't be disappointed 
 with Conflict: Denied Ops. It isn't a great shooter by any means, but it is a competent one for 
 those of you who don't want a lot of interaction or thinking to interfere with senseless mayhem. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  First off I was waiting for a continuation of Global Terror for quite a while after the cliffhanger 
 it left us with. Having been a fan of the conflict games for quite a while.
  I was disappointed that they didn't give us closure to that story, but instead introduced us to 
 two new characters ( Foley does make an appearence in the game though) . So from there I was already 
 let down, but it's conflict and I was willing to give it a try.
  
  Now my rating is based on playing the game Co-op, as I didn't play it single player. It's a pretty 
 fun Co-op game... maybe the graphics aren't as good as some next gen games..... but so what? Isn't 
 it really about the game play after all? My how spoiled we've become. This is a pretty straight 
 forward shooter, no frills, pretty fun with a friend, but can be really hard in places.... trust 
 me you will die. I can't comment on the single player game, but I can imagine it would be frustrating.
 
  
  I have no complaints about the game, I recommend trying it with a friend, that's where it's strength 
 is.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Yes, give this game a chance, don't expect a realistic tactical experience, but expect:
  
  FUN Gameplay
  Great Visuals
  Big Explosions
  Great AI
  
  This game belongs to the conflict 
 series, as the games before it fails to deliver the things they promised, but instead offers some 
 redeeming qualities.
  
  In this case it faisl to deliver great co op gameplay but instead the AI of your partner is great, 
 he follows your orders very well doesn't get stuck in corridors and cover you very well.
  
  If you order your temamate with the heavy guns to take out a chopper he'll do ti, sometimes he 
 won't but that is because the area is full of enemies, not because of lack of AI.
  
  Also the game has some great visuals and sound, the game is set in several countries and there's 
 a good variety of missions.
  
  Not many people is online for co op or deathmatch so if you want toplay with another guy you should 
 do ti split screen or system link.
  
  Buy this game, now it should be cheap enough to overlook its failures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jh76533
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't even know where to start with this game. Its controls for shooting are so off key that 
 you thought you were playing a old super Nintendo game. Yeah the explosions are good but they don't 
 even seem to do much to the enemies. They give very little background evidence of the characters, 
 and your computer teammate is so stupid and slow that you have to wait on him to get into vehicles. 
 Oh and did i forget to mention that the controls on the vehicles are absolutely horrible, i mean 
 its like they didn't even try to make this game based off of other shooter games. I first got the 
 game thinking it was another "Black", which is a relatively good game with some minor errors, but 
 this game is far from it. I love shooting games and this is by far on the top three of the worst 
 shooting games on the 360. I mean what kind of shooter wont even let you pick up the enemies guns 
 and use them, but instead you have to go to these supply boxes which I'm trying to figure out if 
 its lying there it should be the bad guys weapons which means you should be able to just pick up 
 there guns for the ammo. All of the weapons zoom capability sucks especially the sniper which is 
 the biggest let down. This game was a pure waste of time from the moment i put it in, and the only 
 good part about it is i got my full amount of $15 back from the store. If you want to give someone 
 a gift that you hate give them this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huyckb04
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  After purchasing Conflict: Denied Ops, my roommate and I threw it in for some co-op action. We 
 played for about twenty minutes, then sat the game on the shelf where it stayed for two months. 
 
  
  I tried selling it on Ebay, but didn't receive a single bid. 
  
  Then, I decided to give it another try. I had just completed the game I was playing and craved 
 some more first-person shooter action. Time to dust off Conflict: Denied Ops.
  
  When I threw it in and started my single-player campaign, I couldn't stick with it for more than 
 a half hour. The controls were frustrating, the graphics were unimpressive, and I got bored quickly. 
 Then, I picked it up the next day. After getting used to those strange controls, I found myself 
 immersed in it for a few hours. 
  
  The AI is flawed. When ordering your teammate to heal you, he will do so... even though there are 
 enemies standing over your carcass. This, of course, results in a big MISSION FAILED. Fortunately, 
 however, the enemies are equally stupid. They sit still even though you are firing at them, they 
 charge you while you're shooting, and they hide behind barrels that explode when shot. 
  
  Just the same, though, C: DO takes you back to the simpler days of First-Person Shooters. The PS2 
 days, where it was simply "point-and-shoot." If you've been playing FPS's for a few years, give 
 this one a try. I wouldn't pay full price for it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyd803
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Conflict: Denied Ops is a fine game. It is also the first time I play the series of "Conflict"
 
  The reason I bought this game because it's trailor looks good and excited.
  Before I bought this game I read some of the reviews in gamespot. I don't really understand why 
 people criticize this game badly.
  Nevertheless, I still bought this game from gamespot. When I play this game, the fillings are fine, 
 I like this game especially there's a lot of "Kaboom"!!
  The first I play this , I have no idea about where am I going to accomplished my objective in some 
 certain missions. It took me a long long time to figure out how.
  They really need to improve the ability of expressing the players where are they goin' to complete 
 their goal. Althought there's a tiny arrow at the screen which can show you where your objectives 
 are, but it only shows you "where" not "located" sometimes it really confuses the player. The second 
 is, I don't like the conversation, it's stupid and corny, it adds nothing to the game. The music 
 is fine, though.
  I like the First two missions and another mission which its name is castle something, whatever, 
 they're really good, it really exhilarated me. There's a lot of obstacles which you can eliminate 
 them.
  I like this game, but still, it needs to improve.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent42896
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  I remember the old days when conflict first came out in 02. my bro came home with conflict desert 
 storm and I thought it was one of the best games on xbox. in 03 desert storm 2 came out I tryed 
 it and it was better than the first. in 04 vietnam came out and you guessed it better than the 
 rest. in 05 conflict global terror came out... nuff said. in 08 I was so exited for it I saw previews 
 on it and it only had two characters (Bradley and Jones) . so I said ok well at least it gonna be 
 the same as the rest so thats good. more previews came out it was in first person so I said WTF. 
 conflict should not be in first person. after that I said well its conflict. its release date came 
 and I played the demo it didnt feel like conflict it felt too much like battle field 2 for 360. 
 it had hotswap snd everything. so I said NNNNNNNNNNNNOOOOOOOOOO. not that I have a problem with 
 battle field its just conflict feels too much like it. conflict should stay with third person shooting 
 and squad tactics. and I mean a 4 man squad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  
  
  If you haven't played Conflict: Denied OPs then you the reader are lucky. This game seems like 
 it was a good idea and then the makers decided to just throw that idea out the window.
  
  The gameplay is like your typical first person shooter but they add a bit of twist. They have another 
 character that you control and it is just about pointless. You only use him for one or two different 
 things and it seems he dies even quicker than the other team mate. 
  
  The dialog and the story are of the same nature of straight to dvd war movie. The characters tend 
 to repeat them selves over and over and the character movement seems unrealistic. When you attempt 
 to sprint the character seems like he is on very bumpy car ride which makes his head bounce around 
 crazily. It is actually kind of funny in a very weird way. 
  
  The game looks almost like a cheap rip off of Army of Two only in first person and with out the 
 wit and the enjoyment of Army of Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korn420
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased this game for a hefty price of 34.00 I would say i got my moneys worth, Conflict 
 Denied Ops is a simple but fun shooter anybody would have fun with. The graphics are kinda ok at 
 best though the environments I would say look the best out of everything, the enemys are also detailed 
 to though I found that some of them look the same in face textures but other than that the graphics 
 get the job done, the weapons and vehicles sound the way they should and the explosions are basically 
 the best part of the game. In the gameplay department I found that sniping can be very difficult 
 but at the same time it was realistic enough to be that frustrating. Probably the best feature 
 about Conflict would have to be the 2 player co-op mode its good but I wish they would have let 
 you been able to switch the screen from vertical to horizontal but it doesn't take that long to 
 get use to. I also wish more people would play this game online because hardly anyones on so I 
 haven't been able to play the online portion of the game myself. Heres the bad parts of this game, 
 the music is absoulutely terrible thank god I have the option of turning down the music it's really 
 bad my suggestion to people is play the game with metal music since it fits more with the game 
 then the stupid Indiana Jones music they give you. Also the dialogue isn't the greatest but it 
 can be put up with. In conclusion Conflict has alot going for it because of the explosions and 
 co-op mode if your into games such as Black give this a rental just make sure to turn down the 
 music because it can drive a person mad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKorey
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  So, a few months ago, I was in FRYS.. I wanted a new FPS to play online with some friends, so I 
 decided to pick this game up.. Just because I was in a mood to look at a new game.. So I tried 
 to use FRYS' computer system to look up the rating of this game, but they dont have internet access, 
 so I was testing my luck. Me and my brother came home to play, and this game was boring to start.. 
 We did Co-op campaign, and that wasn't good needless to say. It was the same thing, repetitively. 
 So we played online, and no one was on. It was empty, so that was terrible. This game just wasn't 
 anything special, at all. Trying to be an Army of Two, which didn't have any success much really, 
 at all. In all, if you're looking for a good FPS online/offline, get Battlefield: Bad Company, 
 or Call of Duty 4. You will notice the difference, and you will see that Conflict has nothing, 
 and all of their games are completely broken and terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I'lle make it short and simple.. avoid this game. Everything about it is broken. The graphics are 
 shoddy, the gameplay is broken. You really dont even know if you are even shooting at you enemy 
 and causing damage. So yeah, that is how bad it is, the bread and butter of an FPS is its combat 
 system and even that is broken in this game. Although they tried to make the game different by 
 putting in the two person system, I still haven't really figured out how to work the second person 
 mechanism in this game. There really isn't any clear cut instruction on what to do. You just kind 
 of grope around trying to figure out what is going on. If you really want to try to play the game 
 then go ahead and download the demo off xbl but I am willing to bet my socks that you will not 
 like it. So once again, avoid this game. Wait till EA releases army of two 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 5
Date: May 25, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Conflict: Denied Ops is a very mediocre shooter, it's not original or very fun at all. The single 
 player is about as straight forward as a shooter gets with corny dialog and boring gameplay. killing 
 the enemys is pretty easy thanks to cheap A. I. The game also seems very generic like lots of other 
 shooters like the Soldier of Fortune and Far Cry series. The multiplayer is satisfing for about 
 15 minutes. The thing I enjoyed most about this game is all the explosions from propane tanks or 
 explosives. I recormend just getting the demo or get it really cheap (I got it used for 20 dollars 
 which is alot for this!) . I can really say I'v been there done that.
  
  pros:
  1. lots of explosions
  2. good graphics
  3. good selection of weapons
  
  cons:
  1. bad dialog
 
  2. cheap gameplay
  3. boring multiplayer
  4. bad A. I.
  
  overall:5.0/10-mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6
Date: May 7, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  I don't get what people don't like! Sometimes simple is fun. Where as sometimes big fancy, overkill 
 games are not fun. I never played the other Conflict games but this game is very fun.
  
  No need to compare it to Army of Two. But if your going to compare games.... its a trillion times 
 better then Kane & Lynch and better then Army of Two in some ways but still not as good as Ao2 
 in most aspects. 
  
  This game like other coops games is funner with a friend but can be played by yourself. Although 
 when by yourself at least you can switch off guys and choose from either weapon. The story itself 
 seems a little random and really to make no real sense or I just didn't care enough and the graphics 
 weren't anything mind blowing. But the environments were at least diffrent each level and things 
 were destructible which at least gives it some extra scoring points!
  
  After each mission you earn new upgrades for each guy. Which for the sniper is needed because on 
 some levels at times its really hard to be him! Where as in other the machine gunner can't hit 
 junk. 
  
  Overall the game is still really fun. I am sure it isn't any awards but in my book its a good simple 
 game that kept me entertained until GTA 4 came out and I was impressed non the less for a rental. 
 So rent it if you aren't expecting anything major from it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craiger017
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst Conflict game i have ever played, and I have played them all. Not only that, 
 it is one of the worst games, if not the worst game, I have ever played. The gameplay is horrible. 
 Aiming works horribly. You can not see a damn thing. The graphics are pretty bad. Through the whole 
 first level my friends forearm was not loaded. Within the first ten minutes I played i was sickened. 
 The only reason I finished the first level was so I could be even more justified in my opinion. 
 I am very thank full, however, that i rented it first, even though it was one of the worst ways 
 I have used my money. 
  
  I truly do love the Conflict series. The past games were great multiplayers, tons of fun, a decent 
 challenge and an overall great game. What happened Conflict? Get the good Conflict games back. 
 They were not the best war games out there but they were not as bad as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhopere
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This is game is probably the most flawed Ive seen in a long time, and with the next-gen era of 
 60$ games, a game this flawed is like a punch to the throat.
  
  The game has very bad gameplay, for example, you will be walking along, when you are told of an 
 objective, but the controls won't let you, so you'll be flailing it around, trying to turn around. 
 
  
  The sound is completely awful, and even explosions can't make up for this. I had to turn my volume 
 completely up to even HEAR the explosions.
  
  The gameplay is also very limited. You have one direct path you're supposed to go, just one, and 
 you can't pick up any other weapons then the generic weapons you are assigned, not to mention the 
 dumb choice of putting a SHOTGUN launcher on a sniper rifle. (Why would you be up close when it 
 is a SNIPER rifle?)
  
  This game isn't worth a purchase, rent, look, or anything else.
  If anything this game would be good for switching this for your buddy's copy of CoD4, to get back 
 for a prank he did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  Someone once told me that a good videogame is much like a porn movie. Initially I thought this 
 point was a little perverse (especially since we were talking about the Chinese occupation of Tibet 
 at the time) but when pushed to elaborate he said well with both you expect a storyline to be there 
 but it is not immensely important as no one is really paying attention to it. To me this remains 
 a moot point as there will always be a debate over whether great games of our time have good storylines. 
 For example, Halo. It is arguably the greatest gaming franchise in existence (calm down fanboys 
 I said 'arguably') but how many of us really care about the storyline since essentially all it 
 is is the ol' human vs. alien scenario? But on the flipside some people are enthralled by the sheer 
 epic matter of the story and it has spawned a whole series of novels even though the cynics amongst 
 us may brand this as "cashing in", however I digress. Conflict: Denied Ops seems to take this idea 
 of a storyline does not matter and then continually swing in conscience between a storyline and 
 nothing which makes the whole experience a little more tragic than it should be. 
  For example a short (and by short I mean very short) cut scene shows some generic soldiers dying 
 in a gun fight and then a voice saying something about fighting in Venezuela then BLAM! Into the 
 action we go. However at the start and end of each mission there is a bit of banter between the 
 two characters you can play as, one of whom is your traditional hard nosed secret service operative 
 and one who is an African-American gentleman who I can only describe as having a lot of "sass", 
 those of you have played Gears of War and come across the Cole character will instantly know what 
 I'm talking about except this fella' is far less witty and far more annoying. In any case there 
 is an obvious conflict between these two guys but whether it is supposed to add gritty realism 
 or an edge to the otherwise dull story I just don't know because it serves as nothing more than 
 a minor annoyance much like the desperate attempts to add a back story to the characters. You may 
 however be one of the aforementioned people that fall into the camp of "I really couldn't give 
 a flying flip about the story" in which case the build up you have just read is utterly pointless 
 so let us now dive into the good stuff
  
  Design - 6
  I hesitate to mention the design of this game because.. err. well it seems it doesn't really have 
 one. By this I don't mean that it has just been roughly thrown together with no forethought whatsoever 
 but the menus are literally just that  menus. Like that of the old gaming era where a menu was 
 just a place where you selected which game mode you wanted without any of this 3D nonsense or interactive 
 hoo-hah and that's all it is. The game itself also seems to be lacking any true structure as it 
 jumps from mission to mission all in completely different locations. Monastery to Kenyan City to 
 Diamond Mine to Submarine base in the Artic to a Castle etc, etc which is random and highly irregular 
 but strangely enjoyable. It provided me with a vague sense of nostalgia as it felt a bit like playing 
 Golden Eye way back when on the N64 but structurally amiss the design is non-existent but still 
 manages to be likeable in a crude way.
  Gameplay - 6
  Aaaaaaaaaggghhh! Where oh where do I start? Right, let's start with the basics. It's a shooter 
 and a simple one at that. You have the two playable characters. One with the heavy duty machine 
 gun and one with the rifle which acts as a sniper. Of course both have their advantages and disadvantages 
 for example the sniper is effectively useless for the first few levels whilst the machine gun can't 
 aim for toffee. Point. Squeeze trigger. Empty whole clip into enemy. Realise they are still alive. 
 Change to sniper. Get killed whilst trying to aim. Not fun but you can overcome the aiming options 
 by getting stupidly close to your enemy, this isn't a problem if you have difficulty set fairly 
 low but when you unlock the shotgun attachment you will be using at every available opportunity 
 because it blows anybody that is misfortunate to get into your sights away as they bounce comically 
 but unrealistically away ignoring known laws of gravity for a good few seconds. You gain attachments 
 at the end of each mission and apart from that of the shotgun none of them are really needed and 
 I doubt you will ever use any of them except for maybe novelties sake but they are there should 
 you fell the need to waste your time finding out what other irrelevant things your weapon can do. 
 This game brings us absolutely nothing new as it is very simply a point and pull shooter, that's 
 it nothing more than that. Yes you can switch from player to player but you could do that in Battlefield 
 2: Modern Combat where instead of being useful it was just annoying. It certainly isn't annoying 
 here but it doesn't bring that much needed extra dimension that so many games are now lacking this 
 being one of them and it is slightly insulting that developers are expecting us to pay 50 a pop 
 for something that can only be described as 'run-of-the-mill'. However this averageness (yes I 
 know that's not a word) does have a very comforting feeling when all you want to do is sit down 
 and blow the crap out of things. A. I is poor where your enemies hide behind explosive barrels using 
 them for cover. I may not be the greatest villain but I do know that if it says 'explosive' on 
 it it's probably not a great idea to use it as cover in a gunfight and on that topic where the 
 hell did all these explosives come from? I'm pretty sure monasteries and castles or wherever the 
 hell you are do not just have random boxes of explosives lying around.
  
  Audio - 5
  I didn't think there was anything more wooden then Hugh Grants acting. Well ladies and gentlemen 
 I have been proven wrong. Whoever was hired to do these voices clearly wasn't paid enough as there 
 is a hint of boredom in every voice not what you'd expect form a high-octane, action packed thriller. 
 Hell! Give me 20 and I'll redo all the voices for you and at a better standard. Also you are jetting 
 around the world to various different locations so of course you encounter foreign individuals, 
 No wait! You encounter an American putting on a piss poor accent, sorry easy mistake to make. It 
 seems fairly obvious to me that if you are putting in African characters you hire an African voice 
 actor but I'm not in the games industry so what do I know? Having said that, at least they tried.
 
  
  Visual  6
  Nothing much to say here. You can tell what everything is but it doesn't have much texture and 
 it doesn't have the pristine, shiny quality you expect of today's games.
  
  Multiplayer - 7
  As I said it is just a simple shooter but multiplayer does have it's quirks 
 because as one of you has the sniper and the other the machine gun you are forced to work closely 
 together. Some may criticise this others may revel in it but in either case it does limit what 
 you can do but it doesn't really build much on the single player experience. 
  
  Longevity - 6
  Once you have completed this game I can't see you going back for more but it isn't 
 one you are just gonna toss away after the first level and if you want the achievements you may 
 be inclined to go back. The thing is you can't replay just a single mission until you have completed 
 the game first which is a bit annoying if you're trying to get some of the achievements but if 
 there is a particular level you like you may want to give it another go as they do occasionally 
 have their moments.
  Achievements  7
  The achievements mostly rely on you completing certain objectives in the levels but they are relatively 
 low yield so you may not be to bothered if you miss some out. You also get points for completing 
 the game on different difficulties but once you've completed it once you probably won't have the 
 desire to do it again however if you do complete it 7 unlock the "replay mission" section you may 
 want to go back for one or two of the easier achievements but nothing really for you to sink your 
 teeth into here.
  
  Overall  6.5
  It is all in all an average game but I feel it has a certain level of enjoyment in it that can 
 not be justified by a 6 at the same time it is not worth a 7. If you really want to try it rent 
 it but even then I wouldn't recommend it but whatever you do for the love of god do not piss away 
 50 on this, 10 yes, 15 probably, 20 pushing it but 50! NAH! So many good games will be hitting 
 us in a very short space of time and will continue until we are black and blue with enjoyment so 
 just be patient and wait it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Do not get near this piece of junk! The graphics are bad the voices are poorly acted and the shooting 
 component is literaly broken! No relay you can be in front of a guy shoot and entire clip and miss 
 every shoot. Then when you do hit them they dont react to it. O ya that was a good idea no enemy 
 reactions. Co-op stinks because the sniper is not needed in every mission and even when he is the 
 gunner shoots so loud it alerts all the enemys. The A. I. is not even there. Men will get stuck 
 on walls and some times they run right by you and dont shoot. The Story makes no sense waht so 
 ever. I have beat the game and I still dont get it. I have not played a worst game sience hour 
 of victory. What where they thinking? To put it in simple terms Bad ideas + Dumb game designers 
 + 1,000,000 pounds of stupid = Bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasp_x
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I Wrote this review for the PC Version of the game but throught you may want to read it to...
 
  
  (added on to Original Review) I've read some of the Bad reviews..
  
  i Own many High Graphic Games, i'll give 4 examples Unreal Tourament 3, Bioshock, TimeShift, Supreme 
 Commander (and its addon) ...
  
  i have around 14years worth of games, from MS-Dos to Windows Vista..
  
  As you may see below, 
 i have a High Spec PC with a PhysX Accelerator and my OS is Windows Vista Ultimate 64x..
  
  This game is not about Graphics.. its about Gameplay and its pretty good for a FPS gamer... (added 
 on to original review)
  
  I like ConFlict Denied, has pretty good Partical Detail and pretty good PhysX detail,
  overall 
 a Cool game, i have a High Spec PC so the game has MAX Settings..
  The Difficulties are kinda awquad Easy is accutually difficult, Normal is farely Hard and Hard 
 well u get the Drift...
  
  So the games cool, the Story is ok, basic at the Monistery u get information of 3 Terrorist Leaders 
 and have to Hunt them Down, sometime using Stealth Skill and while working through the game you 
 have to plant C4, Track Nukes, Deactivate Nuke and Steal Nukes...
  
  On Multi-Player u got the Basics:
  DeathMatch
  Team Deathmatch
  Conquest
  Coop
  Coop 
 Campain
  
  Unfortunutly when it comes to Multi-Player, you'll hardly ever see anyone on any of thoughs Multi-Player 
 Modes, im hoping that'll change, as eventually the game will get Lonely on your own...
  
  Also 1 more thing..
  This game is Supposedly able to connect with Xbox 360 game users...
  
 
  i hope this is a Good Review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-Fei
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Game represents a command shooter with two players. Heroes of game carry out tasks in different 
 corners of the world. It means that at game there are various locations of a fortress, base, factory, 
 the ships, etc. It very much diversifies game. One more positive moment in that that give passage 
 of missions on a choice. Could not pass one try another. Game alive also is passed on one breath 
 do not get stuck on s silly place or the silly BOSS. There is not present if not including tanks 
 and helicopters. Certainly brings heavy management a little. And a senseless upgrade of the weapon. 
 It is not necessary as game can be passed and with one sniper rifle which give right at the beginning. 
 Also game is diversified with different technics which facilitates passage. As a whole game not 
 bad.
  Good: Just plain fun
  Bad: Heavy management 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhmin
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty horrible, it was a total failure compared to "Conflict: Desert Storm". 
  
  The worst part of the game in my opinion was probably, the weapon system. First of all, you 
 could not even choose your own gun or swap guns during gameplay, you only had the gun your character 
 started with (only two characters to choose from) . Second of all, you had no secondary weapon, no 
 pistol or anything. And thirdly (now I could be wrong on this one but im pretty sure im not) , you 
 had infinite ammo, which makes the game pretty stupid because it's not realistic, or challenging! 
 With infinite ammo you don't have to reserve your ammo so you can just unload a whole clip on one 
 enemy not worrying about missing over half the shots. 
  
  Another bad thing about this game was that you healed over time... a stupid feature that alot of 
 good games even have, like Halo and Gears of War. It's pretty stupid because if you're at least 
 a pretty good gamer, you won't need to try as hard to stay alive. It's also not very realistic.
 
  
  Another thing it lost was that your characters could not level up like in "Conflict: Desert Storm" 
 and that it was only two player co-op spilt-screen instead of four player co-op split-screen. But 
 both of these were not what made the game bad, it could have still been an awesome game and not 
 have these two things in it.
  
  There are other little things that make this game bad like the screen inversion, but I think I 
 have ranted on enough. :p
  
  To sum it up, I suggest not even playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasjr20
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I not going to waste mush more time with this game. So let's make this simple if you played any 
 of the other conflict games then you know what to expect a broken game, crappy looking graphic's. 
 And a campaign that requires no tactic's to beat. Also has some really dreadful control's when 
 compared to many games Especially something like COD4. Absolute lack of story, boring characters, 
 Horrendous enemy A. I. . Seems it was trying to be Army of Two which on paper sounds great but in 
 reality failed miserably, I thought at playing with a friend in Co-Op would be better nope if anything 
 just made it worse. So in all honesty avoid the game at all costs, it's not even worth a rental 
 if your gonna play just borrow it from someone instead of wasting your hard earned money and just 
 wait for Army of Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze11987
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the conflict series, i bought this on its release day. what a waste of 40 
 that was. from the moment the gameplay starts the first thing you notice is how sloppy and outdated 
 the graphics look which is unforgivable in the times of graphical achievements such as COD 4 and 
 Crysis. Almost every enjoyable aspect of the earlier games in the conflict series have being removed 
 from this game, for example having you stuck with one weapon per character all through the game. 
 part of the fun in the earlier games was having to scrimp and save your ammo while sharing it out 
 with your team mates but this is no longer possible. the weapons feel unrealistic when fired, they 
 have no sense of power or presence. in short, there are many more enjoyable ways to spend your 
 40 so do not buy or even rent this embarrassment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Conflict denied ops is a game which is from start to finish boring as its attempts at co-op gamplay 
 is a very good idea but it is hard to recommend to anyone as the fights are short the guns are 
 stupid, which is for people who like explosions and no thought to combat is required as you just 
 run in and kill everyone with one charater rendering the other useless.
  Many of the enemies are stupid as they sometimes get down and thats it and return fire occationaly 
 and thats about it. One of the most annoying points are the story, its so broken theres hardly 
 a point in the the damn thing. The characters dont have many differences as one has a sniper and 
 one has a light machine gun, thats about it.
  The most frustrating thing has to be who came up with these weapons, Eidos of course no care for 
 realism as the lmg has a grenade launcher underneath, and a silenced desert eagle? WHO CAME UP 
 WITH THIS STUFF.
  
  So basically im just trying to say dont even rent this game. Yes it is that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It runs well, shooting can be somewhat fun, does have online co-op and multiplayer.
 
  
  The Bad: Poor graphics, only two character models who each have weapons which are locked to them, 
 poor AI, really cheesy voice acting, is generally uninspired.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Ah Eidos, you had a good idea with Conflict Denied Ops, but good ideas only work when they are 
 executed well. Conflict Denied Ops had a good idea by basing the game around co-op tactics, but 
 the end resault was a rather lame FPS that seems simply like a cheap copy of other, much better 
 games. 
  
  You play as Lang and Graves, who are two special forces agents who are sent to take out terror 
 across the globe. Each character has their specialty: Graves wields a sniper rifle and Lang a heavy 
 machine gun. The problem is that these weapons are locked to your character, and you can't swap 
 them out for weapons from killed enemies. Meaning, if you are a poor sniper and are stuck playing 
 as Graves, you're basically screwed. Each character does have a side arm and other weapons, but 
 they are still locked to each character, and it's best if you use each character's respective main 
 weapon. 
  
  The level design of Conflict feels very much like Hour of Victory meets Call of Duty 4. It has 
 modern weaponry and war torn environments, but it feels like nothing but a cheap copy. The AI can 
 be intellegent, but it also can be very stupid. It depends on the situation. When playing single 
 player, you have to hot swap between Graves and Lang, but the soldier you are not controlling isn't 
 smart enough to follow you for the most part, so you are forced to constantly issue move commands 
 constantly in order to get them to where they need to be. The graphics are subpar at best, and 
 seem like they could easily appear as a higher end Xbox game.
  
  The co-op features are the biggest draw of Denied Ops. These are done decently, but the flaws of 
 the single player, with the exception of the dumb AI teamate, still remaign.
  
  Online multiplayer consists of 3 modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Conquest. These are all 
 standard FPS modes that are just like everybody else, except for the fact that you can only play 
 as either Graves or Lang, so you'll see a bunch of the same guys wondering around the place. Plus, 
 it's not too interesting, but easy to boost in.
  
  The fact is, Conflict Denied Ops could have been decent with a few more months of development time, 
 but it turned out to be a rather poor FPS experience.
  
  Gameplay: Generic FPS with poor AI and lame online.
  
  Graphics: High end Xbox at best.
  
 
  Sound: Really cheesy voice acting and lame sound effects.
  
  Value: Don't buy this game. It's that simple.
  
  Final Thoughts: Don't buy this game, Bro!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juan2370
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is not that bad as rated , I pre-ordered this game before any review came out 
 and felt kind of sad after seeing all the review article, I got it two days ago and found that 
 it's really fun ! Here is my opinion :
  
  1. The graphic might not as good as a next-gen TV game , but also not 
  so bad as saida ps1 
 or xboximage , it's acceptable.
  
  2. The Ai for your teammate might not smart as expected , but if you order 
  him to the right 
 position and execute a suitable command , you would 
  find it really enjoyable playing the Co-op strategy !!
  
  3. Every mission has at least 2 different 
 strategy to accomplish it , each 
  strategy needs different character playing the main role. you can place 
  Graves in the high 
 ground covering and have Lang under your control 
  doing the sweeping job ! 
  
  If you think it's not worth while buying it , rent it and give it a try !! For me, I 
  think 
 it's fine with me !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakk209
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Listen carefully and you will hear the distant screaming of the game developers over at eidos that 
 wasted the last two weeks of their lives putting this train wreck together. Our hearts go out to 
 them and their families during this difficult time.
  
  Simply put this game is Seriously Broken! 
  
  The graphics are terrible, grainy and blocky 
 - these are graphics you'd expect to find on a PSone game. It's on a par with History Channel: 
 Battle for the Pacific and that is not good. Seriously, ouch!
  
  The control system sucks. Overly simple yet ineffective.
  
  The audio is fine although that 
 just means you can here the gunfire while you struggle with the controls and cry about the graphics.
 
  
  Basic, basic, basic A. I.
  
  The Story. Well erm... honestly this game didn't keep me interested long enough to get the story. 
 Literally couldn't take more than an hour of this heap before i had to take it back.
  
  Good news is Army of Two is due out 07 March 2008. 
  Save you money til then.
  
  ( I'd like 
 to state I have nothing against Eidos. The game is just this bad! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApneicMonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake, Conflict: Denied Ops is not a great game but that doesn't automatically make it 
 a bad game. It falls somewhere around the middle and if you give it enough time, it starts leaning 
 toward the forgettably fun.
  
  The AI is pretty bad in this game, definitely not the worst I've seen (that title is still being 
 held by Dom from Gears of War) but it's nowhere near the standards of games like GRAW or Rainbow 
 6: Vegas.
  
  The voice acting is even worse but it's so bad that it's almost enjoyable in that train-wreck kind 
 of way.
  
  In the end though, this game recalls some of the classic gaming from the original Xbox console 
 - not just in appearance but also the way it delivers it explosive fun.
  
  Sure, I may be biased because I didn't have to pay full price for this game but the complete retail 
 version is much better than the demo and for those willing to put a little effort and time into 
 this title, you will get some fun out of it in return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b1ackcar
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I have never gave a game a reveiw online before this. I figured I would save you all from the embarassment 
 of owning this game.
  The graphics in this game were beyond bad. I think there were better cut scenes and in game menus 
 on the PS1. They spent the entire budget on the graphics of the gun and the blast from the gun. 
 Which are actually cool.
  The background music was very bland and kind of like watching murder she wrote. It just go's on 
 and on and on......
  This is on of those games you find in that gas station for 9.99 2 months after the game is released. 
 I honestly would not buy this game, rent this game nor steal this game. ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenarrow1555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  The co-op component is a lot of fun, but you always have to remember to have the AI regroup. He 
 does have a habit of back tracking and getting lost when you really need him.
  
  Gameplay: great, very unique with the co-op, and giving it orders is very easy, just one button!
 
  Player Equipment: The different types of equipment that Lang and Graves have make each of them 
 very good in different situation, but Graves' sniper is no good when walking around, and the shotgun 
 is only really effect rightup close. But his ability to look around corners and over objects is 
 very very useful.
  Graphics: worst part about the game, very very outdated
  Sound: good, nothing special but still not bad
  Multiplayer: a lot of fun doing co-op missions 
 with someone on Live, if they really want to beat the mission and not just kill people.
  
  Overall it is a good game to rent for a week, unless you really enjoy playing with a friend on 
 the split screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guythomas76
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I love graphics and to me that is the first thing that pops out, IT DOESNT EVEN HAVE DECENT GRAPHICS. 
 This game just was not fun at all. It was actually painful to to play this luckily I rented it 
 but even that was a shame. While playing it reminds me of the first DOOM Games. The options are 
 limited to what you can do and how to play. Im really shocked that they even charge what they do. 
 Who ever let this game get out really should be ashamed of theirselves. I had played with a friend 
 and that did not make it any better. I must be spoiled on COD 4 because this is not even next generation 
 caliber. If you played the demo increase the length of it and that is pretty much the game. This 
 is the first I tried of the series and will now be the last. The only deccent thig they did with 
 this game is make it co-op. so good job on that. But as for the rest, you really need to learn, 
 NOT STEAL, but lear from the best. And if it does not work out, i think MC Donalds is hiring. Sorry 
 for the bitternes I really was looking forward to this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Well I wrote a review for this already but it "magically disappeared" from this site. So I'll be 
 brief. Don't trust all these bad reviews on this game. It is a very fun game. It's not COD4 but 
 it doesn't try to be. It's a different type of game. You can play co-op or you can control the 
 two main characters yourself. ONe's a sniper, one's a gunner. And you have to switch back and forth 
 depending on the situation and you can give orders to the other. With each mission you clear, your 
 weapons get an upgrade.... a really GOOD upgrade that you will use in the next mission. The sniper 
 rifle can shoot around corners just like in GRAW. The graphics are great. There's some great humor. 
 The characters really have personality. It's just an awesome game that I hate to see get some bad 
 reviews because alot of people are going to miss some great fun because of these bad reviews. I 
 love first-person shooters and this is a great one. I played it for like four hours straight the 
 first time I played it because it was so addicting. Give this a try and don't depend on other reviews.... make 
 up your mind for yourself. I have the feeling some people who gave it bad reviews maybe only played 
 the demo. I've had to learn by trial and error not to trust other people's reviews. People have 
 different tastes. What I love you may not and what most people hate I may love. But I'm an adult 
 male, over thirty, I own and play all the latest and greatest games. I have all three next gen 
 systems. I'm a well-seasoned, well-informed gamer and this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixoncc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, you may have come to expect better looking graphics and there certainly are some dull flaws 
 in this title, but yet still it is quite a fun experience if youre playing with a friend in the 
 campaign co-op mode.
  
  This game is to be seen as an arcade shooter that does not have the ambition of real life simulation 
 of weapons and soldiers, instead its an pretty straight forward shoot and scoot type of game where 
 the producers have chosen some odd gameplay solutions.
  To mention just a few.. there is no ammo limit on your main armament, I guess the producers wanted 
 to leave out the part where you are just running around seeking additional ammo, no need for that 
 in an arcade shooter, right?
  
  You cannot pick up weapons from fallen enemies, you are simply stuck with the weapon that is applied 
 to the type of soldier you are, and there is only two.. one sniping fella with a semi automatic 
 5.56 assault rifle and a roughneck with a SAW 5.56 and a grenade launcher as a back up, the purpose 
 of this must be preservation of the dynamics of the gameplay where one guy cover the other guys 
 6 oclock.
  
  Also the force feedback is not that widely used in this title, the only times you feel it is when 
 larger fireworks gets right up your pants, not when you fire your guns or get hit by tango lead.
 
  
  The sounds of battle is not that good, no realistic booms here.. and the voice acting is kind of 
 embarrassing -gung-ho combinations with poor voice acting never was a good mix.
  The music is ok and adds a little to the over all experience, but this is really not a big factor.
 
  
  I would not use my last bucks to buy this game, it is a more or less mediocre and not so polished 
 game with poor performance in graphics, sounds and AI... but still.... playing co-op with a friend 
 gives you some satisfaction and can be at times very fun and you start forgetting all the other 
 shortcomings one by one, playing single player is not recommended.
  
  Pivotal really should have put some more effort in this title, cause they have a good concept, 
 just a not so good execution.
  
  
  
  The good-
  Good maps and environments at times.
  The weapon system works (seen as an arcade shooter)
  Fun 
 Co-Op 
  
  The Bad-
  Aged graphics
  Poor sounds
  Bad voice acting
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryancv
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  i am writing new reviews on all my games okay the games was very boring and i never ever wanna 
 play it again or even talk about how much money i spent on it every time i think $60 for this i 
 could have bought hour of victory for half this price to get equal quality so never buy this game 
 gamespot these are not just numbers when they rate games they mean 1-10 how good they are 99.9% 
 right of how good games are so if this game gets less then a 5.0 dont buy it go buy some ther game 
 thats on gamespots top list for the xbox 360 this game was so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. Controls suck. They just feel like they were hastily thrown together much 
 like everything else in this game. The weapons feel like you're firing BB guns, The graphics look 
 like an Xbox 1 game and the level look and design just don't work. It looks like your TV is stuck 
 on Widescreen when your playing on a normal screen set. This is a C- game at best. don't waste 
 your money. I gave it a 5 simply because i couldn't stand to play it any longer and i feel bad 
 giving a 1 to a game i haven't played all the way through. There's 1 million equally sucky things 
 you could do with your money that would likely yield a more enjoyable experience than this game. 
 The game just is not fun. I don't understand how a game developer can devote as much time as it 
 takes to create a game and then not realize that their game just isn't fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koal_Jadian
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game we purchased for a try and it was disgusting. All four previous Conflict titles... did 
 I say ALL FOUR?, including 4-player splitscreen co-op and was the only reason, the ONLY reason 
 it was somewhat successful because the best part of playing on a console with 4 controller slots 
 is to play a 4-player game (wow, what a concept!) with friends.
  
  Any game that steps back from FOUR prior titles in terms of gamplay and functionality doesn't deserve 
 above a 0.5.
  
  Sadly, this is the state of the industry for the next-generation Games. Look at Perfect Dark for 
 the X360 and how little it had to offer compared to its N64 predecessor. Compare that same predecessor 
 to all 3 Halo games combined... and it still has more multiplayer features and more replayability.... so 
 how and why are these new games next gen... because of graphics? What use is that when you can't 
 play with your friends!!! What use is having a "Next-Gen" console that has 4 controller slots when 
 you can only play with 2?! It's really disgusting and this game is a failure on the PC and the 
 Xbox 360. If the next game in this series does NOT have 4-player co-op for the entire campaign 
 then this series needs to be ended.
  
  Bottom Line. I want My Money Back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Story: Kill bad guys. For real, that is about it.
  
  Missions: You (a sniper!, how original) and your buddy with a machine gun (he's buff and strong, 
 who hasn't seen a strong guy with a MG before?) kill the bad terrorists and save the world! Ya!
 
  
  Controls: Lame. Standard to say the least.
  
  Features: Nothing you haven't seen in a cookie cutter FPS.
  
  A. I.: Stand next to explosive 
 barrels, they are so smart!
  
  Loading Times: Long, before each mission.
  
  Graphics: Xbox-esque graphics with some lighting effects.
  
  Audio: ... please don't ask.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Worse than the single player.
  
  Requirements: 360.
  
  The Good: Give me a second to think... hmm.... It's playable?
  
  The Bad: The controller doesn't 
 even rumble when you shoot... only when an explosion occurs.
  
  The Ugly: This game.
  
  Replay Ability: Low.
  
  The Bottom Line: Please. Do. Not. Buy. This.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the only good feature with the game. Co-op, but even it suffers due to the games 
 numerous issues. 
  
  The A. I. of your computer controlled team mate is terrible. You'll constantly strungle with issuing 
 orders and he just wants to wander off and constantly stand in the line of fire. You can heal him, but 
 it just becomes a chore. 
  
  The A. I. enemies are pathetic, rarely doing anything other than stand and shoot. Animations are equally 
 as bad and created some lauable moments.
  
  The game looks like an Xbox game, with low res textures, a terrible frame rate and besides that you'll 
 encounter too many graphical bugs to list. The main problem is clipping.
  
  Online is standard, but looks even worse than the SP mode. Gameplay is tarnished by a 15 - 20 fps.
 
  
  This is the worst FPS on the 360 now... yes, even worse than Hour of Victory. You have been warned! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
