-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crackdown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/crackdown/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking city.
 Exciting abilities that get better as you play.
 Satisfying explosions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Driving is lame until you max out your skills.
 Co-op feels half baked.
 Not enough content to keep you busy for long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.3, 91 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 9,992 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Realtime Worlds
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Crackdown creates an exciting open world and gives you a lot of cool abilities, but there isn't 
 enough main-game content to truly take advantage of these elements. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" 
        Crackdown Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot         
                           function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem 
 =               The Video Review               

 GameSpot Editorial Director Jeff Gerstmann reviews Crackdown.       Watch It   Watch HD 520p    
              The Good            Great-looking city  &nbsp;      Exciting abilities that get better 
 as you play  &nbsp;      Satisfying explosions.                The Bad            Driving is lame 
 until you max out your skills  &nbsp;      Co-op feels half baked  &nbsp;      Not enough content 
 to keep you busy for long.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Premium DLC    Posted: Nov 6, 2008 9:53 am PT      The "Getting Busy 
 Bonus Pack" adds  more than enough content  to Crackdown to justify the 800 Microsoft Points asking 
 price. There are three new vehicles, four new weapons, five new gameplay modes, and five extra 
 achievements that can add no fewer than 210 points to your Gamerscore. &nbsp;         &laquo; Prev 
 Update &nbsp;|&nbsp;  All Updates (2)  &nbsp;|&nbsp;  Next Update &raquo;            

  Sometime after the release of Grand Theft Auto III, the popular term used in the game industry 
 to describe open-world, mission-based games became "sandbox." It's kind of a dopey term, but it 
 makes sense and properly conveys the sense of freedom that these games tend to have. But even with 
 the freedom offered by this style of game, most of them tend to have a pretty rigid structure for 
 you to follow if you want to see the game through to its storyline conclusion. Crackdown, from 
 Microsoft and Real Time Worlds, tends to get away from that aspect. The result is an open-world 
 game that feels more open ended than any other game of its type, but that lack of structure makes 
 the game feel half finished and shallow in a few spots.  

          As you increase your abilities, your character will appear to age.     

  There's a 
 bit of backstory to the action in Crackdown, but all you really need to know is that you're a new 
 type of supercop that can evolve very quickly, which means your skills improve as you play. You're 
 out to clean up the streets. There are three gangs, each with seven leaders. You can take on any 
 gang leader at any time, but there's a logical order laid out for you that makes the progression 
 scale as your skills increase. There isn't much difference between each individual gang leader -- you 
 just need to get to where that gang head is by either working your way through, around, or over 
 the gangsters that surround the leader, then open fire on the boss and take him or her down. Once 
 you eliminate all seven leaders of a gang, a "final crime" occurs, which is really just a mess 
 of street soldiers wandering around in one specific area. When you take all of them out, the gang 
 is vanquished and you'll no longer run into any resistance in that part of the city. Once you've 
 repeated this process through all three parts of the city, you're done cleaning up the city. It's 
 got an abrupt and disappointing conclusion, overall. But before you can have a plot twist, you 
 have to have a plot, and Crackdown has neither.  

  The weird part is that none of the story really matters, because the whole point of the game is 
 to provide open-ended freedom and a large, interesting city to explore. And on the gameplay side, 
 Crackdown works. The city might not seem huge when you first start moving around, but that's more 
 because you're not thinking vertically. As a man with superhuman abilities, you'll get stronger, 
 faster, and more powerful as you play. The plainest representation of this is your agility rating, 
 which you increase by collecting orbs that are hidden around the city on rooftops. As your agility 
 increases, you can jump higher. So what initially seems like a high, but unimpressive, jump at 
 the beginning turns to your agent flinging himself through the air, from one rooftop to the next, 
 or scaling buildings by clinging to window ledges and jumping up the side. The range of movement 
 you get once your agility is up is really impressive and makes moving around the world a lot of 
 fun. Also, firing from the rooftops or jumping in on your enemies from above is a great way to 
 clean up the opposing gangs, so it's got tactical considerations, as well.  

  While gaining agility is dependant on collecting orbs, the rest of your skills increase by simply 
 using those skills a lot. You'll earn skill in firearms for shooting enemies, and as it increases, 
 the lock-on targeting system becomes faster and more effective, though it can still be a bit touchy, 
 even when you're at the maximum level. The strength skill increases when you kill enemies with 
 melee attacks. Increasing your strength gives you more health, and, well, you're stronger. When 
 you're pumped up all the way, you can kick cars and they'll go flying. You can also pick up vehicles 
 and jump around with them or throw them, which is often fun. You earn driving points by performing 
 stunts in your car or by running over enemies. As you level up your driving, car handling and speed 
 improves, and special agency vehicles that you can request back at headquarters change shape when 
 you get in them, becoming more effective in the process. When you get a four-star driving rating, 
 the agency vehicles all get special abilities, too. The fast-moving supercar gets machine guns, 
 the SUV gains the ability to jump, and the big rig gets a turbo boost that helps it get up to ramming 
 speed. You also have an explosion rating. As you blow up enemies with grenades or rockets, you 
 gain points in this statistic. Leveling it up increases the radius of your explosive weapons, which 
 is silly when you stop and think about it but devastating and exciting at the same time. So you'll 
 start out at the beginning as a fairly weak cop, but by the end, your increased abilities make 
 the game feel nicely different. Using those abilities and exploring the large city is what makes 
 Crackdown fun.  

          When you get into agency vehicles, they'll transform a bit depending on your driving skill. 
     

  While you can certainly go through Crackdown by yourself, and it won't take too much time to eliminate 
 all the bosses, you can also play cooperatively. The game tries to make the co-op a seamless experience, 
 but in reality, it's anything but. When you're playing alone, you can set an option to allow other 
 players to request to join your game. You can limit this to friends, if you like, but either way, 
 you can always deny a request if you're in the middle of something. If you accept, the player doesn't 
 jump in alongside you or anything. Instead, you're kicked out of the game, and you have to reload 
 to get back in. If that other player quits, your game ends, as well. A more on-the-fly join/quit 
 setup would have made this mode a bit more effective. Also, the joining player joins the host's 
 version of the city. So if you've beaten the game, joining players aren't going to have much to 
 do, unless you want to set up some impromptu racing contests or devise your own rules for some 
 kind of "who can throw this car on top of this building" competition. New players playing co-op 
 with experienced vets won't get much out of the experience, either, because the easy boss battles 
 become even easier when you're jacked up -- the first few just require you to get onto a roof and 
 gun down the boss, which is simple when your jumping is maxed out, but those newer players will 
 have to take the stairs, and by the time they get up there, the fun is already done. So you'll 
 want to find someone that's near the same spot you are in the game, if you want to enjoy it.   
   "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Crackdown Review for 
 Xbox 360 - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu 
 offers that YouTube doesnt?    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC: 
     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com            
         GameSpot. com                Search                               BioShock 2 Exclusive First 
 Look:  We head back to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer 
 Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...          
      Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002...                    home     
    PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums   
    videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews 
     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All 360 Games     Xbox Compatible 
     Live Arcade     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your 
 account    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag   
     Print       Email       Facebook       Digg                              Crackdown Review  
         

 Crackdown creates an exciting open world and gives you a lot of cool abilities, but there isn't 
 enough main-game content to truly take advantage of these elements.               The Good     
        Great-looking city  &nbsp;      Exciting abilities that get better as you play  &nbsp;  
     Satisfying explosions.                The Bad            Driving is lame until you max out 
 your skills  &nbsp;      Co-op feels half baked  &nbsp;      Not enough content to keep you busy 
 for long.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?          
      Update:  Premium DLC    Posted: Nov 6, 2008 9:53 am PT      The "Getting Busy Bonus Pack" 
 adds  more than enough content  to Crackdown to justify the 800 Microsoft Points asking price. 
 There are three new vehicles, four new weapons, five new gameplay modes, and five extra achievements 
 that can add no fewer than 210 points to your Gamerscore. &nbsp;         &laquo; Prev Update &nbsp;|&nbsp; 
  All Updates (2)  &nbsp;|&nbsp;  Next Update &raquo;            

  Many open-world games offer side missions, and Crackdown is no exception. There are two types of 
 checkpoint races to get into. The standard auto race has you driving cars and passing through gates 
 as you attempt to finish under a certain time. When you finish successfully, you'll earn some driving 
 skill points. Rooftop races are the same, only on foot, and require some acrobatic jumping abilities 
 to pull off. Winning here gets you some agility points. There isn't a ton of either type of race, 
 and they aren't really that much fun, so they don't add a whole lot to the world.  

          You can take on the game's 21 bosses in any order, but starting at the bottom and working 
 your way up is the easiest way to go.     

  You never really get the feeling that this is a living, breathing city with lots going on. Instead, 
 you feel like the civilians are in your way. Also, your fellow police are ineffective at stopping 
 gang members, and the gang members themselves usually aren't bright enough to take you out, either. 
 Even if you do die, which usually happens because of a lone enemy armed with a rocket launcher 
 or you venturing too close to some exploding barrels while being fired upon, there really isn't 
 any serious consequence. When you respawn, you'll be able to choose from any weapons you've unlocked, 
 and you'll experience some extremely minor setbacks in your skill progression.  

  Crackdown looks great, though it has a few low points here and there. The city is large and detailed, 
 with many of the buildings having proper names and designs to them. While you'll spend most of 
 your time outside, the indoor areas are also rendered well, and the whole world is streamed in 
 seamlessly, with no pauses for loading unless you die or move to another part of the city. The 
 game's characters and objects have a dark, black line around them, which makes you think of cel-shading, 
 but the characters are textured, giving it a more sophisticated look, rather than the cartoon-like 
 style that cel-shading alone tends to evoke. And the draw distance is impressive. You can climb 
 up to some awfully high buildings in this game, and you'll be able to see most of the city when 
 you do so. The game's frame rate can get low in a couple of spots, but these moments seem to be 
 somewhat rare.  

  The sound is fairly standard, with all of the explosions and gunfire and such that you'd expect 
 from the typical action game. There's an announcer that gives you tutorial-like advice as you play, 
 and he'll occasionally belt out a line or two when you do something wild. But he never stops talking. 
 You'll get the same not-so-helpful piece of advice the 100th time you play as you did on your first 
 time. And he's often wrong about certain things, like when he starts talking about how you're seeing 
 the best view of the city while you're indoors. He starts out as a nice idea but becomes annoying 
 very quickly. The music only plays when you're in a vehicle, which probably won't be very often, 
 but that's fine, because the music isn't anything too special and the game is sure to pop up a 
 big, gaudy display with the album name, artist, track, and publishing info every time you get into 
 a car. That lame pop-up can't be disabled, even if you turn the music all the way down.  

          Online co-op is a fine idea, but it isn't executed particularly well.     

  The way 
 Crackdown is designed means that everything comes back to the open-ended nature of its gameplay. 
 If you want to blaze through all the bosses in a hurry, it won't take you more than 8 to 10 hours 
 on the default difficulty -- much less if you spend some time early on working on your key skills 
 and manage to find a homing rocket launcher. But just screwing around, blowing up cars for no good 
 reason or kicking people that get in your way, makes for an interesting pastime. The achievements 
 are also nicely thought out and give you some extra things to do. Aside from the requisite collect-everything 
 and beat-everything points, there are also plenty of inventive goals, like blasting a car into 
 the air with explosives and keeping it juggled in the sky for several seconds or climbing to the 
 top of the agency tower and then jumping down into a small pool of water below.  

  Crackdown feels unfinished. It feels like the developers sat down and crafted a wonderful-looking 
 city and carefully considered how the gameplay and abilities should work, and then they didn't 
 have enough time to plug in enough activities to take advantage of it all. While you'll certainly 
 have a lot of fun playing Crackdown, it's hard not to get the distinct feeling that it was on the 
 cusp of being so much more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (811 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: patzcool
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very fun game and it doesn't suck. Its one of those games that when your bored you 
 can just play it and cause mayhem. but this game only has cars in it so thats it and the driving 
 isnt all that fun either, also pretty bad graphics storyline sucks, but also put this into consideration 
 its like 15 bucks used at gamestop and really cheap other places so its something you should pick 
 up cause i think anybody would enjoy it. has great CO-OP also so if you enjoy sandbox games i recomend 
 this to you. it also has alot to keep you going such as races, rooftop races and ect. There's not 
 much left to be said about crackdown other then its a good game and i enjoyed it for quite a while 
 and am glad i picked it up!!!!!!!!!!! Thank you for reading my review of CRACKDOWN. Also if you 
 liked saints row 1 or 2 then you'll enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The recipe of this game is pretty simple and this is why it's so good: its an open sand box game 
 + superhuman upgradable powers + crazy explosions and action + upgradable vehicles + nice cell 
 shade graphics.
  
  The main mission itself is pretty shallow and not interesting: you are a supercop and you need 
 to clean the city from all the gangs so pretty It's simple, you go to a place, kill everybody, 
 go the next place kill everybody etc... (it's pretty much like the parts from GTA or Saints Row 
 games were you have to control all the territories but from a cop perspective) ... there's no side 
 missions either (except maybe for a few foot and car races) but this game is not about story, missions 
 or complex gameplay mechanics its all about doing whatever you want however you want in a big city 
 with insane powers. 
  
  You can jump from rooftop to rooftop and try to get to the highest buildings and do crazy over-the-top 
 jumps while killing people at the same time, you can lift cars and used them as projectiles, you'll 
 unlock upgrades for your cars to make them jump, or shoot or go faster, you'll use weapons like 
 the automatic rocket launcher... etc.
  
  Cons:
  
  -lack of content
  -story
  -AI; enemies are super duper dump. But who cares, there are so many to kill
  
  Overall, with 
 this game I had fun from the beginning until the end. This is a very light game that should be 
 played on a second degree knowing that you'll play for fun, not for a complex story with deep gameplay 
 elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet573
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was really looking good. I saw the box art though, and automatically noticed the GTA 
 similarities. But, it looked good. I stuck the sucker in and waited... and waited.... and waited. 
 Oh, cool we finally get something. 
  The game itself is alright. No cutscenes but these crappy little powerpoint presentations makes 
 it a bore. 
  The world does not have enough action to keep you seated, which is the main problem with this game. 
 While the gangs are there to kill, there is always a want for destruction. But, they don't want 
 you to kill innocents. It will take your levels down, which is stupid. I am playing an open world 
 game, specifically because I want to be able to kill everyone and do anything. But when you tell 
 me its bad to kill civilians, and you always bring my level down for it. ITS IMPOSSIBLE! You can't 
 not kill civilians. Have you ever made it through an open world game without having the cops on 
 your ass every once in a while. You lose nothing in other games though for killing civilians other 
 than cops. 
  The world gets even worse when you go after gang members. There are infinite numbers of enemies 
 protecting their boss, and it gets repetitive since there is usually no difference between fights. 
 
  And the bosses are beyond easy. 
  Even worse, is that the game has so many friggin' explosives. I want to just walk down a corridor... no 
 explosion. Your dead. Good job. It gets so annoying. 
  The game tries to add some flavor since you are a super soldier. So killing people is fun with 
 your powers, but gets repetitve. 
  Basically, this game lives by one word: 
  REPETITIVE!
  Go look for something better than this people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  With prices of Crackdown in the bargain bin range, you can't go wrong buying this game for a fun 
 diversion. Just don't expect varied gameplay or much of a story. The game consists of killing all 
 the bosses of three different organizations. How to defeat each boss is pretty much identical. 
 You can shoot, kick or throw things to kill enemies and bosses alike. There's no variation in how 
 you clear out the gangs, including the bosses themselves. You kill them just like any other goon, 
 except they have more hitpoints. And don't expect to clear out the goons first, because they constantly 
 respawn. I found the best way to clear bosses was to run past the goons to the boss's location, 
 usually the top level of whatever building they are in, and just shoot or kick them to death.
 
  
  There are a few other things to do, such as the rooftop running races and the road races. You can 
 also spend an inordinate amount of time trying to collect all the hidden orbs and agility orbs 
 which boost your abilities. Once you slaughter the gangs, there's some stunts and various other 
 little things you can do if you want to collect all the achievements. There is cooperative multiplayer 
 and some other multiplayer modes to tinker with, but with a game this old, don't expect to find 
 much for games online, unless you have a friend with Crackdown.
  
  It's fun being a superhuman who can leap from skyscraper to skyscraper, throw busses, and the like, 
 especially when you skill-up your abilities. But ultimately Crackdown is a little too shallow with 
 it's lack of a story, lack of direction, and repetitive gameplay. If you want an open-world game 
 where you can go around and do pretty much anything you want and have the option of character and 
 story development, GTA is your ticket. If you just want to be a kick-butt dude and blow things 
 up, then Crackdown will fit the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alan1224
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown, Pacific City is in a war on crime! The Los Muertos, Volk, and Shai-Gen are the gangs 
 that continue to harass the city. As a member of "The Agency," you are sent, as a sort of "Super 
 Soldier," to dispose if these criminals however you can. The cel-shading fit's the game very well 
 and shows off that style very well. On the other side is the really fun gameplay. As you do things, 
 shoot gang members, find hidden orbs, agility orbs, beat gang members with your fists, run them 
 down in cars, and kill them with a big boom, you will raise your skills. Your always trying to 
 raise your skills, since it makes you more powerful from health to firearm skills to how your car 
 turns into a super car when you raise the driving skill. The story is pretty lackluster and non-existent 
 and the soundtrack and narrator can get rather annoying, but with the Campaign, Time Trials, and 
 Races, you can go wrong with Crackdown! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumprecht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Back in the Spring of 2007, I was still in England, and my mom got me April 2007's Official Xbox 
 Magazine and It had Crackdown on it's Demo Disc. Go read the first paragraph of my Dead Rising 
 review, It's sort of the same story as this. Although I didn't pick up my copy until Summer 2008. 
 One of my best friends Connor Mcie (I miss you Dude !) had talked his parents into getting Crackdown 
 after playing at my house. We also had another friend, Courtland Boyd, who would join us in playing 
 this game. Those Spring Break nights of 2007 were great hanging out with my 2 of my best friends 
 and blowing the nights away with this game. Countless wasted hours and so much Pepsi Jazz : Blackcherry 
 and Vanilla gone. So many school-yard and lunch room conversations about how to beat certain bosses 
 are engraved into my memory. Anyway Blah, Blah, Nostalgia, Nostalgia, and before I get into a tangent 
 of reminiscing and go on and on for 3 paragraphs, I have to ask you, the reader, a question. Have 
 you ever been playing an old Original Nintendo or Sega Genesis/Mega Drive video game and thought 
 to yourself, I wonder what these old games would be like if they were 3-D and released on modern 
 day consoles." Well If you've ever found yourself doing that, Crackdown is your type of game. I 
 myself am getting tired of the gaming market being over-saturated with World War 2 games, Guitar 
 Hero/Rock Bands, and generic FPS games and Crackdown is like a winning lottery ticket at the bottom 
 of a trash filled dumpster. I am not at all trying to say that all other games are bad when compared 
 to Crackdown, I am just trying to put emphasis on how different it is from all the other currently 
 popular games.
  
  The first time you load up Crackdown, You get a nice cinematic that gives the game some perspective, 
 like how the Grand Theft Auto games do, but not as serious. You are an agent that is "Enhanced" 
 by "The Pacific City Agency". Over the years, Pacific City has gotton progressivly more crime-ridden 
 and the gangs are so dangerous that standard police forces are no match for enemy hide-outs. That's 
 when you come into play. You are required to take down 3 gangs. Los Mueratos, Volk, and Shai Gen. 
 You also have to take down all of the gangs' 9 General leaders and 1 major Boss. Go back and re-read 
 the beginning of this paragraph. Does this seem like a retro Nintendo/Sega type of game, if you 
 think so, you thought right. The cutscene in the beginning is all you get as far as story cinemas. 
 Although when a boss is near, you get a really short, 2 minute informative video on why the boss 
 is such a threat and what relation he/she has with the gang. It is really an interesting story-telling 
 design that I'm surprised actually worked. The little snippets of plot, even though its all increadibly 
 blunt, basic and lacks depth, It gets the point across successfully enough that it makes the story 
 feel more sophisticated then it actually is.
  
  So, the gameplay in a nutshell is like going into your backyard, putting Grand Theft Auto 3, Streets 
 Of Rage, Final Fight, Zero Tolerence, and Contra 3 in a hole with an acorn, and then after months 
 and months, if all 5 games fused with each other, Crackdown would be the fruit growing from that 
 tree. Imagine if Grand Theft Auto 3 was made in the 90's, this would be it. Why Crackdown is so 
 great is because of all the little mechanics and details that effect the game. For one, you are 
 "Enhanced" so that means you can go better yourself in any division such as Driving, Shooting, 
 Agility, Weapons, Explosives and Strength. The way you go about doing this are very much like an 
 old game. To enhance agility, you need to collect "Agility Orbs" that are littered on every building's 
 roof corners. This isn't boring like a collect-a-thon platformer, if you get enough of these, you 
 can actually run 4 times faster then cars and jump 6 stories high. This happens quick, so it doesn't 
 take months to build up a character, just a few hours and all of your skills progress this way 
 so it isn't just limited to one or two things you get to improve on. Another good example of leveling-up 
 is that if you kill more gang members by melee attack, you gain strength, and with every level-up 
 in strength you get an extra life bar and not only do your melee attacks get more deadly but you 
 get to the point of being able to football punt guys 30+ yards. So, I could be here all night long 
 going on about how good the progressive evolution skill set of Crackdown is so long story short, 
 Crackdown is a game where leveling up isn't a chore and is gratifying enough that you don't mind 
 grinding to level up now and again. Now that I have gameplay mechanics mostly out of the way, there 
 is another important feature in Crackdown that has a strong influence on future gameplay, The Bosses. 
 If you have fond memories of the NES or Sega Genesis, try to remember the boss fights. Essentially, 
 bosses in old games were enemies with more health that left behind a special weapon or tool. Crackdown 
 does the same type of thing, all the bosses act the same as normal enemies but they have more health 
 and they usually carry weapons not used by average foot-soliders. Plus, if you kill them buy melee, 
 you get more strength power, kill them by gun and you'll get more weapon experience, etc. Also, 
 each gang has certain bosses that are key to the stability of the gang, like one is responsible 
 for recruitment, one for strengthening troops, one for communications, etc. and If you kill bosses 
 in a certain way, these reprecussions are almost instantly tangible. Like, if you kill the recruiter, 
 you'll then see less and less enemies on the streets, kill the work-out/training coach, you start 
 to see enemies die faster and gradually get weaker because they'll start to do less damage to you, 
 and these appropriate effects happen with each killing of a boss that pertain to whatever field 
 of expertise they are in. So, Every gang in Crackdown is like a line of dominos, push one and watch 
 the gradual demise of whatever gang.
  
  Now, Story and Gameplay aside, lets talk visuals. Crackdown is a Saturday morning cartoon come 
 to life. All of the graphics have the perfect mix of Cel Shading and Realism so everything looks 
 cartoon/comic book-ish but at the same time Pacific City retains the feeling of a real-life city. 
 These visuals are so unique and well executed that I have to say that I have probably seen only 
 two or three other games that have done this art style successfully. It is hard to come by a game 
 that has graphics that are interesting and have an odd, but superb, art direction and doesn't have 
 the standard "Grand Theft Auto IV" approach where everything has to be like a simulation of reality. 
 I'll admit it, I love GTA 4 and I love realistic graphics but there comes a point where graphics 
 can get so realistic that they leave little room for imagination. Look back at old games again, 
 they all had a different style, no two games alike, and even though they were trying to recreate 
 a realistic world, the visuals were abstract enough that designers could get away with alot and 
 make things that were out of the ordinary seem natural. I know that there are exceptions to that 
 rule but this is how I feel in general now-a-days when I see a visually captivating game amongst 
 all the Farcry 2-esqe realistic masterpieces of the gaming market.
  
  Last but not least, Sound. The Music in Crackdown is a Burnout style, 20 to 30 song, generic playlist 
 you can only hear while in a car. After 2 hours of songs you don't care about and non-stop gunfire, 
 you might want to go ahead and turn on your iPod or stereo. I like to keep the sound on just for 
 the announcer. Whenever you increase a level or do something epic, the announcer guy, who sounds 
 like a mix of Sean Connery and Pierce Brosnon, is there with a comment like "Good work Agent, Not 
 many people acheive this level of perfection.", and he has a voice like I mentioned before and 
 I can't put it into words but once you hear it, you'll be shooting rockets off the Agency Tower 
 just to hear his reaction.
  
  In conclusion, Crackdown is a rewarding game that is fast paced, and If you are really searching 
 for a game that is something reminiscent of games from 15 to 25 years ago, this is a must have. 
 If you didn't count the whole year (Summer 2007 to Summer 2008) that I didn't have a copy of the 
 game and therefore couldn't finsh it, It took me a solid 5 weeks to finish. Even when you are done, 
 there is still reason to go back to it. Also, Xbox Live has a content download expansion pack so 
 when you've finished the game there is, from what I've read, a little side-mission expansion pack 
 for you to play around with. Crackdown is great alone but I'd definatly reccommend inviting a friend 
 or two over and doingas I did. Wasting hour after hour until you look at the clock and you and 
 your friends notice,"Hey, we started at 8 o'clock last night, and It's 2 A. M !?". It's that addicting, 
 it has that "I'll just play for 5 more minutes" type of attraction to it. You'll get ready to stop 
 and save but then, jumping from roof to roof, you see a few agility orbs way off in the distance. 
 Out of curiosity you go and get them. Then you level up and you think "Cool, Uh, I'll be on just 
 for 5 more minutes to see how high I can jump.", then you'll run into a group of enemies and after 
 you're done melee kicking the crap out of everyone, your strength upgrades and you get more life 
 and melee attacks are stronger. You want to go test your strength and you're back to "Just 5 more 
 minutes to try this out." again. I totally reccommend this game to anyone, you can find it cheap 
 as I got mine 8 months ago for 17 dollars used. I think you can get it brand new for under 20 bucks 
 now, so go to your local EBGames or Gamestop and see if they have any new or used copies hanging 
 around on the shelves or in the back. You won't regret picking this up.
  
  - Addison Gumprecht - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad0404
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Crackdown to quote my best-friend is "The best Hulk game they never made" 
  
  Essentially you play a super powered cop who is able to jump, throw, kick, shoot and drive his 
 way around a sand box city to rid it of three evil crime gangs.
  
  The city itself is beautifully rendered with some really cool locations, the feeling of height 
 at the top of some of the skyscrapers is genuine and jumping off them actually gets my fear of 
 heights going making my stomach turn over.
  
  As said before you job is to overthrow three gangland kingpins, one Hispanic, one Russian and one 
 Oriental and you do this by killing their gang bosses which effectively denies the ganglord different 
 resources be it guns, recruits, weapons, intel etc. The problems arise in that all you do is travel 
 somewhere and kill lots of gang-members eventually getting to the gang bosses and killing them. 
 Death is not permanent so if you don't succeed you just re-spawn and try again.
  
  Your powers as you play the game increase RPG like, in fact the system is a lot like that in Fable 
 2 but the orbs are sucked up automatically. To improve your agility you have to collect green orbs 
 these enable you to increase your level and jump higher and further. Shooting people from heights 
 also helps to increase this and your fire-power level. Your strength level is increased mainly 
 by kicking bad guys. Driving level from running people over, doing stunts and completing races. 
 Etc.
  
  There are cars in the game, lots of them you have three agency specific cars that morph into better 
 vehicles when your abilities increase. You have sports car, SUV and Truck Cab.
  
  There are also plenty of cars being driven around from tuned racers to coaches to soviet style 
 missile launchers, the only think really missing is a tank or two. However, for all of the vehicles 
 around once you can leap and jump your way around the cities the cars take a huge back seat and 
 I found myself only wanting to drive for the sake of the achievement of maxing all my skills.
 
  
  Shooting is a large part of the game and you'll do a lot of shooting from distance so it's a shame 
 that the two sniper riffles available don't have zooms on them. However, the draw distance and 
 auto aiming is such that you can target someone fairly far away and kill them it's quite impressive 
 to do and because the close combat is fiddly you'll find yourself in lots of long range fire fights. 
 Especially when you get the lock on target seeking missile launcher!
  
  Graphically it's very well implemented and I noticed only two glitches in the whole game, the worst 
 being explosions travelling through solid floors. The sound is cool as well and you get different 
 tracks to play when driving around.
  
  The game is great fun to play but the single minded game mechanic becomes tiresome towards the 
 end and you long for some other type of game aspect rather than jumping around the roof tops shooting 
 gang members.
  
  Then the end comes and it's a bit of a let down and you're left in a city with no bad guys to kill 
 by a super powered killing machine!! Although I admit these can be reset.
  
  It reminds me a lot of Just Cause, but Just Cause has this game beat in several areas, not just 
 the parachute, flying and boats that this game doesn't have.
  
  Overall not bad for a first attempt and worthy of it's 7.5 score but you have to expect so much 
 more from the second game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  "Crackdown" is addictive. I can't attribute it to a singular reason, but one of them has gotta 
 be the brilliant way the developers integrated rpg elements into a free-roaming action game.
  
  As an "enforcer" for "the Agency," you are tasked with taking out a series of gangs that have 
 infected Pacific City. You are the product of an Agency experiment to create a super-soldier with 
 hyper-fast evolutionary abilities. Shoot enemies to increase your accuracy or punch enemies to 
 boost your strength. The whole concept is based on Lamarckian evolution; and though Lamarckism 
 is a discredited scientific theory, this is a video game, so what the hell.
  
  The tangible way in which you feel your character develop is like nothing I've ever experienced 
 in a non-rpg. This is more Iron Man than Spider Man or Super Man. You start off as a regular Joe 
 and gradually build yourself up to become superhuman. The best developmental path is "agility," 
 which allows you to jump higher as you collect orbs that sit on top of roofs and skyscrapers. This 
 creates an incredibly addictive incentive to explore higher and higher reaches of the city, and 
 not just for the view.
  
  What's remarkable about "Crackdown" is how enthralling the game is despite a laundry list of glaring 
 faults. For starters, story is virtually non-existent in this game, as the sole mission is to eliminate 
 the heads of a series of gangs. The story missions are limited solely to this purpose, and offer 
 no variety apart from locations, enemy positions, and enemy arsenals. Moreover, the enemies themselves 
 seem superhuman in their own way, able to rip away at your armor with bullets from the ground beneath 
 a skyscraper, or when you're flying mid-air between rooftops. Finally, the camera sometimes pulls 
 in too close in close quarters, creating some troublesome platforming issues.
  
  Despite all this, I found "Crackdown" thoroughly entertaining. The exploration elements of the 
 game encourage creative thinking while platforming, since there's usually more than one way to 
 scale a skyscraper. If you can find a friend, the online multiplayer is a blast (too bad there's 
 no split-screen) . 
  
  In short, "Crackdown" is a game with a lot of faults, but if you look beneath the smog, you'll 
 find lots of unfiltered fun and a city waiting to be explored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 3:39 am PT
Review:  Crackdown puts you as a futuristic agent to clean up the Pacific City from all crime. Story seems 
 to be an afterthought and the main focus of this game is to wreck havoc in GTA style.
  
  Story is very simple: Pacific City is infested with a few powerful mob gangs and it's up to you 
 to destroy them all. You start by killing henchmen and lieutenants, but eventually you'll go after 
 the kingpin. Then repeat. There are pretty much no limitations, because if you know where the 
 kingpin is hiding then by all means go straight after him instead of killing some little shots 
 first. If you don't know what you're doing, then the game forces you to wonder around town for 
 quite some time before revealing the next target. This can get irritating, if you were looking 
 for a story-driven sci-fi adventure.
  
  Graphics have a cartoonish look in them and it fits the overall feel of this game quite well. Colors 
 are bright and it's nice that the game doesn't have a dark feel in it (except during the night) . 
 Environments are not that detailed and the draw distance is poor, but at least the frame rate stays 
 always solid and there are next to none loading times. Sound design is also "OK", but nothing really 
 memorable. Voice acting is handled with professionalism, but for some reason you'll get to hear 
 those same tutorials over and over again. It's not a huge deal, but you'll definitely notice it.
 
  
  Controlling your agent is fast and easy after a small learning curve. The catch here is that your 
 attributes will get better in time the more you use them. Only difference is the Agility and in 
 order to gain more jumping altitude you need to collect special green orbs scattered throughout 
 the city. This is really a pain, because Crackdown isn't really that much fun to play until you've 
 developed your agent enough to really feel like you're this big Superman kind of guy.
  
  Crackdown doesn't have a real multiplayer, but you can play the whole game with a friend either 
 through Xbox Live or System Link, but no splitscreen is available. In my opinion this game is at 
 its best in co-op, especially if your friend has already played the game and he knows what his 
 doing.
  
  In the end it must be said that Crackdown is an OK game, but by no means a great game. It just 
 lacks that "thing" that draws you into the game and won't let go until the ending credits roll. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:46 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown, Pacific City is in a war on crime! The Los Muertos, Volk, and Shai-Gen are the gangs 
 that continue to harass the city. As a member of "The Agency," you are sent, as a sort of "Super 
 Soldier," to dispose if these criminals however you can. The cel-shading fit's the game very well 
 and shows off that style very well. On the other side is the really fun gameplay. As you do things, 
 shoot gang members, find hidden orbs, agility orbs, beat gang members with your fists, run them 
 down in cars, and kill them with a big boom, you will raise your skills. Your always trying to 
 raise your skills, since it makes you more powerful from health to firearm skills to how your car 
 turns into a super car when you raise the driving skill. The story is pretty lackluster and non-existent 
 and the soundtrack and narrator can get rather annoying, but with the Campaign, Time Trials, and 
 Races, you can go wrong with Crackdown!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 9.2/10
  Voice Acting: 8.4/10
  Replay 
 Value: 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWallace27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  Pros: Huge world, Plays like a collecting, exploring platform games, Leaping across rooftops brings 
 exciting enjoyment, Interacting with environment-kicking semis, throwing cars, and blowing things 
 up
  
  Cons: Too easy, driving mechanics need improvement, Gunplay isn't very innovative 
  
  
  This game IS kind of easy, but that doesn't mean it's not challenging. And it's on the 
 short side. You could probably beat it in less than 10 hours. But there is so much more you can 
 do in the game. And everything is actually FUN! Leaping from building to building, running people 
 over, blowing things up, kicking cars 20 feet into the air and throwing them at people, shooting 
 thugs in the face with a shotgun. And you powerup in the game as you gain experience. You get faster, 
 stronger, and more driving controls and weapons attack improve.
  
  The world is vast and beautiful. Exploring things, just on foot, is a treat. And like I said... it's 
 FUN!
  
  This game can provide you with endless gameplay and the graphics are really crisp and beautiful. 
 This is my favorite GTA-Style open-world game to date. It combines so many different elements together 
 in a great way. I think that the game could be better even, and that it didn't quite live up to 
 its FULL potential. I see great things coming in the future. I think that Realtime Worlds has a 
 great formula to work with and has truly brought something unique to the table, even with all the 
 similar games out there. 
  
  There IS a major weakness in the game. The driving portions. The controls for the vehicles do seem 
 stiff and that is my major complaint. It's not bad, it's just not great and doesn't stand to par 
 with the pros of the game. Another con is the gunplay. It is fun, but it needs improvement. You 
 can either manually kill guys or you can auto-lock on them. The auto-lock isn't very fulfilling, 
 because it's too easy, and the manual would be hard, near-impossible, to finish the game with. 
 They need to find the midpoint of the two and work out a more enjoyable killing system. Something 
 like Max Payne-style shooting or even Stranglehold would have been great. Someone needs to make 
 a game that has Stranglehold Shooting, Soul Calibur fighting, (there'd have to be someway to switch 
 between gunplay and fighting) and Midnight Club 3 driving, (Driving would be easy, it would switch 
 automatically) , Crackdown running and jumping, GTA's immersive expansion and creativity, all in 
 a larger Crackdown world, with more detailed textures and atmosphere, like a brighter, less gloomy 
 Resident Evil game. That would be the greatest game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjohnson007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Now, some of ya'll out there might have bought this game just because it came with a Halo 3 beta 
 demo, but you must admit that Crackdown is not entirely a bad game although its not all "cracked" 
 up as you would believe.
  
  You take the role of and Agent who must go around Pacific City and clean it up by taking out the 
 3 major gangs; The Los Muertos, The Volk, and The Shai-Gen Corporation. Before taking out the king 
 pins you must search and collect intel on the people under them. Taking out the kingpins generals 
 will make it easier when it comes to taking them out. At the start of the you pick and agent whose 
 appearance changes as your abilities level up, and you can explore the city how ever you want to 
 to take out the gangs. When roaming the city at points you'll gather intel of a person of interest 
 and be asked to go check them out. When you find a high ranking person they'll give you a probability 
 percentage if its low you can turn around find others in the gang before taking them on. You also 
 can recover captured Agency supply points so if you die you can respawn at any of the ones you 
 recovered. You can also use these points to recover ammo as well as add new guns that you capture 
 for the gangs you your arsenal. 
  
  Driving, strength, agility, explosives, and firearms are your abilities to upgrade. You can up 
 grade your driving abilities buy competing in races or running over gang members. As your driving 
 ability upgrades so does your agency vehicles. strength is upgraded buy using force to take out 
 your enemies. agility is upgraded buy completing rooftop races, collecting agility orbs throughout 
 the city or killing enemies from heights. Explosives and firearms are upgrade when you use explosives 
 or firearms to take out your enemies. There is also Hidden orbs throughout the city that will add 
 to all your abilities.
  
  The game can be completed within 10 hours. When playing the game there are several cool features 
 for a sandbox style game like this just not put to the full potential that they could be. The driving 
 controls aren't all that great. I found myself jumping around more than anything. There are some 
 tough boss fights but none that are to much of a challenge. As far as graphics go. The cell shading 
 style they use to give it a comic book type feel doesn't really set the tone for this game.
  
  All in all its not a bad game. If your thinking about getting it make sure you find a good 
 deal on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizmo12345
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is all flash and no substance. What I mean is theres no depth in story or gameplay. Dont 
 get me wrong there are goals to aim for; upgrade your skills and eliminate the kingpin. But theres 
 nothing to it. Just run jump and shoot while 1000ft in the air. Kill a few incredibly easy bosses 
 and your done. I myself did try and get some acheivments after completeing it for the 2nd time. 
 That did ocupy me for a day or two and then I realised how much time I was wasting in the dull 
 cities of crackdown. If you thinking of buying it just rent it instead, in fact its so cheap ignore 
 that and buy it. Its not a must have game and it isnt a long lasting or particulary good one either 
 but it is fun for a short period I must admit. Perhaps try it round a friends and if you like it 
 buy it.
  
  Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has a cool idea of giving the player control of a superhuman cop to wipe out various 
 gang factions throughout an open-world city. Adding to this is a two-player co-op feature, but 
 it does feel a bit too rushed in the development category. The missions are repetitive, the side 
 missions aren't too interesting, and there isn't any plot or plot twist throughout the game. Due 
 to the lack of main-game content, Crackdown won't keep some players interested for long.
  
  In Crackdown, you play as a superhuman cop sent out to eliminate 3 major gangs throughout a giant 
 city. Each gang has seven leaders, and they're all scattered around on various islands of the city. 
 Other than that, there's no actual plot to speak of, but surprisingly, the game doesn't really 
 need one. The fun factor in this game definitely makes up for some of the lack of a plot. 
  
  The controls are very easy to pick up. Once you're sent out from your Agency headquarters, 
 you're free to do whatever you want. Your character has superhuman strength, so he'll be able to 
 climb up buildings and smash cars right off the bat. Your abilities will be increased by finding 
 orbs scattered on top of buildings or by completing missions. Speaking of missions, there isn't 
 an awful lot of structure to them. Instead of a game like GTA 4, you just have to travel to where 
 the gang leader is, not to a mission icon.
  
  Each leader is usually on top of a building or some sort of tall structure. But be warned, he or 
 she is always well surrounded with gang members. Both fortunately and unfortunately (for some people 
 like me) , the gang members are pretty easy to take down. You have regenerating health like Call 
 of Duty, so you can just take out an enemy or two, hide behind a corner for five or so seconds, 
 then come out and go back in, guns blazing. Your enemies do seem to take quite a lot of damage 
 from your machine guns, so you'll often have to take the enemies' weapons.
  
  There are some cars to drive around in, and they drive surprisingly well (in my opinion) , but there's 
 rarely any need to use them. The side missions are almost exactly like the main missions, except 
 with less gang members to take out. You can play the game cooperatively with another person, but 
 the drop-in system could use some work. If someone requests to join your game and you say yes, 
 you'll automatically get kicked from the session, and you'll have to tell the person to invite 
 you back. You're probably better off playing with someone who's around the same in the ability 
 category. It's not fun when you're playing with a veteran gamer who's already maxed out his abilities 
 and can jump onto buildings while you have to take the stairs. By the time you get up there, the 
 gang leader will already be killed by the other player, so it sucks some of the fun out of it.
 
  
  The audiovisual presentation is surprisingly good for a game made in early 2007. The environment 
 is highly detailed, but it does have a futuristic look to it, especially the cars. The draw distance 
 is also pretty impressive, since you'll see the two tallest skyscrapers from miles away. The audio 
 during gameplay is solid -- like all shooters these days -- but there's nothing spectacular about it. 
 The voice acting is OK but not great.
  
  Crackdown has a neat idea and certainly does deliver on the fun factor. But what's missing is the 
 depth in both the story missions and side missions. It's definitely fun to blow some stuff up and 
 jump around either alone or with another player. But unfortunately, there isn't enough in-game 
 content variety in Crackdown, preventing it from reaching its full potential of being something 
 truly special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankind666
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:24 am PT
Review:  Crackdown puts you in the role of a "super cop". and to be honest that's pretty lame, running around 
 shooting crackheads and jumping 100 ft high sounds pretty fun (i think) but don't get me wrong 
 the first ten seconds you will be bored out of your skull, you jump and you fly right over your 
 target right over the cars and into the river, I mean seriously trying to complete a mission on 
 a car with a engine of a hair dryer is pretty annoying. seriously they should have put "the cop 
 that cant stop" on the cover because you start to run and you wont stop running till you go right 
 back into the river. But thats just at the begging i think the game would get better though guess 
 what....
  shoot crackheads and after that shoot other crackheads and guess what shoot some more were the 
 creators of this game drunk when making this load of c-i wont go there because this is a review 
 right.
  
  in the end i recommend NOT getting this game or you will be wishing you hadn't.
  as for me i 
 am going to sit in a coner and cry because i picked this over FABLE II o0h n03s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irve
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Ok , if you don't have fun playing Crackdown your not cut out for playing video games. there is 
 real joy in moving round the city jumping from building to building , taking down a few bad guys 
 , picking up cars , blowing stuff up , driving round the city like a maniac ... everything runs 
 smoothly and is great fun to pull off. The games cell shaded look gives the game plenty of character, 
 the graphics are never spectacular but very nice all the same.
  
  Playing as a superhero cop in crackdown has more in common with the Hulk: ultimate destruction 
 than Grand theft auto. This makes it the best game of it's kind on Next gen. 
  
  Unfortunately as fun as it si to mess around in the city it soon becomes obvious that there is 
 very little else to do. 
  
  All the missions are the same and although there is more freedom in how to approach your trargets 
 than in a GTA, game giving you s bit of tactical choice, ultimately all this lets you choose is 
 the difficulty level of each boss. 
  
  There is no variety in the missions at all , this game would have benefited from Spiderman style 
 rescue and transport missions no end. 
  
  Driving in the game is also almost completely unnessessary and after you've leveled up a couple 
 of agility levels you'll find that unless you want the driving experience it's far quicker to navigate 
 the tops of buildings and warp between supply points than it is to get in a car.
  
  Now this game is a budget title and can be picked up for very little money it's still well worth 
 a look. but just be prepared to let it slip back in it's DVD case after a couple of days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun and yesterday was the first day I played it. From the beginning of the 
 game I really enjoyed the lock-on feature for weapons. also the weapons themselves are a lot of 
 fun to shoot. The best way I have found to describe this game is Grand Theft Auto except instead 
 of a gang member, you're a semi-cop killing other gang members. The other thing that is cool is 
 that you get experience points in different categories like Agility, Firearms, Strength, and Driving 
 Skill. Running around the world is fun. And doing whatever you darn well want to is always fun 
 too.
  
  One thing about this game is that it gets a little annoying when you're fighting a gang and they 
 just keep coming at you no matter what you do. It's also annoying that the only places you can 
 save are the weapon restock places. The driving interface is also rather difficult to use, yet 
 you'll find that most of the time you will feel more like running around town jumping 30 feet in 
 the air and dancing on rooftops.
  
  All in all if you like some good fun entertainment that is a lot like GTA, this game is for you. 
 Easy to play, easy to learn, and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  not the greatest but still pretty solid I know the main reason people got this game was to get 
 the halo invetation but Ive noticed alot of people who bought the game said crackdown was going 
 to suck but as they played it they realized it was a pretty good game and i felt the same I was 
 expecting a generic shooter but it was more then that your a futeristic super soldier who has amazing 
 shooting and driving skills and can lift huge objects like cars and pipes and hurl them at enemies 
 I know the AI is kind of dumb and the physics are lame but its fun because the developers tried 
 something new and it was pretty fun but still its no grand theft auto or anything some parts of 
 the game are really corny and dumb but getting the achievements and collecting all of the orbs 
 give the game alot of extended play and stuff but there definitly should have been more weapons 
 and vheicle options maybe some aircraft hopefull the sequel will fill in they gaps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittau
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was a decent game but I personally had issues with certain things that other people I'm 
 sure are fine with. First off, after the update with the 4 extra skins for the agent, the screen 
 for the game reconfigured itself and I could no longer see the readout on the % chance of getting 
 through whatever stronghold I was at. There was no real story and killing all of the targets in 
 the game didn't take long at all. The handling of the cars in the game start off horrible, so bad 
 that it's very hard to work up the driving skill which makes the races rather difficult. Aside 
 from races, the only other way to earn points for your racing skill is to either pull off stunts 
 in a car, or to run over bad guys. Enemy AI can sometimes see through walls and across maps which 
 sucks if you are trying to sneak up on people. Aside from rooftop races, and car races, there isn't 
 much to do after the story aside from collecting orbs, and you had better like collecting orbs 
 too because there are plenty of them to find. I did like to throw cars, and landing on them from 
 about 20 stories up was fun. Leaping from building to building like a superhero was very cool, 
 topped off nicely with comic bookish visuals. This game was not free of invisible walls, and for 
 some reason certain stairs and curbs are difficult of the agent to navigate. Unless you are hardcore 
 and absolutely must have all of the achievements I would have to recommend this as a rent only 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The game introduces the super agent. You wear a suit that allows you to have super strength, agility, 
 and aim I guess. You have a few agents to choose to play as and there are more you can download 
 for free. Your character does change his appearance depending on which ability you level up. There 
 are 5 abilities to level up as you play; agility, driving, explosives, strength, and weapons. Agility 
 is when you kill someone at a high place, landing on them, or finding agility orbs across the city. 
 Driving is when you kill people when in a car or jump through Stunt Markers. Explosives is when 
 killing someone with a explosion. Strength is killing someone by throwing something at them or 
 hitting them. Weapons is just shooting people. This games single player goes by in a flash, all 
 you have to do is find the bosses and then kill them. It is fun for a first time playthrough, but 
 when you find and kill them all it is pretty boring. So you go to multiplayer and that is really 
 fun. It has what you wished Grand Theft Auto had, co-op for the main story line. What it doesn't 
 have is gametypes to play in, so you can play with your friend just killing bosses and that gets 
 kind of boring after a while. This is a very good game and it would be a great game if it had longer 
 single player and more things to do when in multiplayer. I would say you should buy this if you 
 want a quick thrill and something to do to pass the time, other then that you should just rent 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown, you are this superhero cop that takes on several connected gangs, recovering territories 
 under their control like a self righteous Godfather (you know, the game) . Along the way you gain 
 superpowers as you achieve certain milestones. Supposedly you can upgrade cars too - although I 
 can say that I nearly beat the game and didn't see one car get upgraded!
  
  I don't have a clue why Gamespot reviewers gave this a 7.8. the longer you play it the worse it 
 gets. It becomes boring and monotonous after a while, and the obvious push to get you to go online 
 is really annoying (when you play single-player mode) . It falls in with a glut of games that won't 
 leave you alone about the online crud, and it really takes you out of the whole fantasy of the 
 game.
  
  There are challenges scattered about that you can use to upgrade your skills - problem is that 
 60% or more of them involve online play - even when you have chosen a single-player mode! How hard 
 would it have been to customize the single-player game to, well - a single-player? It's like an 
 XBL commercial disguised as a game, only difference is you don't PAY for commercials.
  
  Another thing I noticed is that the game keeps telling you about upgrading cars, but even at 90% 
 completion I haven't had a car upgrade yet! I found no in-game reason to use an upgraded car's 
 "abilities" anyway. Air control? At 90% completion I had no use for Air Control whatsoever. So 
 you do all these challenges that are basically useless.
  
  I enjoyed the fighting, bombing, sniping, etc. But not being able to finish 100% without going 
 online and paying for game content was disappointing enough that I just stopped. Crackdown had 
 a lot of potential - but the greed of MS Game Studio just took it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playa4real08
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a semi-great game. Its fun to play, but the story is very short and fairly easy to 
 beat on the default settings. i beat it in a about 6 hours or so. i did have a lot of fun with the 
 agility skill once i got that maxed out. I never really did that much drivng, but when i was driving 
 it was pretty lame. After you beat the game there really isnt much to do because all the bad guys 
 are gone. i think there is a way to set them back, but i think you have to DL somehting. but anyways 
 id recemond it if you think it looks fun, but maybe just borrowing it or renting it is a better 
 choice. ive only had this game for a couple days, im borrowing it from a friend, so i havent tried 
 multiplayer yet. when i get home im gonna go play crackdown and download that DLC so that i can 
 get a harpoon gun and some new vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  Crackdown. Well its an openworld game with Superpowers. Ahhh yes the crisp smell of Potetial. Yes 
 crackdown does offer fun it is also fairly cramped up badly. I found Crackdown really repetive, 
 Linear, and unbalanced.
  There is no story, i went looking for one i found nothing. There are a few guns with can be fun 
 but there is too little and ALL THE VECHILES SUCK. there are no indoor missions, no planes and 
 there is only one good cars, your supercars, you can't even controll the beast until yoou maxed 
 out the driving skill. Now what i like well, the skills system is practically Fable's and the graphics 
 are pretty good and the Freedom to do what ever you want with your superpowers given to you by 
 the Agency. You can throw cars at people, even trucks. You can run faster than cars, driving skills 
 is rubbish.
  
  Now there isn't alot to really say on crackdown because rubbish story but what saves it is it fun 
 aspect which makes want to come back to it and go throwing and jumping around killing people with 
 sports cars.
  Hopefully a sequal can can harness the fun from crackdown and turn it into a truly great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Come on agent, let's see what you can do! Crackdown puts you in the shoes of an engineered soldier, 
 whose task is to serve The Agency and take out the 3 crime lords who have taken up residence in 
 Pacific City. It is a great action game that really makes you feel like a super powered agent, 
 with a distinct art style, an overzealous narrator, a well implemented upgrade system, and an expertly 
 designed city to flex your powers in.
  
  The game takes place in a third person perspective, and from the outset you are allowed to explore 
 the entirety of Pacific City. The city is divided into 3 main islands, and each is dominated by 
 one of the 3 crime syndicates. Your primary goal is to take out the Kingpin of each of those crime 
 syndicates. However, at the outset of the game those Kingpins fortresses are heavily fortified. 
 Each of the Kingpins is supported by 6 generals, and by taking out these generals, you weaken the 
 Kingpins defences. For example, take out the general that handles weapons distribution, and the 
 Kingpins bodyguards will start sporting lower grade weapons. Take out the general who handles recruitment, 
 and there will be less bodyguards to deal with. When you approach a fortress, the game is helpful 
 enough to give a percentage chance of success based on your current stats and defeated generals.
 
  
  Of course, The Agency doesn't know where these fortresses are, so it is up to you to explore the 
 city and find them. Once you get near a fortress, you will receive an updated dossier and the location 
 added to your map. Occassionally you may get a random update if you have been wandering around 
 without finding anything, so you will never be completely lost. There are also supply points around 
 the city, which are usually located in high places. When you die, you can respawn from any supply 
 point around the city, as well as restock your ammo. You can only hold 2 weapons at a time, and 
 for all the money spent on bioengineering you, you think they would be able to supply you with 
 some decent weapons. The first weapons you have are servicable, but you will want to replace them 
 as you come across tougher enemies. Once you collect guns from dead enemies, you can take them 
 back to supply points, and they will remain available to use for the rest of the game.
  
  Combat is simple. Holding the left trigger locks on to the nearest target, pull the right trigger 
 to shoot. That might make it sound simple, and it is, but the combat is often intense because you 
 face so many enemies at once. Once a target is locked, you can use the right stick to target a 
 specific area of the body. This hardly comes into play as it doesn't yield much benefit; only head 
 shots deal major damage, but it takes a long time for the reticule to home in. You can also home 
 in on petrol tanks, and blow cars up with a well-placed shot. The targeting system works well the 
 vast majority of the time. There will be occassions where it targets cars behind the bad guys or 
 not the specific guy you want to aim at, but these issues are fleeting and usually don't impact 
 on your success. Killing enemies with bullets upgrades your aiming skills, and the reticule tightens 
 faster once you lock on.
  
  You can take out your enemies with brawn as well as bullets. You can do this by either walking 
 straight up to them and giving them a hefty kick, or picking up objects and throwing them. Enemies 
 are smart enough to move out of the way of incoming heavy objects, so this isn't usually useful 
 until your physical strength has been upgraded a few times. While you might only be able to pick 
 up barrels at the outset, you end up being able to pick up trucks and throw them around. To go 
 the distance in Pacific City you will need to upgrade this ability, because it also indicates how 
 much damage you can take.
  
  On top of regular bullets and brawn, you can use explosives. You start out with grenades, but can 
 also obtain some rocket launchers from your enemies. Taking out enemies with explosives increases 
 the skill, and each upgrade offers more damage and a higher radius. It is a double edged sword 
 - while explosives are great for taking out enemy cars and their passengers, it can also kill nearby 
 civilians, which drops your skill. However, the punishment is minute and won't really impact on 
 your upgrades.
  
  Driving is the one skill that is not necessary; you can play the entire game without getting in 
 a vehicle. This is a good thing, because for the most part, driving sucks. You can commandeer civilian 
 vehicles, but the handling for most of them is very poor. The Agency has three vehicles available 
 to you at the garage; a speedy sports car, a SUV that can handle rugged terrain, and a truck cab 
 that plows through just about anything. There are two ways to improve your driving skills. The 
 first is running over enemies. Without any driving skill this is difficult as most enemies will 
 just avoid you, and it is much more efficient to get out of the car and shoot them instead. The 
 second way to improve your skills is to compete in races, which are against the clock. Again, with 
 poor handling skills these can be a bit troublesome. Once you manage to get a couple of driving 
 skill upgrades, these become much easier. Another perk with the Agency vehicles is that their appearance 
 changes in line with your driving skill, giving your sports car a sleeker look, or beefier tires 
 for your SUV. Once fully upgraded, they get an additional bonus, such as a nitro boost for the 
 truck, and mounted machine guns for the sports car. While these are nifty to play around with for 
 a short period of time, driving as a whole feels completely underutilised in the game. It would 
 have been nice to have a few chases, or even some smart level design which allowed you to take 
 a short cut and launch cars off makeshift ramps into an enemy fortress.
  
  Agility is the defining skill in Crackdown, and goes hand in hand with level design. Agility determines 
 how high you can jump. All three islands have a big degree of verticality. Your agent can cling 
 onto window ledges, balconies, and the edges of buildings, and continue jumping upwards from there. 
 The main way to gain agility is by collecting agility orbs. These are mostly found on rooftops, 
 so you will need to employ your climbing skills. While it is possible to travel the entirety of 
 Pacific City at the start of the game, you certainly won't be able to scale all the buildings, 
 and thus reach some of the fortresses. While it isn't too subtle, it still strikes the effective 
 balance between being open-ended while offering a structured way to progress. It often means doing 
 a bit of island hopping, as you go back to find more orbs, upgrade, then go to another island to 
 get newly accessible ones, and so on. The level design is such that this is a fun endeavour anyway, 
 planning your jumps ahead of time as you try to figure out the best path to the orbs you can see 
 up above. Rooftop races are also available, requiring you to go through checkpoints on the rooftops 
 within a time limit. If you complete the challenge, you are awarded agility points. These aren't 
 necessary to fully upgrade, and I found some of them pretty tedious. Not making a jump often means 
 failure, which is very frustrating for long races. A quick restart feature might have mitigated 
 this to a degree, but if you fail you have to traipse back across the city if you want to try again.
 
  
  Presentation is excellent, with an intentional comic book feel. People and objects have a distinct 
 black border around them as though they have been pencilled in. By not aiming for realism, they 
 have really nailed a cohesive, colourful look. Most impressive is the draw distance; stand on the 
 tallest buildings, and you will be able to see nearly every other building that would be visible 
 from your position, even on the other side of the map. Moving objects fare worse, with some pop-in 
 if things are getting hectic. However, this mainly occurs when you are intentionally causing having 
 and blowing up everything in the streets; it's rarely an issue while you are following your mission 
 objectives. The game also has an intentionally hammy commentator, who gives you updates, acts as 
 a guide, and lauds your skills. The last part is mildly broken, where he will comment on skills 
 you weren't even using. For example, giving you props for an impressive ascent when you were running 
 along a flat road. I found this amusing, but being told about rooftop races for the umpteenth time, 
 which triggered whenever you came within range of one, became tiresome. There are plenty of other 
 neat touches as well, such as the way your agent grunts with each jump, the way the screen shakes 
 when you hit the ground from a great height, and the way the sound of a homing rocket scales as 
 it gets closer to your location and then whizzes by your head as you manage to avoid it. There 
 are plenty of people bustling around the city, and firefights often break out between gangs and 
 the peacekeepers, making the place feel alive.
  
  The game does offer a challenge on the medium setting, such that I turned it down to Tough (the 
 easiest setting) after some frustrations. The game is balanced as far as requiring a certain skill 
 level to be able to beat the kingpins and their generals. This is mainly by virtue of guards continuing 
 to respawn. If you don't have good aiming skills or armour, you won't be able to take them out 
 fast enough as they get replaced. This can make storming a fortress a tense affair as you retreat 
 to recover your health, and try to progress a little further before you have to fall back again. 
 While your aim is pretty good from a distance, enemies are a better aim the closer they are. Thus 
 it can be frustrating to have a quartet of enemies respawn through a door several feet from you 
 and rip you to shreds in a few seconds before you can find adequate cover. This means restarting 
 from a supply point and needing to clear the fortress from scratch, and was the reason I turned 
 down the difficulty. Aside from that one point of frustration, the game is never unfair. Playing 
 through the game while doing the odd orb-hunting or races will naturally progress your skills (aside 
 from driving) so they should be near their peak when you reach the end of the game. Of course if 
 you are ever having trouble, you can focus on upgrading a particular ability by asaulting gangs 
 in the streets, or just taking your time with outlying enemies of a fortress.
  
  I do not have Xbox Live, and unfortunately my attempts to system link were unsuccessful, and could 
 not find the other linked machine. The game offers co-op and allows two players to run around the 
 city taking on the bosses, but I advise reading other reviews if you want more accurate information 
 of this feature. This review also incorporates the free download which adds the Keys To The City 
 mode. This is like an ultimate cheat mode. Note that this starts you in a new game, not your existing 
 game, and turns off achievements and leaderboards. The cheats are varied, allowing you to set your 
 skills to whatever level you want, have insane agility (jump higher and ran faster than was previously 
 possible) , spawn items at will, and more. This makes for a fun diversion, letting you set up a 
 long chain of exploding barrels or cars, and generally just go nuts around the city.
  
  Crackdown is a great action game that makes you feel like a superagent. It is easy to pick up and 
 play, has fun gunplay, and a great city to explore. What are you waiting for agent? Let's see what 
 you can do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an open world game, kind of like a Grand Theft Auto in a way. The game play is not 
 really the same, but the concept of running round a giant city and being able to do a lot of things 
 kind of puts it in the same category.
  
  In Crackdown you pick between a bunch of agents to pl job is simple. There are 21 gang lords spilt 
 in between 3 gangs, and you have to hunt tem down and kill them.
  
  In Crackdown, you basically run and shoot. You have a few skills which you can level up, which 
 increase your driving skills, or athletic skills. If you increase your athletic skills, you can 
 jump super high and run faster.
  
  Crackdown is really basic. There are only really a few ways you can take out yor targets, because 
 most of the time, you just have to run in a building or a tower, or stadium, and shoot everything 
 that moves. It is fun a first, but can get really boring. I could not find many other ways to do 
 the mission different, because, most of the gang lords you hunt down, that is the only thing you 
 can do. Some are in places where they allow you to get crafty with your ways of killing them.
 
  
  The graphics in Crackdown are really good looking. Everything is cell shaded, but has all the real 
 textures that and ordinary game has. Some times textures won't load and things far off in the distance, 
 so it will look really ugly. But over all the graphics are really good.
  
  The sound in Crackdown is okay. The music in the game is not my favorite, but other people may 
 like it. The voices acting is not that great, and some times guys will repeat things over and over 
 again, and it will get really annoying.
  
  There is a co op in Crackdown, but besides that, there is no multi player.
  
  Over all, Crackdown 
 is a great open world action game, that will keep you entertained for about 10 hours, but if you 
 want achievements, or just go and play n the huge environment, then you should give Crackdown a 
 try. Not to mention, the game is really cheap now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown. The name alone sounds fun. As I'm sure you're aware, in crackdown you play as a genetically 
 enhanced agent. You jump higher, shoot better, fight harder, etc. then normal. And as you go on 
 through the game you improve these stats.
  
  The Good- The gameplay is fun. It's unique as well. Jump from rooftop to rooftop and shoot at all 
 the bad guys scurrying below. The explosions aren't half bad and the physics engine is about as 
 good as it gets in a game such as this.
  
  The Bad- Although there seems to be more bad then good, the good still greatly outweighs the bad. 
 The graphics aren't super good. You're not playing with x's and o's but you're also not playing 
 with modern day high-tech models. The screenshots show a pretty accurate depiction of the graphics. 
 They're not enhanced via photoshop or anything to make the game look great. The game DOES get a 
 little bit repetitive after a while and will eventually wear off. But what game doesn't? I find 
 my self spending lots of time scaling my way of buildings multiple times through game. To some, 
 that may seem fun. For me, if I wanted to scale up buildings I'd go and get a copy of spider man 
 where I don't have to worry about if I'm going to make it or not.
  
  
  It's one of those games that pulls you through to the end and then sits on your shelf for like 
 6 months then you suddenly have this overwhelming urge to do it again. For what it's selling for 
 now-a-days, I'd say it's definitely worth it. I got my copy for $10. So if you're one to like GTA 
 4, or Saints Row 2, I'd consider this title. It's not too old but it's not new either. You have 
 an open ended world in which you go around and take down key leaders of gangs and blah blah blah. 
 A stereotypical gang fighter. Yet with a new twist and fun gameplay.
  
  All-in-all, it's fun, unique, and it's worth giving a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoochpube
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game, especially when you put in to consideration that it was one of the first 
 games on the XBOX 360. Insanely entertaining open world game that keeps you entertained for quite 
 some time. It's difficulty is challenging, but not too tough. The game has enough bosses to keep 
 you from beating it in a couple of hours. The selection of weapons keeps interest up as well. The 
 graphics are kind of interesting. The creators may have made them a little too cartoony, maybe 
 that was out of irony, considering the fact that it's a fairly violent game. 
  
  Also, Crackdown has a pretty good story line, although the story really doesn't matter until the 
 end. There are some flaws though. The melee moves aren't good at all. There are maybe 3 or 4 ways 
 that you can people someone up and it gets a little annoying. 
  
  Overall, Crackdown is a good game that, despite a few minor flaws, is definately worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for an indepth sandbox GTA4 game then this may disappoint. 
  But if you are new to this genre or simply like blowing people up then Crackdown may be the game 
 for you.
  
  Its plot is simple:
  
  You are a Supercop and as such have kick ass super powers (jump higher, leap large distances, blow 
 stuff up etc) . 
  You have been enlisted to clean up the place as normal cops can no longer handle it. 
  You go 
 around 3 islands, each island with 7 boss' (the seventh being the main bad guy)
  
  So all you need to do is run around upgrading all your skills till you kill all 21 bosses and their 
 henchmen.
  
  Simple stuff, anything outside of the main story is basic car race/roof top race based missions 
 that really don't need to be done and aren't that exciting.
  
  It's the poor mans Saints Row, but for those of us who just need a quick fix of the action, it's 
 more than enough.
  The cell shaded graphics are a nice touch as well.
  
  7.0
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is fun. Really good fun.
  Nothing beats the feeling of leaping across the skyscrapes punching baddies a few blocks away with 
 one punch.
  The graphics, whilst slightly jaggy, have a great sheen and style about them, and the story is 
 passable, being set up for a 2nd Crackdown at the end.
  In all honesty though, i couldn't help but feel that there could be so much more from this game.
 
  Sure, it's good fun jumping across rooftops and punching people but that is literally all you 
 can do.
  Why couldn't we have more superpowers?
  As it is it gets repetitive real quick, and the guns are weak and boring.
  The gameplay, whilst 
 good fun, is also horrendously repetitive, consisting of you hunting down and killing various gang 
 leaders.
  It reminds me of Assassins Creed, in a very, very bad way.
  Still, theres lots of fun to be had just jumping about and blowing **** up, in a GTA way.
  To 
 be honest, if you see this on the cheap its worth a purchase, but i'm selling my copy and waiting 
 for the 2nd copy, which will hopefully have so much more variety and be a true superhero cop all 
 action game.
  There's alot to improve on here, but when the developers do, it'll be amazing.
  
  +
  
  
 Cool cell shaded graphics
  Great fun
  
  -
  
  SO repetitive.
  No decent story.
  After first glance, the cell shaded graphics are drab and dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  When I play Crackdown, it reminds me of a much simpler, more fun time. Video games did not have 
 to be true simulations and they surely were not realistic. Crackdown is a 3rd person shooter that 
 is a run and gun before a take cover and develop a plan kind of game. You will find yourself taking 
 more time jumping 50 feet through the air and firing down at enemies than you will covered behind 
 a cement wall waiting for the enemy to reload.
  There are far too many sim shooters out there and this is a great change of pace, it's fast. Crackdown 
 almost penalizes you for staying put too long in one place with enemy patrols and other factors. 
 One of the things this game really accomplishes is that it's fast paced fun, almost no thinking 
 involved, which is not a bad thing. Just kick back, and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Way low expectations when I bought this game. And I had only started gaming on consoles in mid-2006 
 so I didn't realize I could use a site like Gamespot or my own Xbox to review it first before I 
 bought it so it turned out to be a big risk that paid off. Everyone knows by now Crackdown is not 
 a deep story, or even a deep campaign trail. What they don't realize is just the raw fun you can 
 have with this game. Especially if you play on co-op, and with all the new plugins you can download 
 off Live. I mean blowing sheet up with your best friend just doesn't get any better than this. 
 If you've snubbed Crackdown in the past, please give it another try. It's simply one of the most 
 fun games out there. 
  
  Go to Los Muertos first, stay there for a while, one on the Agency tank cannon car and one on the 
 Agency SUV. Just keep hitting the gangs but don't take out the underboss. And steal all the gang 
 cars first, take them back to the Agency garage for points before you wipe out the gang. The hardest 
 car to steal is the airport luggage car on top of the oil rig in the Volk ocean where the boss 
 is. Don't ask me why it's there, and it doesn't show up until you kill the boss. Some tips for 
 the Confiscator achievement. There's a boatload of tricks on youtube and on crackdown. wikia. com
 
  
  Don't forget to get the 800 round Harrington from the Volk, and the Firefly from the Shi-gen. Once 
 you have those two, your set. And the Firefly makes it easy to do Body and Car Juggler. Good luck, 
 and don't say I didn't warn you that HOURS will go by once you get hooked on Crackdown. Made by 
 David Jones the same guy that invented GTA. Oh and go to settings and crank up the music then, 
 when you get out of your vehicle, stand next to it so you can hear tunes while your path of destruction 
 continues! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are in a fictional metropolis of Pacific City, whose several districts are divided 
 on four islands. The city is controlled by three crime organaztions: Los Muertos, of Central American 
 Origin; the eastern European gang, Volk; Shai-Gen from east Asia. Crackdown is a third-person shooter 
 set in a large sand box enviroment. After selecting one of the agent characters, then you have 
 to kill assinged to defeat Kingpin of each gang. The gang is kinda like Gran Theft Auto but you 
 are a agent that is looking for some crime to catch. There really is not that much content. Driving 
 is a bit hard. There isn't that much stuff to do if you are doing Co-Op. The game has some good 
 soundtracks. If you explore in the city it is fun and enjoyable and it is a bit bigger then in 
 Gran Theft Auto. 
  
  The good of the game is that there is a bunch of good sound tracks. The graphics are amazing. The 
 city is bigger then any other Open World game. The game is pretty exciting and long.
  
  The bad of the game is that there isn't that much content. There isn't that much stuff to do for 
 Co-op. The game is a bit hard to drive in.
  
  Overall this game gets a 8.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I really have only one word to describe Crackdown: fun. It's not a brilliant piece of work. The 
 plot is practically non-existent. But because the game is so much fun in just about every other 
 respect the plot is just a minor issue.
  
  The best part about this game is undoubtably your character's running and jumping abilities. Running 
 around the city, climbing skyscrapers, and trying to reach the 500 agility orbs is a blast. As 
 the game progresses and you collect more and more agility orbs (or via several other means of leveling 
 up) your character's ability to run and jump increases allowing you to climb even higher and jump 
 farther.
  
  On top of agility, there's plenty of fun to be had driving, shooting, punching, and blowing things 
 sky high. As your driving skill increases your Agency vehicles obtain new abilities, allowing you 
 to plow through cars, or jump and perform various stunts. Leveling up your strength eventually 
 allows you to pick up huge objects to hurl at your enemies, and leveling up your explosives skill 
 results in progressively more impressive explosions, which eventually will destroy things within 
 a huge radius. Probably least impressive of all the skills in shooting, which is also the slowest 
 to level up, but it is critical for passing the game.
  
  As far as actual tasks go, the game is pretty straightforward and consists of killing 21 well protected 
 gang bosses. Some backstory is given for each with regard to their role in their particular gang 
 (there are 3 gangs) , but it's brief, and probably Crackdown's weakest point. A strong plot could 
 have helped make this game even better. Beyond the gang members, there are the optional tasks of 
 collecting agility orbs, and hidden orbs, as well as completing agility races (by running and jumping) 
 or car races. There are some extra downloadable things, and some co-op modes, though I never actually 
 tried them.
  
  There are three levels of difficulty, which is probably about all that can be said for replayability. 
 Once you've beat all 21 bosses, and completed all the races, there isn't a heck of a lot to go 
 back for. Still, what is there is great fun. It's definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy the GTA series then you will love Crackdown. You play as a cloned agent working for 
 the Agency in a mission to clean up the 3 areas that make up Pacific City. Each section is gang 
 controlled and you must eliminate the gang generals in order to weaken the Kingpin. Once the Kingpin 
 is defeated, that section of city is clear and you can move on.
  
  The game mimics GTA in that you can pretty much do whatever you want. Steal cars, collect weapons, 
 Roof jump and driving missions, kill civilians and boost your stats. There are 5 areas where you 
 can improve your body, and each time you kill an enemy or collect orbs these areas "level up" and 
 you become stronger, faster and can jump higher. Since you are a clone, some of the things you 
 can do are a little beyond a normal human. Jump over 30 feet high, pick up heavy items and cars 
 and toss them, lock on and fire a gun from rooftops with perfect accuracy. 
  
  The game itself really isn't "hard" but you will die a lot as you try to kill the gang members 
 because they constantly respawn and chase you around the City, usually in large hit squads. The 
 agility orbs and hidden orbs you collect will imrpove your stats without having to kill enemies.
 
  
  The fun factor is through the roof. The enemies make funny comments when you fight then and sometimes 
 after they die. Running around the City and jumping from rooftop to rooftop searching for gangs, 
 stealing rally fast cars or trucks and running people over just never gets old. Even if you decide 
 to go on random killing sprees, the cops are bad shots so it's easy to get awayand even steal the 
 cop car. This is definately a good stress reliever and super fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown you play as a law enforcer, a cop basically. Only thing is, you're not a normal cop. 
 You're (dramatic pause) a SUPERCOP!!! Yeah, so it's nothing too special at first, he's knd of a wimp 
 actually. But as you progress, his skills improve, allowing him to pick up and throw trucks, jump 
 over entire buildings and just generally be a badass. The story in this game is practically non-existant. 
 You're just a good guy who needs to take down bad guys, that's all you need to know. Many tend 
 to compare this to GTA. Yeah, it's a bit like GTA and Mercenaries actually. In that you have a 
 list of certain people you need to kill from three different gangs. 
  
  You can go at it anyway you like, although it's advised to o at the Kingpin last. There's not much 
 variety in the missions here, but it's still a lot of fun. One of the reasons for that is the RPG 
 elements. It's not much and certainly not "deep" in any way. But it adds a lot to the game. In 
 the end you'll have a superpowered badass capable of killing people with a single kick.
  
  Crackdown is a really good game, but it's not perfect. Driving is the worst aspect of the game, 
 it's simply awful. Now, you can improve your driving skills, and you don't need to use cars, so 
 it's not a major problem. Also, the game is a bit on the short side.
  
  If you haven't played Crackdown before, and you like open-world games, then I can easily recommend 
 this game. Now, where's Crackdown 2? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamboChief
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  crackdown is a great game on its own, and when you can play with a friend in on-line co-op it makes 
 it even better. plus if you download the additional content you get some more weapons and some 
 pretty awesome vehicles. its really addicting running across rooftops, spotting an enemy, and then 
 destroying them in any way you could imagine. the graphics are pretty nice too. the dlc includes 
 the harpoon gun, a lobber (explosive weapon) , proximity charges, a cloaking device, the agency 
 buggy, racecar, and apc that shoots missiles. i also enjoy climbing to the top of skyscrapers and 
 then messing around once im up. the only downside to crackdown is that the game is fairly short, 
 besides that i like it a lot, and if you like to be an experimental super cop who can jump 30 feet 
 into the air, you'd love it too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM101
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This being only my second review for the next generation of gaming and me not writing any in a 
 good while I'm a little bit rusty but I think I know what I am doing.
  
  Being a cop in a city full to the brim with gangs can be hard enough but to have to wipe these 
 gangs alone in three cities is a whole other thing. You begin the game inside your headquarters 
 with a choice of three vehicles to choose from. These can be improved by upgrading your stats but 
 I'll get on to that a bit later. You then drive out of your underground base to kick some major 
 gang ass.
  
  To progress through the game you must capture points which allow you to restock ammo and weaken 
 the defences of the gangs leader. This way you will stand a much better chance of defeating him. 
 You must assainate bosses throughout the game to damage the operations of these gangs. These bosses 
 are changing at first but notthing a couple tries won't solve. Of course, the defences of each 
 increases as you progress.
  
  You are allowed only a small amount of custimization seeing as you can only choose from about 4 
 or 5 different faces. There is no vehicle or weapon or armour custimization I am afraid. I am happy 
 to report on some good variety of weaponry and vehicles to hijac. These can vary from a racing 
 car and a pistol to a lorry and a grenade launcher. 
  
  The stat building is a good factor of the game as it gives you the ability to enhance your characters 
 performance. If you shoot a lot of people then your gun level will go up if you grenade a lot of 
 people your grenade level will go up and, my favourite, if you run over a lot of people your driving 
 level will go up which means you can drive faster in the cars which are in your garage type headquarters. 
 
  
  The graphics are rather good for an early 360 game and the sounds match in perfectly and are very 
 realistic. The game flows smoothly and was a good release.
  
  Loading times were short if any and the achievements were rather good fun to attempt to get.
 
  
  Overall, I would say this game is good fun and would be worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TShanks42
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Let me start off on this note, Crackdown is a very good game. The way I like to think about it 
 is that it's GTA except with a wicked sweet art style and super powers. GTA is fine and all but 
 I like the idea of jumping onton buildings in a single bound, being able to kick a car 20 feet 
 in the air, and running faster than a car. And I always felt a little creepy playing GTA, especially 
 with my psycho friends. In other terms GTA might be great in terms of realism and storyline but 
 Crackdown is simply more fun. Unfourtunately I couldn't give it a 10 because just being fun doesn't 
 always cut it. That is refering to of course the story. Why? There is none. You just run around 
 killing gangs and you get a creepy little explantion for the real reason why at the end. I'd be 
 fine with that if this game was out 15 years ago but the video game industry has more than proven 
 now that games can have actual storylines with characters and everything. But considering that's 
 the only problem I have with Crackdown that makes it a game that is definatley picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesiercat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game was lost by the waist side as soon as it gained the exclusive Halo 3 Beta test mark. 
 Not to say anyone should pass up the chance to play Halo 3 in any means. There are very few games 
 out there that good but this I thought was one of them. It had a great idea for it's main story 
 line, played like a brawler, platforming, action adventure, RPG, with a multi-playing Co-op style 
 that made the game unique in many ways. You could drive any vehicle, pick them up and throw them 
 at enemies, rip off the door like a shield, and even gather them all up in a pile and make 1 huge 
 super explosion. That was just a little bit of the game.
  
  This was a game ahead of the curve with it's cell shaded art style and the ability to go anywhere 
 you wanted. If you wanted to climb the highest building in the game you could do it. There where 
 no limits in this game. Kill whoever you want but know the police will chase you down. Even you 
 are not above the law, but you can kick their ass if you wanted. The platforming came in the form 
 of ORBS you gain after killing people and depending how you killed them you gained XP for the given 
 forms of carnage. Your car could update its overall look as well as it's speed or special final 
 mode. One had a jump button, the other had NOS, and the other had guns. You could gain your jumping 
 by ability by collecting jump coins around the three main cities and your secret base.
  
  The most stand out part of this game though was it's multi-player. My friend Chris and I spent 
 many hours surfing the hood of one of the faster cars and shooting police with the rocket launcher 
 and watching them fly through the air in a blaze of fire and destruction. If we got bored with 
 that we would do more missions but nothing became more fun then that. I was always wanting DLC 
 of planes or boats but the game stopped comming out with content. 
  
  My Friend Ryan told me about this game when he went to E3 that year but because I played the demo 
 and was so addicted to it... Serious I was seeing ORBS for a week after playing the game so much. 
 I was collecting them while I drove to work. Also the addition of the Halo 3 Beta (huge fan) I 
 have to say I bought the game because it is downright fun. Enjoyable in every since of the word. 
 I hope that one day there will be a sequel to this game but this time with a PVP and at least 4 
 person CO-OP. Plus the addition of those vehicle types. If you haven't played it i'm sure you can 
 find it for cheap at your local Game Stop. Worth every penny in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game, because i always had a thing for sandbox type games like GTA. This was like 
 GTA with superhuman powers so heck yeah!
  
  Anyway the games menus are a bit delaying and does get quiet annoying at times but that's the only 
 performance issue in this game. The graphics are as you know cell-shaded like graphics but they 
 are impressive no doubt.
  
  i won't make this to long because i really can't be f*cked writing to much but i am bored so yeah. 
 The action is great fun as you are very overpowered but don't go thinking you can win this game 
 without dying, because the gangs are overwhelming. Your jump can increase by collecting agility 
 orbs lying all around the city, the jump mechanic is way fun you can jump so high you feel like 
 Spider-Man. It's great just jumping around trying to get to the highest buildings.
  The shooting is pretty straight forward just lock on and hold the trigger, with a variety of different 
 weapons and explosives you can pick up from your enemies that you can store later on. But if you 
 suck at shooting, kicking does the job.
  
  The story is a tad straight forward and boring which is pretty much the only downside to this game. 
 You are pretty much a vigilante and you go around beating up gang members till you reach the kingpin 
 while traversing rooftops like Altair from Assassin's Creed.
  The story doesn't have any depth and can get pretty boring trying to keep up luckily the game play 
 keeps you playing or i would of put this game down and not even bother beating it.
  
  Overall this is a game you can just pick up and have some fun with, fun mechanics and a huge ass 
 city to jump around only let down is the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I hated this game. I never gave Crackdown an honest chance when it came out way back before Halo 
 3, and until now I never realized how great it truly is. This game has just about everything, yet 
 it isn't annoying and doesn't feel tedious as you march your way through hoards of bullets and 
 gang members. 
  Beginning as an agent of The Agency, you are simply tasked with cleaning up the streets and returning 
 the city to its original state before gang corruption and explosive violence apparently rocked 
 it sometime earlier. You aren't able to create a character, or even customize your own chosen agent, 
 yet the game doesn't need the feature to succeed; and as I believe, you're able to use the Keys 
 to the City download, which allows usage of all cheats without progression saving, to customize 
 your character a bit in game. All in all the skill building and great abilities given to the agents 
 are enough to keep you interested. 
  Vehicles are alright, nothing special to say the least. They seem to hover, or float, across the 
 city as you drive them at ridiculous speeds.. running over numerous innocents along the way of 
 course. The Agency's specific vehicles given to you at the start of every load in that zone get 
 jacked as the story progresses and your agent's skill ascension continues; the SUV becomes a beastly 
 near-monster truck, while the SuperCar becomes a sweet Corvette-style cruiser. The ideas are fantastic 
 and everything balances out fairly well. 
  Gameplay is amazing.. there's hardly anything you can't do. The one downfall is destruction, buildings 
 don't normally collapse when RPGs are fired directly into them, and walls don't fall to reveal 
 any indoor stuctures. This game has been around for a while now however, and despite that fact, 
 it shows great age when compared to many games on the 360 nowadays. Shooting, driving, fighting, 
 and climbing are all great features that will make you happy just to see what you can accomplish. 
 When you end your first climb to the top of the substantial Agency Tower, you'll know what I'm 
 talking about. The game is almost a puzzler, where you need to figure out different methods and 
 routes to get to places and reach objectives. You'll have great fun getting there when you do have 
 to find something however, and nothing in this game is short of spectacular when played real-time. 
 
  Graphics are great, the view from atop much of the architecture is truly stunning, and the physics 
 are true to an over-the-top action shooting game in every way. Colors are eye-catching while animations 
 are mind-blowing. Explosions are fantastic and give you a sandbox sense of destruction when you 
 pile 20 cars on top of each other and set charges all over them.. watch from a distance. 
  Overall, the mutliplayer is great.. even though it's only co-op. A great 5 vs. 5 would have been 
 great fun, but take what you can get and enjoy the unlimited possibilities of Crackdown. You just 
 might find you enjoy a game where anything goes, all the time. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a cel-shaded sandbox style fighting game in the style of Grand Theft Auto and Saint's 
 Row - but this time you're on the side of justice. Sort of. 
  
  It's not surprising how many people were instantly buying this game just to get into the Halo 3 
 beta, but Crackdown actually isn't bad on its own merits. 
  
  First, you have to accept that it's cel shaded. The graphics are a little cartooney. They did this 
 on purpose, and if you don't like being immersed in a dirty, swear-filled comic book, you might 
 not take to this game. However, those who enjoy anime, manga and an alternate view of reality will 
 appreciate the more-than-human powers you have here. 
  
  You're an enhanced human in a future where three criminal gangs have taken over the world. You 
 get the traditional types of enemies - a wisened old Chinese guy, a Hispanic drug lord and a Soviet 
 mob boss. You get a variety of cars to jump into, a variety of weapons to shoot, and a fairly large 
 world to roam around in. 
  
  There are tunnels below the ground, places to jump across roofs, places that you can leap cars 
 across, and much more. As you do things, you gain experience and better skills, meaning you can 
 now shoot better or jump higher. This gives you incentive to build up your talents to get to those 
 just out of reach areas. 
  
  The game is pretty lenient - if you hide out for a while, your armor regenerates as does your health. 
 When you die, they just give you another clone of yourself to keep playing with. You activate teleport 
 spots around the world so you can get to places quickly. 
  
  The soundtrack is reasonably good - there's a lot of variety here to choose from. The in-game sounds 
 of local Hispanics chatting at you in Spanish, or the high pitched screams of scared civilians, 
 all seem to fit in resaonably well with your cartoon environment. 
  
  Graphics are, as mentioned, cel shaded. I enjoy cel shading and found it an interesting take on 
 the GTA world. The HUD is easy to understand - it's clear what part of the body you're targeting 
 and what is near you on the map. You get a mix of Kingdom Hearts orb-collecting with Vice City 
 night clubs, Scarface swearing, and a bit of do-gooding in there, too. Assuming of course that 
 you actually go after the bad guys rather than driving over the civilians. 
  
  So where does that leave you? You're not getting top-drama and acting as in The Godfather. The 
 cel shading might annoy some people. But really, for a jumping, shooting, roaming-the-world game, 
 this is really quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played a game where you could do just about whatever you wanted, and not even think 
 about the main missions? If yes, then did you enjoy it? If you answered no to the first question, 
 then you need to play Crackdown immediately. If you have played a free roam game, and you did enjoy 
 it, then go and buy Crackdown right now. Now that I have given you something to think about, perhaps 
 I should explain WHY Crackdown is so amazingly fun. It's simple really. You can do whatever you 
 want! If you want to fight the gang bosses and complete the main story, fine do that. If you want 
 to level up your skills and become stronger, faster, and make bigger explosions, then you can do 
 that too. No matter what you are up for, this game has someting that will appeal to you.
  
  Gameplay: Okay so I have just given you a basic rundown of Crackdown's gameplay, but here's a bit 
 more depth. I am not going to bother with a story portion of this review because there really isnt 
 one. All you need to know is that you are a genetically enhanced supercop, and you have to take 
 down three gang organizations. First you must take out the higher level officers of the game, and 
 then take out the kingpin. Taking out each officer weakens the kingpin's defenses, making him more 
 vulnerable to assassination. If I have one gripe about the gameplay, it is that the boss fights 
 follow the same forumula throughout the entire game. You infiltrate the building, take out a ****load 
 of lower level badguys. As you progress, you encounter slightly stronger badguys, and then you 
 kill the boss when you reach him/her. It is the exact same formula over and over. The only thing 
 that keeps the gameplay varying is the fact that the buildings the bosses hide in vary, making 
 each approach unique. 
  However, like I said the killing of gang bosses is only half of the gameplay. The other half is 
 in the collecting of orbs and the building of specific abilities. For instance, if you feel like 
 being a ridiculously strong cop, able to lift several tons and throw objects several hundred yards, 
 then you need to raise your strength skill by punching, kicking, and hurling enemies to death. 
 On the other hand, if you want to make gigantic explosions capable of dealing ridiculous damage, 
 then you are going to need to blow stuff up for a while. You can also run all over the cities rooftops 
 looking for agility orbs to increase your running speed and jumping height (that gets REALLY fun 
 later on) . Like I said, there is lots to do in this game, and I could go on, but I am going to 
 move on to a different portion of the review.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is really quite good. The voices of the random gang members and pedestrians 
 actually becomes quite amusing as your enemies shout some pretty hilarious things at you. The explosion 
 noises are fantastic, as is the sound of repeated gunfire. Bullets wizz past you as you just barely 
 manage to avoid them. The only annoying noise in the game is the sound of the rather awkwardly 
 timed hints by the games guide character. Some random agency guy is guiding you, telling you how 
 to raise your abilities and giving you info on gang members. However, sometimes he picks really 
 random times to deliver messages to you. For instance, when I was infiltration one of the kingpin's 
 buildings, he decided to inform me that a rooftop race was nearby, and that I should check it out. 
 Not at the moment I shouldnt. He will randomly say "Good job agent!" (most amusingly right after 
 you get blown up by a rocket launcher or some such thing) which doesnt really make any sense sometimes. 
 It doesnt get in the way of gameplay, but it is kind of odd.
  
  Graphics: Okay so this game does look a little cartoony, but honestly I think it was on purpose. 
 This style was implimented well, and trust me when I tell you that the explosions still look amazing. 
 The graphics may not be top notch, but the gameplay is, so I wouldnt spend to much time worrying 
 about it. 
  
  Overall: This is the kind of game that can keep you entertained for a while. It has lots of great 
 things to do, some really fun achievements to pursue, and a great coop mode to try out. You will 
 undoubtedly find yourself returning this game to pursue achievements and finish raising your skills 
 even after you have taken out the final kingpin. If you like freeroam games, and the idea of a 
 GTA style game with superpowers makes you jump into the air with glee, then you owe it to yourself 
 to at least rent crackdown, and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chelzach
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is just like grand theft auto except your the cop and their the gangsters. Anyways Crackdown 
 is a fun game I have allready beat it and collected almost all of the achievements I have at least 
 40/50 of them. I don't know how to toggle the crimes after you beat the game though so I can kill 
 more gangsters, if you know how please let me know. I would give it somewhere around 8.5-9.0. If 
 you like Grand Theft Auto then you would like Crackdown beleave me. It includes climbing to a 500 
 feet building (Agency Tower) I have did and you have to have at least a 3 star jumping abillity, 
 a tip don't try it if you don't have at least a 3 star jumping abillity you will reach the top 
 of the 2nd tower and will not be able to jump to the other tower it also includes a lot more cool 
 stuff. Hope you liked my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Crackdown has one objective kill all the gang bosses and you have saved the city from crime and 
 yes its not a complicated or deep game but its a blast from start to finish with a few problems 
 in the middle.
  
  Single player
  A lot of fun but far too easy because the gangs are too easy to kill and all you need to do is 
 RPG em and they die most of the time but its still fun to kick the to death but overall its not 
 complicated and has no depth.
  
  Orbs
  A lot of fun to find them but i got to 499 and could not find the last one but its a lot of fun.
 
  
  Vehicles
  The 3 agency cars can be transformed to insane future like cars for example the 4x4 can be a bouncing 
 4x4 and the supercar can be a missile in speed.
  
  City
  loads of pedestrains to kill and the city looks like its set in the future and its a good size 
 to.
  
  Pros
  great city
  fun from start to finish
  very nice graphics
  a lot of fun in CO-OP
  
  Cons
  menu can run very slow
  no real depth
  Not really a story 
 
  there could have been more ways to use the guns cars ETC
  
  Verdict
  Basically a fun staight forward action game that can be a lot of fun with a friend and is well 
 worth playing if you love open world games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakerskate21
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Man do I LOVE this game... I had always thought this game was going to be a rip-off of the Grand 
 theft auto series. But i realized that this game was nothing even close to whaat I though it would 
 be. I give this game a 10 because I love the driving, the action, the shootin, the orbs, and the 
 jumping. Honestley what other game can you throw cars at people then take another car to a tall 
 building, climb up the building, get an orb and jump down... NO OTHER GAME lets you do some of 
 these things. I think that this game had the idea of Grand theft auto, but with a twist. And that 
 twist is the main characters super powers. Its cool to level up all of your abilitys and see your 
 cars get better and be able to get to new places. The best thing to do id to climb building and 
 throw things off the side lol. Anyways, I think that this game is a must have for your game collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  Crackdown was released in a time where all open-world genre games were all very similar. It seemed 
 like all of the games were trying to cash in on what the Grand Theft Auto series had created. Luckily 
 for us Crackdown brought something different to the table. Like all other open-world games Crackdown 
 allows the player to explore a city and do whatever they like. But what Crackdown does different 
 is it allows you to develop your characters skills to super-human proportions. 
  
  Crackdown allows the player to develop in five different areas, strength, agility, driving, shooting 
 and explosives. At first your abilities will be quite minor, but once fully upgraded youll 
 be jumping 30 feet in the air and chucking cars with ease. Youll gain experience by simply 
 completing tasks that relate to the specific field your trying to improve in. If you shoot someone 
 you will gain orbs that will increase your accuracy, if you run over a gang member youll 
 drive faster and turn sharper. But you must be careful, if you harm civilians or peacekeepers you 
 will lose experience. Your main objective in the game is to take down the three gangs that rule 
 Pacific City. To do this you will need to take down all the gang generals and bosses. Each boss 
 you defeat will weaken each gang significantly. For example, if you take out a gangs vehicle 
 expert the gang wont have as many vehicles guarding the gangs main boss.
  
  Besides the small monologue at the beginning of the game the story is non-existent. Which is disappointing 
 considering the potential it had. The game takes place in a future where all of the worlds 
 police have united to fight crime. They call themselves the Agency. The agents are all genetically 
 modified to perform greater than the average man. Your job will be to rid Pacific City of its three 
 major gangs, the Los Muertos, the Volk and the Shai-gen. You will need to take out the gangs generals 
 to weaken the boss to a state in which you could kill them.
  
  One of the most interesting things Crackdown has to offer is its unique graphics. Its cell-shaded 
 3D graphics give it the look and feel of an old comic book that fits perfectly with the theme of 
 the game. Like all open-world games the frame rate has problems. Cars will pop-in and the game 
 will sometimes just freeze on you. Besides these minor hitches the look of the graphics makes them 
 memorable.
  
  The sound in Crackdown is nice. It does what it is expected to do. Nothing more. You wont hear 
 pedestrians having hilarious conversations street, there are no hilarious radio stations to listen 
 to while your driving. But what you will hear is the sound of gunfire, explosions and the clanging 
 of metal against metal.
  
  Crackdown is a refreshing look into the open-world genre and proves that it has more potential 
 than just Grand Theft Auto clones. Even though the story is non-existent the gameplay and graphics 
 make up for it. Crackdown is well worth a purchase if youre a fan of the open-world genre 
 or even comic books.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhmin
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game was really fun! I didn't find very many bad things about this game.
  
  The gameplay was awesome! And it had a good replay value. There wasn't a very complex story, it 
 was pretty simple actually. Although simple it was still good and the main part of the game was 
 the gameplay itself, so the story didn't really matter.
  
  The only thing I didn't like about it was the ending... I don't know, maybe it was just me but 
 It bothered me! But I shouldn't say too much about the end, I'll let you see it for yourself :p.
 
  
  In conclusion this was a really good game and is defiantly (don't know if i spelt this rite) worth 
 at least trying out. To tell you the truth it might not be the best game to buy, but to rent instead, 
 unless you really enjoy. You should rent it first to make sure. I hope this review helped you with 
 a decision! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the most open games that i have ever player. the missions need not be played 
 i nany specific order and if you want you can start by eliminating the bosses, even though it will 
 be impossible. all throughout the game you are encouraged to hunt around the city isles to find 
 hidden orbs and bonuses. each takeover can be approached in a different way with different entry 
 points and different ways of eliminating targets. your agency vehicles are often overlooked but 
 do that to your peril. fully upgraded models each special abilities which makes travelling unique. 
 every building that can be seen in game can be climbed, leading to this game not only being about 
 violence, it involved skill to find all te agility orbs. this game involves stat building so that 
 you can customise your character. there are many different weapons, each gang specialising in their 
 own type. 
  
  i thin kthat this is the ideal game for , what i like to call, pick up and play. you can just sit 
 down for 10 mins and eliminate a gang or unlock a new weapon. it truly is a fun game. i also love 
 the cartoon esque graphics, not to the extent of xiii, which were annoying, but they were within 
 reason. 
  
  FIVE STARS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Far too often we experience a rush of great games that come to markets to tend to make us rush, 
 glaze over, or simply ignore other titles. 
  
  I have no idea what I was playing in February 2007 that kept me away from Crackdown, but I didn't 
 even put it in my 360 till August of that year, and really didn't give it a fair shake till about 
 two weeks ago. 
  
  The concept in Crackdown is pretty simple; it's like GTA except you are the good guy. It's your 
 job as an agent to clean up the streets, and you need to do so with deadly force. You start off 
 as a fairly straight forward running, jumping, kicking and shooting sort of cop but in a rather 
 rare RPG element to a sandbox game you actually have abilities that upgrade over time that will 
 allow you to be more accurate with your weapon, jump higher, be able to lift cars, and improve 
 your driving and explosives abilities. 
  
  The concept of ability advancement is pretty interesting, if you kill a thug with you gun when 
 he dies a bunch of small glowing orbs will come toward you and you will watch your weapons ability 
 meter increase. Now let's say that I hit a thug with my car, get out, punch him in the face and 
 then shoot him, I will get three different types of orbs. Driving Skill, Strength, and Weapons, 
 it's a very interesting way to reward the gamer for being creative in the way that they play the 
 game. 
  
  Your basic goal in Crackdown is to take down three gangs that are controlling three different parts 
 of the city (all on different islands) . Each island has one main boss, and a series of sub bosses, 
 for example if you kill the sub boss who is responsible for weapons distribution within a gang, 
 you will notice the street toughs will have reduced firepower, if you take out the sub boss gang 
 member in charge of vehicles you will see the street toughs driving slower rides. In a truly sandbox 
 manner you have the ability to go after the last boss right away, but the more of the gang lieutenants 
 you take down the less protected the final boss in that area will be, so there are perks to taking 
 your time. 
  
  The flow of the game is rather open ended, you will start off the game trying to secure supply 
 points (basically points you will be able to re-spawn, and reload your weapons) as a means to get 
 a feel for the game, and as you explore the first part of the city when you get close to a sub-boss 
 or even the main boss you will be given information on that boss by the agency and he or she will 
 appear on your map till you take them out. 
  
  This really forces you to explore and as such improve your abilities which you will need to have 
 amped up as the game progresses. 
  
  There are also a series of side missions, which will allow you to build up your skills like races, 
 or trying to scale a building in a fixed time. They are interesting however greatly feel tacked 
 on at times, and I was able to improve my abilities without the need to partake in many of these 
 activities but they do have the means to add some replay value if that sort of thing interests 
 you. 
  
  Even with a maxed out agent this game still would pose some serious challenge to even the most 
 skilled of sand box game aficionado's. 
  
  This game is not without its flaws however, your driving ability when you first start is simply 
 terrible and really does discourage the use of vehicles which is really a double edged sword because 
 you need to drive them to get better at them.
  
  Also I find that when you are on a rooftop there are times you could have bullets coming at you 
 for every direction and you will have no idea where they are coming from or who is firing them, 
 till you get the low armor warning. 
  
  Building up your abilities at times feels like a chore rather then something run, this really applies 
 more to driving and shooting then anything because the process is SLOW, but the upside to this 
 is that with every increase in level you notice a HUGE difference in your characters abilities 
 and you will feel like a demi-god the first time you are strong enough to pick up a car and throw 
 it into a group of baddies. 
  
  The core game play itself I would imagine can be cleared in a fairly short period of time; I would 
 be greatly surprised if anyone had much issue rushing through the game with a guide taking any 
 more then eight hours. Although much like other sand box style games have the appeal is taking 
 your time and the shear joy of standing on a crowded highway with a rocket launcher. 
  
  This is the type of game that is more greatly enjoyed if you savor it, if you take the time to 
 build up your attributes and go after every sub-boss in the process. The game gets better the strong 
 your character gets, and just for your reaction the first time you see the blast radius on your 
 grenades when you hit level three for the first time its well worth the effort. 
  
  You do have an option to hop online and play co-op, and even a year and a half later I am still 
 getting at least three or four online requests to do so, which is a good sign that the community 
 is still active. 
  
  The Co-op play feels more like an after thought then something the developer setout to do from 
 day one, but I am fine with that. Far too many games don't even make that effort anymore and for 
 me I will take an average co-op over no co-op any day of the week. 
  
  As we languish in the dog days of the summer gaming drought, this is the ideal time to get acquainted 
 with an old friend that you have most likely passed up dozens of times over the past few months, 
 give it a shot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  I think the game was pretty fynny but the game got so bad to the middle.
  i know people says "why do you think this game are so bad".
  well i just got the same nothing 
 new all the orbs where on all the roof tops
  and increas skillz where verry easy.
  
  i would probaly say it works to play.
  couse there are som funny thigs.
  like blow up peoples 
 car and things. and it are a little challenge the first time you play it.
  
  grand theft aouto are much better couse you can kill anyone you want.
  if you kill a civil man 
 that not are in a gang you getting minus point grand theft you just get a cop right after you.
 
  
  one funny thing is that you can jump so high thats really fun actually.
  jump so you comming to the highest building and then you jump out and kill you self.
  but again 
 it's funnier to do that on grand theft.
  couse if you take a chopper and then go really high and get some really high speed and jump out 
 are funny to.
  
  but to make a long thing short.
  the game was really disapointing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 19, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  his game isn't really good unless you like hacking games. the game is all fake he jumps like if 
 he were spider-man. so if you like games that have too do with real stuff this isn't your game. 
 this game is for hackers not people who like to play real games. you don't even have to use cheats 
 there already on.
  Real quick because the game sure was. Run around blowing stuff up, shooting everything that moves, 
 and all with a satisfied grin. Almost no story really, but kicking a dude into a a street sign 
 and hearing a "ping" makes it all worth while. You can blow through this game in four or five hours 
 and and certain things just could have been done better (the "driving") i personally wouldn't rent 
 ,buy, sale, trade, or even look at it this game .. if you do my hat goes off to you, two thumbs 
 up, 5 stars and tons of kudos to you ... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has no story, no replay value, and no really stunning features. It does however contain 
 a few moments and features that are fun for a limited amount of time. The story, or what little 
 can be deciphered involves you, as a super enhanced cop, taking down a series of drug lords and 
 gangster bosses. That's about it. The methods with which you do this also repeat themselves over 
 and over. Every time you need to take someone out, you just go in, all guns blazing. It has mostly 
 die, repeat till complete type missions. The one thing that makes this game fun is the fact that 
 you are a super policeman. What this entails is actually good fun. As you play through the game, 
 you gain experience depending on what you're doing and how you're doing it. If you kill someone 
 with your weapon, you'll find your weapons gain more power, killing faster. Run an enemy down with 
 your car, and you'll find your driving gets easier, you can drive faster and if you're driving 
 the special police cars, you find that they slowly morph into weapons on wheels, slowly gaining 
 stronger boosts, better suspensions, special abilities and machine guns. If you achieve plenty 
 of climbing missions, collecting green orbs located around the city in hard to reach places, you'll 
 find you acrobatics increasing allowing you to jump higher and further. By jumping high and far, 
 I mean that. Once fully upgraded, you'll be able to play virtually the whole game on the roof tops, 
 running and jumping from building to building, over streets, rivers whatever. Jumping and free 
 roaming the city space is great fun. Climbing a sky scraper and sniping your enemies is just as 
 fun as hopping inside a special unit vehicle and bashing down the gates to a gangster apartment, 
 guns blazing. 
  Multiplayer is not that amazing, everything you can do in the single player can be done with a 
 second player who can join your world via Xbox live. In this case, it's a little helpful having 
 a second pair of hands when dealing with the harder missions and whether using team work or not, 
 it still ends up being good fun. Apart from what I've mentioned, this game has very little. The 
 game isn't very long, the novelty of free roaming the city wears off relatively fast and there 
 is no replay value at all. That said, the free roam and novelty is immensely entertaining while 
 it lasts. The enemies are all the same, and don't host the most intelligent of AI. Once defeated, 
 they will not return to an area meaning that as the game progresses, you get less and less people 
 to fight. It feels like the wrong way round. If and when you do complete the game, you have neither 
 the satisfaction of the effort you put in, nor any desire to continue. All in all, a weekend rental, 
 a play and trade or a pass. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit it. I only bought Crackdown so that I could get the invitation to the 
 Halo 3 Beta. That isn't to say that I didn't think Crackdown would be a great game. I thought playing 
 as a super cop in a sandbox city would be a blast, and it was. At least for a little while...
 
  
  Crackdown is a game that will be a blast for a few hours, but only untill you realize that your 
 doing the exact same thign throughout the entire game. Don't get me wrong, Jumping from rooftop 
 to rooftop and blowing up rows of cars on the highway can be fun. But, it just gets old. The game 
 doesn't offer anything new and just recycles the same gameplay over and over.
  
  If you enjoy the senseless killing that sandbox games offer, go to the store and buy Grand Theft 
 Auto. If thier all out of that get Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Cops. You either love them or hate them. Most of us hate them. Why? Because they give us tickets 
 for speeding. They harass us about parking. They caught us skipping school. They teach us to be 
 better people. And they accidentally blow us up when shooting down insane gang members. 
  
  At least, that's what cops do in Crackdown. In the future, gangs have run rampant and have taken 
 over. The government has either been too lazy or too stupid to do anything about it... probably 
 both. So a kind of super-soldier program was initiated. A program that gave cops the ability to 
 jump tall buildings in a single bound. To punch people in the nose and send them flying 30 feet. 
 To drive kick ass cars. To have incredible aim. To be nearly invulnerable. To resist donuts. And 
 to give out twice the normal amount of speeding tickets. 
  
  And YOU are one of those cops. 
  
  You have a whole town of degenerates to clean up. The game 
 starts out with you having a low level of super skillz. But as you play through the game brutalizing 
 innocents, shooting before asking questions, and blowing up cars for fun... you gain higher levels 
 of skillz.
  
  You build up your agility, driving skill, explosive skill, strength, and firearm skills. Your agility 
 skill gains you speed and jumping ability. Soon you wont even need a car to get somewhere fast, 
 and you'll be able to jump all over the place like some mad kangaroo cop, drunk with power. Virtually 
 everything is scalable. Though sometimes it will LOOK like you can grab on to a ledge, but you 
 really can't... because there is no geometry there. It was just put there by a skilled artist to 
 LOOK like a ledge. So you jump for it and realize it's flat. Which takes you completely out of 
 the game. So, like all authority figures, you take it out on the little guy... shooting old ladies 
 until the real cops show up... and then you kill them. One by one. But more and more keep showing 
 up. So you throw grenades at them using your explosive skills. But they keep coming. So you hop 
 in a car and start running some of them over using your driving skills... but they shoot out your 
 tire. So you get out of your quasi-futuristic vehicle and pick it up with your strength skillz. 
 Then you throw it at the cops... but that's not all. While it's in the air you get out your gun 
 and, with your firearm skillz, aim right at the gas tank and begin shooting.... you shoot and shoot 
 until the car is about to land on the cops, and then BOOM!! IT EXPLODES!! AND THAT EXPLOSION CAUSES 
 ALL THE CARS AROUND IT TO EXPLODE!! AND IT RESULTS IN ONE FRIGGIN HUGE EXPLOSION THAT KILLS EVERYONE 
 IN THE AREA!!! AND YOU HOWL AT THE MOON..."THIS! IS! SPARTAAAAA!!!!!"
  
  That's how much fun this game is. Of course you're not supposed to kill the cops.... unless your 
 a madman. Your main goal is to actually kill all the gangs. You get intel on them and start picking 
 off the generals one by one. But, fortunately... this is a sandbox game. Where you are seldom limited 
 in anything you want to do... which usually results in completely immoral and unethical behavior 
 that will one day send you to hell. 
  
  So, despite a few glitches (thanks mister talented texture artist) , this game is a blast. You get 
 to play as a law enforcement officer who thinks he can do anything he wants to anybody he wants, 
 anytime he wants, anyway he wants. The only way you're going to have more fun is to join a police 
 academy and do it for real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadurwalla
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an interesting game. The games flaws highlight the flaws of many games this generation. 
 In its original packaging once the game is completed theres not much left to do, as a result its 
 replayability relies heavily on dlc that should have been included in the first place. Also like 
 many current gen games it starts off sucky and progressively gets better this farce attempt at 
 depth is often applauded by critics but i for one see through the illusion. Why not just give us 
 our agents fully evolved form the start ohh no we have to find the good guns and agility orbs to 
 level up or the game will actually be fun from the start, also like many games nowadays no cheats. 
 Besides all this once the game gets going it is a great great game. 
  The controls are tight, the freedom is unrivaled, the explosions are huge and theres system link 
 multiplayer. Great game for action fans its got guns, super powers, cars, explosions, a city to 
 explore and well thats about it; and frankly thats all it really needs. The graphics could have 
 been better but its forgivable. The freedom offered in this game is truly unrivaled. Your approach 
 to complete your mission is entirely upto you, sneak in through the water and execute the boss 
 ninja style and escape through the water or bust in through the frount door with a rocket launcher, 
 snipe mothaf#@! from the mountain tops or through your car over the top of the wall jump over the 
 wall get in your car and ram into the boss these are just some of your options, the possibilities 
 are endless. The on foot controls are perfect but the cars control horribly.
  Overall this is a great game and is worth atleast a try for any action fans. In the end this game's 
 most remarkable feature is the total freedom this game gives you, no restrictions no conditions 
 this is truly an open world game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchlax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I already knew pretty much what to expect, a good shooter/action 
 game with supernatural abilities, Crackdown, is just that, nothing more. Getting your abilities 
 and everything maxed out is a pretty decent challenge with a HUGE feeling of accomplishment but 
 what derives life from this game the most is its HORRIBLE storyline, when you beat it your like 
 what?! I kicked all this *** for that? Then theres the huge chore of finfing all of the orbs in 
 order to completely max out your agility skill, its an ok challnge at first but it gets pretty 
 redundant real quick because the world is SO huge (a good thing about this game) so missing a couple 
 can have you searching for hours on end. Even though the gang leader areas are laid out pretty 
 well, even on the hardest difficulty its not very challenging to just run around picking them off 
 and beating the whole thing in about ten minutes. But again this game is exactly what it looks 
 like a pretty entertaining while it lasts sci-fi shooter I would definitely recommend a rent if 
 you're a hardcore action gamer, but a buy, not so much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriz2727
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown to me is sort of like a futuristic Grand Theft Auto. It was pretty fun, and there's lots 
 of weapons to choose from. Advancing your skills is also really fun, and once you get your skills 
 to their peak, things can get very, very fun. Crackdown has a very basic plot to it - kill gang 
 leaders. That's about it. There's lots of fooling around and action in between, which is pretty 
 fun. Lots of weapons and explosives to use to to turn the city into complete chaos, which is always 
 fun. But in Crackdown, I feel as though there's a lot of content missing, like there's just not 
 enough to do. There are rooftop and street races, but those get sort of boring after awhile. Advancing 
 your skills is definitely the best part of Crackdown, because you can increase your skills, and 
 before you know it, you can jump 30 feet in the air, kill gang members at the speed of sound with 
 guns, drive really fast, punch people 20 feet, and deliver devastating explosions with a grenade 
 or rocket launcher. 
  
  Overall, I recommend you rent Crackdown before you buy it. There's lots of fun to be had in Crackdown. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sublime12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is arguably the best free roaming game ever, that is most definitely better than gta 
 iv and is up there along side san adreas/vice city, and also assassin's creed. Gamespot criticizes 
 this game in many irrelevant ways, saying that it lacks a deep structure or a storyline. yet, this 
 criticism is actually a complement to the makers of the game, because it's exactly what they aimed 
 for. Crackdown doesn't aim to be some kind of deep rpg that takes 50 hours to finish or some game 
 with a deep storyline with many twists like gta iv or mass effect. in other words, if i could another 
 classification for this game besides "underappreciated,' it would be "just plain fun. I mean this 
 game is uncontrolled, exciting chaos packed onto an xbox 360 disk. this game hits what it aims 
 for, which is a fun, completely unlinear game which leaves a lot of room for creativity. It can 
 be a short experience if you look at it straight up, but it could be hours of fun and chaos if 
 you explore the game.
  
  One of things I like most about this game is that the environment is so accesible. The cars are 
 really fast and the character you choose can run really fast and jump really high, even at a low 
 level of agility. In gta iv, though, it can take forever to get around the city and explore. in 
 crackdown, i found myself totally discarding missions, which there is no kind of penalty for, and 
 just leaping from rooftop to rooftop for hours, finding agility and mystery orbs. The incenive 
 to explore is good, because you can increase your abilities by fighting, exploring, and blowing 
 up cars. i also like the fact that there is no bs in this game. The only annoying thing in the 
 game is the announcer, and unlike mass effect where you could be looking for you frickin ship for 
 20 minutes. The creativity you exploit in this game can be massive, and there are tons of ways 
 to defeat a boss. Are you gonna jump up right in front and shoot like a madman, or are you gonna 
 sneak up behind and assasinate him while evading enemies? there is just so much room for creativity 
 and exploration, and it's truly amazing. Another great aspect of this game is its level of unlinear 
 gameplay, and the only thing that was linear is the order in which you beat the gangs. Aside from 
 that, you could defeat bosses in any order and lets you get whatever weapon you want at any time 
 (and the weapons are fantastic by the way, which basically means you can shape this game into whatever 
 you want it to be. the co-op is also a nice feature, which lets you share the unrestricted violence 
 with your friends.
  
  There are a few reasons why I didn't give this game a 10. First off, gamespot is right on in saying 
 that the game has its flaws. The game is unpolished in many ways, such as the announcer and a few 
 annoying glitches. One of the glitches that really pissed was the downloadable content that corrupted 
 my save file, but it made me happy because it gave me an excuse to beat the game all over again. 
 Multiplayer deathmatch would have been good too. overall, this is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordChimera
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  If you like freedom and blowing things up then this game is a must. Basically it's a totaly free 
 roaming experience similar in some ways to ... yeah you guessed it... the grand theft auto series. 
 However, you do not play as a simple crook, Imagine GTA III on steroids. 
  
  You play as a genetically engineerd super-cop with up-gradable skills in certain departments. For 
 example the more fighting you do, the stronger you get. But this doesn't mean you will eventually 
 be able to pick up a barrel and throw it at someone... it means you will be able to throw petrol 
 tankers and trucks at them :) . the eplosive scenes are amazing, piling tonnes of cars on top of 
 each other and then detonating them provides awsome results. the freedom is unrivaled, so much 
 that in theory you could kill the last boss first... this would be very very difficult however.
 
  
  the game is awsome for people who like fast-paced, over the top action. it's worth exploring the 
 three islands to college the agility orbs to upgrade your jumping power and running speed. at first 
 you are able to easily jump over a persons head but when fully upgraded you will be able to jump 
 from building to building with ease... this is also really good fun. the multiplayer is 2 player 
 co-op or 4 player race. This can be very enjoyable also. FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has been on my shelf and in and out of my xbox for months, but i can't hardly do anything 
 on it!? what i mean by that is you start the game, it starts very fast then your put into the agency...... then 
 what??? i litterly do what other people do when they are over there mate house and they have GTA.... drive 
 about, shoot some people, die, restart.
  Thats about all i can do in the game, i dunno weather i just have a bug in the game, or im not 
 seeing something it doesnt realy matter, theres no direction, and ALOT of confusion!
  i can deffinalty see the potentual and why people have give it good reviews, and dont think im 
 slating it becuse the game sucks like i said theres potentual, the game lacks direction!
  
  the freedom is pretty good and there are a some great feats, like throwings cars and people!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is fun game to play on but is getting old now in the story you are like a hero who was 
 created by a high tech police force as this agent you get high quality cars that have high performance 
 and will transform varying your driving skill you will also have agility skill, explosive skill, 
 strengh skill, and shooting skill witch will edit your guy as you gain more experience.
  
  cant really explain the storyline it is more like there is not one you just go around taking out 
 lower bosses witch gradually weakens the 1 of the 3 gangs them n take out the main king pin once 
 you defeat all 3 it's game over but you can resurrect the gangs because you might require them 
 for achievements or to keep you entertained. 
  
  A Good thing about this game is Being a hero Because with this u get to do cool things like jump 
 really high climb on buildings lift heavy objects like cars and trucks and chuck them a fair distance. 
 
  
  The game also has a great selection of add-on packages to buy with Microsoft points like more guns 
 and cars one of the best in my opinion is were u get a harpoon gun and the mini-gun, mini gun, 
 lobber and a tank, buggy and a super car - great pack ut the best bit of it is the harpoon gun 
 this gun is great cause you can have so much fun with it nailing people to your car and walls. 
 
  
  If you Have a live membership and you enjoy playing around with your friends i would say get this 
 game and download the harpoon pack and keys to the city but not if you are going to take it to 
 serious on story mode. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robliander
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised by Crackdown.... I picked it up in the discount used pile at EB games and I can 
 say it was well worth the $20 I paid for it. 
  
  The game is basically a sandbox. You're tasked with taking out gang members on the streets and 
 the gang bosses in their "strongholds" in a very open environment. What makes this game different 
 from, say, a GTA, is that you're in a futuristic society and your character has been altered genetically. 
 That means you can do ridiculously high jumps, and take an absurd amount of damage. 
  
  You start the game out in a central base of the Agency... the Agency has taken it upon itself to 
 start cleaning up the city. Their plan is to send you into the city to dismantle the three major 
 gangs. Each gang has a leader and half dozen sub-bosses... The theory is if you eliminate a sub-boss, 
 the gang forces at the leader's hide out (and throughout the city) will be weaker. 
  
  You can find the each of the bosses by receiving "intel" from the Agency... the only want to receive 
 "intel" is to go out and explore the city. You can either do it on foot or hijack a car GTA-style 
 and drive around. Unfortunately for your character (and fortunately for you the gamer) the city 
 is infested with bad guys who shoot at you on sight. 
  
  The controls are easy... you target an enemy with your left trigger, fire with your right. You 
 can choose to do melee combat (usually in the form of a roundhouse kick) if you're close enough. 
 And you get grenades as well.... You can even jump into a car and start running people over. With 
 the cartoony-feel and over-the-top physics, the carnage and destruction is without a doubt extremely 
 satisfying (check out that group of cars I blew up... and those guys on fire!)
  
  It's hard to get overwhelmed by the forces on the ground, but not impossible... if you don't keep 
 an eye on your health meter, you might just get over-shot-gunned. Fortunately, you can regenerate 
 your character to either the central Agency or any supply depot that your capture along your travels. 
 
  
  Taking down a boss, however, can get hairy if you don't have a good plan. Usually there's an swarm 
 of baddies and not too many places to hide, so make sure you have enough grenades, ammo, and maybe 
 a rocket launcher with you get through without too many regens. 
  
  The sandbox nature of the game means that you really don't have to kill one boss before the next... but 
 I did find that the later bosses were harder to reach and had more powerful weapons. Luckily, there 
 is a "level up" component to the game that makes following the boss order a little less frustrating. 
 
  
  Once you're through the gangs... I was expecting to continue to keep the peace, but apparently, 
 once the last boss is dead, the city is crime free. I was kind of bummed, and wanted to keep playing. 
 Maybe this would be a good concept to have as "downloadable content"? 
  
  I have two big gripes with the game: citizens and driving. 
  
  First, if this city was so overrun 
 with baddies, why are there so many innocent bystanders around? It makes using your awesomely explosive 
 powers almost a downer when you take out 5 citizens with that gang cluster. 
  
  Second, driving (and this is related to the citizens) is almost impossibly hard at seemingly medium 
 speeds, and at high speeds, all you wind up doing is running people over. There's road races to 
 be done, which would be exciting, but again, people are frickin everywhere and you wind up setting 
 the whole city aghast with your presence. 
  
  Overall, very good game, worth a pickup and the 10-12 hours you'll put into it. 
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardos-the-3rd
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  this game is like a sandbox game but is only about shooting, jumping and driving. this makes the 
 game fun and direct but makes the game a little bit repetitive.
  
  In this game you are a genetic modified super agent that has to fight against 3 criminal factions. 
 you only have to defeat the leader but this is very hard if you never defeat the 6 captains of 
 this faction first. so you have to go searching for the place were this captains are and defeat 
 them. you got experience points from the enemies to make you stronger and capable of defeating 
 the next faction. 
  
  the experience system is a little bit simple what is exactly right for this kind of gameplay (fast 
 and without unnecessary complications)
  
  the game gives you absolutely freedom, but the problem is that except eliminating the factions, a 
 few racings, and getting experience there is not much to do. and the city is more a "playground" 
 for your superjumps than anything else, and excepting cars, and trucks there are only 3 super vehicles 
 that change depending on your driving experience level. there are no bikes, helicopters or tanks, 
 driving is only a faster form to go through places were you have never been because the city is 
 filed with teleporters.
  
  if you are searching for a free action game this is you game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfanshawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I saw this game when it first came out and never really gave it a shot, I'm sorry I didn't because 
 I was missing out on one of the better games for the XBOX 360 to date. Crackdown is an amazing 
 game where you are a supercop part of the "Agency" sent out into the world to fight gang crime 
 which is taking over the city. You are genetically altered so you can jump higher, climb higher, 
 kill more, and drive faster. As you play the game your skills increase and you can do even more 
 ridiculous things such as kicking trucks 50 feet through the air or climbing to the top of skyscrappers 
 and jumping off. All of this is very fun and provides hours of entertainment. You could just roam 
 around the city blowing things up, climbing buildings, and wrecking cars, but there is also a story. 
 The story in the game is kind of weak. You set out to eliminate the heads of the major gangs in 
 the city. This is fine and all, but all you really do is go to their location and kill them. The 
 game is really about blowing stuff up, exploring, doing the race challenges, and becoming extremely 
 powerful so you can cause some major damage to anyone or anything that gets in your way. I found 
 this game used for cheap, and it was totally worth it. I suggest everyone give it a shot if you 
 are looking for something fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: declasse
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  This Game is Awesome. I got this game about a year ago, played through it, saw most of what there 
 was too offer and traded it in. Fast forward to a few days ago i was browsing through my local 
 game store and it caught my eye again. I got it for the second time and for about half the price 
 i did the first time.
  
  I am not usually one too play through an entire game more than once but this is so much fun. Everything 
 about it. You're a super cop of sorts sent in to rid the city of gangs/crime and what not. You 
 start out playing as most other characters on most other games do being able to do the usual running 
 jumping killing blah blah. But as you do these things you level up and you can run faster, jump 
 higher and pretty much every other action available to you becomes supersized and over the top. 
 But all in a good way!
  
  The visual style of the game is unique as everything has a thick black outline to it giving it 
 a comic book style. Well that's how i would best describe it. It's very nice to look at anyway.
 
  
  Anyway i won't go on much more as i'm at work and i think i'll get a warning soon for wasting company 
 time on gamespot. So go check it out i you haven't already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfreak937
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is an open world styled game from the same person who makes grand theft auto. I have 
 told you this to make it less of a suprise to you that crackdown involves open world gameplay, 
 guns and overall havoc in everyshape or form.
  
  The game has you playing a supercop from the future sent to kill all of these bad dudes that the 
 police or "agency" given there proper name do not like. Then from there you will find some MAJOR 
 plot twists and some amazing characters and... oh no wait I'm thinking of the wrong game.
  Crackdown has NO story at all. Yep thats right nothing, zilch.
  
  However where the game realy 
 shines is the way that you can pretty much mess around in tones of different ways and have a blast 
 by just running around and mindlessley blowing things up, and who dosent like things that blow 
 up!
  
  Howvere there are missions in this game but they all consist of running to a location then storming 
 into it then killing a bunch of guards and pumping someone full of led until they fall down and 
 go "aghh"
  
  However this is where I tell you some flaws about this game. For starters its short, and because 
 crackdown works like an rpg where you have to buld up stats every time you kill a civilian your 
 stats go down and cops give up way to easy on you. (you can download a package called keys to the 
 city that is free and will fix the civilian thing though)
  
  apart from the flaws crackdown is awesome from start to finish!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutter9792
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown.
  I just love saying it.
  And playing it.
  It's definitely one of those rare games that gets better the more ways you play it and how much. 
 Co-op is a blast. You can spend hours finding insane stuff to do within the playground that is 
 Pacific City with a friend. Many, many achievements are out there to be unlocked, with plenty of 
 replay value in the game. vehicles are fun once you (finally {it took me about 2 hours to} ) get the 
 hang of them.
  Of course, nothing (and I do really mean absolutely nothing) beats running down the street at thirty 
 miles an hour, leaping into the sky, launching two rockets in\to vehicles and watching them corkscrew 
 through the air over you. These thrills, along with the huge explosions, great guns, and fabulous 
 advancing feel to the game makes this one one everyone should at least check out, if not buy.
 
  Time to go blow the hell out of Pacific City.
  Peace -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmokeBombMass
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  If "Just Plain Fun" was in the dictionary, chances are Crackdown would be somewhere in the definition. 
 What the game lacks in story and depth it more than makes up for in super powered adrenaline and 
 pretty explosions.
  
  The basics of the game are simple: choose from one of several agents and take down 3 different 
 gangs on 3 different islands. You'll be using high-tech, transforming agent vehicles and a wide 
 selection of weapons, ranging from pistols to heat seeking missile launchers.
  
  Taking down all 3 gangs can be fun, if a little tedious. Each gang consists of several sub bosses 
 you must eliminate before moving on to the head honcho (much like the game mercenaries) . All of 
 these bosses are tucked away in unique locations such as an oil rig, a mining facility, and a night 
 club, just to name a few. But really you can wipe out all 3 of these gangs in less than 12 hours 
 if you put your mind to it.
  
  But that's not where Crackdown shines. It's just a sandbox game at heart, but it takes the basic 
 formula to an extreme level that makes it a very unique and fun experience. You're able to climb 
 any skyscraper you see, lift any car you want, and blow up any group of people that you desire 
 thanks to your amazing super powers.
  
  There are 5 different categories for your powers: Agility (running speed and jumping height) , Driving 
 (better control over cars and more transformations for agency vehicles) , Explosive (bigger explosive 
 radius for grenades and rockets) , Strength (stronger melee attacks and the ability to lift heavier 
 objects) and Weapons (better accuracy and damage) . Each skill has 5 levels which will drastically 
 increases your stats and the way your agent looks.
  
  To be honest, the game doesn't have a whole lot of lasting appeal right out of the box. Sure you'll 
 have fun beating all the gangs and messing around with the fun physics and sandbox elements. And 
 having a 2 player co-op session can be very enjoyable as well. But things will eventually become 
 repetitive. Enter the DLC (downloadable content) ! Crackdown has some of the best DLC that the Xbox 
 Live marketplace has to offer. There are new agents, new vehicles, new weapons and new game modes. 
 The highlight of the DLC is without a doubt "Keys To The City". It's basically a cheat mode, complete 
 with God mode, unlimited ammo, vehicle spawning and a plethora of other options that promise to 
 keep you enjoying the sandbox elements for a long, long time. Alone and especially with a friend.
 
  
  In summary, Crackdown is one of the best sandbox games out on the market right now. While it does 
 have some flaws like camera issues and lack of depth, they are easily overshadowed by the games 
 adrenaline fueled explosive thrills. If you get the game and put it right in your disc drive I 
 would probably give the game an 8.0. But if you download the available DLC I would say you're heading 
 into a 9.0 range. Even with heavy hitter GTA IV on the market you're going to find many things 
 that even it cannot offer that crackdown will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoem001
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This for me is the most underrated, badly marketed games out there. They put Halo 3 beta on it 
 so people would buy it. This should never have needed that if they sold it properly. I mean this 
 was a game done by the man that invented GTA. 10 times better than Saints Row, which is just a 
 rip off of GTA, I don't know many people that have played it properly all the way through.
  
  Once it received the update and you download the extras (well worth the ms points) it became 
 the best sandbox game to date. 
  
  The graphics are superb. Cartoonish but that only enhances the atmosphere the game already has 
 with the over the top voice over which reminded me of Dragnet or Police Squad. The colours are 
 bright rather than gray.
  
  The co-op is the best I've done (well the most fun anyway) . I loved just mucking about or doing 
 missions with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and all, but it could use some more stuff to do. I especially love when you get 
 your strength to it's peek, which allows you to throw cars and stuff. Driving's pretty cool too, 
 especially when you get your skills up. But this game coulda used a lot more content.
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  Pinguin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  It doesn't matter that the story is nonexistent, the premise is often silly, and the gameplay is 
 really quite simple.... because it's fast-paced fun that won't wear out its welcome.
  
  Crackdown is, at its heart, a simplistic third-person action game. Three relatively simple gameplay 
 distinctions though make it an incredibly *fun* simplistic action game.
  
  1) You are a super-human agent of justice. Let's face it: this is incredibly gimmicky, and it means 
 that your entire gameplay experience is based on novelty value..... but, it works! Because your 
 skills get better over time, you'll find that the experience doesn't get old. Scaling buildings 
 will turn into leaping over buildings. Punching out gang members will turn into tossing cars onto 
 them. And so on.
  
  2) The level design is fantastic: organic, unique and fun. In particular, there is an amazing verticality 
 to Crackdown - never have I played a game that actually felt so genuinely 3-dimensional. Scaling 
 buildings, lurking underneath the shoreline or blasting through the front door make up the simple, 
 but organic and fun-feeling choices as far as strategy is concerned. There's something incredibly 
 satisfying about scaling a series of buildings to reach a particular objective.
  
  Crackdown is the first game in which jumping puzzles actually felt like fun.
  
  3) The visual 
 impact of the game is stunning. The cel-shaded graphics look fun without being too cartoony. The 
 physics are appropriately over the top, and the explosions will make you feel all tingly inside 
 once you max out your Explosives skill.
  
  The game's weaknesses did not bother me, and shouldn't bother you if you're not going into the 
 game expecting the complexity and variety of activities found in, say, GTA. For example, the driving 
 is horribly implemented, and thus there's no real excitement to be found in the races. (Or point, 
 for that matter, unless you're an achievements whore who wants to max out their skills like I did.) 
 And there's nothing to do in the game other than blow up gang members and take down enemy bosses.
 
  
  But really, I think it's good that crackdown isn't any longer. If it was, the novelty would probably 
 wear off, and the game would be less fun. Crackdown is good for 10-25 hours of gameplay - you can 
 skip some bosses and beat the game in a few hours, or max out your skills, explore and kill an 
 unnecessarily large number of people and stretch it out to 25. But, at its heart, Crackdown is 
 a simple, fun game that anyone can get in to and not have to think too deeply about.
  
  Notwithstanding the horrible effort at actually inserting a story that was tacked on to the end 
 of the game, Crackdown all round felt like a fantastic game that wasn't ashamed of having simple, 
 incredibly fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructabom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased crackdown after hearing very good reports of the game. When i first played 
 on it i thought it was a little silly and disappointing but when i started playing more the more 
 i started to enjoy it.
  
  It has many of the characteristics of GTA but instead of being against the law you are helping 
 it. 
  
  Similarities: 
  Free roam around the city
  Kill anyone you want 
  Have to take out bosses 
  Can get in any car
  
  Differences:
  For the law not against it
 
  
  The graphics are a little babyish, comic style but it is still very good. The multiplayer is excellent 
 allowing you to play with a friend.
  
  Overall these are the pros and cons of the game:
  
  Pros:
  Good gameplay
  Good multiplayer
  Like GTA
  Kind of good graphics
  Good price
 
  
  Cons:
  Little confusing 
  Hard to get levels up
  
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a simple game, yet it's the games simplicity that makes the game shine.
  
  Because the game isn't some super complex open world game its perfect for just a quick, jump in-jump-out 
 playstyle. Ignore the story. It's lame. But who ever cared? Theres WAAAAAAY too many awesome explosions 
 and drug busters to run over to pay attention. All you need to know is that you kick ass, and everyone 
 else is in some kind of organized gang that you must kill in any way possible. 
  You've done this thousands of times, but thanks to Crackdowns ever morphing character, the gameplay 
 ends up being far more interesting.
  
  The City is big, and best of all there's a lot to do in it. Plus, this is an OCD gamers game. Try 
 collecting every orb, I dare you.
  
  Check this game out if you got a chance, you can find it for real cheap in the local bargain bin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Let's start out with this. Crackdown is of course no dought "M" rated and this game needed to be 
 M so it could be this badass game where you can jump 40 feet and the air and blow up 30 cars with 
 a press of a buttun. 
  
  The game sort of relates to GTA but in Crackdown has super powers and bigger, better, and more 
 damging guns. The sound is mixed for me. The voice acting basically sucks. When you kill someone 
 they'll say stupid things like "Is this really it" or "I see a bright light". This especially applies 
 when you kill the cops.
  
  Your main objective is to kill all bosses in the game (I think it's 21 of them) . But most of the 
 time you will just be roming around the city having fun blowing everything out or stealing cars. 
 If you steal a police car when the cop is still in it then no worries the cop will be thrown out 
 and unjoyfully let you take it out for a spin.
  
  The graphics are great and look quite nice with comic book style mixed with colorful animation. 
 If you climb a tall building such as Wang's or the Agency Tower then you will see the whole city 
 from the top which is great only if it's during the day in the game then fog will make it a little 
 bland from the top of towers. But the frame rate will drop extremely low when your throwing a bunch 
 of grenades 
  
  You'll have a lot of fun with this game, no dought in my mind, blowing up gangstas and cars has 
 never been so much fun.
  
  Anyone who likes free roaming games such as GTA should give this game a go. Just be warned that 
 the game is not that diffucult in the campagn mode. Right now the price for the game is pretty 
 cheap. Last time I was at the game store Crackdown was 29.99, pretty good for a game that is as 
 badass as Crackdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattia1992
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  ----------------------------
  
  Crackdown was my first game on the console, initially seemed nice but when the hours passed defects 
 increased. 
  Graphically, the title is discreet but nothing compared to new games of the new generation. 
 
  The introduction of crackdown explains that the city is invaded by numerous gang which cause problems. 
 You are a super agent you need to stop them. The control system is simple and intuitive thanks 
 to a system of self aims. Your super agent may collect potenziamente along the roads to become 
 increasingly powerful. You can always jump higher, lift heavy objects increasingly to become almost 
 invincible. The story mode can be carried out fully cooperative with a friend. 
  
  And now defects are: 
  
  -There are very few secondary missions. 
  -The graphics are only 
 discreet. 
  -The game is sometimes repetitive.
  
  ---------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  I was really hyped up about about Crackdown. It sounded like a good change to be a good guy for 
 once in the sand box genre unlike GTA games (still great though) .
  Graphics are great because the developers and graphic artists did exactly what they set out to 
 do and thats making it feel more comic book like which gives Crackdown style. GTA fans will be happy 
 to gun down inoccents, but that will cost your your skill progression as you are a cop after all. 
 Difficulty is not that hard on any mode at all. Killing a whole gang proves easy.... but you will 
 find that what I just said gets proved wrong towards the late stages of the game. The explosions 
 look amazing. An area that they can improve for Crackdown 2 is making more stuff to do, after all 
 this is the sand box genre.
  
  Weapons and ammo are many but you'll want to be near spear ammo's location as it does tend to get 
 wasted quickly. Overall Crackdown is fun while it lasts. But you'll be left wanting more than you 
 got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shun44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Crackdown was a great experience for me but i felt there were a couple things missing like drive 
 by which in any other game like this has that. I also want to state that the only reason i drove 
 was to get some where to far i felt that there was almost no reason to get in my car besides the 
 achievement for stats. The variety on guns could have been better, I mean if I am a super agent 
 why am i only carrying two guns and a couple grenades. Other then those things i thought it was 
 great on every other aspect and think it deserves a part two. Also it was the first to have more 
 then one player in a sandbox which is why i say if you had'nt played you should at least try it. 
 The cars handled really good and it's propably the only game i liked being the good guy so far 
 cause nothing else has stood out very much. The sound was done very nicely. Crackdown is a game 
 i recommend you play if you have not yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishHunta007
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a super hero GTA. Its hardcore, graphics are sweeeeet, controls are easy, characters 
 are cool looking, BUT.....
  
  The game gets better the longer you play it. Why? Your charater keeps getting tougher and is able 
 to do insanely cool stuff!! For example.. In the begining of the game he jumps like a normal white 
 guy barely clearing a curb. After you Max out your jumping ability, you are jumping from skyskraper 
 to skyskraper almost flying!! Your weapons get stronger, your guy gets stronger (able to lift buses 
 and tosss them) , driving skills get improved so your cop cars get pimped out... Its just Crazy 
 addicting fun. Its far fetched, and it doesnt even have much of a storyline except .Go kill these 
 Mexican dudes, or go kill this Triad. Its that basic, but its like GTA because you can go whereever 
 you want whenever. 
  
  I love this damn game so much, and I dont know why. Its one of those games where if your down and 
 dont feel like thinking too much, just put this in and go jump around and blow stuff up! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  When Realtime Worlds first announced it was creating another sandbox game, I sighed with the predictability 
 of it all. But I were wrong - Crackdown is anything but a clone. Instead, it's unique on several 
 levels, from the crisp ultra-modern visual style, to the fact that you play as anything but an 
 average crook; you're a turbo-charged cop straight out of The Matrix.
  
  Pacific City is an open-world environment, divided up into three separate islands. Each one is 
 overrun by a unique crime syndicate, each dealing in a different kind of vice and immorality. The 
 Los Muertos, Shai-Gen Corporation, and the Volk have 21 kingpins between them, and this is where 
 the free-form twist comes from. The ultimate goal is to eliminate the three big crime lords that 
 lead the gangs. Although you could attempt to do this right from the start, you'll find it pretty 
 much impossible with your limited abilities and the fact that the criminal infrastructures are 
 still rock solid.
  
  To improve your chances of making the hit, you must first destabilise the gangs by removing some 
 of the kingpins. What's really cool is that you can work out a proper game plan according to your 
 playing style. If you're going to attempt to run and gun through a crime lord's stronghold (success 
 is always going to be low) , you can improve your chances by first eliminating the syndicate's arms 
 dealer. The enemies will no longer have access to high-powered weapons. Likewise, eliminating the 
 gang's recruitment chief means that there will ultimately be fewer bodyguards to deal with.
  
  No matter what your playing style is, there's a strategy to go with it. You might want to try 
 and ram-raid the crime lord's fortress. If that's the case, then eliminate the kingpin who steals 
 vehicles for the syndicate. This will give you a clearer route to the base. Improving your character's 
 driving skill first will also make things a lot easier. Skills play an equally important role in 
 taking down the three crime lords. The game adopts many of the RPG-style character upgrades of 
 GTA: San Andreas, and then ramps them up to an incredible degree.
  
  The five skill areas - agility, strength, driving, shooting and explosive - are upgraded as you 
 collect special orbs or when performing specific actions in key areas. It's pleasingly fast to 
 earn your first level of upgrades; there are four levels in total for each skill. This means you 
 won't be running around for too long with everything getting on top of you. Within an hour of play, 
 you'll be able jump higher than an average person, you'll have access to upgraded agency vehicles 
 and your grenades will cause much greater damage. Of course, this is nothing to the amazingly over-the-top 
 things you'll be able to achieve further into the game, but more on that later.
  
  Arguably, the most obvious example of how welcoming and accessible Crackdown is, is when you jump 
 across rooftops for the first time. Pacific City is fairly unique in the sandbox genre because 
 the numerous skyscrapers emphasise vertical exploration. That means you'll probably spend as much 
 time on the rooftops as you will on the ground. Often, it's almost like a puzzle trying to figure 
 out how to clamber up one building and then jump across to another. Sometimes you'll succeed, sometimes 
 you'll fail, sometimes you'll realise that your current level of agility needs a little more work. 
 Succeed or fail; it's fun regardless.
  
  If you've ever had those dreams where you're jumping great heights, or even flying, you'll have 
 some idea of how exhilarating Crackdown can be. It's a massive buzz when you jump from the roof 
 of one skyscraper and just catch the window ledge of another one, two city blocks away. It's even 
 better when you land on it feet first, as the concrete underneath you fractures and shatters. Becoming 
 stronger opens the game up even more. The more enemies you defeat with melee attacks, the harder 
 you'll be able to attack and the heavier environmental objects you'll be able to lift. One of the 
 funniest moments in the game was where I were playing co-op and I came across my friend literally 
 kicking cars off the highway. We also punched one kingpin so hard he went flying off the top of 
 a lighthouse and fell to his death. Being able to haul up gigantic oversized objects, like a lorry, 
 and then throw them into the air is also stacks of fun. Almost every environmental object can be 
 picked up and chucked at enemies - even down to their fallen comrades' dead bodies. And once you 
 have an object in hand, you can lock on to specific targets with the Left trigger, just like when 
 you're shooting them.
  
  Overall, the controls are very intuitive, not least because they're almost identical to GTA. There's 
 a manual lock-on for shooting enemies, which makes combat fast-paced and no-nonsense. The only 
 fiddly bits were trying to drop down from a rooftop to a lower level. There isn't a button for 
 lowering yourself, so you have to hope that the character grabs automatically which can be nerve-wracking.
 
  
  The best way to play Crackdown is definitely in co-op. It's a very strange, but extraordinarily 
 exciting way of doing the cop/buddy movie in a game, not least because you can kill each other 
 - often with hilarious results. Co-op allows your mates to jump in and out of the campaign at any 
 point, just like Gears of War. But best of all, you don't have to stick together in Pacific City. 
 You're perfectly free to go separate ways and tackle different kingpins, or stick together and 
 wreak all-out havoc. I was slightly phased by the fact that if a player dies, he has to go all 
 the way back to a safe house and it can take ages to catch up. However, that's only a small downside 
 in a mode that has so much to give.
  
  Some of the cool things you can do include picking up your mate's car while he's driving and throw 
 it over a building. Or how about working together to stack up 100 explosive canisters before blowing 
 them all up at once? You could even snipe enemies from the roof of your mate's articulated lorry 
 while you blast full steam down the freeway. The possibilities in co-op are endless, making Crackdown 
 a much more versatile sandbox game than either Just Cause or Saints Row.
  
  Another excellent feature in Crackdown is that the time trials and races can be played in co-op. 
 This way, you can enjoy a road race across the city, with one player on foot, jumping over buildings 
 and the other player riding a super-charged agency car through the streets. There are over 100 
 licensed audio tracks, and although I wasn't very familiar with the ones I heard, they did fit 
 the mood and feel of the game. The tracks are largely connected to the styles and themes of the 
 three criminal gangs. Overall, the audio is excellent in 5.1, and I especially like the echo and 
 reflections techniques that make an effect like gunfire sound different according to the space 
 around it.
  
  Arguably Crackdown's only weakness is a missed opportunity to focus more of the game's sandbox 
 potential into structured mini-games. Co-op in particular offers so many ways to interact that 
 I'd like to have seen more competitive elements aside from the races and time trials - although 
 these can be played in hundreds of different ways. Saints Row offered fewer gameplay possibilities, 
 but it came across as more focused through more specific tangible 'activities'. There's still a 
 hell of a lot to do though, if you can avoid the temptation to kill each other for more than five 
 minutes!
  
  For outrageousness and pure entertainment value, Crackdown is the most fun sandbox game to date. 
 It's arguably a little unfocused as a single-player game, but get a mate to join in and this becomes 
 one of Xbox Live's killer apps. It's a game that screams accessibility and endlessly inventive 
 fun - a truly brilliant addition to the sandbox party. Crackdown is style. Crackdown is all-out 
 action. Crackdown is an absolute riot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I'm assuming most owners of Crackdown achieved that status primarily out of a burning desire for 
 access to the Halo 3 beta. Though I can't say for sure, my guess is that those people who took 
 the time to sit and play Crackdown were treated to quite a pleasant surprise. 
  
  I hate to compare Crackdown to GTA, but such comparisons are inevitable. You play from a third 
 person perspective; you have access to a city with multiple neighborhoods/islands; you can create 
 ridiculous amounts of destruction in short periods of time. However, the experience is markedly 
 shallower.
  
  First, there's not much of a story to speak of. You're a supercop who needs to take down three 
 gangs in Pacific City. You get little video dossiers on each of the 21 head honchos that tell you 
 whether they handle recruiting or weapons dealing and whatnot, and you're also given a general 
 idea of what kinds of nasty business each gang is known for. This is really a problem inherent 
 with any "GTA clone," it seems. GTA is great because the experience is so organic and story/character 
 driven. Other games do their best to re-create that open world anarchic sandbox feel, but tend 
 to really drop the ball on the rest of the experience. Crackdown is no exception.
  
  But what Crackdown does well, it does very well. You have five core abilities that level up as 
 you use them: Agility, Driving, Explosions, Strength, and Firearms. By the end of the game your 
 supercop can leap about 30 ft, lift objects that weigh about 10 tons, have an explosive kill radius 
 of 50 ft, etc. Leveling up these abilities is a lot of fun, and really makes up the core of Crackdown's 
 value. It really never gets old leaping from building to building, reigning fire and death on helpless 
 gangsters below. The only real issue I have in this regard is the Driving. Unlike GTA, driving 
 seems completely superfluous to the gameplay experience here. I have beaten the game with all abilities 
 up to the 4-star max, except driving which rests comfortably and meaninglessly at 1-star. I have 
 probably spent a grand total of 3 minutes in a vehicle out of the 12+ hours I've spent playing 
 Crackdown. I'm sure once you get all the vehicle upgrades (which look very cool, by the way) , driving 
 is pretty sweet, but that doesn't change the fact that your supercop's super speed and jumping 
 ability is all you'll ever need to get anywhere at any time. And at the beginning, the vehicles 
 just handle sloppily with questionable physics, so I never felt it worth my time to get used to 
 them.
  
  Once you finish the game, you're treated to a narrated summary of the great work you've done, and 
 the requisite plot twist which sets up the sequel... which at this point I don't believe is forthcoming. 
 There isn't much replay value to Crackdown, unless you're an Achievement freak. Co-operative play 
 is a good option as well, except that the host's game progress is used for the co-op world. That 
 means if you've already beaten the game, there's no sense in hosting a co-op match as there will 
 be nothing of significance to do. Conversely, it's relatively fun to join a game where the host 
 is still working to beat it as your character maintains all of his earned abilities, making you 
 an effective aid if your buddy is struggling to take down those pesky guards en route to the target.
 
  
  Crackdown is definitely worth a rental, and I would recommend it for purchase if you find it on 
 the cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Crackdown
  Xbox 360
  
  Crackdown is one of the best game in Xbox 360. In this game you are a freeroming police officer 
 where you fight crime for fun. As you are genetic police officers you are powers beyond any human, 
 so you can jump higher, lift buses, shoot guns with higher kill ratio and make bigger explostions. 
 Well the story is that your new type of superagent you have been made to your take down the three 
 top gang menbers. The graphics work realy well with the game, a sort of cartoon look with an adlut 
 look to it. The only bad thing about this game is that there not alot of contain in the game to 
 keep you happy after you complete the story.
  
  The gameplay is fun and challaging in finding your targets and fighting your way to them. Playing 
 online is fun in the way that its the same as single player mode but with your friends. The only 
 thing to do after your finish the game is trying to level up all your skills Freerunning, Strength, 
 Explosions, Driving and Firearms. Well if you like big explosions and freerunning around town, 
 then this is the game for you but don't look forward alot of contian after the you've finish the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demosnipe1589
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING GAME, it is a very simple and addictive game. The game play is easy to pick up, colorful 
 attractive environments. The small integration of RPG style character development by collecting 
 orbs is amazing, try and find them all. one of the hands down best games on the 360, with its appropriate 
 cell shading for its cartoonish super hero/human style. you really feel involved and immersed in 
 the exciting world the game offers. Jumping super high, Meleing enemies across the world, driving 
 a wide variety of unique cars and interestingly devistating weapons. you will most likely never 
 run out of any thing to do in this game, especially with the down loadable content available now 
 on the market place. my advice is buy this amazing game, get all of your friends to buy this game, 
 and enjoy it for countless hours! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knetworx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  If every game allowed you to jump around like Crackdown, you would never need to drive a vehicle. 
 Seriously, it's *that* much fun. I love being able to jump 30 feet to escape enemies in the middle 
 of a fire fight. I love being able to kick a guy off the edge of a building (when I'm 15 feet away 
 from the edge) and watch him fall 30 stories to his death. And for some reason, it's incredibly 
 satisfying collecting the mini-orbs that float toward you when you kill someone. It's rewarding 
 know that every time you kill someone, your skills increase just a little bit. This is one hell 
 of a fun game, and I absolutely recommend it to anyone. Too many people brushed over it as it was 
 shortly before the release of Halo 3, but I'm honestly having just as much fun playing Crackdown 
 as I do playing Halo 3. If co-op could be done with 4 players, or with 2 on the same console, it 
 would be that much more amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Okay so its not the best polished game, its visuals aren't to die for compared to thers hitting 
 the market today, but that is easily overlooked with this very creative and fun title.... Story? 
 well there isn't much of one... Your some superhuman bad boy and there are gangsters running wild 
 and your objective is to...... kill em! Man thats easy, and a recipe that some developers get away 
 from these days trying to rewrite the book on what we enjoy and how we play.... Not the guys at 
 MS studios... They kept it simple and "old skool"... and it worked... You have a open world loaded 
 with folks you wanna kill and who wanna kill you.... As you move about taking out these guys you 
 power up and become stronger faster and just one lethal son of gun.... Its fun and its non stop 
 action....
  
  The multiplayer is rather impressive aswell, merely a coop but it works well, you can link up and 
 hop in anyones game and run around together just laying waste of the world..
  
  The bad: well although the lack of storyline is refreshing considering many games focus alittle 
 too much on it these days, but Crackdown could have told us alittle bit more about the world and 
 Agency, the mechanics are abit dated and the aiming system takes alot getting use to... The graphics 
 could have bee better....
  
  But all that being said Crackdown is still simple and FUN.... If you haven't played this title yet, you 
 need to, plus its going for 20 bucks now, and you can't beat that..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyo4
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  crackdown is just like a futuristic grand theft auto that has many more interactive and upgradable 
 environments. it is surprisingly long, fun, funny, and quite easy to complete. it has a number 
 of weapons and vehicles and has a very large amount of enemy ai. it is fun to watch bunker and 
 buildings explode and peoples ragdoll bodies go flying. there is a variety of civilian vehicles 
 to use but to its best to use the agent vehicles and upgrade them. overall the levels are long 
 and relatively easy and the game has a few surprises and frustrating missions. the enemies dont 
 have many unique units to fight but there are bosses to kill who have more HP and damage than the 
 ordinary guys. The game itself is set in a city that is under control by 3 gangs and you're set 
 out to take them down and save the city from evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alilari
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game! Worth playing of course. The city is great and your super skills are 
 amazing and fun. Running around in the city or driving around anywhere you want is also a great 
 feature in this game. 
  
  Skill upgrades: A reason that makes you keep on playing. Lets you upgrade your super cars and lets 
 you climb up to the highest of building (and jump off :P ) The game lets you fight against multiple 
 enemies and destroy whatever is in your way! 
  
  Weapons: These are the source of the destruction in this game which makes it even more exciting 
 and addictive. You can also upgrade your firearms and explosive skills.
  
  Running around the city doing whatever you want is just plain fun.
  
  Bad things : Once you 
 finish the game you cant do anything else except fight against police. The city becomes kind of 
 empty. There is only 1 city you play in, so thats also annoying. 
  
  But overall play it its a great game, fun and worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stasker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was primarily purchased at it's launch for the included Halo 3 Beta invitation and most 
 probably quickly traded it in shortly thereafter. Too bad considering the game included is a great 
 open world action game. 
  
  Part racing/driving, part action, part adventure and all parts done well, Crackdown is a hard game 
 like many open world games are to correctly classify. While it can certainly be claimed it's a 
 GTA clone (and correctly in a lot of cases as it was developed by the original GTA creators) it 
 also stands out on it's own. 
  
  Fairly simple at it's core, you're a super-powered cop who by collecting power orbs (and good luck 
 finding all for those achievements!) , completing races and killing gang members/bosses you become 
 able to leap tall buildings, lift & throw cars like they were baseballs and withstand punishment 
 like no run of the mill Super-Cop. Graphics are stylized and work well within the game and the 
 environment to play in is huge and varied (and you can swim.... lesson learned finally in San Andreas 
 so glad they copied that one) . 
  
  Co-op is fun but limited to two people, music is solid and varies in genre by island/vehicle and 
 the controls are very good. Should be able to pick up VERY cheap at this point so value is high 
 and re-playability is also high given the nature of the achievements (collect/race/kill) and you 
 can either just tool around the open environments once you've killed everyone or re-spawn the gangs. 
 Really the only shortcoming that I can find is it is fairly straightforward in it's design meaning 
 no missions other than kill, collect, race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Name: Crackdown
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360
  
  Platform that this 
 game is being reviewed on: XBox 360
  
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  
  Developer: Realtime Worlds
  
  Genre: Sci-Fi/Shooter
  
  Difficulty: Just Right
  
  Learning 
 Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Number of Players: 2
  
  Online Players: 2
  
  Online Modes: Cooperative
  
  Offline Modes: Cooperative
  
  Release Date: 2/20/2007
  
 
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  ESRB Description: Blood & Gore/Intense Violence/Strong Language/Use of Drugs/Sexual Themes
  
 
  Score: 3.5 out of 10
  
  Now I'll be honest I really didn't hear much about this game prior to it coming out. Than when 
 I heard about it was the first time on XBL I heard that the demo for Halo 3 was going to be tied 
 with this game. So I figured I'm not a ass kisser so Bungie wouldn't give me a invite and I know 
 I was too late so other places like gamespot couldn't help so I bought this game. I played it and 
 I'll be honest I see this game as another in a endless line of clones of GTA the only thing that 
 makes this game different is the use of super powers but that can only safe the game so much. It 
 is revealed your a cloned police officer who has super powers your set loose to wage war on a set 
 of 3 games each gang has 7 lower ranking officers who enforce each gangs will, But who really cares 
 it's a open sandbox game where you have super powers. I found I had a lot of issues with the game, 
 I had everything from minor lock on troubles to the game litterly freezing on me, which gets upset 
 because it takes the fun out of the game if you can't even kill in a fast enough speed. There is 
 the menu loading screen god that was a joke if you weren't logged into XBL that thing would freeze 
 up worst than a 1945 oldsmobile on the equator (A reference to a Christmas story) . So besides it 
 being a super powered GTA Clone it can't safe this game. And if people say they got the game for 
 the game and not the Halo 3 beta invite and you see them on the Beta they are full of crap. I found 
 it funny when I was playing a beta game on snowbound (I think that's the title of the map) and 
 I was being made fun of that I got the game for the beta (So what I did they didn't offend me) 
 they than admitted to getting the game for the beta also, don't you love how two faced people are? 
 Anyway if you like really weak clone games you'll like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is really good because of the free-rom factor and I love the feeling of jumping around 
 on the top of buildings then drop down and ambush some enemys. The story is simple story. Big boss 
 gangs u need to take down.
  
  There are 3 big boss's in 3 parts of the city. You can get to all parts straight away but its best 
 to go thought them in order unless you want to end up dead in a seconds. There are 5 leaders in 
 the group you can kill before going after hte big boss of the gang. You dont need to get the 5 
 people but i makes it easier to take out the big boss.
  
  The game is really fun as you can upgrade ur cars which look really cool. It is a good game and 
 can be very hard at time. It ends a bit to suddenly and there isnt really anything to do afterwards.
 
  
  Overall it is a good game. It just need a few more features and more to do after u completed it 
 and this would of been a much much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Using sandbox gameplay as a base, Crackdown's recipe pits you as an "Agent" fighting crime in the 
 gang-overrun Pacific City. Your superhero-esque powers allow you to run and jump through town, 
 climbing buildings and pounding bad guys. The weapons you acquire range from puny pistols to rockin' 
 rocket launchers. My personal favourite was the Firefly, whose five-round "clip" of seeking missiles 
 allows you to make quick work of massive quantities of gang members.
  
  We're all familiar with open-world design by now, but Crackdown puts a few spins on the concept 
 to keep it fresh. First, cell-shading makes the characters and objects look like comic books come 
 to life. Second, your character's skills advance through use. For example, when you defeat gang 
 members by brute force your strength improves while shooting them augments your skills with a firearm. 
 Even your driving skills are enhanced, resulting in better handling and performance. You can also 
 gain skill points through activities like road & rooftop foot races and collecting orbs hidden 
 throughout the city. One other nice touch is that as you take out gang leaders, there will be a 
 noticeable decline in their strength and presence. Even the achievements are amusing- my personal 
 favs were Body & Car Juggler (keep a body/car suspended in the air using explosives) as well as 
 Body Armour (attach 5 gang members to a car using the harpoon gun) , which is available via downloadable 
 content.
  
  While the innovations used in the game give it a little bit of spice, they certainly aren't mind-blowing. 
 The game also has a few minor flaws, but nothing that seriously impedes your gang busting rampages. 
 The only major drawback I noticed was that the game felt a little short. Overall I would definitely 
 recommend playing the game, although renting may be the better way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fLaMbOaStiN
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  "CrackDown" has all the components of a great game, which is exactly what it is! Some of these 
 components include the ability to scale skyscrapers, jump from one building to the other in a single 
 leap, an overwhelming open world environment, a great sense of humor, AND ALOT MORE! By the time 
 you're finished reading this review you'll know exactly what I mean by "AND ALOT MORE", and also 
 learn of some of "CrackDowns" flaws.
  
  "CrackDown" takes place in Pacific City, a place filled with violence, drugs, and gangs! You play 
 as a genetically enhanced member of a police-like group called "The Agency". Through out your adventure 
 you'll be lead from one gang leader to the next by what I call "The Voice Of The Agency" who's 
 helpful and extremely funny. Your job as a member of The Agency is to combat gangs by using your 
 super-enhanced strength, speed, training in arms, and driving skills.
  
  The first gang your put up against goes by the name "Los Muertos" (which in English means "The 
 Dead") , and as you can probably guess they're a gang of Mexicans. Their territory is an urban part 
 of Pacific City full of tall buildings and apartment complexes. Los Muertos arm themselves with 
 basic but reliable weapons such as sniper rifles, sawed off shotties, machine guns, sub machine 
 guns, and even shrapnel grenades. But with some hard work, determination, and very little man-hours 
 you should be able to actually turn Los Muertos' into The Dead!
  
  The second gang you'll face is known as "The Volk". The Volk's made up of European immigrants who 
 came to Pacific City with their guns, drugs, and explosives in order to make a quick buck. The 
 Volk reside in the industrial part of Pacific City full of factories and large refineries. The 
 Volk arm themselves mainly with explosives, heavy machine guns, and high-powered sniper rifles. 
 The Volk are gonna be pretty hard to take down, but if you strengthen up your agent and team up 
 with a friend on Xbox Live you should be able to stop them dead in their tracks!
  
  The third, most powerful, and final gang you'll meet in Pacific City is known as the "Shai-Gen 
 Corporation". The Shai-Gen Corporation consists of deadly Asian hitmen, genetically mutated enhanced 
 bad guys, and "CrackDown"s final boss who's humorously named Wang. Shai-Gen Corporation's territory 
 in Pacific City is home of some the games tallest skyscrapers, underground passages/highways, and 
 the most heavily guarded/fortified bases. Shai-Gen Corporation's weapon cache include heavy machine 
 guns, shotguns, homing rocket launchers, and very powerful long range tactical. Shai-Gen Corporation 
 is defiantly a challenge, but if you take down the lower gang leaders first and work your way up 
 to Wang you should be able to defeat them without getting too aggregated. 
  
  I love "CrackDown"s open world, it reminds me a lot of the Grand Theft Auto Series, except you 
 can scale all the buildings around you and leap across their rooftops too. Pacific City's beautifully 
 designed and all the enemy AI are perfectly spread out so you shouldn't ever go more then a minute 
 without shooting a bad guy. There's also Agency Supply Points placed all over Pacific City, and 
 when they're captured from gangs you have a place to respawn from and store weapons; which saves 
 you a lot of running around, because you don't have to find a save-point like in all the other 
 open world games.
  
  The cars and guns are balanced and fun to use. There are three kinds of cars offered by The Agency 
 (and hundreds of others on Pacific City's Streets which you can hijack) , each have their own special 
 ability which strengthen the more you advance in your driving skills. The guns are balanced in 
 strength so ones never really stronger then the other and they are unique from one another too, 
 but I feel there could be more offered.
  
  "CrackDown"s graphics are also unique and have a sort of cartoionish 2D-Like look that works out 
 perfectly for the game. The sound qualities not bad; I love how the gang members never run out 
 of quirky taunts and funny sounding grunts; which just brings more humor to the game. The controls 
 are easy to use, but bring nothing new to the table, they actually feel like a rip off from Grand 
 Theft Auto, which isn't a bad thing either!
  
  All together "CrackDown"s a solid 360 title, which offers hours of fun just by climbing buildings 
 and causing mass destruction. Some things "CrackDown"s lacking is a compelling story and a satisfying 
 arsenal of weapons. Another thing I didn't like about the game is it's a little on the hard side, 
 and some will have a problem beating it without help from a friend on Xbox Live. If you're a fan 
 of the Grand Theft Auto series and possibley looking for some practice before GTA4 hits the shelfs 
 (or your like me and just cant wait until GTA4's release date) I suggest you give "CrackDown" a 
 try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very fun game to play. Leaping from rooftop to rooftop, blowing gang members to 
 pieces with rocket launchers, and hurling cars at people is very fun and incredibly satisfying. 
 However, besides game play, there isn't much content/story to the game.
  
  Basically you run around to different locations, clear out some bad guys, and then blow up a sub 
 boss. Kill all the sub bosses and you can take on each factions kingpin. Kill all 21 guys and its 
 game over. There are some nice back stories thrown in but a lack of actual missions or overall 
 substance besides these mini clips leaves the game feeling a bit hollow. 
  
  There are some rooftop running and driving mini games to give some side content to the game, but 
 besides these and collecting the 500 agility obs scattered on every rooftop in the game, there 
 is no other variety.
  
  Crackdown is a fun game to rent and divert a weekend to, mindlessly leaping from building to building 
 and wrecking total havoc. A lack of further plot and mission development keeps this game from being 
 a truly must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybomb3691
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  In this game you are able to not only run around just killing people as you please but you are 
 also able to complety upgrade your charter. giving him abillties far better than those of a normal 
 man such as your ability to uprade your jump and as your stars get higher and higher, your jumping 
 abilities also increase. also the more times you use physical damage to kill a gang member you 
 are able to increase your strength which as you get further and further into the game you are able 
 to pick hevy things up such as a semi and throw it actually pretty far and crush a gang member. 
 you are able to increase you shotting capability your and your expolosives capability also. but 
 about the coolest thing is that you are able increase your driving capabilty which allows your 
 car to be upgraded and change into what i like to call supercars. so this is another must have 
 for anyones collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakeb21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is very similar to the grand theft auto games. There is a huge open world city to explore 
 and you kill gangsters. Crackdown seems really fun at first as you explore the city and do stunts 
 with cars and blow stuff up. But the whole campaign is just the same thing over and over again. 
 There is three different sections in the city that each have a different types of gangs in it. 
 You are to hunt down the gang generals of each gang and kill them and then find the gang kingpin. 
 That is your #1 objective and your only objective is to kill the gang leaders. There is some fun 
 features in crackdown if you have xbox live, you can download extra content like more characters 
 to chose from and more weapons and cars with a whole cheat menu to spawn vehicles and numerous 
 other things as well as instantly increase your powers to maximum performance. That package will 
 cost you around 800 credits and it also gives you a street racing campaign. Once you beat the game 
 that is the only extra content available to keep you busy other wise its the same thing all the 
 way through. Online co-op is nothing special. But overall this game isnt that bad it has its fun 
 and has its moments but just comes up short on content. It is something you want to rent first 
 and not the kind of game you wanna pay 50 or 60 bucks for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popcorn1223
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Sure its just like GTA but with some hulk powers , who never wanted that in GTA? The game offers 
 a great looking city and good audio and voice acting. But there is quite a short campaign unless 
 your looking for things as you go through the campagin. About 6 - 7 bosses. 
  
  While playing youll always feel like your playing GTA just on the other side (good) . The game does 
 feel a lacking in online co - op , could of have been better but not that much better. 
  
  The game has a huge world aand fun achievments to try and get. 
  
  Not much to say about this 
 other than if you werent satisfies by GTA rent this game first. If you were than you'd defiantley 
 like this game. If your more of a achievement freak id defiantley get this game , fun mini - games 
 for the achievements.
  
  Most of all this is a fun game that you can just run around and pick up cars and kill citizenz 
 with , or just shoot some mexican , asian , hood gangs. The map is always fun to explore and the 
 boss fights are easy but very entertaining haveing to shoot past thier minions and have to run 
 after them while they shoot back at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  So basically it is like Grand Theft Auto but instead of killing/avoiding cops you are a cop. But 
 there is another twist, you have super powers. Before I get into my actual review I would like 
 to say that I would give this game a 7.8 if I could. So, like my title says, the idea really got 
 me excited because I am looking for a game in which you can customize your super powers and have 
 a lot more customization. In Crackdown you pick your character and you start out with five classes, 
 Agility, Firearms, Explosives, Driving, and Strength/hitting the B button. The best part of the 
 game is climbing up buildings and collecting agility orbs/hidden orbs. 
  The guns are standard guns that you would expect to see minus a couple of the explosive weapons. 
 The explosives are pretty fun to use but they are better to use when you get farther along. Driving 
 is fun, but only when you are driving the agency cars or when you max out your driving. Strength 
 is interesting because as you level up your guy starts to look like a wild man on steroids and 
 some of them randomly grow tat-oos or change their hair cut. The game is much more fun when you 
 are playing with a friend because you can stay more focused and destroy a lot more people quicker. 
 I believe that the game is much more fun in the first two parts of the city because when you get 
 to the third part the people get a lot harder and the buildings are much more massive which makes 
 them hard to climb. 
  The Game does a great job in making the area larger and it is unique because the size of the city 
 is also vertical because of all the buildings you can scale. All in all, this game almost makes 
 it to being considered a great game but the lack of customization and the sudden increase of difficulty 
 in the last area keeps it from achieving a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Coming out on February 20th of 2007, and being accompanied by a guaranteed pass into the Halo 3 
 multiplayer beta, Crackdown, from the developers Realtime Worlds was released. Created by the same 
 man who came up with the Grand Theft Auto series, Crackdown tries to lend certain elements from 
 GTA's "sandbox" style of gameplay while also trying to separate itself from the mix. 
  
  If you're a person who's dependent upon a story to progress you through a game, you might want 
 to stop reading and proceed to looking for a different game. That's not saying that Crackdown doesn't 
 have a story, but the one that progresses you throughout the entire game is extremely loose and 
 isn't one of the strong points of the game. The gist of the story is that the city has been taken 
 over by three separate games and combat against these gangs, The Agency was formed and from that, 
 a new brand of 'supercops' was created to fight back. These supercops are bio-engineered in the 
 fact that your abilities such as Strength, Agility, Explosive Power, Driving, and Gun Power gain 
 experience as you use them and complete certain tasks. If the story sounds kind of clich, it's 
 because it is and you don't really need to anything about the story to progress through the game. 
 All you need to know is that there are three gangs spread throughout the game on different islands 
 with seven different leaders in each. You're given the option of the order that you want to take 
 them out, and how you want to take them out because from the start, the entire world is open to 
 you to explore.
  
  There are five different abilities to level up throughout the game and you can do this at your 
 leisure whenever you want. You can go around killing all of the gang leaders first if you choose, 
 but it will definitely be a little more difficult because of how weak you'll be, but again, in 
 this sandbox game, it's your choice. Each ability levels up differently such as Strength is leveled 
 up by taking out your enemies melee force and after building up this skill, you'll be able to pick 
 up cars and throw them at your opponents among other things. Driving skill is increased by competing 
 in different races across the map, jumping through stunt hoops with your vehicle, and also by mowing 
 down your enemies while in a car. Once this stat is raised up, you'll be able to handle your vehicle 
 better with more accurate turns while driving around on the streets or maneuvering through acrobats 
 while taking your car off a jump. The Gun Power simply raises up in level by using your guns on 
 different enemies and when this skill is built up, you'll be able to shoot more accurately at your 
 opponents. The Explosive Power is built up by taking out your foes using grenades whether they're 
 out walking about or in their car. When this ability is built up, the blast radius of your grenade 
 will grow in size which can be quiet helpful taking out a group of gang members. The last ability 
 is the only one that doesn't gain experience by just using it. To gain levels in your Agility skill, 
 you need to complete roof top races across the many buildings and structures you'll see around 
 the city. It can also be built up by collecting different green orbs that are scattered throughout 
 the three different islands on top and around the roof tops of almost all of the buildings throughout 
 the city. There are 500 of these orbs, so start collecting them when you can. There are also blue 
 orbs which are more hidden throughout the different buildings and landscapes that will raise each 
 of your skills a little bit with each one you collect. These can be very helpful, but also harder 
 to find even though there are 300 scattered about. When you've completed leveled up all of your 
 skills, the world is yours basically because you've become this massive gang killing machine that 
 can take on hundreds of opponents at once and you'll simply enjoy completing all the tasks around 
 the city with these perfected abilities.
  
  Crackdown has a different look than most games that are being released on the Xbox 360 nowadays. 
 It's cel-shaded and somehow, it works perfectly for Crackdown. Everything from the different characters 
 to the many cars you'll be able to drive, everything has a cel-shaded aspect that seems to flow 
 with the rest of the graphics in the game. One thing to also notice is that the game world is quite 
 large and open from the start. You'll be able to go to any of the three islands and take out gang 
 members from the three different gangs including Los Muertos, The Volk, and The Shai Gen. Each 
 gang is on a different island of their own and while all the gangs may look differently, they're 
 pretty much the same in the number of bosses you'll have to defeat, and how you'll go about defeating 
 them. While it's nice to have the power of the Xbox 360 running the game and not have that many 
 pop ups, it's always nice when you don't have to look at a loading screen to go to a new island. 
 Animations of yourself and the NPCs around you look smooth and all of the terrain looks great whether 
 you're driving around the streets or jumping from rooftop to rooftop. There's ever part of a city 
 that you'd imagine, spread across the three cities including a marina, a car garage, night clubs, 
 a coastal park, plus many other places you might not find in a regular city such as a refinery, 
 these cities have it al because you'll appreciate the variety when searching for all of those blue 
 and green orbs.
  
  Sound within the game is decent enough. Throughout your gang killing sprees, you'll have an overhead 
 voice, someone from the Agency you work for, giving you advice and some congratulations periodically 
 and while these may be nice in essence, sometimes the voice tells you the wrong thing at the wrong 
 time and it can get a little annoying. Such as, when you're in a small alley way, it'll tell you 
 to look at that great view across the rooftops of the city. Simple little annoying things like 
 that, but it doesn't take away from the overall gameplay too much. There are radio stations that 
 you can listen to when driving around in the different cars, but they mostly consist of different 
 techno tracks, so if you're into that style of music, you'll enjoy it, but if you're not a fan 
 of techno music, you can always lower the volume of the music within the car without lowering the 
 overall value of the entire game. The sound effects are definitely some of the greater components 
 of sound. Explosions sound great whether you're blowing up cars or people and all of the different 
 weapons sound spot on. When taking long jumps across the city landscape, sometimes you'll miss 
 your step and fall to the streets below leaving an impact upon the pavement maybe a crunching sound 
 which also sounds great. Screams of the dieing gang members will reverberate throughout the alleyways 
 as you take out different bosses.
  
  There is a multiplayer component which is nice to let you and a friend go online and take out the 
 different gang members and while this doesn't seem like much, such as a difference from the singleplayer, 
 it definitely can provide quite a bit of entertainment and havoc when you have two guys going to 
 take out a single gang member. When you have two different guys throwing cars this way and that 
 and just causing all out carnage, it just seems beautiful. The multiplayer isn't as seamless as 
 most probably would like. If you're playing alone and someone joins your game, which you can either 
 allow or deny their request, you're then kicked from your game to reload at the same spot you were 
 when you were just kicked, with the progress you've made and all. What this means is that if you 
 have someone join you and you only have one more boss to kill, then both of you together only have 
 one more boss to kill. And one more thing about it, whenever the person that joined your game leaves, 
 you're once again kicked out of the game and have to reload back into yours to keep playing. It 
 just would have been a lot nicer if the developers would have made the whole multiplayer component 
 of the game a little more seamless.
  
  Overall, the game runs pretty smoothly and that's quite a lot to say when you see how much the 
 physics engine has to work sometimes. If you'd like, you could pile over twenty cars up in the 
 middle of a road and then throw a nice little grenade in between them and watch the explosive fireworks 
 fly and this is where the game is truly beautiful because of how realistic the explosions pan out 
 over all. With each car and person blowing sky high and then plummeting to the earth below to land 
 awkwardly against the pavement of the road, you'll be finding that you'll be collecting everything 
 you can to put in a pile to blow up. And only then, in these small experiences do the graphics 
 engine bring the frame-rate of the game down a little bit, but it's truly nothing to squabble about 
 when you see what's actually happening on screen.
  
  A single play through of the game, depending on difficulty level, will probably take you from eight 
 to twelve hours overall. And if you're searching for all of the blue and green orbs, you're definitely 
 going o be adding more time onto that. A unique aspect about Crackdown is that even though you 
 killed all of the bosses, you can still bring them back and take them out once again with being 
 all leveled up, which can be quite different for the early boss battles. This can give the game 
 some replay value overall in the way of creating new strategies for taking out the different gangs 
 across the three islands. And many people, such as this reviewer, tend to spend quite a bit of 
 time playing around with the great physics engine that accompanies this game.
  
  Overall, Crackdown is an enjoyable game that you could play through by yourself or with a friend. 
 With around ten hours of gameplay, three cities to wreak havoc through, three different gangs to 
 take out and 800 hundred orbs to find throughout the cities at varying heights, this game has the 
 ability to keep you busy for quite a while. There are some drawbacks such as the annoying voice 
 of the announcer and the kick outs and reloading during some of the multiplayer online matches, 
 but if you're just looking for a game to have some old fashion seamless fun, Crackdown is the game 
 for you.
  
  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sound 8
  Story/Plot 6
  Replay Value 8
  Stability 9
  Multiplayer 8
  Overall: 8.10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aang007
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  well something i really liked about this game is the leveling system its so fun to go around raising 
 your agility and strenght and what not its really fun.
  And you can also drive a variety of cars from SUVs to supercars theres a wide array of vehicles 
 at your feet and not to mention you can hijack every car in the game.
  
  another cool feature is that you can pick up alot of stuff and since my strenght is maxed out i 
 can pick up almost every vehicle and throw them.
  The weapons in the game are pretty decent you got rocket launchers grenades and guns. I usually 
 use a big machine gun a rocket launcher and detonation charges, the explosions look really nice 
 by the way.
  
  although the graphics are nothing special i like the feel of the cartoonish graphics it gives the 
 game a different look then most of the others.
  
  one thing ive been dying to say is.... THE SOUNDTRACK IS COMPLETELY AND UTTERLY HORRIBLE THE MUSIC 
 IS TERRIBLE!!!!
  ITS ALMOST ALWAYS RAP AND BAD MUSIC IT MAKES ME WANNA HIT MY HEAD AGAINST THE WALL!!!!!
  
  
 but other than that no complaints the game could have been better but its still a cool game you 
 should check out if you like free roam and driving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexy_chimp
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Imagine being a super hero...
  Sounds fun right?
  Now imagine fighting giant 100 foot tall monsters, super powered humans, and saving the universe. 
 Well, you won't do any of these in Crackdown, but regardless its still a fun game.
  This is why I feel this game has so much wasted potential. You have incredible super powers (Jumping 
 from building to building like The Hulk, driving cars armed with guns at 200 miles an hour, picking 
 up 10 ton objects and hurling them into enemies, causing huge explosions, and killing enemies with 
 one shot from your gun) but all you're able to do is fight normal, wimpy humans. Even the bosses 
 are just enemies with more health.
  Another one of Crackdown's problems is there is nothing to do after you kill all of the bosses, 
 which should take only 10 hours. Other than the bosses there is nothing left in the city that is 
 important and unless you like collecting orbs as if they were crack and you were an addict, then 
 you probably won't stay for long. 
  There are other modes such as Time Trials, Keys to the City (You have to download it for free) , 
 and co-op. Time Trials and Keys to the City are good timewasters but they won't last long. Co-op, 
 on the other hand, is great. Fighting your friends Superhero vs. Superhero is one of the most fun 
 things you can do in a video game.
  In the end, Crackdown is a fun, underappreciated, and overall great game and I reccomend it to 
 anyone. The wasted potential in this game is just astounding, and I really, REALLY hope there is 
 a sequal that takes advantage of all this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is alot of fun and the city you fight crime in is HUGE. You play a character who works 
 for an agency in the middle of a little metropilis whos goal is to take down and destroy three 
 seperate gangs. You defeat different small bosses and then take out the kingpin and then the gang 
 becomes defeated. Your character is upgradeable and the more you do the better he becoms and the 
 game gets more fun the longer you play. THis game is so amazing you can scale buildings and jump 
 around like theres aspring in you hind quarters. The weapons are basic regular guns and you pack 
 a hardcore hand to hand combat. The game is full of mini games, from racing to parkour. You can 
 jack vechiles in this game like in the GTA series or you can drive the ones at the agency. All 
 of them are available to pick up at you agency garage once driven. The plot is so-so with a twist, 
 spoiler hint: possible sequel!!! The online co-op is the cream of the crop for this game, it very 
 easy and simple to just jump in with a freind and take down baddies. Once you defeat all of the 
 gangs you can restart them but still keep all of your collectables and continue upgrading your 
 character. You'll feel accomplished once you have every rating maxed out. Some of the downloadable 
 content is overpriced but i purchased it because im a fan of this game. The achievements in this 
 game might be the most fun part, go after them and you'll have a blast. If you want an awesome 
 game that has alot of replay value and strong online this is want you want, and you can probably 
 get it for cheap now!!!
  
  pros- Great gameplay, veichles, online co-op
  cons- mediocre storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game. Truly it is. This is because of many factors. Crackdown has an almost 
 unique ability system, allowing you to not only kill more enemies quickly, but drive around in 
 flash upgraded cars. The bosses are unique, each one hiding in their own lair, and without the 
 proper knowledge and tactics can be quite difficult to root out. There are hundreds of mini games 
 that you can play, including a time trial that sets you against the bosses directly with a timer, 
 pitting you against your worst enemy- yourself. The controls are easy to get used to, allowing 
 you to dive right into the action of the game, and the plot line is clear and simple enough for 
 you to pick it up and carry on playing even after a gap of a month or so. The mini games are great 
 fun, pushing you against the clock on time trials against bosses, driving races, and rooftop races. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PistolDZ
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is fun while it lasts. The game can be addictive when trying to collect agilty orbs. 
 And there is a lot of things to do in the game. But the game is short and lacks variety. There 
 are no side missions to do, so after a while it becomes a little tedious doing the same procedure 
 21 times. The control system is great. Easy to use and its good. The graphics are nice too. This 
 is pretty much like a GTA game with superhuman abiltys. 
  
  You can choose up to 12 characters to play with. All of them change when you level them up. It 
 would be pretty cool if you can customize them. But unfortunately you can't. The game can be played 
 on two modes: Campaign or Time Trials. The campaign mode can be played on three levels: Tough, 
 Ruthless, and Psychotic, all aptly named. While the campaign mode isn't particularly long (roughly 
 ten hours if you attack it head on) there are also races (both car and on foot) and stunts to complete. 
 You can also play with another player but only online, so no split screen, which is disappointing. 
 All in all, there's not a lot of replay value but there's enough to do to keep it interesting the 
 first time through.
  
  There are a few other things you can do in the story mode so you're not just doing the same activities 
 repeatedly. There are supply points located all around Pacific City. Supply points are like save 
 points and you can store gang weapons at each, as well as teleport to any other supply point in 
 the city. There are 300 other hidden orbs located around Pacific City which also upgrade your stats. 
 There are also race missions where you'll need to try and run through checkpoints whilst jumping 
 over buildings as well as vehicle time attacks. Outside of the main campaign you can also attempt 
 to defeat any of the bosses you've previously beaten with a better time. 
  
  
  Crackdown is a very impressive game, and proves to be very enjoyable despite some notable flaws. 
 Anyone looking for an enjoyable Xbox 360 title need look no further than Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flushedorgen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok crackdown takes place in a city in the middle of the great blue sea and you are a agent working 
 for the agency (wow kinda simple) As a agent you have super powers like jump 100 FT up and pick 
 up cars (it takes awile to do both so just wait) Crack down plays kinda like a rpg....... with guns. 
 like shooting and agelity and strength and driving and exploshins which are very cool. You can 
 pick from different skins wich is ok but the best is the dude with the mask who is only on dlc. 
 Ok the game is super fun but its kinda like just cause because there are people shooting at you 
 every fukin sec but thats not that big of a problom because the gameplay is just outstanding. when 
 you aglity is maxed out the first thing youl do is climb the agency bulding and the visuls are 
 OUTSTANDING!!! all and all this game is a must buy for sandbox gamers and rpg fans (kinda) so stop 
 reading my review and get out there and but it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerrythefunguy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Yep those two games some up Crackdown exept theres not really a real story goin on except saving 
 a city from a bunch of thugs. I was really hopeing this was my favorite game on the 360 but nope 
 it gets old very fast. I mean as soon as you upgrade your Agent to Max the guns become useless 
 and driving cars become useless, you can beat the main bosses with kicking him or her to death 
 which is the easiest way to kill them. I kinda like the music and theres underground bands that 
 I was surprise they were in there, like Celldweller but then agian its instrumental which I was 
 disappointed. I can use my music from the hard drive which is cool but damn 105 songs and allmost 
 all of them all suck. Theres nothing else I can say about Crackdown. I might sell it. I kinda like 
 Keys to the city but I pick it up once in a while but its collecting dust like my Smackdown Vs 
 Raw 08 game.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Sound 6/10
  Gameplay 7/10
  Replay Value 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thecrackdown
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Wahoo, this game is an amazing non-stop killing these gangster who out number you by 100, but they 
 suck dog deuce, if you lock on too a guy and jump for a while you can pull of a head shot easily. But 
 the game seems hard in tough mode for a while, so after you kill 3 bosses switch to a harder mode 
 then, once you've killed 5 los muertos bosses, 3 volk bosses, and 2 shai gen bosses switch to the 
 hard mode, it will be more challenging but you won't get bored. If you have x live, play always 
 play co-op not single player because its just not as fun. 
  
  Great car selection, sweet weapon selection, huge area zones to walk in, endless possibileties, 
 and wicked super human powers This game is wicked!!!
  
  People who think grand theft auto is better are wrong, because this game rocks grand theft auto 
 and if you disagre with me whatever i don't care, but this game will go down in history.
  
  I don't know why gamespot rates it so low.
  If you hate this game try saints row, your a gangster 
 not a secret agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Plot: The plot has you being a super cop in a city full of crime, with constant gang war and violence 
 being a common thing seen on the streets. But you're a super cop with crazy abilities.
  Graphics: Crackdown kind of has its own art direction in terms of character models and it is slightly 
 similar to the look of Ultimate Spiderman excluding the comic book stuff. The framerate is smooth 
 and the lighting is decent. The only downsides are that the loading screens are a bit long and 
 all of the buildings are a little generic and all look the same. The explosions in the game are 
 a sight worth seeing.
  Gameplay: The best part of the game is the gameplay. It's free roam which isn't groundbreaking 
 but is a ton of fun. You can do what you want, where you want, and how you want to do it. There 
 are a lot of guns and different vehicles to drive. Your cop can jump hundreds of feet high, is 
 super strong, able to throw people, cars and cause chaos in the streets. You can drive cars provided 
 by the agency and they have special traits. The SUV can drive up certain building and can jump. 
 Meanwhile the smaller fast car can drive under cars and flip them from underneath. Everyone's favorite 
 gun seems to be the rockets because they pack a punch blowing up cars with ease. You will almost 
 never miss though due to the auto-aim the game has. Which is very satisfying to watch a rocket 
 home in a an unsuspecting fleeing gang member. The gameplay is FUN and has downloadable content 
 to increase the fun.
  Sound: The sound is decent, for the guns and explosion sounds. But you have this weird narrator 
 guy talking to you and about everything you do, which is a little creepy. The cars don't sound 
 bad either but get repetitive, but what doesn't get old is the whistling sound of homing missile 
 chasing you down. Whenever you hear it you'll definitely start jumping around for cover or something.
 
  Value: The game has a ton of value taking down the 21 crime bosses can be completed in just a 
 few hours after maxing out your characters abilities which takes about a week or two and the gameplay 
 can get old after a while. But the real value comes from the online coop support which is a ton 
 of fun. There is downloadable content, orbs to collect and skills to increase. It could last you 
 easily over 50 hours of gameplay if you have Xbox live. It was an even better deal to those who 
 bought the game put hours in and got to play the Halo 3 Beta. But bought cheap, with a buddy to 
 play with makes it a great buy.
  Achievements: The achievements included have you maxing out your characters skills, collecting 
 500 Agility orbs, and playing the game coop they're pretty straight forward for a free roam. But 
 there is a creative one that has you keeping a body airborne for 10 seconds with explosives which 
 I must say is pretty clever.
  Tilt: Crackdown is a buy if you have a buddy to play with and you find it cheap. It does get old 
 after a while but for $30 it's definitely a decent deal for a game that could have you playing 
 for more than 50 hours. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is a twist on GTA in that you play a police officer sent to clean up the streets. They 
 have been overrun by three gangs. Its your job to take down the various members of the gang culminating 
 by taking the boss down. Once you do that you have one more mission to clean up the stragglers 
 of the gang and then you are done. But you are no ordinary officer. You are augmented so when you 
 do various things you get stronger. You build up your character that way to become a super cop. 
 In this free roaming world you can jump and climb all over the place. The more powerful you become 
 the higher you jump. That being said you also get to run into enemies all over the place. That 
 is part of the problem with this game. After awhile it becomes a run and shoot game and its not 
 a lot of fun. You get your gun and you go and shoot and shoot and shoot. There are times where 
 there are soooo many enemies on the screen you have no choice but to die. The graphics on the screen 
 are well done and the music well.. its nonexistent. There is a constant voice over which tells 
 you about your mission and what to do. Driving in this game is horrenduos and the shooting can 
 be at times difficult. Lets face is this game fun?? I think overall it has its moments where the 
 game can be a lot of fun. If you are a an of GTA then the common elements are here to keep you 
 happy for awhile. Only after awhile will they start to grate on you and make you want to stop playing. 
 The ending is not very good and there is downloadable content. I am not a big fan of paying for 
 downloadable content to a game thats not very good. If you can pick this game up at a cheap price 
 its worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadgriffin73
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  This games was bought by most people strictly for the Halo 3 beta, but I think it has turned out 
 to be a pleasant distraction in its own right- I have begun playing it all the time, and it's simplicity 
 is its brilliance. Consider it GTA if you were a superhero- an open sandbox world, tons of things 
 to do and collect, hundreds of places to explore. But the graphics are only so-so, I really expect 
 more out of a 360 game. Now that the price has dropped and it's a platinum hit, I strongly suggest 
 you pick it up. I got mine for like 20 bucks, and it's DEFINATELY worth it. I probably would have 
 felt ripped off if I played full price. At the platinum hit price though, you can't go wrong! There 
 are tons of guns (you have to collect them off dead gang members and make it back to the nearest 
 supply point alive to keep them) and once your agility is maxed out, you can have a lot of fun 
 just jumping around the buildings! Crackdown also offers some of the most crative achievements 
 yet- I wish more games had this kind of interesting, think-out-of-the-box type achievement set. 
 All in all, you should check this out if you haven't played it yet, the discounted price clenched 
 the deal for me, and I'm sure it will do the same for you too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game but you can beat all 21 gang bosses in around 4 days. This game is similar 
 to GTA in the way that you can do most anything you want. You also have superpowers. As you punch, 
 kick, drive, jump, shoot, and blow up stuff you get little orbs that level up your status. You 
 can get up to 4 stars and then max it out. Once you max out your status you can pick up cars, drive 
 faster, get a larger blast radius, better accuracy, jump higher, and run faster. After you kill 
 all the gang bosses and max out your skills theres not much left to do. You can play for achievements 
 and co-op but thats about it. Co-op is also very fun. You and a friend can take down the gangs 
 together. The city that you play in is also pretty big. This game is also pretty cheap. I got it 
 used at Gamestop used for $20. All in all its a great game at a great price but dont expect to 
 see a lenthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimppapa
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  As I stated above AI never stop re spawning making the game a joke if you clear out a section to 
 get to a boss they should stay dead. I can see re spawning on the streets but you can go to a Boss 
 Location empty your rockets into the enemy go back to a supply point and there are all new lowlifes 
 to kill. Then you have to work your way most likely up to a tall structure to get to the Boss who 
 most of the time stands there looking dumb. So if you can stay alive long enough to pass the goons 
 who never stop re spawning the you get an easy kill at the Boss. Just like every Microsoft game 
 that first comes out they have a big sales blitz. But if you are smart enough to wait you can get 
 this game for a steal used at just $19.99 at EB Games, It will be sitting next to the other hyped 
 up game Shadow Run. making your score 2 games at $19.99 apiece. It pays to wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo-16
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the funnest games I have ever played in my life, this game is very cool you can 
 jump from roof tops to roof tops, and you can snipe from the highest buildings, even crush multiple 
 people and cars with the power landing ability! The achievments in this game are very fun to try 
 to get, like the Body Juggling achievment try to keep a body in the air for 7 secs with explosives. 
 This game has non stop action with enemies at every turn, and with a huge weapon selection at your 
 disposal from pistols to rocket launchers and with the "Getting Busy pack" download the Harpoon 
 gun, Lobber rocket launcher and even a chain gun just makes it more fun! Not to mention the agency 
 vehicals great assets to any situation, the supercar made to go under obsticals, SUV goes over 
 obsticals and the Truck Cab which goes through obsticals. And with the download get the Buggy, 
 Armored Car and the Race Car! There is just so many ways to play the game its unbelivable. There 
 ain't to many games like this one and this game has one of the best co-op games out there. I highly 
 recommend this game to every body who likes free roaming games. 
  
  P. S. Sorry to burst anybody's bubble but the game is not split screen co-op I found that out the 
 hard way, its system link and Xbox Live Compatible to play Co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-Beer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Weeee. Geronimo
  How can anyone not like crackdown, you can scale enormus scyscrapers, jump down and survive, drive 
 cars, shoot and run over bad guys.
  
  Crackdown is my most favorite game on the 360 at the moment, altough I do see it flaws, but the 
 positive sides is so enourmus that the negative things dosen't even compare to it's shadows. The 
 keys to the city mode is the best of course, where you can change your skills at will, spawn things 
 and be invincible.
  I agree that the ending is a bit disapointing, but you can enjoy the game for hours after to, just 
 play with some explosives, run over some goons if you want them to spawn. And even if you get tired 
 of playing around, try to set a new goal. Like get all the agents to top level, build a super ramp, 
 see how big a scrapyard you can make (EWoC's rule for giving me that idea) or blow up som inocent 
 lives.
  
  To be such a great game I have too litle to say, but I recomend Crackdown to everybody who is a 
 fan of the GTA series or want to explore all angles and don't want to be so linear. When you play 
 crackdown you will soon see where assassin's creed picked up the trail of vertical exploration.
 
  
  I advice all gamers to at least try this genius game.
  (btw: I don't know if the classification is positive or negative, but it fit so well to the game) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  There's no denying this is a game with virtually no plot. And it has no real missions except to 
 wipe-out the home-bases of 21 gang-lords in any order that pleases you. The game is simply and 
 completely about destruction -- and the game designers give you a gigantic playground to do all 
 of that destruction -- you've got guns, bombs, cars, and more. Other games have tried to do this 
 -- in particular the San Andreas GTA game, Mercenaries and the 2nd Hulk game (that hulk game that 
 no one played) . In all 3 of these games, there were problems that interfered with the open world 
 "sandbox" gameplay. San Andreas added pointless mini-games like weightlifting, an incoherent story, 
 timed annoying missions and wonky motorcyles in a aging blocky graphic engine (for the record I 
 loved GTA 3 and 4) . Mercenaries' mission system was way more complicated than it needed to be and 
 the drving part of the game wasnt fun. The 2nd Hulk game had a great physics system and destructible 
 areas, but it was clear the game was released well before it was actually finished. 
  
  Crackdown manages to avoid all of the ususal problems with "sandbox" style games. The controls 
 work with precision, the worlds is wide open right from the start, and there's plenty of stuff 
 to find and stuff to do. 
  
  I suppose if you like mission-based games, you may not like this game. But if you are the kind 
 of gamer that likes to explore and upgrade the abilities of your character, this game has at least 
 20 hours of gameplay to offer. Its very cool to upgrade your character to super-hero status leaping 
 from building roofs and throwing gas canisters at trucks. As the current used price of 15bucks, 
 it was worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a futuristic game with futuristic feel, granted, you're never going to feel like you've 
 been propelled into the new milenium but it's not exactly present day.
  
  You start your careerin the 'Agengy Tower' a luxury hotel converted into a huge police station. 
 Your first task is to press the A button for a viehcle. Not exactly action packed but it speeds 
 up a little...
  
  Then you drive through a medium length tube (i never said sped up a lot) . Depending on which veihcle 
 you picked (Agency Supercar, Agency SUV, Agency Truck Cab) you'll either fly, hop or drive straight 
 through a semi-gun battle between Agency (cops) and Los Muertos (Gang members) . Then it starts 
 to hot up a little. Your manly advisor says (in his horribly forced-macho voice) that there's a 
 supply point slightly to the east that you need to retake from from Los Muertos. So you drive (badly) 
 to this supply point, kill the four or five gang members there. 
  
  At this point you realise that the supply points are not disimilar to the 'Safehouses' in Just 
 Cause. You can extract to any one of them that you've unlocked at any point, also you can swap 
 your weapon, for any weapon you've taken there, confusing, but you get the general idea after a 
 while. 
  
  Once you taken this supply, monkey boy talks to you again and gives you your first target, mercifully, 
 he's very easy. 
  
  So, after you run, shoot and jump way to battering your target, your on your own. Sure, Mr Ape 
 gives you guidance, but thats it, you've got to find the gang generals yourself.
  
  Which is where this game falls flat on it's face. There's story, no conspiracy. Nothing linking 
 anything to anything. It's just one gun fight to the next. Sure, it's a lotta fun, butat one point 
 i said to myself, 'all i'm doing here is shooting black people' (cause thats the main colour of 
 most gang members, no racism included) .
  
  It's an awesome game for 9 hours but there's real structure. There's the bones of a great game, 
 but nothing to hold them in place. Thankfully the packs keep us enticed mid-september.
  
  If anything, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of those truly crazy games. Almost like those old shooters like "Galaga". Or "Ninja 
 Turtles" for arcade. Don't look at me and be asking yourself what the hell is this kid talking 
 about. I'm talking about running and gunning. Killing hordes without one thought what-so-ever. 
 It's been awhile since I played one of these kinds of games, but unknowingly, I picked one up for 
 360. And I was quite surprised to how fun it was when I really got into it.
  
  So your an "Agent" or thats what this narrating voice that constantally gives you tips calls you.
 
  
  And you have this big "Agency Tower" that is your first spawn point, and holds three awesome vehicles.
 
  
  1. The Wedge
  Slick super car, goes underneath cars you run into, launches them into air. Very fun to drive around.
 
  2. The SUV
  Big tires, Suv. Goes up and over other cars. great for stunts.
  3. Truck.
  Big, 18 wheeler. cept only the cab. but just as badass. Goes through all traffic easily
  
  
 With that said, there are also dozens and dozens of citizen cars and gang vechicles that can be 
 "obtained"
  
  AKA stolen
  
  The guns are cool, but the explosives are really what you want to mess around with. Rocket launchers 
 seek out and blow up anything within distance and the grenades are a great additive to the mayhem.
 
  
  Aiming consists of free looking around and shooting, or holding the Left trigger over something 
 to lock onto and follow it wherever it may run to.
  
  Thats basically all you really have to "think" about during your playing of this game. The rest 
 is just your skills being upgraded while killing.
  
  Yes there is a great mechanic at work here for the stats and skills part. Everytime you kill a 
 gang member, color coded orbs, relating to the way you killed him/her, fly towards you and stack 
 up into organized sections on the left side of your hud.
  
  There is...
  
  Agility - Jumping and running, shooting from high altitudes.
  
  Explosives - Obiously stated. 
 Bigger boom.
  
  Strength - Easier killing with melee, farther throwing distance, heavier lifiting cababilities
 
  
  Driving skill- Faster, better steering cars.
  
  Firearms - Faster lock on, more damage
  
  They are extremely rewarding and are great to work 
 towards, as you see them build with every kill or stunt.
  
  So if you don't mind a mindless shooter with alot of ass kicking, city scaling and car exploding, 
 this may just be the 360 game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Sounds awesome right? Unfournatly, its only above average. The style is unique, especially for 
 a 360 game, and hopping around the city is awesome, but there a couple obvious problems with the 
 weapons and gameplay.
  First, it's fun to kill gangsters with highly sophisticated weaponry. It's not so much fun when 
 there are tons of innocent people in the street. Though all of the boss battles take place in at 
 the thugs HQ, it's still a hinderance to have your car shot by small arms fire, and even more so 
 when it's not so small, and then your own aresneal is limited do to civilians. Greanades, rocket 
 launchers, and grenade launchers become all but worthless and autmatics have to used in great care, 
 otherwise your penalized for hitting a the idiots who dont realize to duck when bullets are flying 
 and instead run right in the way. These penalities are in a system, which while unique, seems incomplete. 
 You gain points gained on how you killed people, using your gun, car, fists, or explosives. Agility 
 is gained by findings "agility orbs", which can easily be found on roofs of tall buildings. With 
 each level up you gain certain stats, explosions are bigger, your guy starts getting jacked up 
 on steroids, accuracy improves, and you get bigger, shinier cars with which to run things over. 
 The story also seems very incomplete, especially with the absence of a crack down 2. Actully, the 
 story is almost non existent, up until the very end.
  On the flip side the comic book style works extremely well and your own amped up agency cars only 
 get cooler as the game progresses. The achievements are perhaps the fairest ive seen, being neither 
 to easy to get, nor to hard to complete.
  If you want a senseless killer game with a sense or morality, this games for you. It's not exactly 
 as fun as GTA, but at least the cops dont come after you, and if they do, your in a suit of metal 
 body armor with shields and an AK-47.... wtf are they gonna do about it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptomex
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  First of all I was conflicted about buying this game due to what I've heard about it. But actually 
 I'm glad I purchased it. Crackdown is a fun and exciting game. Be sure to download the new content. 
 The new content makes the game even more fun.
  
  Well the game is great but it's not perfect and being a huge Grand Theft Auto fan I expected certain 
 things out of this game. Surprisingly most of the things I expected weren't in the game but it's 
 fun to play anyway. I'll start off by saying what I didn't find to intriguing about Crackdown:
 
  
  - The storyline (if you want to call it that) isn't really a story. It's basically you're a super 
 cop and have to kill all the bad guys.
  
  -Since your character is genetically enhanced and built to fight crime, your character doesn't 
 speak.
  
  -Too many things to find and some things are hard to get. And because there are so many things, 
 trying to remember where something was can be difficult.
  
  -The driving in the game only gets really good when your skills are really high or all the way 
 up. But until then, driving can be a challenge.
  
  -The soundtrack (songs played while driving) sucks in my opinion.
  
  Before you say "This game 
 must suck", let me point out many of the strong points of Crackdown that actually makes the game 
 fun and exciting:
  
  -The entire theme of being a super cop (in my opinion) is an awesome idea.
  
  -Since you are 
 a super cop, your abilities surpass any normal human and being able to improve them while playing 
 makes the game really fun.
  
  -Being able to choose any Agency vehicle at any time is really cool. And as your skills increase 
 these vehicles transform and become bigger, badder, and better.
  
  -The ability to go to any supply point around the city and change your weapons, get full ammo and 
 full health is really cool. And storing weapons at supply points so they'll be available all the 
 time is really awesome.
  
  -The city isn't huge but it's big enough. What's really nice is being able to transport from one 
 supply point to another to get to certain parts of the city quickly.
  
  -The city itself looks fantastic. It's well designed and the draw distance looks great. Also, the 
 freedom to explore the entire city is really cool in this case especially because you have special 
 abilities which makes exploring it really fun.
  
  -Being different from most games of this genre, you're a cop or what they call an Agent. Having 
 the law on your side is nice for a change.
  
  -The action is great and can be fast-paced and intense.
  
  -The game is full of explosives 
 and explosions and there are many things to blow up.
  
  -The sound effects sound great and go well with the game.
  
  Crackdown is a great game. I'm 
 sure there are things the developers could of added to make the game even better but overall the 
 game is just downright fun. I highly recommend this game to gamers who love the Grand Theft Auto 
 series or any type of game that contains open world freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natethegreat440
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is wonderful as a concept, and in fact, gameplay is fun in a pastime kind of fashion. 
 There are infinite ways to amuse yourself for hours- blowing up cars, throwing people into the 
 air, driving to the top of buildings, etc. The idea of being able to explore the city vertically 
 is very clever, and adds a whole new dimension to the game, The main drawback here is the story. 
 Or lack of story. Essentially, the game informs you that the city is filled with baddies, and you 
 should kill them. 21 bosses are here for your killing enjoyment, and the order in which you kill 
 them is up to you, although there is a logical progression layed out. The designers were on the 
 right track with the gameplay, but Crackdown fell short in the story department by a long shot. 
 The end (no spoilers) is also very lackluster and almost painful in it's allusion to a sequel, 
 but this is worth checking out, if only for the sheer enjoyment of exploring the city, killing 
 baddies, and wrecking havoc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REBEL2100x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown. Such a game to play and I just cant believe that Gamespot would give it a 7.8 out of 
 a 10. I don't see any problems with the game. I mean this game is Exactly like Grand Theft Auto 
 but Besides being the killer, your a SuperCop going after gangs. I personally dont see anything 
 wrong with this game but Hopefully sooner Gamespot will round up Crackdown's Score ( Which is a 
 7.8) at least into an 8.5. Maybe its me, But who knows, this game is so much fun because of the 
 sound, the animation and because its Free-Roaming. I personally think this game is worth getting 
 if you love Free-Roaming games. Well, the only problem I see in this game is the targetting in 
 the game because everytime you aim at someone and after you kill him/her, the target indicator 
 would still point to him/her. Thats the only bad thing about the game but the rest is good. GET 
 THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB116
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The games concepts are really cool. You eventually can jump really high with super human powers 
 and having super human strength is pretty sweet. Unfortunatly every detail that is supposed to 
 bring the game together into one package is dissapointing. the driving really sucks but the cars 
 are pretty cool. The graphics arn't the best. The computer AI isn't to great either. The enemies 
 basically run around into dumb places or they stand still. The dumbest part of the game is when 
 you go to take out a boss you have to take out all of his or her men first. This takes for ever 
 and if you die during the mission you have o start all over again. the missions are quite hard 
 even though the computer AI isn't very good. The enemies just keep on coming and eventually you 
 just want to pass the damn level. Overall the ideas of the game are great and their fun at first 
 but eventually the game gets old and very frustratiing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPxPaladin
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game had all the tools to be everything you could want from a game. Great graphics, sounds, 
 physics, voices, game play, music.... but yet it falls short. The game is full of intense action, 
 leaping from building, throwing cars, blowing up bad guys (or good guys) and just all around wreaking 
 havoc and kicking arse.
  
  So what's the problem? Well that's all you really do. The city is huge and full of "people" and 
 interesting places, and they are not used or taken advantage of at all. I am not selling this game 
 short when I say; all you really do is go from point a to point b and kill someone. The story is 
 lame and boring, and it doesn't change at all through the entire game. About half way through the 
 game you will find yourself saying "Is this really all there is to do?"
  
  Graphics: 
  Fantastic! Everything looks GREAT and the physics system sucks you in right away. you can use things 
 around you as a weapon, even the bodies of other people!
  
  Music:
  The music is very nice, fun to listen to. Many cars have awesome radio stations.... too bad you 
 don't drive around much.
  
  Game play:
  Good and bad at the same time. Everything you can do, is fantastic. But with so little to do it 
 to you can get bored quickly. hurling a car 50 feet through a city street and watching the carnage 
 is great. and the explosions are fantastic. The world is well optimized, and the sheer amazing 
 of carnage you can unleash is impressive. The interaction with people and the city is pretty poor 
 though. You can't enter buildings (at least not most of them) and people are just there to get 
 shot, beat on, or blown up.
  
  Story:
  Ridiculously bad, this ruins the game. You literally do the same thing in the entire game, bad 
 guy 1 is here, go kill him. Bad guy 2 is there, go kill him. That's it, I am not even kidding. 
 The lack of story allows you to focus on the cool game play mechanics... but after awhile you start 
 to feel like the game was never finished. The great mechanics start to feel more and more unfinished 
 as you play through. It's clear they took a lot of time to make sure it had the fun and engaging 
 game play, but they didn't run with it. They made it, and then added a half ass story and released 
 it.
  
  Overall:
  Worth RENTING. Not buying. You can see everything this game has to offer in a few hours, while 
 the good potions are really good, the empty story and lack of interaction with the giant city will 
 leave you hungry for something more.
  
  They did a great job in so many ways, but fell flat on their face in two important areas which 
 stopped this game dead in its tracks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  there are some games that want to be played like a game and do not want
  the players belive that they are reality; this is the father of ones; this game want to entertain 
 you as a game,; the style of driving, the characters, city faces, machins, guns and abilities are all 
 gamely;
  this game show you that a game must act like a game and this has mentioned you everywhere;
  some 
 games take high graphices to attract gamers, some shows great story, but this one only, only picks 
 up gamely elements;
  when you start the game, there is few tuterials; suddenly you face a war; there are 100 bullets comming 
 for you; then you notice that (oh boy, this a game, ican do that too) ;
  this game mentioned you all the time that i am a game;
  you are a ploice of future and can do 
 everthing that are gamely;
  when you reach the roof tops you BELIVE ME; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosechild
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Crackdown for the 360 is good, real good. when you think of Crackdown think of Grand Theft Auto 
 + Superman. in Crackdown you are this science experiment basically who has to eliminate all the 
 gangs in the tiny 3-city country you live in. in Crackdown your abilities go from pretty basic 
 running, strength, jumping, shooting, throwing grenades, and driving to extremely awesome. once 
 you gain all the power-ups in the game you can jump like 50 feet, pick up and throw semi-trucks, 
 run faster than cars, shoot really accurately, throw grenades accurately, and your agency cars 
 also gain power-ups like shooting bullets, being able to jump, and being able to plow through everyone 
 else's cars. in Crackdown there are 3 gangs you have to eliminate Los Muertos, The Volk, and the 
 Shai-gen. in the game for each gang there is 6 mini-bosses and 1 boss; I know what you're thinking 
 this doesn't sound that short but the bosses are EXTREMELY easy! you won't get bored of it easily 
 though with the extta downloads and XBOX Live play. this game is worth the money trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommo_gun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Look, Im not saying that this is a crap game, but even with the new keys to the city download and 
 extra agents, vehicles and weapons to give you another reason to pick it up again, it dosent really 
 have any depth
  
  Basically you run around a big city, jumping and shooting and jumping and shooting until the dosierre 
 thing says 'news from the peacekeepers agent' or somthing like that where a video of the gang boss 
 shows you where they are and what they do. Then a probability meter comes up and tells you whats 
 your chance of success is. Taking out a boss isn't really that tactical, you can just run and jumo 
 your way past all the henchmen and the kick and shoot the boss until he dies. Thats not really 
 that interesting. One time i just drove my car in and ran him over in under 15 secs. and that was 
 done. With 3 gangs to work through, it does get tyring.
  
  Now for the positive
  Although the excitment of being able to jump from building to building and drive a massice SUV 
 of a jump and do two 360's does wear off, being able to play online and be able to roam anywere 
 (you could be at both sides of the city) and the keys to the city mode is more than a enough to 
 keep me playing it for a while
  
  If your looking for an adrenaline rush and a big open city to explore with collectable orbs to 
 increase your skill, then Crackdown is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LibertyorDeath1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Jump, shoot, blow-up, run-down, hit and crush the three organized crime syndicates from the streets 
 of Pacific City. That is your job, and as a genetically enhanced agent working for The Agency, 
 one you are quite capable of, especially as you increase skill levels. The three organized crime 
 syndicates of Pacific City are The Muertos, The Volk and Shai-Gen. Each has a kingpin and six underlings, 
 which you must kill to clean the crime syndicate out of the area. This gets old quick, as you are 
 essentially getting to and killing the 'boss', and then rinsing and repeating for a total of 21 
 times. You get some background information on each underling and kingpin as you discover them, 
 telling you what their function within the syndicate is. This helps to make the task you have been 
 given a little less mundane, but not much. Pacific City is a fairly big city, even when you aren't 
 factoring in the buildings. The buildings add a whole new aspect and make the city much larger, 
 considering you will spend a bit of time on top of buildings. Each area of the city has a different 
 look, which adds some variation to the game. Civilian vehicles are somewhat bland and not a lot 
 fun to drive, whereas gang vehicles are better, and Agency vehicles are by far best. As your driving 
 skill progresses, Agency vehicles (the three you choose from in the Keep, not the ones the Peacekeepers 
 drive) will change when you enter them to reflect your driving skill level.
  
  The skills are done quite well in this game, the skills being Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength, 
 and Firearms. Each skill has 4 levels, and there is a noticeable difference when you reach the 
 next level. Increase you Agility and you will run faster and jump higher, increase your Strength 
 and you can pick up heavier objects to throw, and so on. The only skill that there isn't a noticeable 
 difference in, is Firearms. The only way to level up (except for Driving) is to fight the enemy, 
 so if you want to level up and get better, you are forced to follow the main story and bring down 
 the crime syndicates. Achievements, also, were done very well in Crackdown. Should you choose to 
 go after and get all of them, you will have done everything this game has to offer. One of the 
 better aspects of the game happens to be scaling buildings and jumping from building to building. 
 Once you reach Agility level four, any building is a breeze to scale and there are some high buildings 
 in Pacific City that provide nice views. Not to mention once you have gotten level four in all 
 of your skills, minus driving, there is no need to fight every enemy on your way to killing a boss 
 or kingpin, jumping allows you to skip a large portion of enemies and get to your target quicker. 
 Once you wipe out all three-crime syndicates, there is not much to do other than going after the 
 remaining Achievements, and if you get all of them, there isn't anything else left to do. That 
 is Crackdown's greatest shortcoming, it is a nice, large, sandbox game, but one in which there 
 is nothing to do after finishing the story and getting the various Achievements. You can drive 
 around and run over pedestrians, and get the Agency Peacekeepers after you, but that will get old 
 quick. You can't even target pedestrians to shoot them. Apart from the main story and Achievements, 
 there isn't much to do in Crackdown, and the main story itself is a bit repetitive and bland. If 
 you buy Crackdown expecting another GTA, you will be a little disappointed. Should you be looking 
 for a game to tide you over while waiting on a game to release, Crackdown will work, and considering, 
 as of this writing, GameStop has used copies of Crackdown for $19.99, your wallet will still be 
 happy as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the most fun, addicting free-roaming games I've played since GTA: Vice City. 
 I mostly ignored the game at first because I was not interested in the Halo beta testing, and feared 
 that the game would just be some cheaply made throw in. But after playing for a while, I couldn't 
 stop. I wanted to increase my agility a bit more, then my explosives, then my strength, etc, etc.. 
 
  
  The graphics has a small but detailed cell-shaded look to them that works very well. The sound 
 design is great as there is a difference in how the gun you're firing sounds, and the explosions 
 are wonderful. The enemy AI isn't too bright, but their aren't geniuses either. The only problems 
 I have are that the game is particularly difficult to complete the main game, and the driving controls 
 are a bit too loose for my liking.
  
  Other than those minor details, Crackdown goes down as one of the most fun games I've played. It's 
 addicting, and there is always a reason to go back and max out your stats. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker37
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a highly addictive, very fun to play sci-fi shooter. The game gets more immersive 
 as you go on, as your character starts out at just above human abilities, and progresses to almost 
 supernatural status. Anyone who ever wanted an open world city that they could police with superhuman 
 abilities, a big gun (or two) and a license to kill should definitely check this game out.
  
  The five abilities, firearms, agility, strength, explosives, and driving, all level up in real 
 time as you gain experience in those stats. Each stat has 5 available levels, from no stars to 
 4 stars. The game consists of tracking down and eliminating 21 crime bosses in the three areas 
 of the island.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 A little slow in the early going, the game gets more fun as you rank up. Your enemies 
 get stronger as you go from area to area, as well, so the game is never dull. There is so much 
 to do in crackdown, from foot races, car races, killing bosses, or just simply exploring the world, 
 that you'll often find that you don't know what to do next.
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 If you play on normal, you'll blow through the game in a couple hours. Play on 
 Psychotic, and you'll be tearing your hair out.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10 While killing all the bosses isn't necessarily hard or long, you can always 
 reset them and do it again. (And you may want to after your stats are maxed out.) But there is 
 also dozens of foot races, road races, achievements to get, and hundreds of collectible orbs to 
 track down. Plus, it can be fun just driving off ramps and buildings for hours. Or throwing buses 
 off cliffs. Or pinning people to walls with the harpoon gun. The possibilities are endless. Add 
 online co-op, and you'll be playing this game for a long time to come.
  
  Controls: 8/10 The controls are thankfully simple, but it's not always easy to make a low jump 
 at the higher levels of agility. The driving is easy to learn, and won't frustrate you. You can 
 only carry two weapons at a time, so switching between them and reloading is no problem. The game 
 also has a very handy lock-on feature, which makes the difference between this game being a 9 instead 
 of a 5. Once you're flying through the air, jumping from rooftop to rooftop, trying to kill 35 
 gang members before they kill you, you'll realize that, for one, locking on to one target after 
 another is easy, and two, if you couldn't, you wouldn't last very long.
  
  Sound: 7/10 nothing special here, but a few complaints. there's an announcer that is very helpful 
 while you're learning what to do early on, but soon gets very annoying. you'll be turning the "speech 
 volume" all the way down. the cars and vehicles sound pretty amazing, especially the powerful ones. 
 the pause music gets annoying at times, but that's no big deal. there is a pretty nice soundtrack, 
 but you only hear it if you're in a vehicle. there should be an option to turn it on while running 
 around. and lastly, the bystanders and pedestrians have some pretty nasty language, with multiple 
 S- and F- words being shouted once the bullets start flying. turning the speech volume down doesn't 
 affect them, either, so if you have young kids around, you might have to use headphones. Normally, 
 i'm not opposed to offensive language if the situation calls for it, but it really doesn't seem 
 necessary here.
  
  Overall, any fan of the GTA games should at least rent Crackdown. It gets points from me for its 
 originality and replay value. Can't wait for the sequel.
  
  -ESxStriker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very fun, inventive game that deserves the respect of 360 owners. The story is hardly 
 there, but for some reason that feels right for Crackdown. The game is strictly gameplay driven 
 and that's were it succeeds. In Crackdown you assume the role of an "agent" working for the "Agency" 
 and that's about all you'll learn. Your tasked with finding and killing three gang kingpins and 
 their lackies. This would be a challenge if you weren't an awesome super cop capable of leaping 
 over tall buildings and throwing cars like peebles. The starts with you being an impressive weapon 
 capable of jumping about 15 feet straight up and being able to lift trash cans and bundles of pipes 
 then as time goes on you'll get better until you can do the thing mentioned above. All and all 
 it's a simple, but fun game that focuses on letting you live out your superhero dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  This game caught my eye, ripped it out and started to tap dance on it! The demos looked impressive 
 and most of the hype seemed credible. 
  
  Unofortunetely the game prooved to be a railroad. It railroaded you into using your powers when 
 you really didn't need to or choosing weapons that really in my opinion a superhero with the physical 
 capacities that these clowns have, never would use. 
  
  The story is good. An entire government being subverted and practically overthrown without implementing 
 military countermeasures then suddenly using medical science to create super cops that go around 
 ruthlessly killing any one batting an eyelid at them. Well its a sight more credible than George 
 W Bush's credentials anyway.
  
  I like the fact that it has a gradual increase in your abilities strengths but find the whole power 
 up thing a little like Mario world 3D. The moves you have to pull off to get some of those 'Mushrooms' 
 are very impressive, especially the ones on the tower but it made me feel like a treasure hunter 
 not a cop having to pull of these elaborate and skillful moves just to get a glowing icon that 
 gives you yet another point towards your strength.
  
  The AI is another thing I find rather puzzeling, granted it is intended to be single track, you 
 can walk up to the gang members and not get shot at and if you stay hidden for long enough they 
 stop looking for you enabling you the opertunity to wander round and find another perch to launch 
 a barrage of rockets and grenades from. Though I did enjoy siting on the top of some of those building 
 launching heat seeking missles at the gang vans you get bored after a while and want a challenge. 
 
  
  The boss fights were all good! I loved them, almost like fighting a miniture superhero like yourself 
 though I think that it would have been better if you could have fought the Super Villans rather 
 than thousands and thousands of goons with peashooters and pop guns.
  
  Cars and trucks and monsterous wagons are all well and good, truely fun but I barely used them, 
 I preffered to climb a building and leap from area to area or play hacky sack with some enemy vehicles 
 and run.
  
  In a round about way this is a very good game though far to short story wise. They seem to expect 
 you to want to run round chasing after the next orb and then the next rather than play a fluid 
 story line through to its completion. I say a good second outing in Crack Down 2 might be to have 
 rival super beings to battle against and more than just guns, karate and superstrength to battle 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinetyNineNives
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown's publisher obviously spent alot of money on advertising. I just wish the same budget 
 could have been given to the game itself. Crackdown's presentation is outstanding. The cell shaded 
 graphics manage to achieve a comic-book style feel without making the game look too cartoony and 
 the sound effects are pretty good. The only problem is the annoying agency commander who's dialogue 
 gets recycled pretty frequently. Beyond the presentation, however, Crackdown is pretty shallow 
 and easy to forget after a couple hours. While there is a decent selection of weapons, most of 
 them dont feel that different and there arent really any innovations as far as your armory is concerned. 
 The same can be said of the vehicles through most of the game. Bland, uninspired cars, trucks and 
 SUVs get old after awhile. The most dissapointing part of Crackdown, however, is the gameplay. 
 Advertised as a sandbox style game, there arent really any side missions to undetake outside of 
 the main quest. And the main quest is a bore, go to a certain area on the map, take out alot of 
 average joe baddies and kill their leader, who is really just one of them with more health. Rinse 
 and repeat 20+ times. The game tries to justify these encounters by giving you a short bio on the 
 leader but this never affects the gameplay. Unfortunately, Crackdown did not live up to its potential. 
 Not even close. What could have been an exciting game fails to take any step forward for the genre, 
 and in the process becomes completely forgetable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyc407
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a truly enjoyable game, but I would strongly recommend renting it first, because you'll 
 probably be able to beat it with in the amount of time that you have it. You play as a member of 
 "The Agency," a special police force esembled to rid the the city of three gangs. The gangs are, 
 Los Muertos (the latinos) , the Volk (the eastern European) , and the Chinese gang whose name escapes 
 me. The fighting and shooting is really well portrayed, however, the driving is sketchy until you 
 get your stats improved. Each gang has seven officers, including one "Don" if you will. The gang 
 officers are fairly easy to defeat if you start with the lowest and work your way up, improving 
 your stats. Another positive that I have for the game is that your characters jumping ability, 
 once improved, allows you to really interact with the city. Also, your strength allows you to pick 
 up almost any interactable object, including cars and trucks. One negative that I have for it is 
 that the map isn't very large, and you can't really enter any buildings or interact with the civilians. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaycromer12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a ton of fun, and a blast to just roam around and explore. If you're looking for lots 
 of mission variety its no so good though. Its pretty much the following: run around and find where 
 gang bosses are located, kill gang boss, and repeat. Toss in some road races, foot races, agility 
 orb searching and hidden orb searching; thats about it. 
  
  But its a blast to play and explore. Its probably my favourite 360 game. The jumping and exploring 
 is amazing. You can spend a ton of time just trying to get to the highest points in the city. Reaching 
 the top of the Agency tower is a rush, and somehow manages to recreate the feeling of vertigo when 
 you're up high. Its a total fantasy and superhero game. Its just fun to play, shallow but fun.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Released: February 20, 2007
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  Developer: Realtime Worlds
  Game Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
  ESRB Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Description: 
 Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Strong Language, 
  Use of Drugs, Sexual Themes
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  Let me begin by saying the M rating is complete nonsense. The blood is barely 
 visible, I heard the word s*** once and nothing worse, there is no use of drugs and they are only 
 mentioned in a few dossiers. Lastly, sexual themes? Are you kidding? Crackdown is the only GTA-like 
 game that does not have scantily clad women. Anyway
  
  This is my 100th review and I wish it was spent on a better game. Starting with this review, I 
 am now weighting my categories. Let me give you some background on this:
  
  I hated Gears of War and I gave it an 8 in my review of it. Believe it or not, that is not hypocrisy. 
 The graphics and story got high ratings while the gameplay got a 6. They evened out, giving the 
 game a high rating. I thought "shouldn't a rating be more dependent on the gameplay?" So here is 
 my new weighting system.
  
  Five Categories: Four Categories: Three Categories:
  Story: 20% Story: 20% Gameplay: 50%
  Gameplay: 40% Gameplay: 40% Graphics: 30%
  Graphics: 20% 
 Graphics: 30% Durability: 20%
  Improvements: 10% Durability: 10%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (6/10)
  Realtime had a great idea, and then forgot about it. The game starts with a very 
 cool intro. You are a cop who has been genetically enhanced to improve your evolution and regeneration. 
 Pacific City has been overrun by three gangs: Los Muertos, The Volk, and Shai-Gen. A small group 
 of Peacekeepers is all that is left. Gangs have captured supply points all over the city and civilians 
 fear for their lives. It is your job to kill the 21 gang lords and restore the city. 
  
  And that is it. There is no more storyline throughout the rest of the game.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
 
  If the game was not so shaky and glitchy, this would be a really high score. You can play either 
 solo or co-op, to begin with. There are all kinds of mini-games you can play during the course 
 of the game besides killing the gang leaders. Let me give you some background on the gameplay before 
 I divulge into the different modes of play.
  
  The most important things are your 5 abilities; agility, driving, explosives, strength and firearms. 
 Each ability maxes out at 4 stars, and each is incredibly important, with the exception of driving.
 
  
  As your agility improves you can run faster and jump higher. At 4 stars you are as fast as most 
 civilian vehicles and can jump 30 feet in the air. The easiest way to improve agility is by collecting 
 agility orbs that are found all over the city, 500 in all. I maxed out agility by finding only 
 268 orbs. Agility is also improved by killing gang members from high altitudes, and it is the only 
 ability that never decreases.
  
  As your explosives ability improves, the blast radius is greater and more damage is dealt. Explosives 
 include grenades, rockets and grenade launchers. At 4 stars you have a blast radius of 50 feet 
 and deal almost instant death. You can improve explosives by killing gang members with them, simply 
 enough. Killing civilians or Peacekeepers with explosives decreases your ability.
  
  As driving improves, vehicles become more responsive and drive faster, most notably agency vehicles. 
 At 4 stars you can control vehicles in midair and they are incredibly fast. There are 3 agency 
 vehicles you can choose from. The Agency Supercar is the fastest. It drives under other things. 
 Nothing makes driving on the road easier than making other cars just drive right over you. The 
 Agency SUV drives over other things. This is also the easiest vehicle to improve your driving skill, 
 as it is the most durable and most responsive. The last agency vehicle is the Agency Mac. This 
 semi drives through things. At top speed it blows up other vehicles it touches. Driving skill is 
 improves by running over gang members, but running over civilians or Peacekeepers lowers it.
  
  As strength improves, you will be able to pick up heavier things and simply be stronger. At 
 4 stars you can pick up objects weighing 10 tons (20,000 pounds!) and throw them 230 feet. Strength 
 is improved by killing gang members with your bare fists, throwing objects at them or kicking an 
 object at them. Killing civilians or Peacekeepers in this way lowers your ability.
  
  Last, your firearms ability. Easily the least noticeable, it is also the most important. As firearms 
 ability improves, you will be quicker to aim and deal more damage. At 4 stars, you will be able 
 to flick the right stick up to aim at a gang member's head and also be able to aim at a vehicle's 
 gas tank. Firearms improve by shooting gang members or shooting the gas tank of a gang vehicle. 
 As with the rest, you can't shoot civilians or Peacekeepers.
  
  Next on the agenda, the gang generals. Each gang has 2 subordinates, 4 generals and the kingpin. 
 Each member is in charge of a certain aspect, and removing a member makes it easier to get to the 
 kingpin. That is the entire storyline. It gets quite boring halfway through the second gang.
  
  There are some other things you can do on the side to get achievement points for and etc. Rooftop 
 races involve running and jumping on the rooftops to checkpoints. Finishing one of these improves 
 your agility. There are also street races, driving from checkpoint to checkpoint. This improves 
 your driving. Stunt markers also float throughout the city, and driving a vehicle through one improves 
 your driving as well. Finally, there are 300 hidden orbs to collect. Each orb improves a little 
 bit of each of your skills.
  
  The bad aspects of gameplay are the camera angle and the overall glitchy tendency the game has. 
 Many times I would jump from a tall building, reach the other buildings ledge (where the agent 
 should grab on) and then not grab on and fall to my death. This can get really annoying if you 
 are in the middle of locating a gang member and have to respawn at a checkpoint. 
  
  One cool aspect of the game is the cloning techniques available. You have an unlimited amount of 
 clones, which is another fancy way of saying "we made a way to explain respawning". However, when 
 you die, all of your abilities other than agility decrease.
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  The graphics are okay. They are cartoony, so they are purposely not HD quality, but when in a vehicle, 
 it's very hard to see where you are going and it can sometimes get difficult to tell a gang member 
 from a civilian.
  
  Durability (5/10)
  Even after you kill the gang members, there's no point in finishing the rooftop and driving races 
 when you can just pop in another game. 
  
  Overall Score (7/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If you can borrow it from a friend or rent it, it is worth playing, but don't waste your well-earned 
 $50 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinisawesome
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was a Very nice game, that had good graphics the City seemed realistic but of course 
 the citizens AI wasn't too great, but i was expecting that. The Game got really fun when you had 
 a 2 star athletics skill and could still kill the first gang bosses. Then near the end i started 
 to get board and the ending boss of the Japaneses gang was just too easy. Overall this game was 
 worth the buy and i would recommend it to people who like explosions and third person shooters.
 
  
  Time Game Played: 12H 30M
  Good: Graphics, Free roam, Explosions, Leveling up,
  Bad: Felt too easy at times, Too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200166
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Very good game. I really like the style of presentation with high quality graphics. In my opinion 
 the crackdown is very beautiful game, like nice cartoon but you can play it. 
  Gameplay is little bit disppointed, okay AI of bad asses, but bosses only have different sepicial 
 looking, nothing else different. You kill them just like killing a citezen and after killing all 
 bosses easily and quickly then not many things left! Yeah you can improve your ability, climbing 
 the buidings and doing some driving running jumping activities, it is everything apart from killing 
 all bad asses!
  I was trying to sale it, but think of its graphic, I'd better keep it. Actually the more important 
 thing is that I can only sale it 10 pounds compared to 37 pounds I paid for it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Crackdown copped for a lot so stick when it was released, the Sony fanboys claimed it was only 
 selling because of the Halo 3 Beta that came with the game, and no doubt a few copies were bought 
 just for that but to say that the game sold JUST because of that is to do the game a disservice.
 
  Whilst the Sony fanboys just ridicule the game to try and hide the fact that they desperately 
 want to play Halo 2 but can't bring themselves to leave the dark side and buy a 360, 360 owners 
 and true gamers will have loaded this up and enjoyed a remarkable experience.
  Some excellent graphics and a wondrous physics engine allow the player free reign over the cities 
 and landscape, and are free to decide how to tackle each individual crime lord, you can try and 
 steam in all guns blazing and take down the boss but you won't get far past the gates before being 
 cut down in a wave of bullets, you have to plan the assault and increase your chances of success 
 by taking down each gangs lieutenants before even attempting to kill the head man.
  Throughout this process you gain experience and your abilities increase, making you stronger, faster 
 and more agile, each increasing your chances of a successful attack of the big boss himself.
  A sensible player will take down all the underlings before the boss, and then cautiously move onto 
 the next region and survey the landscape and check out the enemy strongholds of the next crime 
 lord before taking them on.
  The controls are a dream and once you've maxed out your abilities is a joy in itself to leap from 
 building to building as you search for the orbs that will add even more to your talents.
  Crackdown may well have sold a few extra copies on the back of the Halo 3 Beta, but it's a good 
 solid game in its own right that deserves to be played, and played, and played.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackoracle16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Almost everything about this game was cool... almost. If there was any music besides the radio in 
 the cars I couldn't hear it over all the explosions/gunshots. oh, and the campaign was way to short 
 to be called a actual storyline. I did like however that you could, in somewhat, "level up" your 
 agent. The gameplay and graphis was what won me over though. The gameplay, in my opinion, was one 
 of the funest I've ever played, what with all the weapons and grenades and so many people on the 
 sidewalk, it was fun. Yeah, mabye the graphics weren't the best, but it certanily wasn't the worst. 
 I recommend it, but if you feel the need rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I think one of the biggest things in Crackdown is the levelling system. You have 4 skills: Agility, 
 Driving, Shooting and Explosives. As you perform certain actions you will gain experience in these 
 skills. Your goal: 4 star level. 
  
  As the levels improve you ability to jump, handle cars, accurately shoot and range of explosives 
 improves respectively. Agility is the skill that will allow you to explore the beautiful cities 
 within Crackdown. 
  
  3 islands controlled by gang members. You, the police, have to bring peace to the land by removing 
 the key figures amongst the gangs. Each gang works on a power hierarchy and as you find out information 
 on each target you can begin to take them down.
  
  The members within a gang focus on specific areas such as weaponry imports. After taking them out 
 you'll notice a considerable drop the power and quantity of members using weapons in the gang. 
 Some people argue this is not true but i for one notcied it. Similarly, if you take out the car 
 import manger, you'll see more gang members walking around instead of driving. 
  
  The shooting mechanics allow you to select the part of the body you wish to shoot at from left 
 legs to head shots. The longer you aim the more accurate you're shot will be and with a wide variety 
 of weapons at your disposal, it's sure a treat to watch the random person die from a perfect shot. 
 
  
  Killing civilians will reduce your experience in whatever area you used whether it be driving over 
 them, shooting them, sniping them from a high position (Agility is rewarded for using a Sniper 
 at high altitude) or catching them in an explosion. 
  
  This is why you should only use your explosives when you are sure no civilians will be caught in 
 the blast. When i played the game i discovered it is easier to let your explosive skill stay low 
 until the 2nd and 3rd set of bosses where you'll get many oppourtunites to use them. Using Rocket 
 Launchers counts as explosive skill, not shooting making pleasurable car havoc on the motorways 
 beneficial for you in that wonderful entertainment and your character's levels.
  
  Driving skill however is a let down. At later levels it works really well but in first few stages 
 your handling of cars will be appauling. You'll find it much easier to run over people to get your 
 experience than completing the races. This skill needed some more fine tuning. 
  
  As your levels improve your character ages. Everything has been thought about in this game. 
 
  
  Later bosses in the game will be guarded heavily, especially the final set. Once you've beaten 
 the bosses replay the missions to perfect your skill and go online in Co-Op time trials.
  
  Although many of the online players are very good there are some annoying people who find it more 
 fun to kill you and make your job harder while you actually try to complete the mission. Fortunately 
 this behaviour is condemned. However, this online play does hinder the score of the game. 
  
  Furthermore the story is actually incredibly short. Time Trials are all that's left for you 
 once you have raised your skills to the max and eliminated all the bosses. This can make you turn 
 away from this game quickly after completing it. 
  
  The stunning city really does say a lot about this game. Incredible effort was put into it and 
 if you climb the towers of the central island you'll get an amazing view of the city - one that, 
 i assure you, you will never forget. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a unique game. The storyline is not at all interesting. You go around a massive and 
 beautiful city and hunt down bad guys. This makes the game sound simple, boring, repetitive and 
 short and it pretty much is. But in most sandbox games theres so much to do and thats where Crackdown 
 shines.
  
  The game is short and can probably be beaten within 4-6 hours. All you do is travel the massive 
 city until an incoming transmission comes which makes you go hunt for a baddie. This gets repetitive 
 - fast.
  
  Has jumping around ever been so fun in a game? Probably not. In the game there are 500 agility 
 orbs that will make your character jump higher and farther. Doesn't sound too interesting or fun 
 but it actually is. Seeing how high you can fully jump when maxed out and jumping and climbing 
 huge skyscrapers make Crackdown's agility orbs a very fascinating concept. Because of the jumping 
 and running around being so entertaining and well done there has to be a downside. That downside 
 comes with the driving. It feels slow and just not fun at all. At times I thought to myself - should 
 I choose the car or just walk there and I always felt like jumping and climbing. 
  
  Crackdown also adds another feature to online sandbox games - co-op! As I recall, because its been 
 awhile since I've played the game, you can only play co-op through X-box Live. You might be thinking 
 not another Saints Row horribly done 'co-op" modes but its not like Saints Row at all. You and 
 a friend are thrown into the same huge world as the single player adventure. Also, you can play 
 the entire game in co-op. Co-op I found made up for a lot of the negative parts of the game. Since 
 you are playing with a friend you can just have fun. Personally, I found it very entertaining to 
 go through the Stunt Rings with a friend which made it easier and at times very entertaining. 
 
  
  Usually I wouldn't talk about the achievements in a review for too long but for Crackdown I have 
 to. Crackdown is one of the few games that does the achievements perfectly. Even after a short 
 and boring storyline there is so much to do because the achievements make you run around and do 
 fun things. The achievements also gives the game a bigger lifespan. Countless hours I wasted away 
 collecting all the orbs and going through all the stunt rings. 
  
  When you first put in Crackdown don't have huge expectations. Don't think its a next gen Grand 
 Theft Auto because truthfully its not. It takes a different spin on the usual sandbox gaming unlike 
 Saints Row which is exactly like Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  overall it was a OK game. I beat it a long time ago and was somewhat satisfied. I bought it somewhat 
 for the halo 3 beta, which was awesome by the way, and i did have fun beating it. But once i did 
 beat it, it was really a pointless game to have. The online multiplayer isnt that cool. RENT THE 
 GAME, BEAT IT, AND THEN RETURN IT. trust me. other than that, i had a lot of fun playing it. fun 
 game. RENT THE GAME. Personally, i wish i hadn't bought it because once i beat it, i really didnt 
 play it that much anymore.
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who preordered the Halo 3 Beta were treated to a special surprise when you got your 
 game. Released on the same disc as the beta was a second game -- a minigame called crackdown. Most 
 of you probably shelved the disc as soon as the beta expired, but actually, this add-on game was 
 not as bad as most would expect from a minigame.
  
  ...
  
  Knowing that you are all probably growing tired of my jokes, I will begin with the review. All 
 joking aside, crackdown is an excellent game.
  
  Gamers play the role of a hard-nose Police Officer who, through genetic research and experimentation, 
 has been endowed with superhuman abilities as well as the inate ability to "evolve" through training. 
 In the world of crackdown, gang violence has reached all time high levels and now anarchy reigns. 
 
  
  Enlisted by the (shady) "Agency", the main character's job is to hunt-down and kill three different 
 gangs' 8 or so leaders and each of the three kingpins. 
  
  While not a big deal on paper, this game really moves ahead in many aspects. One of these is the 
 idea of evolution.
  
  As your character accomplishes more and more tasks, his traits evolve to suit his needs. Kill gangmembers 
 with brute force to unlock increased strength (as well as an additional "energy tank" of health) , 
 gun down enough baddies to increase firearms accuracy, and find enough out-of-the-way "agility 
 orbs" by scaling buildings to increase base speed and jumping height.. There are 5 different stats 
 that the player may improve: Driving, Agility, Firearms, Strength, and Explosive -- each up to a 
 "4-star level". Upgrading these stats is not difficult, but still fun. Eventually, players will 
 be able to leap up to 40 feet, pick up tractor-trailer trucks, and run faster than ever before. 
 The overall effect is one of awe. This is something every boy has dreamed of -- to be able to have 
 such power and agility. In Crackdown, you live the dream as you fight the crime.
  
  The overworld is not substantial -- consisting of three areas. As a matter of fact, the entire world 
 may be cirrcumnavigated in around 15 minutes. However, what the game lacks in expanse is more than 
 made-up in height. The game is build vertically -- witrh massive skyscrapers that can always be scaled 
 by the main character This makes the game much larger since it truely takes advantage of all three 
 dimensions at every time.
  
  Boss battles are not long -- gang leaders are much tougher than regular baddies, but can be mowed-down 
 in seconds... However, the long trek up through the gang members' fortified base still makes every 
 battle end in satisfaction. Every kingpin I defeated was a struggle to the top, a frantic fight, 
 a sigh of relief, then a short breath of fresh air as I leaped from the top of the skyscraper I 
 had just climbed to escape the gunfire of the gang members as well as to evade the explosion of 
 the grenades I had left behind me. Seriously, Crackdown is that epic.
  
  Camera angles are not bad -- the only time I ever had a problem was in the 2% of the time I was in 
 a narrow corridor. Most of the game is executed in wide-open areas, so this is minor at best.
 
  
  Game physics are remarkable -- cars explode accurately, shooting-out tires makes cars swerve and 
 flip, rag-doll effects kick-in whenever an explosion sents a character flying. 
  
  The game is visually candy. It makes great use of cell shading, the overall effect being a bit 
 surreal and comicbook-ey. This goes great with the superhero theme.
  
  I cannot say enough good about this game, it is a must-buy for every xbox 360 owner who enjoys 
 true freeroaming titles.
  
  
  HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I gave this game 7.5/10. This may seem a bit high to some readers, but I can't even remember when 
 I had this much fun playing a game. Buy it, it is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This is a very well designed game with something for every play style and is very fun. Each boss 
 has multiple ways to "dispose" of them. For someone who likes the cell shaded style of this game, 
 I think the graphics are ok but a bit cartoony. The draw distance is simply incredible when you 
 can see buildings from one side of the island to the other side. Sound is one of the best aspects 
 of this title. While playing in coop, when your partner is on the other side of the island and 
 blows something up, the sound thunders. Value is probably the weakest point. There just are not 
 enough bosses. That being said this is a great game and worth the purchase. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunnas77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This is quite an interesting game it follows "Agent" who is basically a genetically enhanced cop. 
 He roams through three different cities each with its unique type of gang which the player tries 
 to eliminate. There arent missions that follow in a specific order, you just have to take out the 
 bosses and you're pretty much free to do what you like: shoot civillians, steal cars, be a sniper, 
 jump from rooftop to rooftop, blow things up, break things, throw cars, throw people, bricks, iron 
 beams anything your character has the strength to lift. So overall the game had some great ideas 
 but they werent carried out that well but overall very fun but can get boring so the best thing 
 to do is start over... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the most fun Free Roam games to come on the 360. Its gameplay and idea make 
 up for its alright graphics. Crackdown starts off as you being a prototype of a new kind of police 
 - Super Agents. Agents can throw cars, jump incredible heights and run at amazing speed, What your 
 mission is that you must eliminate all of the gang members of 3 gangs and kill their bosses. Obviously, 
 you can just go around killing citizens or free run around the city till you get bored but the 
 most fun is throwing gang members off buildings and watching them hit the cars below.
  Crackdown is an amazing Free Roam for the 360 and I look forward to a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is going for pretty cheap now. I picked it up for 15. I have to say I really enjoyed 
 playing through the 21-boss gang -war kill- fest in Pacific City, some fictional geographically 
 improbable achipelago in the not too distant future.
  
  I'm a fan of the GTA series and I also enjoyed Saints Row but the "agent" you play in crackdown 
 has some great powers that make this style of open city game a lot of fun. You can jump 30ft into 
 the air, survive massive falls, leap out of the water, kick cars over, throw cars at the enemies 
 face and cause huge amounts of destruction. The agent feels powerful and I should imagine it'll 
 be a bit dissapointing when I play GTA 4 when I cant leap into the air like in crackdown. Seriously 
 if you've never checked this game out it's at least worth downloading the demo from XBL just to 
 have a go.
  
  
  The game play is almost one dimensional, KIll gang bosses, the story is very thin, clean up the 
 city this is the mojor drawback. This title has nothing like the nuances you'd expect to find in 
 a GTA game, please excuse the repeated comparison but it's difficult not to mention GTA when discussing 
 crackdown.
  
  The end result is that crackdown is fun to play for a while, it doesnt offer you much immersion 
 into the game world but if you want a good low stress game where you feel ridiculously powerful 
 then check it out, especially at the current price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxlizardxx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  One could take a look at this game and say "It's about time we get to play a game about killing 
 gangsters instead of being them." And you know what, it has the right formulas. Being super-human 
 and jumping from rooftop to rooftop, lots of gangsters to kill, the ability to bring out an even 
 more pimped-out car that can morph into it's own Hulk (At a higher Driving Skill, at least) than 
 these stupid gangsters could think of, it's all there. Now here's what's missing: Depth, intelligence, 
 and just the overall fun factor.
  
  Crackdown places you as a genetically-enhanced super crime-fighter who's goal is to rid Pacific 
 City of the three major gangs who currently control it: The Los Muertos, The Volk, and The Shai-Gen. 
 There are very little differences between the three gangs because of the dull artificial intelligence, 
 although it's notable that the Shai-Gen have better weapons than the previous two. There are also 
 a police force known as the Peacekeepers who (try to) help you fight off the gangs. Other than 
 that, there's about little to no storyline at all. They just let you loose, give you some background 
 and locations of certain members here and there, and pretty much say "Get to it."
  
  The game is designed as a third-person shooter, giving you the ability to see what your Agent looks 
 like when he's jumping across rooftops and climbing the sides of them. The shooting part consists 
 of a lock-on button (Left Trigger) which allows you to score any hits on the enemy at all, but 
 what's cool about it is that you can target certain body parts on the gang member unlucky enough 
 to be locked on and shoot them for different effects. Shoot them in the head and you either do 
 extra damage or an instant kill, shoot them in the arms and they lose the ability to shoot back 
 at you for a certain period of time, shoot them in the legs and they fall over. As cool as this 
 might sound, however, it really doesn't alter the gameplay much because the enemies can be killed 
 in less than a couple of seconds after locking on, and you have to release the left trigger in 
 order to lock on to another enemy. Not to mention that your enemies, who aren't altered in a lab 
 like your Agent, have some pretty good accuracy themselves. In fact, it's the only notable thing 
 about the artificial intelligence because the rest of the time, they can't seem to differentiate 
 their anus from their belly button as evident by the fact that they throw pansy melee blows when 
 you get too close to them. They also seem to lack the ability to run the hell away when they realize 
 that they can't beat you but waste ammo on you anyway just for good measure. And they only seem 
 to take cover behind their vehicles which can be easily taken out if you locate the gas tank on 
 said vehicle (You can lock on to vehicles as well) . Sounds boring? Well, to no one's surprise, 
 it kind of is.
  
  Your Agent has five core skills: Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength, and Firearm Use (In that 
 order from top to bottom) . When you first start off, your Agent is a scrawny little girly man who 
 can barely jump 15 feet high. As you progress, you become faster, stronger, more accurate with 
 weaponry, and can create bigger explosions with grenades and rocket launchers (As if you need to 
 have a higher Explosive Skill to make things go boomy in real life) . Your Agent's physical appearance 
 will also change as you raise your Strength and Agility skills, so you won't look like a little 
 stick figure when you finally lay the smackdown on the pansy gang bosses. There are also Achievements 
 to be unlocked when you get your skills to their maximum levels and when you finally max out the 
 meters on all of them after getting them up to their maximum level, which is Four, by the way.
 
  
  When you're not in combat, there are other things to do around Pacific City that include locating 
 500 Agility Markers that (Gasp!) increase your Agility Meter and unlock an Achievement if you find 
 all of them, 300 Hidden Markers that increase all of your skill meters a little and also unlock 
 an Achievement for finding them all. There are also Rooftop Races which are completed on foot (Wow!) , 
 Road Races which are completed in a vehicle (Oh my!) , Stunt Markers that are reached by jumping 
 your vehicles through them (I think I'm going to pass out!) , and there are Supply Points in each 
 part of the city where you can move to another Supply Point and reload all your weaponry (Oh, this 
 is too much! *Splat*) . Of course, there are other things to do that came with a patch a little 
 bit ago, but I'm feeling a bit too lazy to write those down after amazing myself from the oh-so 
 numerous features mentioned above.
  
  But like I said four paragraphs above, there's pretty much no story in Crackdown to be heard of. 
 No plot twists, no babes to rescue, no explosions (Actually, that's a lie. There are plenty of 
 explosions in this game) , nothing. All there is in the end is some little plot to control the world 
 (No joke) and then there are fireworks and orgies in the middle of the street coupled with a whole 
 lot of Peacekeepers who are actually strippers in disguise (Which explains why they fight along 
 you so half-assed if you exclude the dull AI) . But no beer. Damn it all, there's no beer. This 
 game sucks.
  
  The driving portion of the game can be best described as "tacked on (Even though I'm sure it actually 
 isn't) " because the physics are kind of wonky and the handling kind of sucks. Even after you get 
 your Driving Skill up, it's still feels kind of weird to drive around Pacific City, and don't bother 
 going after all of the Stunt Markers until you get your Driving Skill all the way up and unlock 
 the ability to use Agency vehicle's abilities (Namely, the SUV's jumping ability) .
  
  The graphics have a cel-shaded look to them, but there is a bit more complexity to the textures 
 so it doesn't really quite strike you as cartoony. The graphics themselves are decent and get the 
 job done with some nice draw distance so you can clearly see the effect of whatever object you 
 toss from the top of a roof the the ground level. The pedestrians and enemies look like normal 
 humans like they're supposed to, and your Agent looks like a beefy badass like he's supposed to 
 (No female Agents to my dismay, considering my love for muscled women) . Vehicles and objects look 
 like they're supposed to and so does the city itself. Water effects are decent and have a wavy 
 look to them, but they look kind of weird when you examine them on a beach, and the reflections 
 are nothing more than silhouettes. The textures themselves look kind of odd, especially stone textures 
 which look like they have circles making up the complexity instead of an actual rough look. And 
 the game forces a letterbox format on standard-definition televisions so text and such is squeezed 
 small, which is lame.
  
  The sound isn't anything special, it consists of everything a game like this should have. The voice 
 acting is decent, although the enemy chatter (Especially the Los Muertos) makes you think that 
 the gangs you're fighting are mentally retarded (But hey, it's pretty much like that in real life, 
 so I'll give that to Realtime Worlds for their accuracy) , and why do the Shai-Gen sound Texan?! 
 It baffles me. The man that talks to your throughout the game can drive you insane, especially 
 since he tends to repeat things he said before and things that you already know. Fortunately, you 
 can shut him up by turning the voice volume all the way down, but too bad the same can't be said 
 for the gangs. As far as the music goes, it just consists of licenced music that you can mute during 
 the game by pressing both bumper buttons at once.
  
  Crackdown has all the right ideas, and jumping from rooftop to rooftop like a superhero is cool, 
 but the game doesn't quite deliver all of it's potential. So only the diehard gamers are going 
 to want to purchase this game. For everyone else, it's a good weekend rental that you should be 
 able to leak some fun and Gamerscore from, but it's not going to be winning any special awards 
 anytime soon. That's too bad too, because I really liked this game when I first started playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesallenyz431
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Fans of the GTA series will pry enjoy this one the most. tho it lacks varity and feels like u do 
 the same thing over and over, tho there is options goals like car races, that have u race down 
 city streets through purple orbs similar to GTA, and roof top foot races, which has u leaping from 
 roof top to roof top similar to Spiderman 2's mini racing games. 
  
  Theres a little bit of rpg element incorparated in to Crackdown. As u use ur 5 skills (strength, 
 fire arms, driving, agility, and explosives) your rating goes up. Strength is your character's 
 ablility to lift objects, the more stars u have the larger the object you can lift. Skilling up 
 on strength is as easy as running around kicking your foes. Fire arm skill improves your characters 
 accuracy with weapons; simply shooting gang members with pistols, shotguns, and rifles improves 
 this skill. Agility defines how high you can jump and how fast you can run. Scatter through out 
 the city are "Agility Orbs". These green orbs are fairly easy to spot, tho some are to reach untill 
 your agility rating higher. Driving is a little bit harder to skill up; the driving skill improves 
 the handling and speed of the vehicles, and transforms the agency cars. Improving this skill involves 
 running down gang members, completing street races, and hitting stunt markers. ( purple orbs places 
 up in the air) Explosive skill is much like the firearm skill, but uses grenades and rocket launchers.
 
  
  There isnt a huge selection of guns available, but there are some fun ones. Hand to hand combat 
 seems to be more effective than guns once u get ur strength rating at 2 or more stars. Scatter 
 through out the entire game are objects you can pick up and throw at your enemy such as trash dumpsters, 
 cars, sand bags, bricks, dead bodies, pipes, tables, and scaffoldings.
  
  The main objective of the game is to eleminate the gang leaders. There are 3 gangs. Each one is 
 a little different in the weapons and vehicles they use. To eleminate the gangs you most simply 
 kill the gang leaders, this is fairly straight forward, just find them and kill them.
  
  
  
  final word: I'd say Crackdown is worth playing for about 15-20 hours.
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectral_Snake
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great Game but lacks the substance. I played crackdown and thought it was going 
 to be a great fun game but it turns out i was wrong the game lacks the fun of Grand Theft Auto 
 all the weapons are fun but it feels watered down and you can only carry two weapons at a time 
 versus in grand theft auto you can carry 10. Overall the game play is pretty much fun and the upgrades 
 feature is fun when being able to pick up a half ton car half the size of your own body weight 
 and throwing at the bad guys. Overall if you like a grand theft auto type game this game is for 
 you but if your new to the series then you may want to pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerofallensk8er
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun and so addictive. If you play it to much for a couple days straight it might 
 get boring but thats why i play my other games in between. and if you beat one gang they dont come 
 back so that got on my nerves cuz i got no one to kill. The gang bosses can be kinda hard at times 
 and VERY FRUSTRATING same with trying to play in co-op. I search for a co-op game and all it shows 
 up is the current player is playing single player and denied it? really.. what the... it got so 
 frustrating. The graphics are good but the people in the game kinda looked weird.. idk if they 
 meant it to look like it but it seemed they were to cartoonish and they had weird outlines on them. 
 Thats all the bad stuff but heres the good stuff... if you have high agility it makes the game 
 so much funner.. espically in the chinese city.. it never gets old jumping from building to building 
 for me.. Also the rocket launcher is so fun and the explosions are awesome... The games addicting 
 but it seems like it was rushed to be made.. hopefully if they make a crackdown 2 they have multi 
 player death matches or somthing and a MUCH BETTER STORYLINE because i could of made that story 
 line in less than an hour if i wanted to make a game like that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  When you first hear about this game... You say, Great Another Crappier GTA Clone.. like we need 
 another Sorry but this game is not a GTA clone by any means.. but it takes on a whole new genre.. 
 yes its a Sandbox game.. but it also is one of the first games to be a Matrixy style game. Its 
 worth Buying and it sold cause before Halo 3.. it gave you the Beta Code.. This game might be forgotten, 
 only known for that reason.. but its ashame cause this game really is great!
  
  The Story Starts off as you are a new agent in the future.. and the future has the same problems 
 as it does in Still Water (Saints Row) Gangs are ruling over sections of the city and your job 
 is to eliminate the Leaders and recalim the land they rule.. Make the city Clean. But that is it.. 
 There is little story after that and the game lets you do what you want to do.. go through what 
 team you want to go after, who to kill and when you want it.. This is both good and bad.. lets 
 get the bad out first. The bad part of the story is that there is little reason to play the story.. 
 You could never touch a mission if you want.. and that is not good cause at least games like Saints 
 Row and GTA have a story that keeps you in balance.. Like Saints row that gives you inside stories 
 about each gang.. in this one unless you want to watch boring pop up videos.. then you will not 
 know or care whats going on.. A little more story and more missions would have been nice.. Different 
 kinds of missions would have been neat! The good part is that you can progess at your own speed.. 
 if you don't feel like doing a Mission today.. then you can just destory and Kill Rival Gangs as 
 much as your little heart desires. Its a Dissapointment that there is almost no story.. but if 
 your into the fun you normally don't pay attention to the story anyway
  
  You Are a super human police agent.. You start the game as a weak barley can pick up a trash can.. 
 who can't drive to save your life.. and you can't shoot.. as you progress the story you get bigger 
 and soon enough you look like a Gears of War character with the ability to pick up huge Trucks 
 and jump across buliding at ease. Each time you eliminate a gang member you get orbs.. the way 
 you kill them you get different orbs.. say you kick a guy to death you get Yellow, you shoot him 
 you get light blue etc.. But when you kill a random person.. you loose skill and you get a mouthful 
 from the chief.. he can get annoying.. the only accpetion is the Agility orbs.. where you collect 
 them from roofs and high places.. the higher the orbs the more its worth.. This really changes 
 it from GTA.. cause you get better as you progress.. Also you are not a Gang or a thug.. you are 
 a police officer.. and rarely are you attack by the police. The game also has a great lock on targeting 
 system.. it starts feeling natural after a while.. Also gernades and Rocket launchers are so cool.. 
 just watching cars explode are fun or seeing a army of Aticmatic Wang members in a row and blow 
 em all away.
  
  In being a police officer you normally don't worry about others.. however if you accidentally kill 
 a civilion in a huge explosion.. they go after you, sometimes when enimies are right in front of 
 them.. this is a real pain cause they can get annoying.. one mistake and bam! they are all over 
 you.
  
  Another Great part about this game is the level design.. the building are huge and amazing.. when 
 you get it you can see everything and it really gives a nice feal to the gamers.. also your agent 
 automatically grabs on to ledges and such.. making climbing a snap.. each bulding is interactable.. 
 and climbing you way up can take a good amount to skill.. it really has a new way to look at cities. 
 Even Jumping in the air is blast.. watching you fly in the air then get onto another building! 
 you really don't notice it till you get better at jumping and be able to jump from building to 
 building..
  
  This game also features a nice Online offering.. Crackdown has a new Online co op where you can 
 play the game with a friend of random person over XBL.. this is fun but its not perfect. Also this 
 game has a lot of new downloadable content.. like new agents guns etc.. Downloadble content is 
 chaging gaming in a great way.. it really extents the shelf life of your games... just cause you 
 beat it does not mean you should sell it.. downloadable stuff may be there soon! Crackdown does 
 an excellent job with online for the most part.. mostly because of the downloadable stuff
  
  Overall This game is a great Matrix game.. you can jump, shoot and do what you want.. more 
 story telling would be nice.. but nontheless is a great experience for any gamer that just wants 
 to have fun. the concept is simple yet it can reach out to the hardcore.. Agian this is not A GTA 
 game.. its a sandbox game.. but it does everything differently then GTA most notiably Role reversal.
 
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Great Gameplay.. lots of wepons and great level designs.. only you mostly die from explosions.. 
 plus there might be just a big too many people shooting at you at times.. it can get overwelming
 
  Graphics: Has a very nice style.. def. not pushing the system.. but has a nice disign that fits
 
  Sound: the officer's voice gets annoying as hell after a while.. you just want him to shut up.. 
 but music and Sound Effects are good
  Value: the story itself is short but you can get this game cheap now.. def worth the price even 
 if Halo 3 already came out... still if you like doing what you please its def. worth your bucks.. 
 plus you can make the game last a while since you play it at your own pace
  Overall: If you want a different kind of sandbox game check it out.. see how we will be in the 
 future.. with crazy suites that give us super human power! its def. worth your money and another 
 great exclusive Microsoft Title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Former GTA creators banded together to make a little game called Crackdown.... and the whole world 
 was happy. Crackdown is truly a game that does what it does well. Sandbox gameplay has always been 
 used in games like Grand Theft Auto, but Crackdown takes that gameplay idea and improves on it 
 in several ways. You play as the good guy for one, but the true beauty is the skills system which 
 by the end of the game will have you jumping entire buildings and throwing charter buses. It features 
 great voici\overs and a beautiful art style while being one of the greatest 360 games, and certaintly 
 the best of the Sandbox sub genre. Even without the inclusion of the Halo 3 beta this game is more 
 than worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekky_9892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an ambition free-roamer with a massive city to explore and different skills to increase. 
 It does just enough to stop itself from becoming repetitive by keeping you entertained with different 
 ways to kill your enemies and get around Pacific City.
  
  The story is not very good, but that isn't why you play Crackdown- you play it to have mindless 
 fun, whether it's picking off Gang Members with a Sniper Rifle from the top of a massive skyscraper, 
 throwing cars at them, or doing on foot and in car races.
  
  I have yet to play the online mode but co-op exploring the massive city seems great.
  
  The 
 driving is fun, especially the races and it is good for getting around the massive city. You can 
 also increase you agility skill and jump onto the roofs of massive builldings to get around with 
 nobody in your way.
  
  The enemies aren't very difficult but they are numerous enough to keep you occupied, especially 
 since you can dispatch them in numerous ways.
  
  While it may be a great game Crackdown does have it's downfalls, with the irritating soundtrack 
 and no proper camera movement whilst driving. The great Cel-Shaded graphics and gameplay more than 
 make up for this, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jingles92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  this game was very fun the moment i bought it i could not put my controller down for hours
  the achievements are ez as heck to get its fun the story is kinda intresting
  will provide you 
 all with countless hours of fun
  from the beginning of the game the whole city is unlocked and very fun to destroy many things and 
 just drive around i like the game but yet the coop is kinda of a letdown
  it gets laggy pretty easily
  but thats pretty much it
  everything else is top-notch
  and 
 its a great substitute for grand theft auto and i love that series very much
  so this game is pretty much what i need for a fun game on my 360
  heheh
  Thanks for reading 
 my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  as said, this game is one of those games where you wouldnt play it religously, but in the void 
 of other games, it shinnes out at you.
  i bought this game for the pure fact i had no other games that i wanted to play, GoW had got a 
 bit boring and i had wasted my money on Halo 3 so i bought this cheap and played with a friend. 
 i just realised what i was misiing out on. there's always something to do. there's this achievement 
 and that achievement, skills to be increased, gang members to kill, bosses to defeat, buildings 
 to scale... the list is endless. its a game which hits the sweet spot for me. replayability.
  a game which can be played over and over and not get boring, especially when played with a freind. 
 i have played many nights on crackdown and many days as well. after you have played it for a while 
 it does get boring, but then you turn it off, relax a bit, go on it the next day and its perfectly 
 enteraining for the next hour or two. its for the casual gamer. difficulty is set just right, though 
 they could have named them better with having tough changed to walk in the park . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Alright so it can be fun to jump 50 feet whilst carrying a twenty ton bus, but just how long can 
 doing that keep you amused? Although it appears a lot like GTA, you dont get exhillerating car 
 chases and you never get busted, only killed. There are no flying machines, and all the fights 
 are the same. its not like gta where u have missions that require skill, all you do is bust in, 
 fire madly against an UNLIMETED army of enemies that just re-appear when you walk round a corner, 
 kill the gang leader, leave, killing everyone you just killed. repeat.
  
  Wow, so interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a free-roaming game from Microsoft and Realtime Studios, which was formed by former 
 GTA creator David Jones. Seems he didn't want to make a fantasy RPG :P Anyways Crackdown does use 
 the GTA formula, which has been used again and again and again. Crackdown does add some things 
 unique to the genre, but it falls flat mainly because of a abysmal story, poor sound design and 
 a short single player.
  
  The plot in Crackdown, like i just mentioned, is goddamn terrible. I know most free-roaming games 
 don't exactly have Oscar winning stories, but there's not excuse for how sloppy the story feels. 
 Basically, the agency, a group who are trying to save countries from crime. Now, they are letting 
 loose a agent with superhuman powers, like the ability to jump very high, onto the streets of Pacific 
 City. Your job is to take down the gangs taking over the city-and thats all there really is to 
 the plot. The plot isn't helped by horrific voice acting and an abysmal ending. The ending was 
 confusing, brief and half-hearted. I know games like this aren't meant to have much plot, but that 
 doesn't mean you have to make the plot completely not enjoyable.
  
  The gameplay is a bit like Mercenaries, where you find criminals and take them down, except rather 
 than do missions to find out about these bad guys, you jsut have to go around the city, find the 
 crooks and kill them. There are three gangs. Los Muertos, Volk and Shai-Gen are your enemies here. 
 Here's how it works, you can take on any of the bosses in any order, but it's almost impossible 
 to take down Kingpins immediately. Basically, when you take out some of the generals, you take 
 out resources of the Kingpin, for example the Kingpin loses guards because they can't ship anymore 
 in. Take them all out and the kingpin is a sitting duck for you to kill.
  
  Killing bosses is perhaps the easiest thing to do in the game. For starters, the A. I. is a little 
 iffy as they simply shoot, or they don't take cover (probably because they can't) . Each boss has 
 little difference between them, except they look different. There's a couple of moments, but for 
 the most part they simply have you getting to a rooftop and killing them. It get's repetitive doing 
 this more than twenty times.
  
  But there is great fun to be had anyways. Plus, the game has some really cool things. Because we're 
 in the future, your character is superhuman. Basically, you have five stats. Agility, driving, 
 explosives, strength and shooting, to be precise. To improve these skills, you have to do stuff 
 to earn agility. Most of them involve you killing enemies by using these stats e. g. you ram someone 
 over in a car and you get experience for your driving stat. Agility is improved by finding orbs 
 on top of HUGE buildings. You can also earn driving and agility experience by doing rooftop and 
 driving races. Both of these can be fun for a short while, though they get old. Luckily, there 
 isnt too many.
  
  Whats really fun about the game is what you can do. Once you max your stats out, you can do some 
 crazy stuff. Blowing up cars with explosives, picking up cars, jumping 40 in the air-this is 
 incredibly fun. This could last you a while, but the main story will only take you about 10 hours. 
 So, if you like finishing a game and leaving it after, you wont be playing it for long. But if 
 you like replaying games then theres quite a bit to do after.
  
  Crackdown looks very nice. From lovely textures to great draw distance to superb lighting to an 
 attractive cel-shaded look, it all looks great. Sadly, the same cannot be said about the sound, 
 which is poor. The voice acting is horrendous, especially from the narrator. Its also annoying 
 hearing him say Gosh the view is good here when your freaking underground! The music is abysmal, 
 with generic techno tracks pumping your head into craziness. The effects are fine, but nothing 
 you wont have heard before.
  
  Crackdown is quite ambitious. It attempts to bring the style of GTA gaming to the 360, while adding 
 enough new to make it unique in its own right. The graphics are pretty and the game can be very 
 fun when youve maxed out your stats. But thanks to repetitive boss fights, poor sound and a terrible 
 story, topped of with a short length, Crackdown is a solid rental, but a lacking purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  crackdown is like GTA. you can tell when you first start it. it is a fun game and a good one too. 
 you can go anywhere, do what you like and it certainly has that sandbox feel to it. you also get 
 some cool abilities like throw cars and jump extremely high. the city is quite big and there is 
 a lot to interact with.
  
  the game's main campaign is fairly decent but after that the game loses it's staying power. you 
 can still free roam but why would you want to because gta does it so much better. the stuff to 
 collect and online modes do give it a bit more length but it still gets quite old.
  
  here's my advice, buy it, finish it and then it back, if you don't want to take it back then dont. 
 not my problem.
  
  overall a great game but a shame it's not longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan353
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Crackdown seems to be a spin off from the GTA series. It has a lot of cool features. Once you have 
 strong ability you wont need a car to travel around the city. The graphics were not that great 
 and for the most part the bosses were easily overcome by pounding on them at close range. Getting 
 to them sometimes was a challenge. Overall the game play was pretty good. Control and save points 
 were plentiful, I found it not necessary for to many do overs within the game This game only drawback 
 beside the short plot content and the mediocre graphics for being a 360 game. Overall this game 
 was fun and enjoyable for a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm just gonna keep this review short and sweet.
  
  As the GTA franchise has blossomed into a global behemoth, its easy to forget that Rockstars 
 cash cow was born in Dundee, and dreamt up by the man who brought us Lemmings. But while the last 
 thing gamers need is another GTA clone, David Jones latest take on the free-roaming crime caper 
 is an outrageous, deliriously thrilling adventure.
  
  A cross between GTA and The Matrix, Crackdown casts players as a burly government agent policing 
 a city governed by crime lords. But besides the usual exploration, car jacking and pedestrian pestering, 
 completing missions allows players to evolve their surly hero into a Neo-like superhero who can 
 leap between buildings, hurl busses at enemies or jump behind the wheel of a car and blast through 
 dense traffic jams, scattering hapless motorists to the four winds.
  
  While its comicbook graphics and sober script may alienate many of those seduced by GTA, the games 
 exhilarating sense of freedom and captivating co-operative mode are enough to mark it out in a 
 crowded market, making Crackdown yet another compelling reason to own a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gawney
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is close to what i would call perfect as this is my sort of game with all 
 the action, danger and upgrades for your character you can roam the city's freely well sort of.
 
  
  The reason i said that is because you can't do everything you would expect as the only sort-of 
 mini games are the agility races and driving races with the new update you can have more mini games 
 such as rocket tag, stockpile and new co-op races.
  
  This game could have a whole load more things to do such as customize your character and find the 
 person on xbox live perfect for you if you want but the closest to that is the custom match mode, 
 online there are some very funny and annoying glitches such as a good one sometimes is firing the 
 other person across the map, a bad one is combined as sometimes in certain places you go into crackdowns 
 version of 'Blue hell'
  
  Overall i think it does deserve a 10 as you have ages of fun experimenting with your new skills 
 and getting them higher.
  
  Simply a must have for gamers who like upgrades and lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the last people to say, that game was awesome because you run around and kill stuff, 
 but... THAT GAME WAS AWESOME BECAUSE YOU RUN AROUND AND KILL STUFF! I have no idea why, but every 
 time I play that game, I play like crazy, it's awesome, for no reason! I just run around and kill 
 guys, and once I max out my skills, I go get myself some good old agency hit squads on my tail. 
 I actually stopped myself from killing the last general so that I could continue maxing out my 
 skills and goofing off. Overall the game is pretty easy, you run in and shoot until your shields 
 are low and you run out before you die. The worst part of the game in my opinion is the agency 
 dude that talks at you the whole game, it's like your in training mode for the whole entire time. 
 Not to mention he assumes that when your attacking, your attacking someone... Who says I can't 
 kick all the light posts in the city down? So a lot of times I'll pick up a cinder block or jump 
 in the air and all of a sudden... Nice job! Of course the deaths are comical I can't... feel my 
 feet Why their feet? I have no idea, I shot them in the head, so they shouldn't be talking anyway. 
 Driving becomes very fun with high level driving combined with agency vehicles. The supercar has 
 machine guns at rank 5 that are very fun for when driving through the streets. Causing mayhem in 
 a game where your supposed to prevent it is fun. So the game is pretty much: 1) random violence 
 2) Random sound clips 3) somehow fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bobo
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Crackdown's best aspects are the Agency vehicles, and shooting people in the air. This is quite 
 disappointing, as they could have made wall climbing and melee combat far more interesting, seeing 
 as they were using the Havoc physics engine. This point is only true though once you are at, or 
 near maximum level, seeing as the agency vehicles don't transform all that much until you do so, 
 and shooting is too difficult to be fun before level 3. That said, once you are at level 3, things 
 are good for agility, melee, shooting and explosives, even if driving isn't so great until level 
 4. That said, driving is great at level 4:- with machine guns on the supercar, Nitrous on the truck 
 cab, and jumping/gripping suspension on the SUV, there's enough there to keep you occupied for 
 hours. Side-missions consist of races, either on foot or by car, and always against the clock and 
 with checkpoints. So there's never any sense of social interaction in the game once you've killed 
 all the kingpins (although you can turn all the gangs back on if you choose to) . Most of the races 
 are extremely easy, apart from one in the Volk area, named something about Dens. This one was clearly 
 designed to be uncompletable. Although Crackdown has a fair amount of upgrading to do within it, 
 it lacks substance and side-missions to keep the game from lasting longer. It's got good gameplay 
 for what it is (that is to say a game where you go around shooting, beating up and running over 
 people using superhuman powers) and a fair amount of kingpins to kill, but if you power through 
 the game without really taking time to try an imaginatively kill his henchmen, it becomes very 
 repetitive and boring quite easily. Despite saying that Crackdown is better if you play it imaginatively, 
 the games physics makes it extremely difficult to do anything that anyone else hasn't already done. 
 For instance, you might want to throw a load of guys into a skip and carry them around, but sadly, 
 if you put one object ontop of another, it automatically slide off it onto the floor. The same 
 goes for cars: you can't put something on the back and drive away with it on - it slides off. In 
 addition to this, a lot of Crackdown's gameplay is based around picking up stuff and throwing it, 
 but sadly this becomes uninteresting very quickly as that's all you can do with it. Unlike The 
 Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction (which is another free-roaming game where you can pick up 
 stuff and use it as a weapon) you can't hit people with the object or use certain obejects differently 
 to others. So if you think that because there's a wheel-barrow, you'll be able to push it along 
 smacking people over, you'll be quite disappointed to know that, like every other weapon, you can 
 only throw it. The only weapon with any real difference is the 'Observatory Globe' that rolls along 
 if you throw it, but that's about it. Basically, Crackdown is disappointing in the sense of it's 
 length, lack of side-missions, melee combat and general feel for physics. Consequently, it would 
 only be worth renting or buying at a very low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Now, I didn't buy this, rent this, use any of my money for this game so I don't feel cheated in 
 any way. Okay. Enjoy my review! Crackdown starts you off as a special agent who was created and 
 sent out in the world to kill gang members and become really, really, REALLY strong. And that's 
 what this whole game is about. There's no plot, there's no voice acting or cutscenes, no real meaning 
 at all. You shoot stuff, jump around the city/islands, level up and maybe drive around a bit. This 
 does sound real fun, and sure, it is for the first... I'd say....5 hours of gameplay. Ya know, you 
 get through maybe half the game, you think it's gonna you at least something else to do... and it 
 doesn't. It does suck that they had to make the whole game around just one thing, and that's the 
 one thing you get to do. It's fun blowing up innocent people and causing utter massive havoc, but 
 once that's blown over there's not much else you can do. It's a fun game and all, but it gets very 
 repetitive and boring after you play it for a while. It has a online co-op to try and mix things 
 up, but that does crap and is not much different or unique. Overall, this game was good and disappointing 
 at the same time. If you haven't picked this up yet, or played it, hell, even rented it. Just do 
 so. But don't pay the full price. It won't last for a long time like the big old Gears of War or 
 Halo 3 that's coming out tonight, but it'll do for a week or so. And then you're done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snickerd00dle
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Alright, we all know why most people bought Crackdown when it first launched, the Halo 3 beta. 
 I am guilty of purchasing this game for that reason, but if I am going to drop 60 bucks on a game, 
 i might as well play it. So while in my anticipation for the beta, I popped in Crackdown. At first 
 I was very pleased with the fact that it was a free roaming game that was not a complete carbon 
 copy of GTA, a game I do not care for. Instead, Crackdown offered customization of abilities such 
 as agility and explosives. Not only was there an upgrade system, the game was fairly large, and 
 offered great boss fights and a very interesting story that ended up having a surprise ending that 
 I did not see coming. One complaint that i had was the multi player was a little weak, it was missing 
 maybe a separate story, or maybe something more than just a basic two character co-op. Another 
 minor problem was that the game was very simple, you always knew what was asked of you, never a 
 question of what the objective was and not much thinking involved. Overall though, a very good 
 game, certainly worth playing, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I would reccomend this if you just like to play around and kill people with big ass dumsters and 
 rocket launchers. The story is pretty crappy but the gameplay is awesome you can jump like 500 
 ft. in the air and throw big tractor trailers like 300 ft . and you can kick people really far 
 too, if you have an Xbox360 i would pick this up because you can play for ever and you can play 
 on xbox live which i've played it on live before and it was a pretty sick multiplayer game.
  
  It can also be humorous since the players are like ragdolls whenever they get killed or exploded. 
 lol , and the blood looks animated a little other than i give this game a 10 / 10 good job : - 
 ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos04
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown gives a very pleasurable experience with the myraid of methods at your disposal for dispatching 
 the criminal underground presence around the city, but repetetive gameplay and a lack luster story 
 take away from what could have potentially been a great game.
  
  One good thing about the game was it's open ended environment. Truthfully you could go straight 
 to the last boss if you wanted. It wouldn't serve much purpose since you would be blown up and 
 shotdown before you had a chance to reach him, but the possiblity does exist.
  
  Crackdown does a good job of allowing you to develop your skills as you progress throughout the 
 game. Honestly there's nothing better than rocketing a group of thugs from 30 feet in the air and 
 than landing amonst their flaming corpse and gather the ammo and skill points they left behind. 
 Honestly I enjoyed my time jumping from rooftop to rooftop while gunning down anything dumb enough 
 to shoot at my but, had the game not been a guaranteed entry into the Halo 3 beta, I don't think 
 it would have gotten as much recognition as it did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamo3ny
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This was good quality a good game and I had a blast leveling up the character, but I felt like 
 there was really no in depth the story. I liked the weapons and vehicle upgrades and the extra 
 content that came on live. The main thing that disappointed me other then the shallow story was 
 the boss fights. Even the main gang lords just felt like stronger goons and if they make a second 
 one I hope they fix that aspect above all. In the end I think it was a great game but I felt like 
 it could of come with more and I am happy to report I didnt just buy this game for the halo 3 
 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCleba_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has had an interesting history leading up to its release. It was scoffed at when it first 
 appeared, as just another GTA clone, but industry buzz slowly increased when it became playable, 
 and once the demo came onto Xbox Live, the public loved it and with good reason.
  
  Crackdown is a 3rd person action game, in its simplest form. The game has incredibly little story 
 (read: kill everything, collect stuff) , but that really doesnt hinder the game too much, as all 
 the motivation you need to play the game is linked into the levelling of your characters attributes, 
 and the achievements. Crackdown is an extremely fun game to play, and its clear that Realtime Worlds 
 focused on giving the user a great gameplay experience above anything else. The shooting mechanics 
 work similar to Rockstars Grand Theft Auto series, in that you have a targeting reticule that 
 helps with basic aiming, and you can either free aim or pull the left trigger in order to lock 
 onto enemies. From here you can flick the right stick in any direction for precision targeting 
 to get headshots or shoot guns out of hands, the same works for vehicle targeting, so you can shoot 
 out tyres, or the fuel tank for an explosive ending to car chases. Outside of this the game has 
 fairly standard 3rd person action game controls.
  
  At the beginning of the game, your character is fairly small, and doesnt have much skill, however 
 as you progress in the game, by killing enemies, you gain experience in certain areas. These are 
 strength, driving, explosives and firearms, all of which level up by killing enemies in a certain 
 way. This means if you run over an enemy in a car, your driving skill will increase, punch a guy 
 to death and your strength will go up, the same goes with firearms and explosives. The final ability 
 to be levelled up is agility. This works different to the other skills, as it is levelled up by 
 collecting Agility Orbs which are dotted all around the map, often in high, difficult to reach 
 areas. As these skills increase, your character will perform various functions better. You will 
 be able to control cars easier, target quicker, pick up heavier objects and throw them further, 
 run faster and jump much, much higher to the point that you will literally be able to jump buildings. 
 Once completely levelled up, your character will play like, and look like a superhero. The levelling 
 system works well, and can be compared somewhat to a game like The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
 The only downside to the gaining of agility orbs is that once you have the bulk of them, it becomes 
 very difficult to fund the few stray ones, as there is no map or other guide showing where they 
 are, and considering there are 500 in total, you will need to look hard. The other minor way to 
 increase abilities is through finding secret orbs. These are similar to the agility orbs, but are 
 generally in harder to find or reach places, and lend experience to all different skills. These 
 are a nice bonus when you do find them, but dont make too much difference to your overall stats.
 
  
  Its not all-good news in regards to the gameplay however. A couple of serious issues prevent this 
 game from being a truly great title. First and foremost is the camera control. The biggest problem 
 here is that it can move very slow. If you are being shot from behind, it can feel like it takes 
 forever for your targeting reticule to finally reach its target. In addition to this, if close 
 to walls, the camera can sometimes go a bit haywire. The targeting itself can cause a number of 
 problems, as it often gets stuck on dead enemies, or selects a vehicle, instead of the enemy shooting 
 at you.
  
  The sound in the game is also a bit of a mixed bag. The effects are done quite well, with weapon 
 and explosion effects leaving quite an aural impact, especially with a good sound system. Too many 
 games leave the sounds of firing a weapon out of the overall equation, leaving an unsatisfying 
 feeling. This is not one of those games. When you shoot the grenade launcher, the fwoop of the 
 weapon sounds just like you would expect, and the resulting explosion is even more satisfying. 
 The ambient sounds are also done very well. City effects make you feel like youre in a big city, 
 and when you make it to the top of a building (especially the agency tower) you can tell all the 
 action is below you. One of the main problems is the soundtrack. It uses a lot of electronic tracks 
 from some fairly prominent artists, but they dont seem to fit very well into the game. Also the 
 music is only played while in a vehicle, and considering the driving aspect is such a small portion 
 of the game, the music goes largely unnoticed. Another downside, and a major one at that, is the 
 voice acting in the game. The main, and almost only offender here is your boss, who gives you information 
 on the crime bosses that need to be taken out, in addition to this, he will give random advice 
 on gameplay mechanics, or even just comment on the view. He will give you basic gameplay tips after 
 playing for many hours, and generally give useless advice or comments when it isnt needed. The 
 whole thing just seems quite unnecessary. Overall, Crackdown is just a fun game. If you are into 
 open world games, you cant go wrong with this. While the basic premise of the game is very simple, 
 there is so much you can do in the world just by using your imagination that it can potentially 
 stay in your disk tray for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lou_xl
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play.
 
  Game looks pretty sweet, and so does game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  So yeah I'm reviewing Crackdown, and it was a really fun game. The only complaint is that it may 
 be a little too short. You can beat it about two days, maybe less if you play the whole thing in 
 co-op. Getting the achievements in this game can get pretty addicting and you won't want to stop 
 playing until you've maxed out your skills. The graphics are a really cool blend of cel shading 
 and nice Dreamworks lookalike graphics. The real selling point of the game is the amount of awsomeness 
 you can do without even trying. Punhcing 5 gang members at a time and sending them flying. Juggling 
 a car in the air with a rocket launcher. Climbing to the top of the highest building in the game. It's 
 all pretty surreal. The story isn't great, but it's not even close to poor. That's really about it. You 
 will most likely play this for a while even after you beat story mode. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Good game with interesting gameplay although it does not last very long and the online play is 
 ok. They could have made this game way better but it is still good the online coop gets boring 
 very fast and the singleplayer is only fun the first time you complete it but apart from that the 
 game is great.
  They are apparently bringing out a 4 player mode coop for it which will kick ass if they do it 
 but still i think it would get boring fast. However the gameplay is quite entertaining althought 
 the skills were real easy for me to get up fast and i often found the game to easy even on psychotic 
 difficulty.
  In conclusion this game is good but gets boring quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  I have played Crackdown since it first came out. I've enjoyed searching for the agility orbs and 
 the hidden orbs. There are a lot of things to do in the game, many weapons to use and there are 
 always skills to improve. The extra content you can download from the Market Place gives your character 
 some extra abilities and more vehicles. I still haven't finished all the main missions, but this 
 is a fun game to spend a few hours on once in a while. I like that you can't really die in this 
 game - your character simply regenerates and you continue on in the game. I haven't played any 
 co-op but it's nice that they offer it. Overall, I'd say this is a worthwhile game to own and it 
 can probably be picked up at a bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFshorty
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when i got to borrow this game from my friend. To my disappointment it looked 
 great, but stupid. It has to be the most non-realistic game i ever played. But it has great graphics 
 and a fairly long game play. At maxed out everything you can walk into a building full of rebels 
 and get shoot by each one at least 5 times and live. It gets really cheap and easy after a while 
 ,but its a fun shut 'em up game. Hope this helps you on your decision making between games. If 
 you do get this game you'll have a lot of fun jumping from roof to roof. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamboneForever
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a unique game in it's own right as it has a comic like look to it, effects wise, but 
 it gives you freedom to do alot of unhumanly things such as jump amazing heights and overpower 
 vehicles and objects that a normal human would either have to try really hard to do or wouldn't 
 be able to do at all.
  
  You are also given vehicles that tranform with your ability progress and gain abilities themselves 
 as one car adds machine guns, one adds super hydraulics and the other one adds nitrous.
  
  Three gangs are your targets and you have to take down the gang leaders to eliminate them completely, when 
 you kill one you take away a resource such as, guns, cars, etc..
  
  The gangs are not too unique as one is mexican, one russian, and the strongest being japanese {but 
 alot of them sound american}
  
  The guns at your disposal are not too unique as well as the only gun you see that is unique is 
 the harpoon gun as not too many games have a harpoon gun cause you don't usually hunt Whales in 
 many games, but anyways, the guns and vehicles are both pretty much regular cars and guns you would 
 see in many action games.
  
  The main thing about this game is that you are forced to do side missions in order to progress 
 through the game, such as retrieving agility and hidden orbs, the hidden orbs add on to all of you 
 abilities, so hunting for them and re-claiming supply points spread across the 3 parts of the city 
 that give you access to your collection of weapons give you another challenge to further yourself 
 as you can transport from one supply point to another and it makes getting around a lot easier, the 
 Los Muertos and Volk were easy to obtain, but the Shai-Gen were hard as you had to have 4 Stars 
 of agilty to get to their heights to capture them.
  Los Muertos and Volk were also a litte easy to go through, but the Shai-Gen are difficult as the 
 are trained assasins and are better at aiming and causing more damage than the other 2 gangs were.
 
  
  The games effects are not too impressive, but aren't as bad as other games in this genre, the difficulty 
 as I said is simple until the challenging Shai Gen come into play, but they get more controllable 
 as you take out their leaders, but they are still very aggressive 'til the bitter end!
  
  All in all Crackdown isn't that bad of a game to play and it's pretty fun at times and the driving 
 is pretty simple and easy to control, the auto aiming option is a big help in shooting as you can 
 aim at a body part by cycling through in the feature, but multiplayer wasn't that good and isn't 
 that much to do or even enjoy about it that wasn't already their in the single campaign, but it 
 could help some who want help to take down gang leaders their having difficulty with and it could 
 be ok to do to go through the entire game as a team rather than just you and also it was good to 
 know gaining achievments gained you ability points for whatever skill the achievment was for.
 
  
  Crackdown does give you the edge to bring justice to the 3 gangs and gives you the chance to be 
 a super agent by shooting better, jumping higher, driving faster, hitting harder, lifting stronger 
 and making bigger explosions all by gaining your 4 stars for all skills.
  
  Crackdown wasn't origininal, but also wasn't anything that new, but it still is a good game and has 
 a good fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b_3n_h00d
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  A free roaming gta style angle. gives you a good sense of your envirement this fun packed game 
 will keep you entertained for hour's you play as an super human agent ( no background ) you are 
 trying to clean up the city of 3 gangs like a CRACKDOWN say? to do this you have many weapons vehicles 
 grenades and yourself at you disposal Gameplay- Fast you get to one point to another quickly dogeing 
 bullets while climbing up window seels. you gain more powers by doing good with thos powers ( kill 
 a baddy with your gun ur shooting goes up ) ETC
  
  sound- Not bad but not great the bullets hitting the wall's sound good the music isnt that great 
 it goes for more of a tecno feel. and just doesnt really match your agent doesnt talk just some 
 moans and grunts as you fall or get shot
  
  graphics- cell shaded it is very pretty on HD not so much so of it is very pretty to look at and 
 fun to see buildings way off in the distance
  
  Online- it's so so not that fun with 2 agents almost pointless unless your with your friend that 
 you know....
  
  Overall- its a good game but not as good as i thought it would be and the price is to steep for 
 the fun value but its something i would rent first then think about buying it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadisticon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  There is not one thing new under the sun and Crackdown is certainly not going to get an award for 
 being the most original game of the decade. It does it's job well enough, nonetheless, and that's 
 the least anyone can ask of the maestro David Jones who jump-started the GTA franchise. The superhero-cop 
 idea is put to effective use here. We become a genetically enhanced/bionic agent (the science of 
 his gifts is never fully explained, I'm satisfied thinking of some sort of nanobyte (sp?) bionic 
 technology that enhances strength and acuity) and are charged with cleaning up Pacific City. Few 
 directives are given and there are no complex missions or cutscenes to either motivate the player 
 or slow him down. Most of the complaints concerning the game, in fact, have focused on its repetitious 
 nature and the lack of a story. To that I'll add the lack of a compelling villain. And then right 
 away I'll counter with the fact that any other player can become the compelling villain in a face 
 to face. And therein lies most of Crackdown's charm and power - the online play rules. No other 
 open world game gives you an entire city to buddy around in. Hunt your friend, kill your friend, 
 team up with your friend to bash crash and crush. The co-op saves this charming little game from 
 a one note dance. The other part wears off quickly, unless you have a demented sense of fun and 
 just want to know how many different ways are there to level up and kill off gang members. Lucky 
 me, I've inherited dementia from my kids and after first leveling up as I killed off the bosses 
 and made achievements I restarted the game and began to level up and avoid the bosses altogether. 
 That won't do for everyone of course and there are some side missions races and such to keep meagre 
 minds occupied while waiting for the inevitable downloadable content that will feature a Super 
 Master Agent Renegade to challenge the power and glory that your agent has acquired. Bottom line; 
 if you can make your own fun, Crackdown will do you greatly. If on the other hand, you are a true 
 cybernetic 21st Century orphan maybe a weekend will satisfy your curiosity and you'll go and find 
 better toys to play with. Me, my imagination is intact and works fine I don't need the bells and 
 whistles and Crackdown fills in the other parts just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax897
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  All I can say about Crackdown is that I bought this game in February waiting for its release ever 
 since playing the demo. The game is really fun and the skill advancement is a great idea.
  
  The driving is pretty boring and I myself actually prefer building hopping over driving a car 
 but it is still pretty good. The gameplay and controls are superb and easy to get use to and is 
 quite fun. The effects and explosions is also quite spectacular and are very well done and adds 
 to how enjoying this game is.
  
  The multiplayer isn't the best unless you play with a friend but it is still very fun teaming up 
 with people and taking down the crime generals.
  
  This game is worth buying despite the fact a lot of people only bought this game for the Halo 3 
 beta which I would say in my opinion wasn't even that great and I laugh at the morons that spent 
 60 dollars for a 3 week beta. GG
  
  But overall it is a must have game for people that are interested in games like this and is very 
 addictive and awesome.
  
  Deserves a lot of credit being the first game released by Realtime Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doommak3r
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Crackdown was a pretty good game but it could have been better. The storyline was very short and 
 could be beaten within a day if you played it long enough, on the other hand it the short storyline 
 was a lot of fun because basically all you do is kill gangsters until you got strong enough to 
 kill the kingpin. The graphics were not too bad but they were not that great either and i would 
 say that the replay value is average and the achivements were not too hard to get so if you are 
 going to get this game you should rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoose
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown does have it's flaws, but if you can over look them there is a truly fun game waiting 
 for you in Crackdown. 
  
  Pros: The Cell Shaded Graphics are very nice, and the game has some of the most well balanced achievements 
 for the Xbox 360. The leveling up system is also done exceptionally well. Agility and hidden orbs 
 combine to make this one very addictive game.
  
  Cons: There isn't much of a story in Crackdown. The Story mode is too short, and can be beaten 
 in a few days. There are a few minor glitches, and it seems like this game's combat system is too 
 oriented around grenades and rockets rather than other weapons, and can really get annoying.
  
  Crackdown is a highly acclaimed game that comes straight from the minds of Microsoft studios 
 and Realtime worlds. The game reminds me a bit of Robocop. You know, that mediocre movie that was 
 followed by the even more mediocre game? Yes, that Robocop. You play as a genetically enhanced 
 agent of justice. There are three major gang bosses: Los Muertos, a group of Mexican drug lords 
 looking to make a name for themselves. The Volk, a group of gang members more advanced than the 
 Los Muertos. And the King pen so to speak, the Shai Gen. Your job is to clear the city of these 
 gangs and bring justice back to the city, single handily, well unless you call those annoying peace 
 keepers help.
  
  The Gameplay is fun, but i was very disappointed by the lack of a story. You basically have one 
 opening cutscene at the beginning of the game, and then are thrown into this world and that's it. 
 Luckily the game is fairly fun, but it doesn't really do anything to stand out from your basic 
 free roaming game. The only thing that is really out of the ordinary is probably the leveling up 
 system. You have Agility, explosives, driving, marksman, and strength skills. They each level up 
 slowly but surely:
  
  You can increase your agility by collecting the oh so famous agility orbs and hidden orbs, which 
 help increase every stat that you have, but by a much smaller margin, and by completing agility 
 Races. Your explosives Skill can be upgraded by, well simply: Blowing s*** up. Sound fun right? 
 It is, but the game over uses explosives way to much in my opinion. When you go to take down a 
 gang boss, you don't bullets flying across the room, you see rockets and grenades. This really 
 gets annoying, and seems like you're constantly hearing the beeping sound you get when your health 
 is low, and that you're constantly flying across the room.
  
  Your Marksman skills can be upgraded by shooting people basically. You will earn more experience 
 for your marksman skill by hitting people in certain body parts. For instance, if you shoot someone 
 in the leg and kill them, you will get less experience than if you shoot someone in the head. And 
 last but not least, the driving skills. Your driving skills can be upgraded by running people over, 
 doing cool stunts in your car, such as flips, driving through the pink stunt markers located throughout 
 the city, and by completing car races. Basically all of the skills are very well balanced out, 
 which is good.
  
  Wow, there is a lot to talk about in Crackdown, lets move on to the graphics.
  
  Some people 
 really didn't like Crackdowns Graphics, the whole Cell shaded style really didn't appeal to a lot 
 of people. I for one like the graphics a lot, and am glad the Real time worlds focused more on 
 making the game fun and balancing out the skills than just making the game have amazing graphics. 
 There isn't really much to the graphics in Crackdown. You really don't see much detail in the characters 
 due to the Cell shaded graphics, but I will say that if you are playing this game on a high definition 
 television, the game will seem like one big cartoon. Overall I'd say the graphics are good, and 
 i don't think Realtime Worlds really focused on them as much as they did gameplay, which I think 
 is good.
  
  The controls in Crackdown are also very basic. You Press A to jump, and when you get a high agility 
 level, you can jump pretty damn high. You press B to melee, X to switch weapons, and like most 
 First Person Shooters, you press the Right Trigger to fire your weapon. But unlike most games you 
 press the left bumper to throw grenades. While driving a vehicle, you press the Right Trigger to 
 accelerate and the Left Trigger to Brake. For the agency super car you get machine gun attachments 
 when you reach 4 stars, and you press B you use them. You also press X to switch weapons. The controls 
 are solid for Crackdown.
  
  The sound in Crackdown is okay i suppose, there is really nothing special about it or anything 
 really wrong with it. The only real complaint i have about the soundtrack is the lackluster soundtrack. 
 Basically what you have for Crackdown is a bunch of Techno bands that nobody has heard of, and 
 quite frankly no one wants to listen to. I don't know about you, but i don't really want to be 
 mowing down gang members in a car going 100+ Miles per hour while listening to soothing Techno 
 music, sorry to all you Techno fans but that's just me. The only other slight complaint i have 
 about the sound is the the narrator can really get on your nerves sometimes.
  
  Overall I'd say that Crackdown is just your average open ended adventure. You cant fly in helicopters 
 or planes, you can really just run and drive around. The gameplay is quite good and the whole agility/hidden 
 orbs and leveling up system is really cool and well balanced out in my opinion. I also really like 
 the Cell shaded graphics. I may be making the wrong impression in some of my review: I did enjoy 
 Crackdown a lot, but a lot of the times i would become annoyed with some of the gameplay, such 
 as the explosives aspect i mentioned earlier. I also wasn't too impressed with the soundtrack. 
 Putting these flaws aside, i really enjoyed Crackdown, and think you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Don't buy this game, Because the game gets way to Repetitive to fast. Crackdow would been a better 
 game if it has a lot more stuff in the game.
  
  Graphics are not good at all
  
  sound alright
  
  Value its only for 20 dolars are less.
  
  This game is not the game for 
 freedom.
  
  If you want Freedom, Get Saints row are Gta, Because this game is not that much of Freedom.
  
 
  The Only thing I like about Crackdown is the Co-op.
  
  This Game needs a lot of work. Especially the graphics. This game is pretty much nothing. Because 
 of its gameplay didn't have a good review, I think they were in a rush in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmythetulip27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  OK so ive had crackdown for awhile and ill admit the main reason i had gotten it was for the halo 
 3 beta which by this point is long over but ive been busy with school and work so now is when ive 
 decided to actually review it . the beauty of crackdown is the simplicity its the kind of game 
 that you play when your bored there is no story well there is and there isnt. the story im sure 
 all of you know by now is your a genetically enhanced cop clone like thing . it has an rpg element 
 being that you can advance your driving skills ,accuracy skills ,strength , agility,. but like 
 i said earlier its the simplicty that makes this game so great the fact that you can pick it up 
 at any time and it doesnt matter what you do is great . the acheivements are a blast to get none 
 are really hard . the only real complaint i have about this game is the narrator gets on my nerves 
 and im sure im not the only one . but if you like open world games and mindless violence and good 
 old fashioned fun . LOOK NO FURTHER . and the game only got better with the DLC . Looking forward 
 to many more hours on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOERGOE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Its fun to blow stuff up and throw cars around and jump from roof to roof and shoot people but 
 the story is lame. When you start the game the agency is going to tell you to wipe out 3 gangs in 
 the city all you have to is walk around the city find them and kill them!. They are easy to kill 
 btw they just have more health and a better weapon. I completed the game in 3 days. There is no cuts-cene 
 in the game and no other important person in the game and no side missions like GTA just kill the 
 gang bosses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldMine516
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  first of all the game is pretty cool and fun. let me start saying something about the story with 
 there really isnt one, you are just an agent (type captain america/hulk) finishing the bissness of 
 3 major gangs by defeating all the lower and higher lvl leaders. the graphics arent that bad ,they 
 are better than you would think because they were ment to look like a comic rendered game. the game 
 play is extremelly fun, you lvl up youre  wich 
 is cool, but when you are done with this game you get bored unless you have xbox live to play with 
 a friend online, me personally i havent finished it because i want to get the pack they are selling 
 online b4 i finish. the game isnt that hard. aiming at enemies is easy and you can save bullets by 
 shooting different parts of the enemie, like his feet, arms (wich makes him/her drop weapon) center 
 head. the sound of this game is pretty intence but will have this anoying voice reapeting the some 
 things over and overand over and over again. the game also has 2 types of time trial race: roof top 
 racing and car racing. roof top races (green color) are to lvl up youre speed/jump hight and the 
 car races (purple color) lvls up driving skill. the game is pretty good even though of its defects, I 
 PERSONALLY LOVE THIS FUN AND EXTREME GAME THAT MAKES YOU FEEL INVINCIBLE AT TIMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a lot of fun but where there are good parts..., sadly there are bad parts.
  
  Story: I seem to vaguely get the story, you are a new protoype genetically modified cop. And somehow 
 3 gang have managed to take over whole islands from the law enforcement. And you have to take 'em 
 back. Even though I vaguley understand the story, it still isn't enough to keep me intrigued. Story 
 3/10
  
  Graphics: An interesting graphics engine, almost cartoony in a way. Which sets the mood a little 
 more, as you seem to come to expect chaos in cartoons. So I think this different look at graphics 
 is good in this case. Explosions look good and generally everything looks good. 8/10
  
  Sound: Nothing really stood out. But everything sounds what you'ld expect it to sound like. No 
 Score
  
  Replay Value: If you haven't maxed out all your skills, then it has some re-play value, but if 
 you don't know anyone with the game it becomes very boring. And there is no point in trying to 
 find all the hidden/agility orbs as that just becomes a pain in the ass. Also street racing is 
 boring. So there isn't much re-play value. 5/10
  
  Creativity: It reminds me too much of GTA *spits* except you are law enforcement. The weapons aren't 
 to creative either, except the harpoon gun.
  However some of the achievements are fairly creatice. 4/10
  
  Music: Don't Like R 'N' B or 
 Rap? Then Stay Away From the jukebox. 0/10
  
  Overall Crackdown isn't too great, but it's good fun if you know someone with Xbox LIVE and athe 
 game. Score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchy-andy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  crackdown is a good game, and i would recormend it to anyone that likes to kill. but there are 
 some stupid things in it... such as the superjumps. i hate this feature becuase this is a game 
 were mi can kill, not be the hulk! but i did like the super strength becuase you can pick up a 
 car and take it anywere and throw it at anyone!!! i like the whole 'get points for kills' feature, 
 this way i can boost my gamerscore right up!!! i like it ware when you kill someone, it makes it 
 easier to kill the kingpins. i like agility orb system, this can be fun but can get boring. a thing 
 that i dont like is the diffucalty of the game. it can be extremely difficult at times liken where 
 all of your enimies gang up om you and you stand no chance. another annoying thing is the commentry, 
 like were that man keeps telling you what to do. and also there is quite afew glitches, once i 
 have fallen through the drain pipe and swam under the city and not been able to get back up. but 
 if crackdown can't entertain you then download the halo3 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choffy31
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  When Crackdown was announced for the Xbox 360, I thought it would be the equivalent of GTA for 
 the 360. Then when it was announced that you would automatically get into the Halo 3 Multiplayer 
 Beta Testing, that was just the icing on the cake. I immediately plopped $10 bucks on the game, 
 reserving my copy of Crackdown, and gaming history.
  
  ~ Gameplay: 9
  
  The gameplay can only be described in one word: AMAZING. I've never felt so free to do whatever 
 I wanted to in a videogame. But it takes some time developing your powers that eventually become 
 comparable to Superman. When you first start out, you feel overwhelmed. You dive right into the 
 game, with the only tutorial coming in the form of your first big fight. It's a difficult game 
 in the beginning, but with time it becomes an amazing experience.
  
  Once you complete the Los Muertos gang, your powers become pretty awesome, especially if you took 
 the time to collect every friggin Agility and Hidden Orb you could find (my skills were all 2's 
 and 3's from doing so) . As you continue on your quest to clean up the city, you'll eventually jump 
 30 feet high, scaling multiple story buildings in a single jump. The city quite literally becomes 
 your big, virtual playground, and I loved every minute of it.
  
  ~ Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics are very good for the game, with its own unique style and presentation. It's a very 
 dark game, and you may find yourself making the Display Settings a little bit brighter so you can 
 enjoy everything the game has to offer. The character's look almost cell shaded, but at the same 
 time aren't. The gang members are outlined with uneven, black lines and almost look like characters 
 from the movie The Scanner Darkly. But they have much more detail and also have detailed shading 
 effects.
  
  The city looks amazing with very little graphical pop up. Every building is extremely detailed 
 and you can tell that the developers spent a lot of time making the city seem realistic. Every 
 building seems different, and the buildings where the bosses are have been planned out flawlessly. 
 Every boss requires at least some strategy; some even require you to memorize the floor plans. 
 The only knock I can have is that the gang members generally stick to 4 or 5 character models, 
 but it is acceptable once you see how detailed everything else is.
  
  ~ Sound: 8
  
  While the sound isn't the most amazing experience in the world, it gets the job done. Before I 
 get to the negatives about the sound though, let me say some positives. The guns sound very good 
 and each one sound different and starts and stops at the same time it should. Also the voice work 
 is decent, even if you'll be lucky to hear 50 lines the whole game.
  
  Now for the negatives. While I stated above that the voice work is pretty good, I also stated that 
 you'll only hear 50 lines the whole game, which is a shame. This game also suffers from the most 
 annoying disembodied voice I've ever heard. He calls out all of your flaws, rarely noting your 
 achievements you just made. But when he does, all you get is the same Good job, Agent. Nice work! 
 and it gets just a tad repetitive. And he's not all that funny either. He has some lines that seemed 
 good at the time, but are just retarded. For example, when you catch on fire he'll say Extra crispy! 
 sometimes, and it is just out of place in a game that has no humor in it once so ever (except for 
 the stereotypes that Microsoft portrays so strongly in this game) . And the soundtrack is horrible 
 unlike GTA games where you have an amazing mix of the hits from that time period. You have to make 
 a choice of Mexican music or funky Techno. Don't like either? Then you won't like the soundtrack. 
 But despite its flaws, it gets the job done and really doesn't take away from the overall experience 
 THAT much.
  
  ~ Value: 9
  
  I'm going to make this on as short as I possibly can. Imagine a Grand Theft Auto game. Get the 
 picture? Now imagine a 10x easier Grand Theft Auto game. Get the picture? But is that a bad thing? 
 I don't think so.
  
  ~ Long-story Short:
  
  Crackdown is an above average game that delivers on some good, clean, wholesome GTA-Clone fun, 
 but on the Xbox 360 with better graphics. The gameplay is very similar to Grand Theft Auto, and 
 that isn't a bad thing; in fact, it's a good thing. The sound is pretty average, but it gets the 
 job done. There is a lot of value in MOST Sandbox type of games, and this one is no exception.
 
  
  ~ Overall:
  
  Most people will come for the Halo 3 Beta, but will stay for Crackdown itself. I still haven't 
 registered for the Beta, and that isn't all a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceeplusplus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be a genetically enhanced agent, just like Robocop? Well then this game 
 is for you. Loosely based on the gist of the Grand Theft Auto series, Crackdown places you in the 
 role of a super-cop, who does not fear death, for he can be created again with Advanced Cloning 
 Technology. As a super agent, you have five skills that level up as you progress through the game. 
 These skills are Agility, Driving, Explosives, Firearms, and Strength. Your agility skill affects 
 how fast you run and how high you jump, with this skill maxed out, you can do some pretty amazing 
 things. When your driving skill increases, the special agency vehicles morph with your respective 
 level, getting even sweeter every level. As you go through the game, you will undoubtedly find 
 a grenade/rocket launcher, as well as hand grenades, mines, etc. When you eliminate enemies using 
 these weapons, your explosive skill goes up, increasing the blast radius of them and overall increasing 
 the damage they deal. The same goes for firearms, when that goes up, your guns do more damage and 
 you become more accurate when using them. And finally, Strength, perhaps the easiest skill to increase. 
 To increase this, the only requirement is to beat the living crap out enemies with nothing but 
 your fists and feet. When this skill reaches it's maximum potential, you can kick buses across 
 the city and throw cruise missile carrying trucks at unsuspecting minivans. This is when the real 
 fun begins in Crackdown. In order to get the most fun out of Crackdown, you must have an Xbox Live 
 Gold Account. This enables you to play with your friends or join a random person's game. Online, 
 the game is a blast to play. Going around the city with someone else and just destroying everything 
 in site, especially with the Keys to the City download pack, is some of the most fun I've ever 
 had in a game. 99% of this game is unscripted and you will surely experience some very funny things. 
 Glitches in Crackdown aren't like glitches in other games. The glitches in this game actually make 
 it more fun and enjoyable, and when combined with a friend, always have you turning off your console 
 in a good mood. So, in conclusion, Crackdown is a great game that should not be missed by any Xbox 
 360 gamer. It is money well spent for hours of endless fun and crazy occurrences. I give Crackdown 
 an 8.5 and I hope you enjoyed my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshotgunner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown must of really been nothing more than an experiment. I support that and I'm glad I got 
 a game with the Halo 3 beta. Anyway, to the review.
  
  Graphics: 7. I love comics, but they took cell-shaded a bit to far. Still, I think the graphics 
 were nice. Seeing people and cars from long distance is great.
  
  Gameplay: 7. The game itself is fun, it does what most Grand Theft Auto clones do, but a tad bit 
 more. Having super powers is fun at times and for god's sake, you can throw cars. But with the 
 good, I have bad. Leaves that every GTA and GTA clone has. Missions! I don't know if its a good 
 thing or bad, but endless killing is fun for a while then sadly, becomes that dreaded word - Repetitive.
 
  
  Controls: 9. Crackdown controls like a traditional plat former with solid controls. Overall: Its 
 a good time waster for a few hours but thats about it
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: untitledcause
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the great games that you can pick up and jump right into. It has tons of searching when 
 completed so it always feels accessible. The story is short but the end is satisfying. A great 
 title to play in between the big name releases, and a great time waster. Some will not like the 
 base game as it is but the expansions are great and offer some more play time. The achievements 
 are nice and fun to aspire for. It is not a shooter as it incorporates many different 'skills'. 
 It is a fun release. I enjoyed it all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zunarutze
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is about you being an agent tracking down gangs. There are lots of gangs and throught 
 the whole map are gangs. You get lvl ups for 4 diffrent stuff. The game is not that impressing after 
 kill about 10 gangs you get bored. Not much to do in the game but kill gangs after you beat the 
 game your going to be pissed. For people who like to play the same game again... good. I thought it 
 was disappointing what microsoft has made they should only stick to halo relative stuff. But Crackdown 
 has a huge map and you get to ride in vehicles thats about it. Nothing that special is about the 
 game you may like it or may not well i hope it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Security451
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Great game that is very addicting. Plus, it's very easy to play. It's very innovative and a just 
 a fun game to play. I thought that the game never got too repetitive, plus, what's more fun than 
 making more HUGE explosions? I think this game is underrated and this game deserves more credit 
 than most people give, whether they only got this game for the Halo 3 Beta or not.
  Whether this is just a Grand Theft Auto ripoff or not, I think that this game is again, very good 
 and definetely worth the money. The Halo 3 Beta probably caused much of the hype of this game, 
 but I think this game deserves as much hype as the beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Was I ever amazed by Crackdown. For a couple of months I have been considering purchasing 
 it, but there was always something more appealing. Well, last week, a friend convinced me to buy 
 Crackdown and it is amazing. While it's not the most difficult game ever (Auto-aim is quite effiicient) 
 and the story is nothing special (Kill the gang kingpins, in whatever order youulike) it is one 
 of tjhe most fun experiences on the 360. Jumping on rooftops and climbing buildings are just as 
 fun as trying to take out a big gang member. Also, the art style is phoenomenal and this game is 
 probably the most visually appealing game I've ever played. Driving around the city and doing races 
 is also a blast and let me tell you, there is not much more satisfying in a game than throwing 
 a car at someone from a low roof. I got this game and Bioshock on the same day and I've played 
 this more in the last 2 days than Bioshock, it's really good.
  
  Now I would have given this game a 10 except for a few minor issues. First, there really isn't 
 much variation from gang to gang and a run and gun, then run and heal strategy works on most bosses. 
 Second, the leveling system is a bit confusing (some abilities count up to the leveling up in 10's, 
 some in 1's) and firearms and strength will probably be at or around level 3 (out of 4) by the 
 time you take out the first gang.
  
  Overall, this game is a very fun experience that I would recommend to anyone who loves being a 
 superhuman cop that kills thousands of gang members in a huge, sandbox style game that can keep 
 you entertained for hours straight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard about Crackdown. It sounded like a game that was going to be like Grand 
 Theft Auto. But believe me, it's not nearly as good. Don't get me wrong, Crackdown isn't a terrible 
 game, but it isn't great either. The exploration is limited, the missions lack variety, and I don't 
 see why they decided to make this game with cel-shaded graphics. It would have looked cooler without 
 them. The sound effects are pretty good, and it's fun to drive around and kill people, but that's 
 the best part of the game. It's more fun on Xbox Live, when you play in Co-op mode. This can be 
 a blast, and is the high point of the game. Crackdown wasn't the great gaming experience that I 
 hoped for, but it was still a decent game that is fun with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igotbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  when you first start crackdown your a scrawny agent trying to rid the wolrd of crime and your trying 
 to get your little weak agent into a buff agent thats a gangster worst nightmare. in the begining 
 you try to search for orbs to make your agent run faster and jump higher (which gets kinda anoying)
 
  and you try to level your skills  and driving. i also like 
 that as your improving your skills that your agent changes you become buffer, get facial hair, tatoos 
 and so on. one of the strong points of crackdown is that you can go on live and team up with another 
 agent to double the pain which is pretty fun. another strong point is keys to the city a download 
 from markertplace that lets you have god mode, be a master agent instantly and jump really high 
 and run really fast. all you do is press back and you get the keys to the city. to sum it up crackdown 
 is a great and fun game that every body should pick up for a great sandbox experience.
  and as a bounus for the people who bought it near the launch date halo 3 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintBlaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 was one of the greatest games on the ps2. Ever since then many other titles 
 have been trying to dethrone it. In my opinion Crackdown comes very close in doing so. In Crackdown 
 you have a sense of unlimited freedom that grand theft auto does not provide. Although it could 
 do with a little more to do. Basically you spend the whole game trying to kill 21 gang bosses. 
 It's a simple concept that's carried out well but doesn't give you the sense of accomplishment 
 you'd like. The graphics in Crackdown are up to par with many other 360 games but aren't the best. 
 If you're a fan of the gta games you'll enjoy this. Be warned though, it's a short game. The bright 
 side is that that's the only major drawback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Two words to describe the game Crackdown would be *mindless fun*, there is little thinking involved 
 in this game because the game play is revolved around you monkey jumping buildings and blowing 
 the hell out of anyone who gets in your way, whether it be friend or foe. In that aspect Crackdown 
 does a good job providing you with a good mixture of weapons that will keep you entertained. The 
 basic pretense of the game is that you are a super agent who is charged with ridding the city of 
 gang infestation. There are three different kinds of gangs (although they pretty much act the same 
 way and do the same stuff) and there are 21 different bosses to find and kill. You are kind of 
 an RPG agent in the sense that you have 5 major skills that evolve as you exercise /use them more 
 them more. For example, one of your 5 core skills as they are called is firearms. So, the more 
 you use your firearms, the better your auto aim gets and in general your accuracy improves. Likewise 
 you have other skills like strength, which when you max out will enable you to pick up trucks and 
 use them to crush enemies. While these elements of the game are entertaining, you will probably 
 spend a lot of time jumping from rooftop to rooftop in search of agility orbs that improve your 
 athleticism, enabling you to do some pretty wacky stuff (check out You-tube for some of the videos 
 if you are interested) . While leveling up these skills will keep you interested for some time, 
 the game gets pretty repetitive and you will end up losing interest doing the same stuff over and 
 over again. The game has some what of a main story line but it is really just an excuse to blow 
 up some more stuff. With that said the game is definitely more fun if you have someone else along 
 for the ride, especially if it is a buddy of yours and you are playing co-op. Nothing is more funny 
 than knocking him/her/it off the top of a skyscraper when he/she//it just spent 5 minutes climbing 
 it up. The game also looks very good, as the city is very well modeled and the especially the agency 
 cars look very detailed and are very fun to drive.......... and crash. Over all Crackdown is a 
 good game that has an effective game play mechanism but the lack of different sceneries doom the 
 game. If you are looking for a game that is very accessible and somewhat of a stop-gap until the 
 game you want comes out, then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brynidge
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  ive had soo much fun on this game, played it for hours on end, it just doesn't get boring, when 
 your bored of collecting the upgrades to your charcter and building stats you can just go round 
 and kill a few gang members, start a mini war or just fly kick an old person in the middle of the 
 street, how could you ever find that boring, you have a choice of different charcters and aslong 
 as you don't die its a great fun game that you can play anytime of the day infront of anyone as 
 you are workin for the police so any violence has great potential! haha top game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofakingcool
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of those games that seems shallow but you realize that the elements of the game 
 that are really featured are done exceptionaly well. Mechanics like verticality and leveling up, 
 and the fun of feeling like a superhuman badass. The nearly complete lack of structure will definatly 
 discourage some from playing but I belive this actualy enhances the replayability. Me and my friends 
 have spent many many hours taking turns recking as much havoc as possible before getting smoked. 
 Gameplay aside, The graphical style of the game is a fantastic mix of cell shaded textures wrapped 
 around 3D polygons and it all looks very sharp considering the scope of the map and zero loading 
 as long as you are alive. The sound effects don't hinder gameplay but I think they could have been 
 beefed up to further draw you into the game. The music.... well it's pretty bad, good thing you 
 will rarely hear it. The point of all this is that what the developers set out to do comes across 
 very well in this sandboxy super cop, gangsta smashin ,car crashin, big bangin and just plain fun 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batteredpuppet
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that isn't that great when you first start playing it, but as you go 
 further into it, it grows you you. You can get lost it in. When i first started playing it, within 
 the first 10 minutes i thought i was gonna trade it in and get rid of it. As i got further into 
 it, it grew on me. As your character builds up, it becomes fun busting skulls and leaping around 
 from roof top to roof top like some kind of Hulk. The targeting scheme blows, but other than that, 
 this game is fun to play. anybody can enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbmonkeyjerk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game barely got a 7 rating from Gamespot and I am kinda confused. What makes a game great? 
 Is that it has to be a 90-hr epic or it gets a 7? Because graphics, gameplay and overall enjoyment 
 for this game get an easy 10. Grant it the game does repeat itself quite a bit but it does have 
 your heart racing through most missions because most missions playout like this....200 vs 1 and 
 you have to figure out how to live through the onslaught. I personally enjoyed this game not to 
 mention you will go crazy on the freeway blowing out peoples tires. Trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played GTA you should know what is in store for you. This game is no different 
 than GTA except that you are a super human full of uber awesomeness. The game is simple to get, 
 you are a agent part of the Agency a crime fighting organization and there are 3 big gangs the 
 Los Muertos, the Volk, and Shi Gen. Each gang has 7 leaders and one big leader. The game is a free 
 roamer you can jusy blow up stuff or do your missions. Also you can rack up your experiance points 
 for things like stength, agility, and firearms skill. Once you rack these things up, you can run 
 faster jump like 35 feet and throw cars. There is not many things to do, when you are not doing 
 missions except blow crap up and do car and feet races.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing, this is something you would expect from a PS3!!!!!!! And is on 
 the 360. The camera is very fun to use when playing, when you are in the the air and shooting enemies 
 you can make it look like a real action movie. It is great also online, you can team up with a 
 friend online and kill a boss in a game or just blow up the city together. The keys to the city 
 downloadable is fun to use too.
  
  This is a definet buy for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i had only had my xbox 360 for a few weeks and was looking for a new game. I 
 had heard alot of talk about it in the official xbox magazine so i thought i should buy it for 
 my next game. When i got it i never thought it was going to be so much fun and i played for hours 
 and hours on end.
  
  In the game you have so much to do from patrolling the mean streets of pacific city and taking 
 out the bosses to just plain messing around. I spent alot of time climbing around the buildings 
 and doing stunts in the cars form the agency garage which get upgraded each star which is added 
 to your driving skill.
  
  In the game you have five different skills to level up in which you get better at them with each 
 star added to the skill type ( four stars is max amount) . for example when your agility skills is 
 leveled you begin to jump higher and can jump higher each time it levels up. Another good thing 
 in the game is the transformation of the body when your strength skills is levels up once it reaches 
 level four you become a meat head tough enough to take on hordes of terrorists with your bare hands.
 
  
  The graphics in the game have a comic book style to and i think are a very nice touch to the game.
 
  
  Peter j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treyzerr
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is addicting. Not much of a story line but good enough. The gameplay is fun. The makers 
 really brought out a missing piece of a games such as saints row and gta. The ability to jump as 
 high as you do and the strength is awesome. Definately worth buying if you like more of a rush. 
 during gameplay you can do such things as pick up moving cars and thrown them about 200-300 feet 
 or more. You can kick people and enemies way further. The sound of all the guns are well sounded. 
 The bosses arent really difficult to beat. Overall its a good shooter game is you want an extra 
 umph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Hah, what an interesting game. I felt like Superman, except I couldn't fly. This game was very 
 fun but there wasn't much to it. The great part about this game is that you have to work to become 
 the best you can be. My favorite part of the game was building hopping and climbing as high as 
 possible. The super strength gave the game an excellent second option to guns 'n' ammo. Picking 
 up cars and throwing them at a crowd of enemies... What could be better? I recommend this game 
 to someone who just want to kill people... A lot of people. I had a lot of fun with this game. 
 Go enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -r4z0rbl4d3-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  So I finally got Crackdown and played trough the campaign. Being a fan of GTA and Saint's Row I 
 really like the free-roam aspect of the game, but the similarities end there.
  
  The Story
  Crime has overrun the city and your sole purpose is to clean up the streets. The campaign 
 consists of 3 maps with different gangs and bosses; Los Muertos, The Volk and the Shai Gen. The 
 story basically tells you that three crime bosses are making lives hard for the citizens. They 
 all have a bunch of activities all over the city run by other bosses under their command. If you 
 get the mini bosses first you cripple the defences for the big boss. Fair enough.
  
  Crackdown puts you in the shoes of a cloned super-cop that evolves throughout the game in any way 
 you like. If you like to shoot evil dudes you get experience doing that for your shooting skill. 
 If you prefer to run them over with a car or doing stunts, you get experience for driving. There 
 are a total of 5 skills you can train, the rest being agility, strength and explosives. Training 
 these takes some time, especially if you try to advance in them all. More on that later.
  
  You are free to take out the gangs and bosses in any order you like but going for the Shai Gen 
 right away would most certainly mean instant death since they are quite a challenge even if you 
 are fully evolved later in the game. The game lets you play around allot, either running around 
 and wreaking havoc (in the name of the law of course) or climbing up the buildings to get a nice 
 view.
  
  The Skills
  Using guns is very easy, you just lock onto a target and shoot it. There are about 15 different 
 guns to collect; pistols, sub-machine guns and sniper rifles. Once you advance your skills, you 
 increase your aim and the power of the guns and become even more deadly. You are able to aim at 
 different parts of the body as well so you can get those sweet head shots, shoot the guns out of 
 the enemies hands, shoot the tires of attacking cars or even blowing them up with a precision shot 
 at the tank.
  
  When you are using explosives it means that someone is going to get hurt, preferably not you. There 
 are different types of grenades and rocket launchers in the game and when you advance in your skills, 
 the blast radius and damage dealt increases. Be careful not to blow yourself up, throwing those 
 grenades can be a bit tricky.
  
  Think guns and grenades are for chickens? Then why not beat the game... by beating? You kan kick, 
 punch and throw objects at the enemies. If you kill someone doing this you get strength experience. 
 This not only makes you stronger and lets you lift heavier objects, it also makes you tougher and 
 harder to kill. Attacking the enemies with nothing but your firsts and boots is dangerous but very 
 lethal at higher skills. And who doesn't like throwing cars around?
  
  Traveling the town on foot can become tiresome and this is where your driving skill comes in. Driving 
 around is both fun and saves allot of time but also make you into a lethal wrecking-ball against 
 those crime dudes. You can drive any car in the game but using your special cars found in the agency 
 garage grants you special powers as you advance your skills. These special cars actually evolve 
 with you in a sense, as they morph into bigger and meaner vehicles depending on your skill. You 
 get better control, speed and tougher cars as you progress. To increase your skills you run over 
 enemies, do stunts and compete in races.
  
  Another way of traveling is by running, jumping and climbing buildings. This is not for the faint 
 of hearts since some the buildings in the city are monsters! Reaching the top of a building is 
 a challenge in it's own sometimes and that's why advancing in agility really helps out. As you 
 advance your skill you run faster, leap further and get reduced damage when falling of high places. 
 Unlike the previous skills, agility is not gained by simply jumping around or running, instead 
 you have to collect agility orbs or compete in roof-top races where you have to get to different 
 checkpoints before the times runs out.
  
  The orbs are scattered all over the city and there are actually two kinds; agility and hidden orbs. 
 These are filled with different amounts of experience depending on how hard or easy it is to get 
 to them. Agility orbs gives you agility experience and can always be found on high altitudes. Reach 
 a really high roof-top and you are bound to find a n orb. The hidden orbs gives you experience 
 for ALL skills and can be found anywhere, some very easy to find, some crazy hard.
  
  Co-op
  Now this is where Crackdown shines! At any time and any place in the game, you can invite 
 a friend to join in your city. The really cool part is that your friend can roam around just as 
 freely as you, killing bosses and gaining experience. If you like, you can attack the same boss 
 of course, or race against each other on the streets or over the buildings. This is what makes 
 this game one of my favorites.
  
  My thoughts
  I really like Crackdown. Roaming free around the beautiful city is a blast and the skills system 
 is really nice. Evolving your character can be a pain sometimes (agility and driving especially) 
 but it's worth it. There are some annoying things with the camera and the handling of the cars 
 but overall I really like the controls and the game play. The graphics are somewhat cartoony but 
 look really good, it makes it feel like a comic or something. The sounds is great, I think I've 
 upset my neighbours somewhat with all the explosions going on. :P
  
  I liked the campaign and the story, it was not too deep or too superficial for an action title, 
 just maybe a bit short. The voice acting is good and really helps the atmosphere of the game. One 
 thing I did find annoying though was the ending... Maybe I just wanted more. :)
  
  On the other hand, the game lives on thanks to a great co-op mode. I haven't really tried the multi-player 
 aspect of it yet but that could easily eat away a few hours of my life. There are lots of achievements 
 to unlock which also helps the game last longer.
  
  Overall a great game in my book and one of few I actually played through in the last year or so. 
 I can recommend this to anyone who likes super powers, action and free-roam games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFrow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Remember in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory when Charlie finds the Golden Ticket, and everyone's 
 so exited that they forget about the sweet, sweet candy that the Ticket came with? That's sort 
 of what Crackdown is like: everyone's so busy salivating about the inclusion of the Halo 3 BETA 
 (now over) code that they're over-looking the deliciousness that's sitting right under their noses.
 
  
  Most people have played Grand Theft Auto and Saints Row, and whomever who has played those games 
 must be familiar with the d-anything go-anywhere style of gameplay that is sandbox. Crackdown, 
 essentially, is a sandbox game with a few major twists. One of the biggest twists being the futuristic 
 setting. You are an Agent of The Agency , an orginization bent on putting an end to three criminal 
 gangs (from easy to hard) ; Los Meurtos, The Volk, and Shai-Gen. The game doesn't have much story 
 to talk about, you have to defeat bosses from every gang, seven in each, making a total of 21 gang 
 bosses. In addition to the Story , you have time trial missions, and with the download of a 800MP 
 Content Pack you also recieve Street Racing, new weapons, new cars and a mode called Keys to the 
 City , where achievements and saves are disabled and you're basically playing with all cheats in 
 your posession. Also there is online co-op, which adds to value.
  
  In Summary:
  
  Pros - Great graphics, smooth gameplay, great game modes, mostly lag-free co-op.
  
  Cons - 
 Sound can sometimes be punishing to your speakers, no offline\local co-op, achievements can be 
 very tedious, numerous graphical glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolvar_11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Imposible to find boredom in the world of Crackdwon... with the five main stats to always work 
 on... u will never have nothing to do in the Los Meurtos, the volk, and the Shai Gen areas... the 
 agility and the ability to jump beyond normal human heights makes just roaming the city a blast... 
 and on the event u do get bored increasing your stats, the canpaign is thrilling and fun... u will 
 always be left wanting to find your next victim... great game, i highly recomend buying this game.... 
 a great game... money well spent... the only draw back is online play with other players... it 
 can take up to 5 minuts for another player to join the game u are hosting, leaving u in the loading 
 screen which can be very boring... i dont recomend online play... but solo late nighters are inevitable 
 with this game... u get hooked instantly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KensterFox
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Say what you like about Grand Theft Auto, the game that spawned the open-world genre of video games. 
 Whatever your opinion of it, it did a lot of things interesting enough to spawn plenty of games 
 that imitate the formula.
  
  Crackdown is one of those games, putting you in the character of a bio-enhanced Agent of (wait 
 for it...) the Agency, the umbrella securily/military/police force in the world of Pacific City. 
 The Agency has got its hands full with the three gangs that are running rampant in the city, each 
 controlling their own area. Your mission is to take out the Kingpin of each gang, which will cripple 
 them to the point of making it easy to eliminate them. Each Kingpin has Generals that enhance the 
 gang in some way - providing weapons, enhanced vehicles, physical training, and others. Take out 
 the Generals, and the gang becomes easier to deal with - which is important, because the tougher 
 the gang, the less likely you'll even get to look at the Kingpin, much less make the kill.
  
  Your character has five core skills - brawling, shooting, driving, jumping, and blowing stuff 
 up - that can be enhanced. Punching a gang member to death will enhance your brawling skill. Running 
 him over with a car will enhance your driving skill. Since you can't exactly 'jump' an enemy to 
 death, there are 500 'agility orbs' that are hidden around the city (mostly on the rooftops) that 
 will enhance your jumping ability that way. Also hidden in the game are 300 'hidden orbs' that 
 enhance all of your skills.
  
  Aside from killing bad guys, you can also participate in 'rooftop races' which have you jumping 
 from beacon to beacon, trying to get under a set time (rewarded with agility points) and 'road 
 races' which have you driving the game's vehicles from beacon to beacon, trying to get under a 
 set time (rewarded with driving points) . Sadly, these added elements of gameplay are not stellar, 
 and are rather clumsy (especially the driving races, which will invariably cause you to run over 
 civilians, which hamper your skill progression) .
  
  The combat in the game can be pretty satisfying, however - wandering through a forest, approaching 
 an enemy stronghold, looking for baddies to snipe off before they see you - the process is rather 
 easy and uncomplicated, which is good for this genre of game - Counter-Strike, this isn't.
  
  In the final analysis, the game comes off a bit bland. The story is... well, it isn't, and 
 some of the modes added for variety are clumsy and a bit frustrating. The core of the game is good, 
 though there isn't a lot of it, so while the game is ultimately easy to enjoy, it's also ultimately 
 easy to forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun to play through and even after you beat it you can still pick it up as you please. 
 Fun and original game play allow for a more fun experience and really something that will last 
 some time. I would definitely recommend this game for xbox 360 owners that are looking for something 
 new and had fun in the past with GTA and other sandbox type play games. It Definitely is worth the 
 money and has good value and should last you hours and hours of fun and addicting gameplay. So 
 if your a 360 owner and are looking for a cool experience go to your game store and pick Crackdown 
 up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsterbater4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  this is a fun game, that said it is rather short and pretty easy so you will finish quickly. if 
 you like grand theft auto you will like this game. If you wait until the price of the game drops 
 you will be way more happy with the game. however since the game included the halo beta i gave 
 it a slightly higher score because that added to the value of the game. building up your attributes 
 is fun and creating mayhem is a guilty pleasure GTA fans will know all to well. But once you get 
 the rocket launchers, the game is basically over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg25lax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is able to combine a great open world feel with amazing abilities to make for great gameplay. 
 With the ability to level up just by defeating gang memebers, your agent can become a superhero 
 basically. The skills you get in the game determine in a way how hard it will be. If you don't 
 get them up, you really can't do anything. The game also has side-missions after the normal killing 
 the gangs. The vechicle races are fun and addicting, if you play them. And the foot races are a 
 good way to get your agility up, making them fun and helpful. After beating the game once not really 
 doing anything, I downloaded some content from XB Live and that made all the difference. New veichles, 
 weapons, and the ability to revive bosses was great. You can replay this game as many times you 
 want and it will still be excellent. Plus, the achievments that you get from the game also add 
 more demention and extended playing time.
  
  Overall, Crackdown is a nice spin on open world games that in the least is worth renting, but moreso 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is this comic looking 3rd person action game. You play the role of a super cop created 
 to fight crime. The gameplay is solid, and it's overall a lot of fun.
  
  You have 3 different islands of a large city to explore. Each island has it's own gang. They range 
 from street hoods to organised criminals. Don't expect to do much police work here though, most 
 of the game is running and shooting. You have to find the gang leaders to defeat them. Once the 
 chain of commands are broken, the gangs will fall apart and you'll eventually have to finish off 
 the remaining members. It's rather easy since the games structure is free roam.
  
  The comic book look is pretty good, but don't expect HDR lighting or anything like that. The city 
 looks well packed, with graffiti, gangsters, mobsters, peds, and cops roaming about. Automobiles 
 vary from luxury cars to armoured trucks, so you'll see a lot of variety. For a free roaming game, 
 it doesn't have many of the pop up issues found in your run of the mill gta games, or knock offs 
 for that matter. The framerate stays consistent most of the time. Online play is basically co-op. 
 You and one friend can liberate the crime ridden city together at any given point during your single 
 player campaign. It's a great feature, but would've been better if it supported more than 2 players. 
 The free roam design of the game is cool. You don't have to activate any missions by going to sites. 
 Just show up infront of a cluster of gang bangers, and start blasting. You start off as a super 
 cop. You can jump, run, shoot, and drive better than the average joe. Eventually you'll become 
 an uber cop with various skill boosts you aquire by playing the game. Some of these boosts are 
 tedious to get, since they require you to find orbs spread through out the city. In the end though, 
 it's worth it since you'll constantly be facing large numbers by yourself. Overall crackdown isn't 
 crack. It's worth a rental for one weekend since it doesn't hold much replay value. It lacks story, 
 so you're basically just running around and killing people. You can run them over, shoot them, 
 blow them up, or just beat them to death by what ever means needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mainmanmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game through and through. Whether your blowing up 20 cars or shooting down 
 20 gang members animations always stay clean and rarely lags. Also i enjoy the fact that there 
 are no loading screens. The only discrepancy i have is the annoying civilians always getting in 
 the way. i just want to kill gang members without worrying about stupid people going Dont shoot! 
 So i've just created a different file to just blow everyone up. Other than that though i was very 
 pleased with the game. I strongly recommend it for anyone who enjoyed the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Lets realize that opened ended games are the new way of playing video games. GTA brought a new 
 way of playing video games. the open-ended style is pretty much what recent games using to make 
 there games then they put there own style in Mercenaries used the open-ended style in a new way 
 it threw you into a battlefield and let you choose the missions you want to play. crackdown takes 
 the same approach but with a few different styles. you are in a futuristic city being controled 
 by gangs. but there are nio missions you are just thrown in there and told to clean up the city. 
 as you move thruoght the game your characters abilities upgrade. there isint a story other than 
 the future sucks. though at the end it leaves you with a story at the end of the game which is 
 frustrating. the game does'nt last that long but it makes up with its awsome action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locust_King_001
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  This game is Great the graphics are like as if u were in a future cartoon cop game. The cars are 
 phenomenal just wish there were more than three u have a super car witch it transforme to a gang 
 killing weapon its all its cracked up to be. The bad thing is u have a limited supply of the Agency 
 cars and the game is really really short i will give u about five hours to finish it.. but to enjoy 
 it get ur guys skills up to be able to jump over a building. I rather rent it cause i bought it 
 and i wish i rented it cause i would have saved 60 Dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrophio
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  eh.. this game is one of those games that got alot of hype, but just doesnt deliver the knockout 
 punch. i had fun playing it, however, in spite of all the neat abilities the character has, it 
 had a feeling of been there done that . the gameplay is fun, the graphics are alright (im not a 
 fan of the cell shade, but they pulled it off) and the sound was ok. as far as the achievements 
 go, this will keep you busy, and some of them are just downright hard to get. the story mode is 
 neat, but unpleasantly short (i flew threw the bosses on all 3 islands in just under 9hrs) . i just 
 felt like this game couldve been greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be a super bio-engineered cop sent to kill thousands of gang members? Well, it's 
 worth a look to try out this game (yes, the one with the halo 3 beta key) . Crackdown takes place 
 in pacific city, a city taken over by major gangs, one containing Shai-Gen's enigmatic Wang. You're 
 ent to basically kill the little bosses to make the larger ones less ridiculously difficult. It's 
 also encouraged to kill the bosses and their gang members as it can bring up your experience, depending 
 on how you kill them.
  
  The gameplay can be reptitive about half the time, dodging the bullets of about 20 spanish guys 
 screaming out randomly at you. The AI is not what you want to play the game for: It's more of a 
 quantity over quality this round. THe graphics are somewhere between the original xbox and the 
 360. Despite the repetitive nature of killing all these bastards, it's still enjoyable to bring 
 your guy more and more overpowered to the point of superhuman.
  
  The game can take about 15 hours to kill every boss member in the game. It's a good rental, but 
 I'd be a little wary to buy this puppy if you don't want the halo 3 multiplayer beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenC4T
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The idea of being some sort of comic book hero in which you can leap really high and pick up cars 
 and throw them at enemies, sounded really good. But after playing the game, it feels like there 
 is nothing much to do. Just collect orbs to become more powerful and destroy the three main gangs. 
 And that's about it. I don't feel like there is much else to do. Sure, there are the foot races 
 and car races. But it's not enough to keep me interested. The game could also use some work, such 
 as the aiming system, perhaps different fighting skills among the agents (or at least some more 
 moves) . With the announcements of two games with similar ideas, I hope that those games can expand 
 this interesting idea and perhaps improve it and be what it was really suppose to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  The first time u'll play this game u'll have fun for about 3 hours and then it just get's boring, 
 it's kinda repetitive, upgrading too quickly is pretty useless cause u'll probably use only explosives. 
 Co op is fun it's just it's a bit simple and u rather play campaign.
  
  The gameplay is fun and jumping high onto buildings is always good fun. The graphics are cartoony 
 style which suites the game very well. The halo 3 beta will also make u even more want to get it. 
 if i was u i would rent it first since the game value short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around fun and I think Gamespot rated it a little bit low because this game has 
 a bunch of fun stuff you can do, it is kind of like a grand theft auto type of game because you 
 have a free world where you can roam around, jack cars, do whatever, or just stick to the storyline 
 and complete the game either way its just plain fun, i guess the only bad part is that the story 
 is a little bit too short but even after you beat it you can go on rampages and have police pursuits 
 and all that. My favorite feature in the game is that you get special abilities like you can jump 
 really high, you get super strength, and you can run pretty fast, so overall this is a good game 
 and I recommend it for anyone looking for a good action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the best games I've ever played. I like the style of graphics the designers 
 picked. It looks like comic book style. It's different, which is cool. I love the fact that you're 
 superhuman. Jumping 40 ft. in the air, climbing up ledges, lifting up trucks, and running very 
 fast. I downloaded the downloadable content from the marketplace. All the cheats and game modes 
 and cars. It was twice as good. The game is very fun and addictive. The achievements were not very 
 hard to get, except for getting all the stunt markers, and agility orbs and secret orbs. The think 
 that sucks is that I've had 499 out of 500 agility orbs for about 3 months now, and I don't ever 
 think I'll ever find the last one. And right now I have 286 secret orbs out of 300. I already have 
 all the new dowloadable achievements. Anyways, back to the game. I love how your cars transform 
 as you level up and all the other cars. The weapons are very fun too use. The map is amazing, and 
 the boss fights and the boss locations are pretty sick. Definitely worth buying this game. But 
 lucky for me, I got the game the day it came out, and I got the Halo 3 Beta. But that's been done 
 for a while now. But I've got Crackdown which is better than Halo. Big surprise I know. Anyways, it's 
 a really awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHeroOfCanton
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The game play is just awesome. I haven't had this much fun playing a game in a long time. The graphics 
 were different, they are like a comic book, but when your playing you don't notice at all, you 
 busy having to much fun. The missions get repetitive but you don't even need to do them. I got 
 this game expecting another lame Grand Theft Auto ripoff, and got it just for the beta. My money 
 was well spent. Not only did i get the beta, i got a kick ass game. This game is definitely worth 
 it. Hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  I've got to say that a lot of people bought this game for it's Halo 3 Beta pack in deal that it 
 had at the first of the market sales. (I know I did) But when I actually got into the game, it 
 really surprised me. You start off as a superhuman-like machine, trying to clear the streets of 
 thugs and criminals. The main goal of this game is to try to kill boss-like characters off the 
 streets of the cities, and at the same time boost your skill bar in 5 different fields. Guns, Explosives, 
 Driving, Agility, and Strength. Each time you kill an enemy (An enemy is tagged with a mark over 
 their head) you get points for whatever you did to kill that enemy. (If you killed them with a 
 gun, gun points, punching them and kicking them, strength points, etc.) The only thing you can't 
 get by killing enemies, and this is not completely true, but agility requires you to collect orbs, 
 on roofs, cliffs, etc. and go through challenges that have time limits. If you beat those time 
 limits, you get points. The only other way to earn them is to get a sniper and free lance them 
 in the head. If you do that you get both gun and agility points. Also, to get driving points, you 
 have to kill enemies by running over them, or completing matches within a time limit. Doing co-op 
 is another great feature it has. It's drop in anytime co-op, so you can easily find a match, even 
 if you're rejected a few times. The only thing this game lacks, is things to do after you beat 
 it. If you've gotten all your skills maxed, beaten all the bosses, and beaten all the challenges, 
 there is barely anything to do besides getting achievements, and once you've done that, there is 
 basically nothing to do besides running around and killing stuff. So if you haven't already, buy 
 the game with the Halo 3 Beta before it's too late. But if you don't want that, I would suggest 
 renting this game on Gamefly, or another store, play it out as much as you can, and bring it back. 
 It's a great game, it just lacks side things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxymoron1331
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of good qualities. The city is very large and you can explore almost every 
 single inch of it. The gameplay is fun but gets a little old after a while. The graphics are really 
 nice they have a comic book feel to them especially when you blow stuff up. The online could be 
 better it lags all of the time probably because of the amount of information that is being passed 
 between the players but it's still inexcusable. The only thing thats makes this game good and not 
 great is the story, or the lack of one. The only thing that is said is that you are a cop and you 
 have to take down these certain bad guys, that is it. I mean give me a little something about the 
 character i'm playing, did he have a ruff childhood, did some one in his family die, or was his 
 father a cop, i mean throw me a bone. All in all this is a very playable game and some of the achievements 
 are fun to get but this game could have been so much more if they just would of put a little more 
 time into it. So Rent it before you buy it because you might get everything out of it by just doing 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Before I go into this review, I am just going to say: Rent this game for a weak before you buy 
 it, because that is how long it will last.
  
  PROS: To me I was impressed at first by the fun game play of non-stop action and the freedom to 
 go anywhere you like. The explosions of grenades and rocket launchers was also very satisfying. 
 The excellent cartoon graphics is a good break from standard realistic graphics. Basicly the action 
 was pretty good until I got bored.
  
  CONS: Extreme lack of story keeps you from finishing the game on a happy note, actions gets repetitive 
 over time, no form of important characters, sound isnt the best, it would not be worth it to buy 
 this game, so rent it first.
  
  Final thoughts: I recommend renting this game, because it is fun for about 15 hours, but after 
 that it gets to boring and it would be a waste of money to buy this unless you loved renting it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a fantastic action game from Microsoft game studios and Realtime worlds . You play 
 the game as a genetically advanced law enforcer bent to get rid of crime from a futuristic metropolitian 
 city . The story is about killing 21 tough bosses from three notorious crime factions in the city 
 . The game has excellent graphics / visuals , soundquality and AI . The radio soundtracks are mediocre 
 . As a genetically advanced law enforcer you gain speed , more life bars and ability to jump much 
 higher ,lift heavy objects (even cars) as you progress in the game . But you have to collecct various 
 orbs around the city to level up your character .You get to ride nice vechiles in the game and 
 do racing , stunts with the cars too. You also unlock coolest weapons found from killed opponents 
 in the game. The game has similiarity with Grand Theft Auto series like freeroaming , buts its 
 a total different experience from GTA . The boss fights and the respawning enemies can sometimes 
 be very tough to be dealt with . For beating this game you need to level your character to max 
 first otherwise some challenges can seem tough .
  
  The game has got awesome co - op and split screen feature .The game has some awesome downloadable 
 contents from Xbox live feature to add spice to your gameplay .Overall its a fun action game. I 
 recommend this game highly to action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyte_spede
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown puts you in the pants of a genetically enhanced agent of, um, The Agency. Well, your 
 duty is to rid the city of the 3 controlling gangs, each in its own area of the city. That's it 
 for the storyline. As a superhuman supercop, you can run fast, jump high, shoot guns, and steal 
 cars and drive them into criminals. The graphics are nicely textured with a black line outlining 
 characters, giving it a look similar to cel shading. The buildings and terrain and the entire city 
 is very well designed, giving many ledges that you can climb up and a futuristic type of appeal. 
 Sound is nothing special, pretty basic actually. There is no background music, and when you are 
 in a vehicle you only can listen to the crappy radio music for the different parts of the city. 
 This sort of game should have used custom soundtracks. The music doesn't really get to you though, 
 as you'll probably find that you never want to enter a vehicle anyway.
  
  Being on foot is much more fun than being in a car. There aren't many jumps or things to do stunts 
 off of in the city, and the few jumps that are best to hit aren't very thrilling. However, when 
 on foot, you can jump across rooftops, climb skyscrapers, or kick gang vehicles into the ocean. 
 The only thing to do in vehicles is do the races, which aren't fun.
  
  Shooting is simplified with the use of precision aiming. There are a few different types of guns 
 to use, and you make them available by taking them from gangs to your supply points. Multiplayer 
 lets you play with another agent by your side, or lets you do the work while the other player goes 
 around climbing buildings. Nothing special in multiplayer but not terrible.
  
  Unlocking achievements in the game seems to be the most fun thing to do, as they have you doing 
 a wide variety of crazy activities like juggling cars with rocket launchers or impounding vehicles 
 or killing people with building structures.
  
  There is some decent fun to be had here, but not enough to warrant a large replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagheuer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I had no idea of what to expect of it. When I start playing it the first 
 thing that my eyes saw and liked were the graphics. This game is rated M and has cartoony graphics 
 and it works fine. You play as a super agent that has to fight crime in 3 cities. One great thing 
 is that you can go from city to city and no loading it all runs really great. The game has no framerate 
 problems and runs smoothly. You have many skills in the game and can upgrade them all. There are 
 a lot of collectibles. The only flaw I saw in this game is that the main missions end too fast. The 
 good thing is that you have a lot of collectibles and a few side missions that will keep you playing, 
 plus there is great downloadable content from xboxlive. Also the cooperative mode is great and really 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  The mechanics are fun to play , jumping the hight of a building! Shooting is easy and feels good 
 to play. But some how you will get board with lack of content and up close fighing doesnt look 
 good which takes away from the effects. Throwing cars is kinda fun but gets old quickly.. Hand 
 to Hand is not very good as well. Far away shooting get kinda old but is fun but so much of the 
 game is this way but the graphic's dont match it as it feels like your just shooting at your red 
 reticle but can really see anything....... Still if you rent it you will likly enjoy playing it 
 threw as it has some RPG qualities that make achievements fun but sometimes irritating. I very 
 much recommend getting ahold of this game as it has some intesting FUN Value. YOur Real Review!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somethindumb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome graphics, frame rate never dips in single player campaign, guns and explosions 
 sound great, thrilling battles with gang generals, awesome abilities improve as you play the game.
 
  
  The Bad: driving is no fun until you have it maxed out, music in cars is terrible, no real "story" 
 to speak of, tutorial voice never stops talking for the whole game. no features added into the 
 co-op made.
  THE WEAPONS AND "STORY"
  In Cracdkown, your goal is to eliminate three gangs that have torn up three different cities. Each 
 gang has seven different bosses and a final crime (a get together of all surviving gang members) 
 that you must defeat before the gang is eliminated. To do the job of "cleaning up the city", you 
 are provided with a huge arsenal of weapons and explosives (you may carry two weapons and eight 
 of one type of explosive) that range from machine guns to sniper rifles to heat seeking grenade 
 and rocket launchers.
  THE ABILITIES
  Agility
  1 star-you can jump about 10 feet
  2stars- you can jump about 15 feet
  3 stars- you can jump about 25 feet
  4 stars- you can jump 
 about 35 feet
  strength-you can heavier thing up until four stars when you are able to lift and throw trucks
 
  firearms- you become more accurate with all bullet firing weapons, and they do more damage
  explosives- your explosives become more powerful and get a larger blast radius
  Driving- all 
 cars you drive become faster and easier to handle and agency cars (3 cars given to you at your 
 "base") develop abilities when you reach four stars.
  THE GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is very good. you can do all the things that are possible in games like grand theft 
 auto even though you are a cop. There is a small penalty when you kill a civilian. It is, in fact, 
 so minuscule that i don't see why they even put it in the game. imagine this- you kill 100 gang 
 members, then you kill 2000 civilians and your net gain is just about 0
  CO-OP
  The co-op version of the game is only available through xbox live. Although the co-op seems a bit 
 half baked, it is pretty fun to play crackdown with someone on your friends list and then get to 
 have it save onto your own hard drive.
  
  All in all, this game is excellent and a must have for any 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteeleInd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I was immediately in love. The world is huge and alive. At first glance, 
 the world seems quite small. But as you look up, you notice that the world is not just the ground 
 and the road. But buildings, awnings, rooftops, pipes, bridges. The world is both a horizontal 
 and vertical playground. Pedestrians react to you as they should, traffic is just right, gang members 
 usually don't bother you until you bother them, so you can drive freely and fearlessly.
  
  At first, you have a weak, normal human being, well... maybe a little above average in terms of 
 strength. However, there is an RPG-esque leveling feature. You gain stat points for a certain trait 
 by using it in combat. If you kill someone using a gun, you get firearm skill points, same with 
 driving, strength, explosives. Agility (arguably the most important skill) is leveled up mainly 
 by collecting the abundant Agility Orbs that are seen on the rooftops of buildings. As you level 
 up, you gain more and more skill in each trait until you become near god-like. The game is much 
 more interesting as you level up and gain the ability to reach higher points, run faster, transform 
 cars into death machines, lift buses, target with extreme accuracy, and create massive explosions.
 
  
  If you spend all your time leveling your character up before you take out the gang bosses and leaders, 
 the story mode is extremely short, but that is just the beginning of the fun. There are achievements 
 that add to the replay value, and you can choose to run around the now pacified world, now that 
 you have defeated all the gangs, the streets are peaceful and allow you to wreak your own havoc, 
 and allow for much easier finding of orbs and stunt markers. And even past the achievements, there 
 is online co-op with another player that allows you to go and do ridiculous stunts with a friend. 
 You can set up massive explosions, chain reactions, or just plain mess around.
  
  And after you begin to get bored, you can go out and download the free and/or premium content available 
 from Xbox Live to access new cars, new weapons, a cloaking device, new mini-games, and even a new 
 gametype. The free content pack supplies you with Keys to the City mode. This mode is essentially 
 a blank slate of the game where you start out with a completely stock game. No levels, all bosses 
 are still alive. However there is a cheat menu that allows you to level your character up to any 
 level. Super speed, strength, god mode, vehicle spawning, explosive barrel spawning, time of day 
 changing. These add-ons supply you with even more hours of either single player fun, or take Keys 
 to the City mode online with a friend for even wilder antics.
  
  If you haven't played Crackdown yet, I highly recommend you at least rent it. People thought it 
 was going to be a bad game, because it was a way to get into the Halo 3 Beta, and that it was a 
 gimmick to sell a crappy game. I mean, sure the graphics are cartoony and unrealistic, but it's 
 great that way. If people would take the time to give it a chance, they could have some real fun. 
 I love this game, and I'm 1 achievement away from 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger_Hppy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an open world sandbox game from one of the creators of the Grand Theft Auto series. 
 Although the game is light on story and structure, it provides a unique experience that is simply 
 the definition of light-hearted fun. Below are the different aspects that determine Crackdowns 
 overall score.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Crackdowns graphics eschew the typical photo-realism that is prominent in 
 games now for a cartoon-esque cell shaded look. Although it may sound to be a bad move to many, 
 the cartoon graphics actually contribute to the games larger than life gameplay. With such cartoon 
 like graphics, its much easier to accept a man leaping more than 7 stories in a single bound. 
 There are a few graphical glitches here and there, but nothing too noticeable or detracting. The 
 game boasts a terrific draw distance that makes climbing the many skyscrapers that much more rewarding, 
 offering a view of cars traversing the streets and the beautifully done sky (Something that many 
 games dont seem to capture) . However, as you move closer to buildings or other things, you notice 
 that all of the detail disappears and the textures are bland and boring. Overall, the graphics 
 are fairly good, especially considering its one of the first cell-shaded games on the new consoles. 
 The music is nothing spectacular, and only plays while youre driving, a la Grand Theft Auto. All 
 of the tunes are completely forgettable, and youre going to want to listen to your own music on 
 your hard drive so you get music playing constantly.
  
  Story: Crackdown simply does not have a story worth any recognition. You are a genetically enhanced 
 agent working for, what else, The Agency, and are tasked with cleaning up three different gangs. 
 No other story is present at all, leaving the gameplay to support the game. Grand Theft Auto this 
 is not.
  
  Gameplay: Crackdown puts all of its effort into gameplay, with mixed results. With no story to 
 speak of, and a generic character you dont care about, the gameplay is the only thing that can 
 save the game. Luckily, it comes through. Somewhat. Crackdown is the extreme of open ended design. 
 There are three gangs, controlling three different islands. The Agency island (where you can 
 access Agency vehicles) is nestled in middle of the triangle. There are tunnels that lead from 
 the Agency building to each of the three islands, allowing quick transportation. In addition, there 
 are Agency supply stations scattered across the three islands that you can capture. Once you do, 
 you can choose to respawn there and select any weapons you have acquired. In order to acquire a 
 weapon, all you need to do is grab it from the world and bring it to a supply station, and it will 
 be accessible from any of them. If you have played Mercenaries or are familiar with the Deck of 
 52 from that game, then Crackdowns power structure of the three different gangs will be familiar. 
 There are the lowest class, the middle class, and the main head. You can attack them any order 
 you want to, whenever you want to, although taking out the grunts will make the head honcho much 
 easier to takedown. In addition, you can take on any of the thee gangs any order you want. There 
 really is no structure to the game at all, although each gang is harder than the previous. You 
 can tell the difficulty of the gang by the height of the buildings around. In order to level up 
 your different stats (firearms, strength, driving, explosives, and jumping) you must do that action. 
 Shoot people, and little orbs will pop out and give you boosts. Throw something and your strength 
 increases, drive over people and your driving skill increases, and so on. The only difference is 
 the agility orbs you need to get to increase your jumping stats. Theyre by far the best aspect 
 of the game, as your constantly trying to climb that impossibly high building to grab one. There 
 are no side missions to speak of, and once the gangs are done, the game is over, leaving you to 
 jump around in a city with nothing to do. The co-op play is decent with a stranger, and a blast 
 with a friend. Jumping around trying to kill each other with rocket launchers when youre supposed 
 to be hunting baddies is too much fun. Overall, what Crackdown tries, it gets right, but it doesnt 
 try all that much. You have complete freedom, but none of the goodies that go hand-in-hand with 
 some structure. Overall: Crackdown is a fun and amusing romp while it lasts. However, when its 
 over, youre left with an empty city that suddenly feels very empty, despite the towering buildings 
 around. Co-op alleviates some of this, but not to a degree where youll play it for more than a 
 month or two, and I expect more out of a $60 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Iam a huge fan of this game i cant see much wrong with it.
  
  The acheivement arent too hard to get, the game is filled with fun from start to finish.
  
 
  Weapons are excellent and theres a huge range to choose from.
  
  I would sum up with saying that this game is a futuristic version of the GTA, with less load times 
 between islands.
  
  If you are looking for a particularly challenging game this isnt the game for you though, the missions 
 are easy and the level ups are straight forward.
  
  A must buy for any owner of the xbox 360 console. Also this game has a great co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntropicVoight
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  The invincible man is a rather boring hero. wouldn't have been so bad if there were some manner 
 of villain that could match and exceed yourself, instead you deal with someone who is inconveniently 
 out of the way.
  The driving, boring as hell and verging on superfluous. Mainly did the game en pied. Announcer 
 guy, smug son of a gun I would have liked to put the boots to, calling every five minutes to reiterate 
 a point he made earlier.
  Volk is a German word, people!
  The villains were a tossed salad of racial stereotypes and rehashes from Dolph Lungren movies, 
 yet infinitely more interesting than your protagonist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samster3345
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  At X05, Realtime Worlds promised a great game with unprecedented freedom, a sort of GTA-like game 
 on steroids. Get ready to enjoy some great steroid-induced freedom and mayhem, while (ironically) 
 feeling like there could have been a bit more to it. Crackdown is a free roam, GTA style, third-person 
 action shooter by Realtime Worlds. In Crackdown, you play as an agent working for the Agency 
 in Pacific City, building up your stats, collecting various weapons, seizing enemy-controlled supply 
 points, and battling against three major gangs; Los Muertos, The Volk, and the Shai-Gen, each on 
 their respective turfs (in this case the turfs are three huge islands) , all the while being helped 
 along the way by an announcer with a movie trailer-like voice.
  
  You start off at the Agency headquarters and are given a small mission involving gang members of 
 Los Muertos engaging in a gunfight with Agency Peacekeepers (police) , and capturing a supply 
 point. This is given as a sort of tutorial mission to get you used to the controls and the environment. 
 At the end of the mission you are given your first supply point. The supply points in the game 
 allow you to save your game, use them as shortcuts to reduce long and arduous trips back and forth 
 through the city, and to store any gang weaponry you bring back with you.
  
  You work your way through the game by crippling each gangs inner circle, which means killing 
 the generals (sub-bosses) , and their kingpin. There is no specific order that needs to be followed 
 in killing these bosses. You can literally go in and attempt to kill the kingpin first (although 
 knocking off the kingpin first may prove to be a difficult feat to manage) . However, in order to 
 eradicate the gang from the streets for good, you must defeat all of the generals, and the kingpin. 
 Each general including the kingpin reside on different parts of their respective islands and are 
 heavily guarded by their peons trying to gun you down. The gangs themselves hold their own against 
 you, and are heavy in the numbers field, but never to the point where it gets too difficult to 
 manage. They are mostly found in 4-6 man groups on rooftops or at ground level.
  
  Improving your stats and skills is where the actual fun lies within the game. You are given five 
 skills you can boost to give you an edge over your enemies. These skills are Agility, Driving, 
 Strength, Explosives, and Gun Expertise. Boosting these skills will have a dramatic impact on how 
 fast you agent is, how high he can jump, how well he can handle guns and explosives, how strong 
 he is, and how well he can handle a vehicle. You can level each skill up to five times simply by 
 using that skill against your enemies, completing various mini-games, gaining achievements, defeating 
 bosses and finding hidden orbs. Of the five skills you can boost, the gunplay skill is the most 
 obvious and monotonous, with your aiming and accuracy improving after every level-up, simply by 
 gunning down enemies. Boosting your explosives skill is a fun treat; as your explosions from grenades 
 or rocket launchers achieve a larger blast radius and deal loads of damage. Driving is simply the 
 worst skill available, at least until you max it out, allowing you to use vehicles to their full 
 potential. From the get go, you start off at the Agency headquarters with Agency vehicles available 
 at anytime for you to use. As you level up your driving skill, your agency vehicles appearance 
 will change in a sort of Transformers-like style, which adds a very unique touch, and a bit of 
 eye-candy as well. The skills that will have you playing this game to the limit are Strength and 
 Agility. Leveling up your strength will alter your agents physique to a Mr. Galaxy-like touch, 
 and will give you the ability to lift and throw heavier objects, and topple them over. Once you 
 max out this skill, youll have Hulk-like strength, with your agent lifting well over 10 tons and 
 hurling it over 200 feet, or kicking enemies over 30 feet. To be able to level this skill up, you 
 simply have to defeat enemies with melee attacks. Your Agility is the hardest skill to boost in 
 the game, but in the end you can pull off Hulk-like jumps and achieve fast running speeds at max 
 skill level. Your agent will be able to jump at heights over 25 feet. To max out this skill, you 
 must collect Agility orbs scattered around the city on all three islands, or gun down enemies from 
 high altitudes. After maxing out all of your skills, youll be a walking battle tank ready for 
 anything coming your way.
  
  The controls are responsive with an easy learning curve. The driving aspect is what really lacks 
 some physics in the free roam GTA Sand-Box department. It was just not fun driving around trying 
 to level up this particular skill, only when the maximum level was reached could the full extent 
 of the driving be savored. The graphics are great for a game of this magnitude, everything in the 
 game has a unique cel-shaded look to them, but it isnt cel-shaded at all, the game is fully rendered. 
 There are hardly any drops in frame rate; except for times when there are just too many things 
 going on at once, may it be too many NPCs, cars, or explosions. The explosions in particular, are 
 very stupendous, especially when the agents explosion skill is maxed out; they just look and sound 
 extremely satisfying. The actual sounds of the different weapons are pretty satisfying, and may 
 bring a little grin to your face on several occasions. On the other hand the voice acting, with 
 the exception of the announcer voice, is quite annoying. Whenever you instigate a gunfight in the 
 streets with a gang, 90% of their dialogue consists of the phrase Prepare to Die! in inflections 
 that just make the very phrase as dull and watered down as Yo Quiero Taco Bell! and on top of 
 that, the voice actors dont seem to pay attention or try to put any effort into their accents, 
 with the exception of Los Muertos, who speak Spanish. The Shai-gen is a corporation run mostly 
 by Asian (of either Chinese or Japanese descent) terrorists, and the Volk are a band of Russian 
 terrorists, supposedly they all have a very clear American accent, but this is very easy to get 
 through by simply turning down the voice volume down to 0.
  
  The game also supports 2 player online co-op. This gives anyone a great excuse to cause extreme 
 mayhem in Pacific City with a friend, all the while obtaining achievements, completing missions, 
 and accomplishing just about everything you could do while playing in the single player campaign.
 
  
  Overall the game is a great game. But its a great game with little content. While all of the overall 
 aspects of the game mentioned above may make the game seem like a very long ride, truth be told, 
 the game is only an 8-10 hour game. Everything including skill boosting, and missions can be done 
 within that time, and that is only the core of the game. The game also includes a time trial mode 
 which allows you to replay the games various bosses as fast as you can, and post your overall time 
 on Xbox Live, but this aspect of the game is superfluous, if not just for the bragging rights. 
 You could consider the rest of the game to be the orb collecting aspect and the small mini-games 
 as well, but there just arent enough. In the end Crackdown is a great game filled with many great 
 ideas, but comes shy of fulfilling those ideas, youll keep feeling that the developers could 
 have added a few new things into the game. Maybe they will with some downloadable content. With 
 that being said, gamers who play Crackdown will enjoy a great and simple game, with fun controls, 
 simple gameplay and just enough content to make this a worthwhile free roaming, Hulk-esque, exploding, 
 super genetically altered hell of a ride!
  
  --FatedHayabusaX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kineas454
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I basically only bought this game to be able to play the Halo 3 beta, but fortunately, the beta 
 wasn't available straight away, so I was able to appreciate how good Crackdown is.
  
  In a nutshell, it's Grand Theft Auto but you play as the police, and you can level up your stats.
 
  
  Multiplayer is really good it's the same as single player but you know.... with multi players, but 
 it adds a whole different concept of the game i. e. having fun.
  
  The downloadable content is worth getting, adding street races and some extra weapons into it. 
 They try to encourage you getting it by having some achievements that you are only able to get 
 through using the additional game modes, weapons and vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LombardiCO
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This was horrible, I would burn the disc and then take a dump on it. A city full of gangsters with 
 signs on their heads to let you know they are hostile. And while the use of skills also levels 
 up your skill, I just don't see how kicking and punching some guy turns you from an anorexic cop 
 to robo cop. The graphics aren't that great and the sound just blows. Phyics were bad and I am 
 a stickler for in game physics. The only good part was being able to pick up a car and throw it 
 at some poor being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: restlessdragon
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  ***SPOILERS****Don't get me wrong ... this is a good game ... it's alot of fun and can be difficult 
 at times. However it does not have alot of depth once you knock out the gang lieutenants and leader 
 you're done ... it felt very anti-climactic when I finished it for the first time .... the civilian 
 and Enforcer AI can get a little stupid sometimes ... but I just couldn't shake the feeling that 
 there should have been something else ... like the big boss that was alluded to in the ending cinematic 
 ... once the game ends you are left to roam around the city with nothing to do except get all of 
 the power ups you missed during gameplay unless you choose the option of reloading the gangs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kman117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was a good game. The graphics were great, the gameplay was astonishing, and the game 
 let you play the halo 3 beta. The game was over too fast. Thankfully there was extra content on 
 xbox live. Occasionally i just want to play it and run around the city jumping from building to 
 building and shooting random pedestrians with the harpoon gun and kick the dead body. Another enjoyable 
 aspect of the game is harpooning gang member to the agency truck cab and watch the bodies move 
 as you hit speeds around 120 mph. The game was amazing and i am awaiting a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieler081
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought this game would be a cheap rip off of GTA, It wasn't. It was fun. In Crackdown 
 you can go from building to building by just jumping. If you need to escape just climb up a building 
 and onto the rooftop. You can jump from the top of a building and land in water without a scratch. 
 If you like Grand Theft Auto or Saints Row this is the game for you. You'll spend many hours on 
 the Single player and after the Single Player you can roam around the city just messing around. 
 You can also do cheats, God-mode, Super Agility, or Super Strength. Fun Game, Must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenrirx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  If you're gonna get this game, make sure you get the expansion otherwise it is over very quickly 
 and you end up with a big empty game world. With the expansion you can reset all the gangs and 
 continue your quest of destruction!!
  
  There are also new things to do and weapons, which make give it more verisimilitude. Try to play 
 co-op on line as well, its great fun though very buggy so lets hope they patch that soon.
  
  Reminds me of the RPG Corporation if you've ever played that www. corpgame. com Another point 
 of note is that the main action is quite repetitive, if you like blasting people with overkill 
 weaponry then no problem but don't expect missions like GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaLonakuka
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has a good concept. You're a futuristic cop that has superhuman powers. Ok, but, is it 
 all? Yes, it is. Apart from that and from the Cell-Shaded graphics, it's just boring. It's easier 
 than anything you ever played and it doesn't has multiplayer... WAIT! An XBOX360 game doesn't have 
 free multiplayer? YEAH, only co-op... That's it for the gameplay. For the good things, it has great 
 physics, graphics and sounds. It would be cool if there wasn't any diversification on the gameplay. 
 Of course you have ragdoll here, and one of the most cool things in it is being able to throw cars, 
 objects and ANOTHER LIVING BEINGS THAT ARE ON FIRE, dude, it's just crazy. If I were you, I would 
 check this out, only for a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: professor2211
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown you are a special genetically engineered agent who has to kill all the top ranking 
 members of the gangs and their kingpins. This game is a mixed-bag for me b/c while this an open 
 world game, alot of the time there isnt much to do. The missions kind of get repetitive ,boring, 
 and feel like a chore. The only time I actually liked the missions is when I had to scale the skyscraper 
 of the Shai Gen kingpin. Also, after beating the game there isn't much difference to keep playing 
 b/c this isn't GTA and it's no fun to kill pedestrians. The graphics arent all that great . I thought 
 the comic art style would stand out, but it ends up looking very bland.
  
  Overall, this is a great pickup for anyone looking for a quick fix of fun videogaming, but this 
 not might be for a hardcore gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Every boss is the exact same in this game, you get no diversity and they are way to easy to kill 
 for being bosses. I leveled up all my skills before I killed any one boss and the game still only 
 took like 8 hours to beat. Ill admit it is good for the first couple days, but after that it sucks. 
 Theres no online multiplayer so what is there to do? Co-op gets boring fast because it takes so 
 long to get a partner and most likely youll get disconnected. For $60.00 it just doesn't seem worth 
 it, I only bought it for the Halo 3 Beta and the Beta sucked as well. Overall I felt ripped off, 
 I only played 4 hours of crappy Halo 3 Beta and 8 hours of Crackdown. The Lasting appeal is terrible 
 and overall I rate this game a 4.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robarts
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  There's not a whole lot of stuff I can say that hasn't already been said. Crackdown is an open ended 
 sandbox game coming from the mind of Grand Theft Auto's creator, Dave Jones. In the near future, 
 things that are escalating now are just a little worse with three gangs taking over three parts 
 of Pacific City. Crackdown's only objective is to defeat said gangs and level up your character. All 
 this is great, but it feels a little loose.
  
  Their isn't much of a story and all you do is defeat gang bosses, one after one. While choosing 
 to take out their guards or just run straight up to them and shoot them first. This would be a pretty 
 dull experience, but thankfully, Crackdown has some very unique abilities to offset this. In other 
 words, if you like mindless action movies you'll love Crackdown.
  
  Leveling up in Crackdown is as easy as playing thanks to the great way the system is built. If you 
 beat gangsters up with your hands, up goes the strength letting you throw heavier items at enemies 
 and knock enemies further. Likewise, if you run people over, shoot them, or blow them up, your skill 
 in that area increases. The only skill that doesn't upgrade this way is agility, in which you'll 
 have to traverse building tops and mountain tops to find agility orbs. Thus adding a whole new level 
 of freedom to the sandbox genre and collecting these orbs is not only fun, but quite addictive. Your 
 character will automatically grab any ledge or window he comes into contact with, and climbing 
 up to the tops of buildings has it's own gratifying rewards. There are also some side missions that 
 both consist of racing, one on foot and the other in a car. These are fun for a while, but you probably 
 won't feel the need to do them all. Although, if you are extremely competitive there are leaderboards 
 for them.
  
  Crackdown also features the first true co-op for a sandbox game. It doesn't make you stay in the 
 same screen, instead it let's up to two players go free in the massive city and do...... well...... whatever 
 they want. You can fight the gangs together which is a blast, kill eachother which is also fun, 
 or just toy around with the world in whatever creative way you and your partner can think of. The 
 only complaint I would have with Crackdown's multiplayer is the way it handles new and exiting 
 players. If you start the game after finding someone it isn't so bad, but if not ,it's gonna hurt 
 the experience a little. While playing a game another player can ask to join. This pauses your game 
 and asks for permission, but once you accept, it jerks you out and re-loads. So if you were expecting 
 to just find another player appearing in the game all of a sudden, think again. Also, even after 
 the initial re-load, if the other player leaves at any time you are once again booted back to the 
 main menu. This really could have been more streamlined and hurts an otherwise great co-op game.
 
  
  The music in Crackdown is also a little odd. It makes sense though considering Realtime Worlds couldn't 
 use anything we could have heard before. The whole game looks and sounds great. The people don't 
 really say much unless you cause chaos, but that'll be most of the time so it's o. k. And the cars 
 all look pretty similar to what we see today except the agency vehicles which transform according 
 to your driving level. These vehicles all look great though and come apart nicely in explosions. Thanks 
 to the graphics engine, Crackdown has some of the coolest and biggest explosions ever seen in a 
 sandbox game. The whole game has a cel-shaded look to it ,but instead of that being the limit everything 
 also has quite a bit of detail as well. This makes Crackdown a very nice looking game and the graphics 
 perfectly complement it.
  
  Crackdown has some of the best and funnest action i've seen in a sandbox game and it's all executed 
 pretty well. If you can get over the multiplayer issues and can handle basically no structure for 
 the missions in a game, Crackdown is a great buy. Halo 3 Beta or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I said it, it was a great game. I had a lot of dun playing it. No, I did not buy it for the 
 Halo beta, I was acceptable to that on my good looks..... I bought this game for the game.
  
  The graphics were very good, they lent themsleves very well to this style of gameplay. They 
 looked very much like a comic book. That's cool.
  
  The idea of powering up your character in the game was good. It made it much more fun, although 
 you shoudl be able to at least drive at the start of the game. They screwed that part up. If only 
 got a little better. Please, if you are going to have driving in a game, take the time to do it 
 well.
  
  The story was pretty predictable, but I was surprised by the ending.... I couldn't believe that 
 Darth Vader was Luke's father.... oops, wrong one.
  
  This game is worth a buy or rent and that is without the beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazonek
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a new open-world game from Realtime Worlds in the vein of games like GTA3 and Saint's 
 Row but with a big twist. There are definately some flaws with the game but the end result is a 
 fun accessible game that 360 owners will find worthwhile.
  
  In Crackdown you play a genetically enhanced agent of justice who has to rid the city of crime 
 as you try to take out 21 gang bosses. The city is called Pacific City and it is spread out in 
 three different areas each with their own gangs. The 1st area is home to the Los Muertos, the 2nd 
 area belongs to the Volk and the 3rd area houses the Shai-Gen Corporation. Each area has it's own 
 gang leader and once the leader of the Shai-Gen Corporation is killed, the game ends. Besides the 
 ending and beginning sequences, Crackdown has virtually no storyline at all which detracts from 
 the overall experience.
  
  You start the campaign at the agency where you learn the controls and use an agency vehicle to 
 go out into the city. There are 3 agency vehicles which are a Sportscar, an SUV, and a Truck Cab. 
 You can also hijack vehicles found around the city.
  
  Crackdown's main gameplay hook is being able to increase skills that the agent has. The 5 skills 
 are the driving skill, shooting skill, strength skill, agility skill, and explosive skill. Each 
 skill has 4 levels of power and get maxed-out after that. By using your different skills to kill 
 gang members, you get orbs the raise your skill level. The agility skill however, is raised by 
 collecting agility orbs scattered across the city. The driving skill is increased by running over 
 enemies, the explosive skill is increased by killing enemies with grenades and rocket launchers, 
 the strength skill is increased by killing enemies with unarmed combat, and the shooting skill 
 is increased by killing enemies with guns. After enough playing, you will be able to jump whole 
 buildings, increase the effectiveness of your vehicles, run faster, make huge explosions, aim extremely 
 well, and throw things very far. At the highest level, you truly feel like a super agent and it 
 easily ranks amongst the best of gaming experiences.
  
  Leveling up your skills is essential to be able to kill some of the tougher gang members so it 
 definately feels like it's a big part of the game. Pacific City is a large place and sometimes 
 jumping buildings at high speeds just doesn't get you to the place you want to be fast enough so 
 the game makes use of agency supply points. These supply points are placed across the city and 
 you can transport from one to another in a touch of a button. You can also equip different weapons 
 at the supply points and save your data.
  
  Besides killing the 21 gang bosses, Crackdown has a few mini-games scattered across the city. You 
 can do checkpoint races on foot or with a vehicle and once you complete them you get some agility 
 and driving orbs. While Saints Row and the GTA games have tons of activities to do in their cities, 
 Crackdown's Pacific City only has mildly entertaining checkpoint races. This is an extremely disappointing 
 aspect of the game because the agent's skills could have been used to create some interesting activities. 
 The replay value also suffers from the lack of extra things to do besides killing the 21 gang bosses.
 
  
  Once you kill a gang boss in the Campaign mode, you unlock a trial in Time Trial mode where you 
 can try to kill that gang boss as quickly as you can. While it's nice to have an extra mode, Time 
 Trial just seems tacked on and doesn't add a whole lot to the game. One extra thing added to Crackdown 
 that does add to the game is an Xbox Live and System Link co-op mode where you can play the Campaign 
 and Time Trial modes with a friend. Killing the gang bosses and screwing around in Pacific City 
 with a friend is great fun that should please gamers looking for something extra in Crackdown.
 
  
  As fun as it is, Crackdown still has some noticeable flaws. First off are the controls. The aiming 
 and camera control are slow while the action is fast and hectic which causes confusion and tends 
 to be frustrating. Another problem is how short the game is and how little extra content there 
 is. One last issue is the constant bullets that fly in your face. You almost never know where you 
 get hit from and all the screaming and bullet sound effects make combat with a lot of enemies far 
 more confusing and annoying than it should be.
  
  Crackdown's graphics have a cel-shaded look to them but in fact, they are simple 3D graphics with 
 black outlines around everything. This creates a cool comic-book looking effect to the environment. 
 The textures and details in the game are simple yet effective.
  
  Crackdown boasts some of the oddest music ever heard in a video game, The tunes range from spanish 
 melodies to techno songs but at least they fit the game's environment. Just don't expect to enjoy 
 the music you hear as your going around the city. Crackdown has some good crisp weapon sound effects 
 but the screams and rapid talking of the gang members gets so annoying that you feel like muting 
 them completely. There is little voice acting to be heard except for the agency instructor who 
 always seems to have something to say. While you will find the instructor to be helpful at first, 
 he just becomes annoying later when he's taught you everything to learn.
  
  Crackdown is an entertaining open-world game with great gameplay but with a lack of value and plot. 
 A rental for most but gamers desperately wanting another open-world game should buy it. The Halo 
 3 beta packed in makes the purchase a bit better to swallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassyLime
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  When a lot of people hear about this open world kind of do whatever you want type of sandbox game, 
 their first reaction is usually Oh great another GTA clone. Well, that might be true for some 
 games like Godfather and Saints Row where it is basically GTA with another name (and not as good) , 
 But some games are completely different and only share the same type of genre with GTA. These are 
 games like Mercenaries etc... And usually those types of games are surprisingly fun and addictive. 
 But what if you put superpowers into the mix? Then my friend, you got Crackdown.
  
  This game is set in a city that is made up of basically 3 big islands all connected by bridge and 
 then a fourth island sitting in the middle of the others. That is home to the Agency, a crime fighting 
 organization that has assumed control of the cities police force as it tries to quell the 3 major 
 gangs (you can tackle this gangs in whichever order you like, but some are harder then others) 
 that have taken control of the city. You take on the role of a superhuman agent created by the 
 Agency to restore order and peace to the city, by any means necessary, and that means you can blow 
 the crap out of and kill anything that moves... in the name of justice! And thats where the story 
 ends, which is kind of a downer, but with this type of game you dont really need a story to keep 
 the game moving but it would have been nice to have one more then just gangs controlling a city. 
 That said, there was quite a good plot twist at the end of the game (that I wont spoil) which 
 made me and my buddy go Woww...
  
  The game play is similar to other sandbox type games. You start out with a pistol and SMG made 
 my the Agency. You will also have five areas (Firearms, Strength, Explosives, Driving and Agility) 
 that are 1 out of 4 stars. To increase these you must kill people with guns, blow things up, drive 
 and so on and so forth. And as your skills increase, your character model that you choose (out 
 of about 10 or 12 different looking models) changes. You start off as a pretty weak looking guy, 
 but as your strength increase you turn into the Hulk, and as your agility increases, your appearance 
 changes as you seem to age, which is a really cool affect that made me want to up those skills 
 more just so I could see what my character will look like afterwards. There are also supply points 
 around the city that you have to take back from gangs hands and then can be used to store gang 
 weapons and picked up (and then access at any time) , restock on grenades and ammo, and rez there 
 if you die. Since this seems to be the near future, cloning is now a reality so when you die, a 
 clone of yourself with all your memories and so forth is sent out to replace you. So other then 
 losing a small amount of your skills, death isnt that big a deal. You can also kick and throw 
 things (which depend on you strength, at 1 star you can throw small dumpsters but by 4 stars you 
 can lift objects up to 10 tons, so you can carry cars with ease) at your enemies. There are also 
 orbs scattered around the city for you to collect. There are two types: agility (500 orbs) and mystery (300 
 orbs) . You can collect these orbs which increase your agility and all your skills with the mystery 
 ones. These adds to the replay value because you really want to find them all, and it starts to 
 get really hard to after awhile. The driving also works really well, you can get agency vehicles 
 from the Agency or commandeer civilian vehicles. In the original game, you cannot store vehicles 
 you find and use them later, but with the new 800 MS expansion you can. Also, when your driving 
 increase, so does the handling ability and appearance of your agency vehicles, eventually giving 
 them machine guns and nitro etc...
  
  The sound in the game isnt amazing, but its still pretty good. All the guns sound realistic and 
 the voice acting for the civilians and gangsters are good. The city sounds like a busy metropolis, 
 with the sounds of cars and people walking around. The only downside to the sound is the voice 
 that is basically your helper throughout the game. At the start of the game he gives some good 
 tips, but it eventually just becomes annoying because he does talk a lot and sometimes it makes 
 no sense. Like you will be on the ground and he will say Thats amazing that you reached this 
 height agent! BUT IM ON THE GROUND?!?! Eventually you learn to tune out his voice but it would 
 have been nice if there was a feature to mute him.
  
  The graphic in my opinion are great, but others might not like it too much because it is a sort 
 of cartoony, comic book style art to it, not the grittier kind like in GTA 4 and GoW. But I love 
 that style because you are basically like a superhero in a comic book and it looks very nice, everything 
 it detailed well, and when you climb to the tops of big buildings, you can see the rest of the 
 city clearly, so it has a good draw distance. The characters are all modeled well and there isnt 
 a distorted look to them. Also, there are many different models of gang members and civilians so 
 it never really feels repetitive. So if you are tired of games using the Unreal 3 Engine (even 
 though its a awesome engine but like EVERYONE is using it nowadays) , this might be a breath of 
 fresh air to you.
  
  Then there is the co-op. This allows another friend to join into your city or vice-versa and you 
 can work together to take down the gangs or just have fun killing each other and such. You can 
 go anywhere in the city in co-op, it doesnt matter how close your buddy is. And in my opinion 
 having a buddy to play this game with makes it so much more fun because you can spend just hours 
 and hours killing each other, doing street races and just screwing around. With the new expansion 
 you can also play games like Rocket Tag and orb hunting competitions, which just add more to this 
 game.
  
  The only downfall to this game is that there arent any side quests. The only mission you have 
 it to track down the gangs leaders and kingpins and take them out. This is kind of a downer because 
 it would have been cool to have other missions to play. That also makes the main game kind of a 
 short, me and my buddy beat it in a weekend, but theres just so much stuff you can do for fun 
 that more then makes up for the lack of missions. There are also street and rooftop races you can 
 do.
  
  The boss fights (basically the gang leaders) in the game are okay, for the most part. There are 
 about 24 in all, so about 8 per gang (7 leaders and 1 kingpin) . For the first gang you fight, there 
 boss fights are simply theres the leader on a roof with enemies near him, go kill him. So its 
 not too inventive or hard. But when you encounter some of the tougher gangs, they can be barricaded 
 in buildings, on oil rigs, in mines and so forth. These fights really make you think how can I 
 do this without dying and it adds a level of strategy to the game that some others of the same 
 genre dont have.
  
  All in all, this a great game which lets you do almost anything with no restrictions and really 
 makes you feel that you are a superhero. The flaws, such as that annoying voice and the lack of 
 side missions arent even close to enough to make up for the games numerous qualities. To anyone 
 who likes the sandbox type genre or just loves superheros, this is a game you defiantly need to 
 check out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spike12117
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  A Superb Sand Box Game! You Start off as basicly a regular cop but over time you change. There 
 are 5 skills. Strength, Agility, Explosives, Fire Arms, and Driving. Agility is a well thought 
 out skill. By raising it your running speed increases to about the speed of a car and your jumping 
 increases to around 25 feet. And it changes the color and aerodynamicy of your outfit. Strength 
 is an amazing idea for the game. It allows you to do alot of things. When its maxed you can pick 
 up things as heavy as a giant truck. You can kick people and cars extremely far. With each level 
 up you get more health. You even get taller!. Explosives is really fun to use. There really is 
 no point to rank it up though all that happends is the explosive gets bigger. Its fun to use though 
 because you can kill so many enemies so fast. Driving is great. As you rank it up the cars improve 
 in speed. The Agency Cars even upgrade. The 3 cars are super car, suv, and truck cab. At 4 stars 
 they all get something special that replaces the horn on B button. The super car gets machine guns. 
 The suv gets a super bounce that when used in coalition with a truck ramp you can go flying. the 
 truck cab gets turbo which sends the slow truck cab flying by charging through most cars at 200 
 mph. Fire Arms was the big let down. All it does is improve firing accuracy. There are 4 terretories. 
 The Agency, The Den, La Mugre, and The Cordidor. The Den La Mugre and The Cordidor are controlled 
 by gangs. La Mugre is controlled by Los Meurtos. The Den is controlled by The Volk. And as for 
 the last place its controlled by Shai-Gen Corporation. Each has 6 generals and 1 king pin. After 
 beating those each terretory has a final crime. After beating that the gang is eliminated and the 
 terretory is renamed. After killing all 21 bosses and stopping the 3 final crimes the game isnt 
 actually over. You can ressurect the gangs and kill em all over again. You can also play co-op. 
 You can even play Keys to the City mode or Street Racing. Street Racing is boring. You just race 
 in cars around certian tracks hitting check points. Keys to the City is tons of fun. Theres no 
 saving but its fun. You have access to tons of cheats. You can set your skills to anything you 
 can have infinite ammo and much more. So All and All its a great game with lots to do a short learning 
 curve and the difficulties can get really hard. Tough is the easy mode. But its not that easy. 
 Pyschotic is extremely hard. The inbetween i would only reccomend for plays who beat the game then 
 selected ressurect gangs. Pyschotic is only for the players who have Maxed out every skill and 
 have beaten the game on both the other difficuties. So i hope if you get this game you play it 
 a lot. On top of what I've said it can add a good 1000 to your gamer score! - Sgt Bill Gannon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvengerAaron666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Iam a huge fan of this game i cant see much wrong with it.
  
  The acheivement arent too hard to get, the game is filled with fun from start to finish.
  
 
  Weapons are excellent and theres a huge range to choose from.
  
  I would sum up with saying that this game is a futuristic version of the GTA, with less load times 
 between islands.
  
  If you are looking for a particularly challenging game this isnt the game for you though, the missions 
 are easy and the level ups are straight forward.
  
  A must buy for any owner of the xbox 360 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Now I am going to say something truthful before the review. That is I did not, I'll say it again, 
 did NOT buy this game for the Halo 3 beta. With that said lets get on with the review. Overall 
 the game is a solid, yet extremely short version of a Sci-Fi GTA. The explosions are many ans way 
 to out of hand, but in this game they can be as they all look cool. The voice acting is okay, but 
 most of it is a gang member screaming something at you. The guns are many, but most become useless 
 once you grab a rocket launcher. The AI in the game does have it moments, but is mainly a little 
 on the dumb side. The graphics though are a notch above these free roaming action games. Most of 
 all this game seems heavily influenced to people who are acheivement whores , excuse my french. 
 The game maybe short and have not much though behind it, but trying to collect all 500 agility 
 orbs, (I am currently 19 away) in a massive city/mountain enviornment proves difficult. Overall 
 this game could be entertaining as long as the developers focus not on the multiplayer, but the 
 single. The graphics. This seemed surprisingly strong for this type of game. Yes, the way the characters 
 and cars look may seem cell-shaded, but in all actuallity they are not. The characters have a bold 
 dark outline to give them the apperance of cell-shaded when in fact they are faar from it. Giving 
 this game a new graphical look then anyother game. As stated before the explosions are many and 
 also over the top but the game pulls it off and makes them amazing. There are few graphical glitches 
 that I have run into nothing usually big, but I have heard from others of nasty malfunctions. The 
 sound. The voice acting is generic compared to other games of this calibur. The main help voice 
 sound more like a movie announcer than a helpful friend. Your own character never talks leaving 
 him seem just like a robot, which I guess he might be. The cars and guns also sound generic making 
 many of these sounds, sound outdated and dull. Let's just put it this way, you are not buying the 
 game for the sound.
  
  The control. Well at least something in this game seems decent other than the graphics. The controls 
 are easy to learn and flow smoothly throughout the game. Sometimes on could have trouble while 
 lifting a car or in a massive shoot out, but that is mainly nerves. Overall the control seems very 
 simple and easy to learn.
  
  The multiplayer. As stated before this is mainly for people who want achievement points, but other 
 than that, this is a lousy first attempt at a good free roaming action game with a dash of multiplayer. 
 This should be ignored. Overall the game Crackdown is a decent game, but one might want to wait 
 for a price drop. The leveling up system is fun and entertaining and if not for that the game might 
 have been an utter failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegReg619
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for 20 seconds and it was awsome. The graphics aren't exactly next-gen at least 
 not in the same way as the other 360 games. Instead of concentrating on every little detale it 
 makes a creative design and make a emersive open world. The sound is top noch, when you blow up 
 a car with a cluster bomb it sound like you just blew up a car with a cluster bomb. the atribute 
 system makes it so you can the worst player ever and still get lots of experence. This game delivers 
 in every way and is a game for everyone who likes blowing sh*t up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I bought this game when it came out. I started playing. And i got so addicted to it. Basically 
 you can collect orbs which are placed around the city. And with each orb you get, your agility 
 skill increases. At the end you are able to jump over 30 feet in the air. You can also increase 
 your strength (which allows you to pick up huge trucks over time) , Driving skills, Explosion skills. 
 This game is just a blast to play. i like jumping building to building. its a different experience. 
 But, the actual story is kinda weak and there should be more missions to do than to just hunt down 
 crime boss after crime boss. it gets really repetitive. but overall a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeTD21
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Good: Lots of guns, Can do whatever you want, Lots of explosions, Jumping from skyscrapers is awesome. 
 Kinda of feels like a futuristic GTA. Throwing huge objects is cool.
  
  Bad: Sub-par graphics and sound. Just blowing up stuff gets repetitive. Cars are not very fun until 
 you max that skill. Not much story. Crackdown is set in the future where gangs rule the city. You 
 are part of the Agency. All the worlds governments put together. You are a genetically enhanced 
 soldier. If then tells you to go kill the gang leaders to break up the gangs. That is about all 
 the story you get. After that you are told to take out various gang leaders to slowly weaken the 
 gang, until finally you can take out the king of that area and destroy the gang altogether. You 
 pick up various weapons and grenades along the way. There are three different gangs. You get to 
 places mostly by using your insane jumping skill to hop from building to building, but you can 
 also drive cars. Their are five skills firearms, explosives, agility, driving, and strength. You 
 advance all the skills except agility by just killing people using that skill. For agility you 
 collect orbs that are usually in hard to reach places. When you level up a skill you are able to 
 better use that skill.
  
  This is a good game. I wish their was more of a story, but it is just fun to blow up twenty gang 
 members with one grenade. If you are looking for a game that takes skill, look elsewhere. But if 
 you are looking for a game where you can just blow stuff up this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  When I rented this game I did get what I was looking for. A solid game that would give me a good 
 two weeks play. If your someone who is looking for a pretty recreational sandbox game that you 
 can sit down and have fun with for about 2 months, I woulden't not recommend it. But, if your a 
 gamer that is alot into tactical FPSers or solid and epic RPG's then I can almost promise you that 
 this is a renter for you.
  
  This game plays as a GTA sandbox style of gameplay but, with NO extra purchase features or anything 
 like that (you cant even enter a building) .
  The driving is really crappy but, the jumping ability's priovide a very fun superhero type feel.
 
  The thing that really kills this game is the fact that the whole point is to kill 21 gang bosses 
 (3 gangs) then thats it. your done .&gt;: (
  The gameplay is fun at first but, after awhile the lock on and shoot gets extremly repetative and 
 the lack of any storyline is upsetting.
  Once you have completed the game there is almost nothing to do. It gives you an intresting twist 
 but, I wish they would have given us a storyline to make it so much better.
  A decent game, there is fun parts to it but, RENT FIRST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is actually a very fun game at first. When you first play it this is a great game. And 
 for me it was pretty fun untill I beat it. But I beat in just a few days, which is less then the 
 time I rented it for. But, then once the Halo 3 Beta came out I really wanted to play so I went 
 out and bought Crackdown. Which I now regret since I played the Beta that night and never again, 
 because by the time I went to play it again it had been gone for three days. And also, it's not 
 very fun anymore.
  
  I did buy some of the downloadable content which also was fun at first with the new weapons, vehicals, 
 and game modes. But, after a week or so then they got really old.
  
  What the game is about is your a new breed of cop that can become super powered if you try level 
 up. And there are three different gangs that each have seven bosses. It doesn't matter what order 
 you take them out in, you could take out the Kingpin first and it wouldn't effect the story line 
 at all. And after you beat al the bosses then there will be a small group of each gang that survived 
 that you will have to take down and is not that hard.
  
  When you level up that means using your skills. There are five skills: Driving, Shooting, Melee, 
 Explosives, and Agility.
  
  Driving: you run over people in your car, jump through the stunt markers, or do tricks.
  
  
 Shooting: shoot people to death.
  
  Melee: you can kick people, hit them with your gun, or throw objects at them. Explosives: you can 
 use your rockect or grenades and you can blow up explosive barrels next to people. Agility: you 
 can shoot people from a high enough altitude or you can get the Agility Orbs wich there are 500 
 of scattered through out the city. They can be on rooftops, rocks, or on various tall objects.
 
  
  There are two kind of orbs then Agility Orbs which I mentioned eairlier and the are 300 Secret 
 Orbs which are hidden in all the little knooks and crannys of the city. They could be behind or 
 in building, on or under rocks, on different islands, even where the bosses are.
  
  Most of the achievements in this game are eaisily obtainable some are kind of tough or take some 
 effort. And quite a few of the more valuable ones you get if you complete the story mode.
  
  The Multiplayer is okay you need to play it for a few achievements, but I have more fun in 
 single player. And the map and the story are the same as single player except it's a little eaisier 
 since there are two of you. And the bosses for Multiplayer are decided by whoever's hosting the 
 match, because whoever they haven't beaten yet will still be around. Even if the other person already 
 beat them. There is really no reason to play Multiplayer if there are none of your other friends 
 to play with you.
  
  So I would say if you still haven't played it yet rent it first and if you really like it then 
 rent it again just to make sure. And if you still like it then go ahead and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I said oo Oil Paint Graphics or Cartoonic Graphic, but when I started 
 playing this game, I was highly impressed by its graphics. Graphics are nice &amp; the city &amp; 
 cars looks beautiful. Unfortunately thats the only thing that impressed me. Like the old hack &amp; 
 slash game, this game is like shoot and run, thats it, no story, just a poor plot, that has no 
 clue. Shooting is not very fun either. Same type of stupid enemies, even the boss battles rn't 
 interesting, oh wait, were there any boss battles :|
  Driving is ok, Jumping is awesome. Its really cool, jumping building roof tops. The game provides 
 the purest form of sandbox experience. But the lack of story &amp; not to mention no side missions 
 makes the game feel like u r moving around in city simulation &amp; people are shooting at you 
 :P
  Game could have been improved if there was a decent story &amp; some tweaking of gun fights.
 
  Plus a couple of minor graphical issues, but not too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceater
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Take one part Grand Theft Auto, one part Six-Million Dollar Man, and one part cartoon, then mix 
 them together and you'll get something close to Crackdown. The story is... we'll, it doesn't have 
 much of a story. There's this Agency, and there's you, a genetically engineered fighter of crime 
 if you will, with superhuman abilities to boot. That's about it, other than you can evolve rapidly, 
 thus increasing your powers quickly. Crackdown features a large city to explore and in the same 
 grain as recent Grand Theft Auto games, lets you roam the environment freely. There are 3 gangs 
 that you must take out to make Pacific City safe again. Each gang has seven leaders and the order 
 of taking them out is up to you. However, as you evolve and become stronger and faster it will 
 become apparant that there is a method to the madness. Tactical advantages will open up once your 
 abilities get better, so if you can't seem to get through a certain part, go do something else 
 and build up your skills. There are five main areas that you can improve on: agility, strength, 
 driving, explosives, and weapons. Each of these areas require you to do specific things to upgrade 
 yourself. For expample, agility is improved by collecting orbs from defeated enemies. Once your 
 abilities have been built up sufficiently, you'll notice that you can perform superhuman comic 
 book feats like jumping onto rooftops and lifting cars. You'll even be able to out run traffic 
 by the end of the game. You have to be careful with your newfound strength, though. Hurting innocent 
 bystandars, on purpose or not, will draw the attention of other police that will try to stop you. 
 In addition to acting like a comic book hero (or villian) you also happen to look like one. The 
 game is 3D, but is cell shaded to give it that cartoonish look despite the game being for a mature 
 audience. All of the characters, including you, move fluidly and quickly. Most of the time there 
 are tons of things going on at once, but the 360 chugged through with no problems. Pacific City 
 is decently big, not as huge as GTA: San Andreas, but having the ability to easily scale buildings 
 gives it another level of depth that no other game has, with the exception of the latest Spider-Man 
 or Hulk games. However, Crackdown has a deeper level of interactivity than those games and is significantly 
 more detailed. There is a good variety of cars to comandeer, although I will say that driving seems 
 a bit slow until you build up your driving skills. Crackdown is one of those games that should 
 be played at least once. There's so much to do and to do it in such grandiose and over the top 
 fashion gives it a kind or charm. Honestly, does roundhouse kicking a car into a gang of criminals 
 ever get old? No, it doesn't. I mean, that's something that only Chuck Norris could do. Everyone 
 needs to expreince that kind of power. Play Crackdown. My Score 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skh447
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is about a city, known as Pacific City, Has three main gangs. So the law enforcers (peacekeepers) 
 make a cyborg super cop clone (agent) . As an agent, you take down the gangs crime bosses and kingpins. 
 The gameplay is third-person shooter. You have skills such as Strength, Firearms, Explosives, Driving, 
 and Agility. You can earn four star ratings on them. There is online co-op. You can get many weapons 
 and vehicles. The three gangs include Los Muertos (mexican gang) , Volk (russian gang) , and the 
 shai-gen (asian gang) . You can collect hidden orbs and agility orbs. Agility orbs give you agility 
 points. Hidden orbs give you points on all five skills. This game is a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  At first I thought that this game was going to be a GTA ripoff like Saints Row. I was pleasantlly 
 surprised when I got a game that was a mixturE of Mario 64, jumping flash (for those of you, who 
 know what that game is) and GTA. this game is solid super fun and super addicting. the best thing 
 about this game that seperates it from GTA games is the fact that you can jump like the Hulk up 
 to 30 feet from rooftop to rooftop and you can lock on to your target, making this game a real 
 shooter unlike GTA. The game is farily challenging and a must have for the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  It starts out with the chaos that you would only see by obtaining a five-star rating in Grand Theft 
 Auto. The game doesnt peacefully begin like most open world games. Its pure insanity. And its 
 wicked fun. With martial law sweeping across the city, the government has been forced to unveil 
 its top-secret super soldier program. Part Robocop, part Incredible Hulk, you are a genetically 
 enhanced crime fighter designed to take a beating, dish out punishment, and more importantly, evolve 
 to meet the challenge at hand. Evolution is the key to the thrills that Crackdown delivers. Every 
 bullet that you fire, every car that you lift and throw, and every thug that you splatter on the 
 windshield of your truck has a purpose, as every action rewards the player with experience. From 
 the outset of the game, you are already the strongest person walking the streets of Pacific City. 
 You only become more of a dominating force as the game unfolds. At the beginning, your jumping 
 skill is impressive for a basketball player. After your agility levels rise a few times, youll 
 be leaping over buildings with a single bound. This system affects everything. Your firearms will 
 become more precise, youll be able to lift more weight, and certain vehicles will even transform 
 to become more efficient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  I just bought the game not too long ago and it is AMAZING!!!!!
  Before you start the game, I strongly recommend you download all of the extra content from the 
 marketplace. You play as an agent, an officer working for the Agency, an International Police Organization 
 that cracks down on crime. The game will give you certain agents to play as. Think of a Grand Theft 
 Auto, only you are the law. Nice Concept right? However, your character can gain upgrades such 
 as better accuracy, a stonger appearance, increased mobility, and so on. I played it for about 
 1/2 hour and was hooked, but I had errands to accomplish. I do not know why so many people would 
 trade in this title, mainly for the Halo 3 Multiplayer Beta but I dont know otherwise. This is 
 a very open ended game with a lot of potential and you will not be disappointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSGeek
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is as you know for most gamers just a key to the Halo 3 beta. But some reviews say it 
 is a good game too, and I agree..... sorta. The game is fun because well your just a superpowered 
 cop on steroids. You can throw cars, explosive barrels, and a bunch of other things. The only bad 
 thing is, it just gets boring. When my friend got it I was dying to play it, but after like 50 
 minutes I said well now what do I do? I am a cop on ultra steroids and Im jumping on roofs and 
 kicking people, is that all? My friend also had the Keys to the City download which let me have 
 a bit more fun spawning explosive barrels, but I was still not satisfied. Most guns fire the same 
 way, besides the harpoon gun of course which also let me have a bit of extra fun, and all cars 
 drive the same way exept the SUV which I can jump in... wow. But seriously I dont understand how 
 this game got such high reviews in some places, because I think its a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bromz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  If you were to download the demo for Realtime Worlds' latest game, you would have to venture into 
 Xbox Live's Shooter category. In reality, this game really is a whole lot more than shooting.
 
  
  Taking the Grand Theft Auto 3 formula and taking the term sandbox to a whole new level comes Crackdown. 
 A game in which you'll enter Pacific City, which is split into three regions each with its very 
 own bloodthirsty gang. Your mission... kill the gangs. Throw in a mysterious agency who tells you 
 who to assassinate and thats your plot.
  
  Obviously, not a great amount of storytelling goes on here and theres certainly alot of missed 
 opportunities for at least some intrigue, for instance who are the agency? Instead Crackdown is 
 like a next gen tetris, no story, but a whole lot of fun.
  
  The game also lacks side missions to add a little replay value, but with that being said there 
 are 21 bosses in the game to kill, but the go there, kill that nature of these bosses is actually 
 what you would expect of side missions in other games.
  
  You have four skills; driving, strength, shooting and explosives that will increase in a RPG-like 
 level up manner simply as you use them. Then you have agility, agility orbs which you must locate 
 are dotted around Pacific City, run into them and up goes your agility. You'll want to do this 
 as with agility maxed out you'll be jumping around rooftops and running at great speeds. Agility 
 orbs are cleverly used in this game to get you on the rooftops, they give you a reason to explore 
 the impressive city. Although you will very rarely get to go inside any buildings, understandable 
 since it would have made for an enormous game size, but a few more indoor scenes would be nice.
 
  
  The multiplayer is a little hit and miss. Its certainly not seamless with some joining/leaving 
 issues but can be great fun leaping around buildings with a buddy. Although beware, you can kill 
 each other in the game so playing with random people you don't know on XBL isn't recommended, theres 
 nothing more frustrating than to be right near the end of completing a mission and then have you're 
 friend blow you into 1000 pieces with a rocket launcher.
  
  If you are looking at buying a superhero game this summer, look past the onslaught of poorly developed 
 movie games and get Crackdown. Theres nothing more fun than jumping off Agency Tower at night, 
 blowing up twenty gangsters with one grenade or doing all kindsa flips in a SUV.
  
  Even without the Halo 3 beta which obviously increase sales, you should at least rent this game. 
 Not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylan35
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  great game not a gta clone tried demo didnt really care for it saw the review that g4 gave it and 
 gave it another chance add it to your collection its kinda like mario on krack running around collecting 
 orbs so that you can jump higher this is the place that shadowrun should have taken place in. the 
 city is great and the feeling of aaaaaaaaaaaaa wwwwwwwwwoooowwww is there now that its available 
 used for a cheaper price you will get your moneys worth being able to jump from rooftops along 
 ledges all in the attempt to reach thee orbs will find you very satisfied 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I officially got my copy because my friend, who bought it because of the HALO3 Beta, didn't want 
 it anymore. As soon as I started playing I was instantly addicted to it. Bad things first: One 
 of the only bad things I can say about this game is that the game is a little bit on the easy side. 
 When you die you respawn and other than the fact that you may have to travel a little to get back 
 to were you were when you died everything is exactly the way you left it. That is a small gripe. 
 If it does tend to be too easy just up the difficulty. Not a biggie as far as problems go. Another 
 problem is the fact that if someone joins your game they can pretty much kill boss after boss with 
 or without you and to me that is annoying because if it is my game we're playing then I don't want 
 anyone taking out a boss without me. Last, it seems to be a little short. While I believe I have 
 played a little over 13 hours into the game, if I didn't play around I probably would have beaten 
 it a while ago. Good things about the game: The good of the game definitely outweighs the bad. 
 Instantly after starting this game you will find yourself jumping from rooftop to rooftop and believe 
 me, that is awesome! I love it! I sometimes just find myself doing that and blowing up baddies 
 while doing so. Nothing beats sending a rocket down to a baddie while jumping overhead. The story 
 part of the game has you trying to kill all of the gangs and their bosses. There are three main 
 islands with bosses of each gang living on the respected islands. Your job is to go in, take out 
 each boss one by one and then deliver the final blow by eradicating the last remaining gang members. 
 All the while you're defending yourself against roving gang members and gang hit squads. To categorize 
 this game I would say it is a FPS in 3rd person meaning that there isn't no go here, pick up item 
 A and take it there missions in this game. This game is more Here is the closest boss now go kill 
 him by any means necessary . The multiplayer will keep you busy for a while too. At any time a 
 player can jump into your game and after they enter the game picks up exactly where you were before 
 they joined. You can go after gangs together, race against each other, do rooftop races against 
 each other, play Rocket Tag against each other (my personal favorite) or just jump around looking 
 for orbs if you want. Over all I would say that this game is fun and exciting. If you are a fan 
 of FPS type gaming (aka kill, kill, kill) then this is a great game. This game is a definite buy 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrink45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  I was skeptic at first, but after a while playing it, it turned out to be a real blast (that is, 
 if you invest time to level up your skills) . Okay, so you're Mr. Badass who can run like a horse 
 and have the muscles of Ahnuld to clean up Pacific City of three rival gangs. I won't bore you 
 with specifics to keep this review short. It plays real well, concerning the controls. As far as 
 gameplay goes, it's a real hoot. Being able to jump incredible heights and fling ten ton objects 
 at enemies is awesome, plus you can scale any building. That was my favorite part of the game, 
 just figuring out how to get atop massive structures; it was more of a puzzle than an activity, 
 keeping me entertained. The game has a neat cel-shaded look to the objects and environments to 
 give it a more exxaggerated comic book feel. It works well within the game's context, taking a 
 detour from glossy next gen visuals of other titles. Sound is alright, with the environments, gunfire 
 etc. sounding nice and crisp. The music and the voice of the Agency really dragged it down in my 
 opinion. Some of the things the Voice says are funny ( Hey, I can see my house from here! ) but 
 are recycled and turn stale and annoying. I didn't like the soundtrack all too well, so I plugged 
 in my Zen to use music I like. In terms of length, it is a ballpark to most people, as it depends 
 if you shoot through the core missions or opt in to do optional things like foot races, street 
 races and the like. Be rest assured that you are in good hands, my friend :) To wrap it up, Crackdown 
 was really good, concerning that maybe most of you bought it for the Halo 3 beta. All in all, this 
 was a nice break from playing Rainbow Six: Vegas for me and I am sure that you will enjoy it as 
 much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a decent sandbox game. If you are looking for a lot of action this is your game. Its 
 like a mixture of GTA, Mercenaries and Spiderman. A nice feature is that there are Supply Points 
 around the map where you can save weapons to, so if you find a powerful weapon you can bring it 
 to a supply point and always spawn with one in hand. I would HIGHLY suggest renting this game first 
 because it can easily be beaten in 4-5 days and really isnt good enough for $60.00. The city is 
 huge but is soulless; the people barely say anything and are more or less in your way the whole 
 time. Also the boss battles can be annoying because you normally have to fight your way through 
 100-200 men to reach the end and if you are killed you have to fight through 70-100 men normally 
 before reaching the boss.
  
  All in all, Crackdown is a decent game. Its action packed, its crazy, its violent to the end, but 
 compared to GTA or Saints Row it's just not happening. 7.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay, for many people, Crackdown ended up in their 360 library because it had a a Halo 3 beta. 
 Crackdown was pretty much seen as; Free Crackdown game with purchase of Halo 3 Beta and many people 
 asked. A game with a Halo 3 beta, or Halo 3 beta with a game. The answer lies inbetween.
  
  + Building your agents skills up is cool
  + Physical character development is impressive
  + 
 Graphics are a unique comic book style.
  + When you have maxed out agility you can do Spiderman-esque jumps from rooftop to rooftop
  
 
  - Too easy
  - Too short
  - Driving is not intresting
  - No actual characters other than bad guys.
  - Voice Acting is infrequent and is boring and poorly 
 acted
  - The biggest flaw with this game is mission variety. Kill this guy is essentially the games whole 
 mission colletion besides side missions ( rooftop races &amp; car races) race and kill. thats about 
 it
  
  this isnt that good a game you might like it but just cause it has a Halo 3 beta, that doesnt justify 
 a $60 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh crackdown the game that I thought was going to suck but you seem to surprise me with your 
 game play. Lets start with the good the graphics are kind of a comic book style but it still has 
 that next gen polish. The game play is very fun leveling up you character stats your stats include 
  and your shooting skills. There is multi player but it is very 
 linier there is no deathmatch or any thing just co-story, time trial or street races. The bad part 
 is that this game has no story there is 21 crime bosses split up into three gangs la mugre, the 
 volk and shi gen they are all pretty easy to take down especially if max out you characters stats. All 
 in all this game is fun but it is very linier at some points so this game was not worth 60 bucks 
 in my the only reason alot of people bought it was because of the halo 3 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is misunderstood. Games today MUST have storylines. But Crackdown doesn't. It's actually 
 pulled off very well without one! You play as an unnamed super-human. You can choose from a very 
 strange bunch of looks. The most normal ones are a black guy and an Asian, but even then, you won't 
 find anybody that looks like that roaming the streets. Especially once they hit the higher levels.
 
  
  The visuals in Crackdown are an odd blend. They have that strange cartoonish outline form (as seen 
 in GTA) but also objects have textures. This unique blend is really what sets Crackdown apart from 
 other games of its genre. There is nothing wrong with the visuals, but they aren't state of the 
 art. I can't give the graphics a 10 simply because I wasn't impressed, but Crackdown deserves a 
 9 for its uniqueness and that there are no problems.
  
  The gameplay isn't the most solid experience ever. The controls are strange. For instance, to reload, 
 you use the left bumper but in other games it's the right bumper. It get constantly confused this 
 way, because the right bumper throws grenades and that has lead to unpleasing results. The lock-on 
 targeting isn't the greatest either. Sometimes it will lock onto cops instead of the bad guys and 
 in a frantic situation, you might accidentally kill a cop which leads to the cops shooting at you. 
 The brightside of the gameplay is the easily picked up and used abilities. Maxing out your agility 
 skill is worth it because it's a ton of fun leaping between skyscrapers and making unimagineable 
 jumps. It's immensly satisfying. The stregnth skill is the second best because what's more fun 
 that throwing a semi-truck at someone? The demolitions skill I haven't used because it's more fun 
 kicking people than throwing grenades at them. The driving skill isn't fun until you've really 
 maxed it out, otherwise its useless because you can simply use Agency Supply Points you've captured 
 to warp between places, or if your agility skill is maxed out you can run there quickly and jump 
 between buildings. In other words, driving is tuned to be good but there are better things to do. 
 I have to give gameplay an 8. I'm taking off two points because of the driving skill, the confusing 
 control, not-so-great co-op, and lackluster targeting system.
  
  This game features 105 licensed songs. Wow. Each song also has its own 'region'. For instance, 
 you'll only hear the latin music if you're in the Los Muertos zone. If you're with the Volk you 
 won't hear crappy Russian pop music or opera, but you'll hear music that applies. Most of the songs 
 are satisfying to listen to. However, you can only hear them while in a car, which is a decent 
 touch but you won't be in a car long enough to enjoy the music. There is a jukebox function in 
 options menu, but you can't leave the jukebox menu if you want to keep listening. Another element 
 that makes Crackdown Crackdown, is the mysterious guide man. Every thirty seconds or so, a mysterious 
 man will chime in and tell you about your ablities or nag you about capturing Agency Supply Points. 
 He's actually one of the best of his type all things considered. The voice isn't annoying and you 
 acually learn things sometimes. But he gets annoying after a while, especially after you've mastered 
 the game. The sound gets an 8. The guns don't sound that great, the guide man hurts the score some 
 because he doesn't quit even after you've mastered the game, and also the music not being available 
 when not driving.
  
  I tilt this game with a 10 for a few reasons. The first is that in-game advertising is nowhere 
 to be found. You'd think that Crackdown would be the perfect place to put a lot of advertising, 
 in fact, it really is. But it's not there! One complaint is that there's no plot. Well, Crackdown 
 doesn't need one. You're immersed in the game perfectly well without the story. I have to give 
 the makers of the game credit for that.
  
  For those who wanna know, I reccomend Crackdown to anyone who likes the sandbox genre. Don't expect 
 perfection, but you can expect a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an amazingly fun game that wont let you leave your 360 until youve at least played 
 for hours Ive fallen asleep on the couch at least ten times because I stayed up until three or 
 four in the morning playimg this game .It is fun, its addictive, its creative basically this game 
 is GTA on crack. Plus as if this amazing game wasnt enough Microsoft threw in a Halo 3 Beta for 
 when you beat this game. And now with all the downloads its even better. Ive already beat this game 
 at least five times and will probably continue to. This game is a must buy and is definitely worth 
 the $60.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve765
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an alright game. When I first bought it I had high hopes, and even after playing it 
 for an hour it seemed great. Going around shooting people and blowing up bad guys is fun for a 
 while, but it gets old quickly. What what have made Crackdown a better game, and where it falls 
 short of is the bosses. Nothing special here, just the same locate the guy and shoot him till he's 
 dead. The only variety are what weapons each boss has, and their location. The main story won't 
 take you long, due to the fact that the story is a complete letdown. Seriously, it's made up of 
 a 1 minute intro, 12 twenty second or so clips, and a 30 second clip at the end. blah. The recent 
 additions to Xbox Live have helped the game (more vehicles) but I still feel the game lacks substance. 
 A little advice, adding vehicles and races don't make a game's replay value go up, instead it makes 
 it more empty. To increase a games power add maybe a few more skills and some more plot. Now that 
 the Halo beta is over, I can't suggest this game to anyone, it just won't keep you coming back. 
 Renting it would be a good idea, or possibly just wait to it's $5 in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieloc92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game developed by RealTime Worlds, and the founder of RealTime Worlds is David Jones 
 (the creator of the original Grand Theft Auto) . Crackdown allows you to really do what you want, 
 when you want. You play as an agent / super cop who has the ability to jump forty feet into the 
 air, run faster than a car and has the strength of the Incredible Hulk. The point of the game is 
 to overthrow three major gangs that run Pacific City.
  
  Plot
  
  One thing Crackdown is lacking is a story. The games story is very meaningless. You are an agent, 
 sent by The Agency to Pacific City to overthrow three major gangs. The three gangs are: Los Muertos, 
 the Volk and the Shai-Gen. Each gang controls a portion of the city, and each gang has seven gang 
 bosses, one of which is the Kingpin. You can go straight to the Kingpin and try to kill him without 
 killing any of the other gang leaders, but the odds of you succeding are very small. As you kill 
 the other gang bosses, the odds of you killing the Kingpin will increase.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Pacific City is big, so to make it easier to get around you can find Supply Points throughout 
 the city. In each Supply Point, you can store weapons, or spawn to another unlocked Supply Point 
 in Pacific City.
  A key feature in Crackdown is your agents unique abilities. The abilities you have are: Agility, 
 Strength, Firearms, Explosives and Driving.
  
  Agility - To improve your agility skill, you must collect green orbs which are scattered on the 
 rooftops throughout Pacific City. Increasing your agility skill will allow you to run faster and 
 jump higher.
  
  Strength - To improve your strnegth skill, you must kill enemies through punching or kicking them. 
 The higher your strength skill is, the heavier objects you can lift and throw, and the stronger 
 your kicks become.
  
  Firearms - To improve your firearms skill, you must simply kill enemies with guns. The higher your 
 firearms skill is, the further you will be able to lock onto enemies and the quicker you will be 
 able to reload bullets.
  
  Explosives - To improve your explosive skills, you must kill enemies with grenades or rocket lauchers. 
 The higher your explosives skill is, the more powerful explosions caused by you will be.
  
  Driving - There are a number of ways to improve your driving skill. You can complete street races, 
 you can run over enemies or you can drive through a number of Stunt Rings scattered throughout 
 Pacific City. The higher your Driving skill is, the better you will be able to control vehicles. 
 Also, the main agency hideout in Pacific City has a selection of agency vehicles to choose from. 
 The higher your driving skill while in one of the agency vehicles, you will be able to use the 
 vehicles unique abilities.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound
  
  Crackdowns graphics are very unique. They are cel-shaded. This really makes everything look much 
 more detailed, and works very well with Crackdown. The game also has an amazing draw-distance. 
 If you stand on top of a tall building you can see the city unfold before your eyes and it looks 
 amazing. The frame-rate is also very stable, unless you run over dozens of pedestrians on the street 
 at one time.
  This game also has over a hundred licenced songs in its soundtrack, the problem is there is not 
 one known song in it. It dosen't really matter though because you won't spend much of your time 
 in cars anyway.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Crackdown supports Xbox Live co-op play and System Link.
  Playing over Xbox Live is great fun. 
 You can come up with some very creative things to do with other people. The only problem is that 
 there are no proper online games you can play with more than one person (like a deathmatch) .
  
  Originality
  
  There are many open-ended games available, but Crackdown is pretty original 
 when it comes to to unique abilities your character has. Crackdown takes the free-roaming style 
 of games and puts its own twist on it, and the end result is very good.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Crackdown was created by David Jones who is the original creator of Grand Theft Auto, so you 
 know that its not going to be too different. David Jones does try to keep Crackdown away from GTA 
 and at times he does succeed, but at times Crackdown can remind you too much of GTA.
  Crackdown is still a very good game, and gives you the ability to do things which are not possible 
 to do in any other free-roaming game. If you are looking for a good game that you can keep going 
 back to, you should look up Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  ~Intro - Plagiarism is a growing epidemic in video games and movies these days. Every single game 
 that comes out with a new mechanic or genre that becomes popular is automatically copied by tons 
 of publishers trying to cash in on the new trend. I understand why publishers push for easy money, 
 it makes sense, if the consumers are dumb enough to buy the same game over and over again. Don't 
 think that this trend just recently started, its been around since the beginning of the industry. 
 Now, some of these games actually try to create something new with the mechanics, while others 
 just completely copy it. I'll give two examples: one, Gears of war with Resident Evil 4 and Crackdown 
 with Grand Theft Auto Series. Both games copy the fundamental principles of original games. Understand, 
 that Resident evil 4 wasn't the first game to use the over-the-shoulder shooting mechanic; and 
 Grand Theft Auto III wasn't the first sandbox game but both popularized said mechanics. Gears on 
 the one hand added team based strategies and a decent cover system. Crackdown didn't really change 
 the fundamental principles, it changed the scenario behind the principles. Instead of building 
 the game vertically, crackdown is built horizontally.
  
  ~Storyline - The storyline in crackdown is by far the most disappointing aspect of the game. Basically 
 because there is no storyline other than the announcer telling you that your a super soldier created 
 to destroy the three main gangs from pacific city. The only other story elements involved is brief 
 cut-scenes that give little background information on each boss. It seems that the developers knew 
 that nobody was going to give two craps about the story so they just completely opted to no even 
 bother. My biggest problem with the storyline is the fact that there is no central character. Instead 
 you pick from a cookie cut-out list of no named agents that are clones. Which means that when you 
 die, an exact copy is created which again adds that level of who cares about my character since 
 I can just blow myself up with minimal consequences. I would have liked to seen a central character 
 that actually matters; as oppose to some no name agent that is replaceable. To me it seems like 
 the developers would rather have the user play some useless part that has little to no meaning 
 in the end. The story ends just as quickly as it begins; after you kill all three gangs the story 
 aspect is complete.
  
  ~Gameplay - In my opinion, even though I'm a story driven kind of guy. I can still enjoy games 
 that are all fun. This game falls into that category.. well kind of. This game has two main components, 
 the action portions which are decent at best and the adventure elements which are above average. 
 First the bad; shooting, driving and melee combat all fall into the decent but boring and unoriginal 
 slot. Shooting is as generic as can be in an action game; even though you can target specific areas 
 of the body when locked on; the problem is that other than hitting the head or chest every other 
 body part is useless. For example, if you shoot at a gangster's leg, they will obviously fall down; 
 just to get right back up. What is the point of tagging somebody in the leg with 20 bullets if 
 they're going to be able to jump right back on their feet?? Shouldn't their leg be broken or something?? 
 I mean, I'm not a doctor or anything but I assume that when somebody takes a couple of shots to 
 the leg, they aren't going to be able to jump up on their feet right away. Anyways, the next boring 
 element is melee combat. Now this game has a basic system for each category: Agility (jumping and 
 running speed) Driving, Strength (Kicking power and how much you can lift) Explosions and shooting. 
 Each category except the agility component levels when you actually do an event that pertains to 
 said actions. For example, if you want to level up your shooting, you pick a firearm or assault 
 rife and start shooting criminals. If you want to improve your strength, you run up to gangsters 
 and kick the crap out of them. This leads right into why the melee combat is boring; the mechanics 
 are decent, it's just boring the sense that after about 10 seconds you have seen all that your 
 character can do. Which is kick; thats right your character only has one melee attack kicking; 
 now the first time you max out your strength and kick a thief 40 feet in the air, I'll admit it's 
 totally awesome; but after the millionth time it gets kind of repetitive. Now this wouldn't be 
 that big of a deal if the developers had different ways to level up your strength like they have 
 for driving and agility. I'll explain that in a second!! Instead, the developers make you use the 
 same animation over and over; and guess what you have no choice unless you want your agent to have 
 the strength of a little girl. \
  
  Now driving; my beef with this games driving aspect could probably be its own section in this review; 
 but i will save the people that are actually reading this the time and having to deal with reading 
 some horrible euphemism. It brakes down like this; this game was designed to be horizontal. What 
 I mean by this is that instead of having a massive environment like Grand Theft auto San Andreas, 
 you have one small city with huge buildings. I'm talking massive freaking buildings that make the 
 Sears Tower look like a carnival fairest wheel. What this translates to is totally amazing adventure 
 elements. Basically, trying to find a way up these massive buildings is almost as much fun as climbing 
 them. This exact piece of gameplay completely destroys the purpose of driving. My question is this; 
 why in the hell would you drive a crappy mundane car when you can jump 35 feet in the air and climb 
 buildings like a monkey. I mean these two components just don't mix. It's really simple: jumping 
 around from roof top to roof top, taking out gangsters = fun as hell; driving around in a **** 
 car that doesn't do anything (the only cool car is the agency cars because they transform as you 
 level) = boring as hell. I'm going to stop here because if i go any further I will be writing all 
 day on this one aspect. Finally, we get to the coolest part of the game. Collecting agility orbs 
 and participating in agility races; maybe its the fact that nobody has ever done this or maybe 
 secretly i want to be a maid but collecting crap in crackdown is way cooler than anything else. 
 When you start the game you find out that there are 500 orbs spread out across pacific city; I 
 mean these orbs are everywhere, on top of roofs in alleyways, different statues and poles, everywhere 
 and anywhere. As I stated before, the fun part comes in trying to find a way to grab the orbs. 
 In theory this shouldn't be as fun as it is but the developers did an amazing job of creating mini 
 obstacles for every orb on the map. I'm not going to lie, if it wasn't for this gameplay component 
 this game would easily go from a 7.8 to a 5 in my book. Other than collecting these orbs, the only 
 other way to level up agility is by enter different agility races and beating the default score. 
 These are fun because they are laid out through the roof tops of this metropolis. I'm serious, 
 if you don't believe me just try running around pacific city and not collect any orbs. Once you 
 catch an orb sitting on top of a massive building your going to want nothing more than to find 
 a way up that skyscraper. ~Graphics - The graphics in Crackdown are interesting to say the least. 
 They went with a graphic novel type of feel which works but doesn't really do it for me. Personally, 
 I would have loved to see a more realist approach to things but overall the graphics are stylized 
 and different which in my books goes a long way. The special effects and partial systems are pretty 
 impressive; for example explosions look great and kicking a box will cause it crumble to pieces. 
 ~Music &amp; Sound effects - This is the second worst aspect of the game since, there really isn't 
 any music that is worth mentioning. These isn't such a big deal on the 360 since at anytime you 
 can use your own personal music. This fills the music-less void that would normally hurt a game.
 
  
  ~Conclusion - I know what your thinking, how is it that this game can get a 7.8 when more than 
 half of the review is on the negative side. Simple, even though this game does have a lot of decent 
 to less than average aspects, the portions of the game that are good shine the brightest. The other 
 reason why this game isn't getting a super low rating is because I knew going in that this game 
 wasn't going to have a great story or even that great of gameplay. What I did know is that the 
 elements that I did like are extremely enjoyable and make up for the other lackluster areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Crackdown sets you instantly as a genetically engineered cop ready to take down gangs all across 
 this large open city. Crackdown is the opposite of the GTA and Saints row kind of games. You work 
 for the agency and have huge arsenal of weapons, explosives and cars at your disposal. You become 
 your very own special officer upgrading your skills as you do your work, heres a list of the skills 
 you can upgrade
  
  Agility- Allowing you to jump higher and run faster, you can jump higher that 60ft!
  
  Bombs- 
 Making explosive weaponry such as grenades and rocket launchers twice as powerful
  
  Firearms- Making shooting more accurate and poweful
  
  Driving- improves handling and the way 
 your Agency cars look giving them gadgets and stuff like that. Strength- upgrading strength of 
 course lets you hit harder, pick up extremely heavy objects (EVEN TRUCKS) , throw things further 
 and improves health, strength is the easiest to upgrade.
  
  you can uprade all these skills and become the ultimate super soldier.
  Your point in the game 
 is to wipe out all 3 gangs in your city
  
  Los Muertos- The first gang you will come across, fairly easy not heavily armed can be tough
 
  
  Volk- Russian soliders which can be quite powerful, not the most powerful but can be strong in 
 numbers
  
  Shai-Gen- The most powerful of all the gangs, heavily armed and well secured in certain buildings 
 approach with caution.
  
  In order to destroy a gang you must kill the gang leader. In order to get to the gang leader you 
 must kill minor bosses which will make the percentage rate on how likely you are to kill the leader 
 rise. Once a gang is destroyed a Final Crime is put in place, where its up to you to kill all the 
 last associates in a final area.
  
  The music in Crackdown is great it suits the game though it may not be to everyones tastes, its 
 ravey/dance/hip-hopey there isnt much rock but if you dont like your music just plug your MP3 in 
 or something. The game isnt over the top violent its bloody but mainly its, the games physics that 
 make it spectacular. Every building in the game can be climbed up and then later make your car 
 drive up walls. There is one bad thing though really with the game and that is it gets repetitive. 
 Really you are just doing the same thing over and over again, basically going on a massive killing 
 spree and then once your done your done theres nothing else to do. You can on the menu screen respawn 
 gangs just to beat them up again but then it looses its greatness.
  Overall the game is great with its Cell Shaded graphics which look great, hue explosions memorable 
 gunfights and awesome physics with mixes of fantastic club music make this game the nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Open-world games have to date been most successful only with games where you play 'the anti-hero' 
 or 'the bad guy'. There have been attempts to create an open-world game where you can play a good 
 guy, or a hero, or a cop, but most of them have not turned out well at all. True Crime was supposed 
 to be one game where you could play a cop in a GTA-style world, and have certain freedoms as to 
 what to do, but the severe number of bugs in the game ruin playability. The NARC remake was another 
 attempt, but its far-too-small world and the limited scope at which drug use was to play in game 
 mechanics meant that the game was generally bought to be able to play a (n unlockable) version of 
 the arcade original.
  
  Crackdown is finally the first game that takes the sense of good that comes from being on the right 
 side of the law , and gives us a game based on what makes these open-ended games work. Starting 
 as a genetically-created agent for an agency leasing your services to help enforce law and order 
 in the city, you have a lot to do. While the gangs are still in effect, the effects of random chaos 
 by the various gangs running the streets keeps you on your toes, and when you manage to take out 
 a full set of gangs from a region, things become peaceful, providing you a safe haven to hide out 
 and allow you to spend time searching for agility and hidden orbs.
  
  the game mechanics also help reward those with short attention spans. By doing various things, 
 you earn orbs related to those skills to help beef up your agent's powers. Mow down a bunch in 
 a car or truck, you earn driving orbs to improve your handling and eke out more speed from any 
 given car. Spend some time sniping down gang members and before long you'll be able to pick 'em 
 off from distances, hit more precisely and lock on faster. Go toe-to-toe and beat them to death 
 long enough, and you'll be able to punt a gang member about as far as most NFL kickers do an 8-oz 
 pigskin. It gives a sense that even if you only play for a few minutes at a time, you're still 
 progressing. Of course, if you start to go rogue and kill civilians as well, you can start to lose 
 some of your hard-earned orbs in these stats too - at least until you can finally max them out. 
 So check your fire, agent!
  
  Controls are generally solid, and seem to improve the better you make your agent.
  
  Another 
 nice thing is that you can see your agent visibly grow stronger, and age a bit as you build up 
 on your stats. Work on your strength still most, and they'll start developing bodybuilder biceps. 
 Work on your agility and you start getting stronger legs.
  
  In addition, those that buy the premium add-on pack available on the Xbox Live Marketplace will 
 find a fresh l oad of new content to make the single-player and multiplayer h ave much more to 
 do.
  
  Some things I would have liked to see is maybe more optional missions with more varied objectives... 
 admittedly, once you do eliminate all the gang leaders, things become far too peaceful. Thankfully 
 the newest patch-update and add-on packs enable you to respawn those leaders to be able to take 
 them on with friends, but admittedly it does get stale once you've maxed your agent and beat them 
 all once already. But it's a helluva ride along the way.
  
  If you're still in doubt, download the demo on the XBL marketplace and see if it's right for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm very disappointed in this game. I'm not a huge fan of Grand Theft Auto because of the graphic 
 nature of that game. But I did enjoy Just Cause thoroughly, and I was expecting Crackdown to be 
 a better game than that. Not! First of all, I 've never seen a game whose prerelease images look 
 nothing like the actual game. I find Crackdown to be a joke as a next-gen game. The graphics are 
 terrible! The sound isn't much better, and the gameplay is very shallow and unsatisying. Overall, 
 I was clearly disappointed in Crackdown. As I said, I'm no fan of Grand Theft Auto, but I see and 
 read enough of it to know it's a great game. I've played enough of Crackdown to know it is not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  On the surface, Crackdown may seem like another fish in a sea of clones of the quintessential open 
 world, sandbox series, Grand Theft Auto. The core gameplay is similar to that of Grand Theft Auto 
 in that there are cars to hijack, a decent selection of weapon a large open environment. and the 
 similarities end there. Crackdowns differences are what set it apart from the crowd. For instance, 
 instead of assuming the role of a criminal, you play the role of a genetically enhanced super cop, 
 whose sole job is to make sure those on the wrong side of the law are brought to justice. But you 
 wont be making arrests or pulling people over for speeding. In this city, breaking the law is 
 only punishable by death. Now thats what I call justice.
  
  
  From the very beginning of the game, you are given the freedom to go anywhere and do anything you 
 want. Unlike the GTA series, which usually limits you to a certain district of the otherwise open 
 world in the beginning, here, there are no restrictions. This concept of truly being able to go 
 anywhere and do anything from the outset is certainly refreshing and a welcome addition. As it 
 stands, this is probably the most open sandbox game out there and having this essentially limitless 
 freedom is a very good thing.
  
  One of the more interesting aspects is your ever evolving super agent. You begin the game with 
 abilities that surpass those of a normal human being due to your genetic enhancements. Your five 
 core skills are at their lowest point, and youll want to upgrade them, quickly. You can jump about 
 ten feet in the air vertically and while this may sound impressive, compared to whats in store, 
 it isnt. Your skills are developed by utilizing them. Kick enough criminals to death and eventually, 
 youll level up and be able to throw heavy objects, such as cars. Blow criminals sky high with 
 rocket launchers and grenades often enough and your explosive skills will increase, causing your 
 explosive ordinance to increase in power and blast radius to increase, and so on for each of your 
 five core skills. Perhaps the most important skill to develop is your agility skill. Only then 
 will you really appreciate the care and detail that went into designing the city. The sheer verticality 
 of the city can only be experienced with a high agility level, so youll want to take time to seek 
 out the 500 agility orbs scattered throughout the city to level up your agility skill.
  
  Once you level up your agility skill, youll find that hopping from building to building is a quick 
 and enjoyable way to crisscross the city, which is good, seeing as the vehicle handling is a bit 
 iffy, even when you level up your driving skills to the maximum. Before then, you feel a bit disconnected 
 from the car, and overall vehicle handling is slippery. Developing the skill does have its plusses 
 aside from increased vehicle handling as well. You gain the ability to control some cars movements 
 in the air, to perhaps level off after a hard jump and Agency vehicles transform and increase in 
 performance relative to your driving skill level culminating to the maximum skill level, in which 
 agency vehicles gain vehicle specific abilities, such as mounted machineguns on the Agency Supercar 
 and a jump mechanism on the Agency SUV.
  
  Pacific City is divided into three districts, each under control of a different street gang. The 
 Los Muertos, Volk and Shai Gen gangs all have to be eliminated and can be tackled in any order 
 you choose although it should be noted that the Volk and Shai Gen gangs are respectively more difficult 
 to handle than the Los Muertos, so its recommended that they are the first gang you pursue. All 
 of the gangs put up a good enough fight, and there are times when youll find yourself in over 
 your head. In the event that your agent happens to die, you will instantly take control of a carbon 
 copy of your agent and resume playing at one of the agency supply points youve liberated.
  
  As you make your way through the streets, you will receive updates to your gang dossier from 
 the Agency, giving you your assignment. This assignment never changes. Youll receive the name 
 and location of a gang general and youre assigned to take them out. There is no specific pecking 
 order as far as which gang generals you pursue so players can bypass the gang generals altogether 
 and immediately pursue the kingpin if they wish. Killing each of the gang generals does weaken 
 the resistance of the kingpins personal guard and makes them easier to take down so in that, there 
 is a decent benefit. As far as mission variety, sadly, this is it. Missions never stray from the 
 basic go here, kill that guy framework established early on in the game. This is a bit disappointing 
 when compared to other sandbox games that have much more varied mission objectives. After killing 
 yet another gang general for the umpteenth time, youll be pining for more. There is no set method 
 you must follow to eliminate each general, allowing more of that oh so important freedom (seems 
 to be a recurring theme here) to seep in. There are side missions in the form of checkpoint vehicle 
 and rooftop races to test your driving and agility skills, respectively, that serve as a serviceable 
 diversion when you finish the campaign.
  
  Another gripe I have is that there is a lack of a real challenge worthy of your enhanced abilities. 
 After all, shouldnt a super cop have super villains to contend with? Throughout the game, the 
 only opposition youll encounter is endless waves of heavily armed thugs with varying layers of 
 body armor. Its a bit disappointing that there is so little variety in the enemies, compounding 
 with the general lack of mission variety. Those looking for a gripping storyline to uncover as 
 they progress through the game should look elsewhere as Crackdown doesnt have much of a plot that 
 unfolds as you kill off the gang generals. There is a story within the game, but its not something 
 to get really excited over. The story is presented in a brief cutscene prior to the beginning of 
 the game and serves mainly to inform you of the series of events that transpired to lead up to 
 the point the game begins. After completing the campaign, one final cutscene is presented which 
 wraps up the story, unveiling an unexpected twist..
  
  Single player campaign aside, the game truly shines when youre bounding through the city with 
 a friend. The co op system works similarly to the system implemented in Gears of War, in which 
 a second player can join your single player campaign at any time. One major drawback is that it 
 isnt as seamless as it should be. You can set the game up to allow others to join your game (random 
 folks or friends only) and once they attempt to connect, youll be prompted that they are trying 
 to join. This pulls you out of the game youre currently playing and allows the second player to 
 join, meaning, if youre in the middle of a mission or anything else, youll have to quit, starting 
 fresh. When the second player joins your game, they join your version of the city and vice versa 
 when joining another players game. This can be a problem if you have already taken out all 21 
 gang generals and cleaned up the city because you and the second player wont have much to do..
 
  
  Playing through the campaign with a friend is great fun though, whether youre taking out the gang 
 generals one by one or tooling around the city causing random havoc, theres plenty of fun to be 
 had. Both players are given free reign over the entire city and are free to do whatever they choose, 
 even if that means attacking one another. There is a lot to be seen and done in the city and given 
 your super agents abilities and the plethora of weapons and items at your disposal, it really 
 flexes your creativity and allows you to create your own fun.
  
  
  Crackdown has a very unique visual style that blends realism and cel shading to great effect, creating 
 a sort of virtual graphic novel. As a result, the graphics are crisp, well detailed and do their 
 job quite well. In a game filled with explosions, its only fitting that they look fantastic. These 
 are some of the better looking explosion effects in any game on the Xbox 360.
  
  
  The audio presentation is pretty decent. The soundtrack consists of more than 100 songs that play 
 through the in car radio meaning that you probably wont hear many of them unless you really like 
 driving. Once you leave the car, the music will continue to play with a nice positional audio effect 
 relative to your proximity to the car. The announcer, your Agency contact, chimes in every now 
 and then, offering tips, useful information and the occasional non sequitur. In the first few hours 
 of play, these quips can be helpful, even funny, in a campy sort of way. Unfortunately, like most 
 jokes, most are only funny the first time you hear them. After that, they begin to wear thin as 
 he begins to nag you about killing too many civilians (even though they have a bad habit of being 
 in the waya lot) or says something completely irrelevant to the situation at hand. A big example 
 of this is the remarks he makes after youve ascended the Agency tower. Even when youre halfway 
 across the city, or indoors, hell randomly comment on your feat, which tends to be a bit annoying.
 
  
  In the end, underneath its flaws, there is a great game to be found. Despite my complaints, I found 
 the game to be highly enjoyable playing alone, and even more so playing with a friend. The co op 
 mode is probably one of the best in recent memory and offers hours of fun as you wreak havoc around 
 the city with a fellow super agent. It just seems like there was a bit of wasted potential in the 
 lack of mission and enemy variety. Theres no use griping over what could have been though, when 
 the game is as good as it is. If youre an Xbox 360 owner and youre hurting for a good sandbox 
 game or want something you can play with a friend, dont hesitate to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtisredden
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown you play an super-agent who works for The Agency , a organization that is out to rid 
 the streets of gangs. Gameplay: It's a very open world like the grand theft auto games. You roam 
 around the parts of the city trying to locate the henchmen of a certain gang. With each of the 
 henchmen you take out it'll increase your chances against the main boss of the gang. In addition 
 to that there are side missions like races, and rooftop races. You also spend your time leveling 
 up your attributes, similar to an RPG. You'll level up all your attributes like explosives and 
 driving by actually doing these, and this is true for all of them except agility. You level up 
 your agility by finding agility orbs on top of buildings. Once you start to level up your agility 
 you'll be able to run alot faster and jump alot higher, it gets pretty cool.
  
  Graphics: The game has a semi cellshaded look to it. It looks real nice, the explosions and huge 
 just like they should be.
  
  Sound: When you get into certain cars they'll have music playing, but nothing good enough to leave 
 them playing. Your boss will also be talking to you during the game giving you tips and hints. 
 That's fine and all except he doesn't know what he's talking about half the time. You can be underground 
 and he'll say I can see my house from here. 
  
  Value: On the easy difficulty setting you can breeze through the game in a day or so. There is 
 online co-op so you can go and play the game with a buddy on xbox live. Now that the Halo 3 beta 
 is over it lowers the games replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Have you ever dreamed of leaping across high altitude rooftops? Ever wanted to throw a mack truck 
 off the very top of a skyscraper? Well, all I can say is, Welcome to Crackdown! Crackdown gives 
 players a chance to do things that are only possible with the help of superhuman strength. So whether 
 you enjoy hilarious ragdoll physics, colossal explosions, or simply beating street thugs into the 
 pavement, Crackdown will fulfill your needs.
  
  You begin the game as a short, skinny agent who works for the Crackdown organization. This militia 
 of clone agents and police officers is responsible for reclaiming a city that has been swept up 
 in a maelstrom of gang violence and drugs. As an agent, you will attempt to crack down on 21 different 
 gang bosses, each with their own unique fortresses and minions to stand in your way. But how can 
 you singlehandedly take down all of these gangs? Well, that's where you five core abilities come 
 into play.
  
  Throughout the game, you will train and advance your five main skills: agility, driving, explosives, 
 firearms, and strength. Agility controls you running speed and jumping height. Increasing your 
 driving skills increases the top speed of vehicles, in addition to unlocking some really neat agency 
 car mods. Using explosives will advance your explosives skill, which controls the radius and power 
 of your grenade blasts. Your firearms skill will help to increase your weapon accuracy and firepower. 
 And lastly, increasing your strength will enable you to lift heavier objects and throw them farther. 
 Using different skills to defeat your enemies will give you more experience, in the form of little 
 orbs you get from each kill. There are also 500 agility orbs to collect, and 300 hidden orbs, which 
 will further advance your skills. As your experience points increase, you will begin to feel like 
 an unstoppable force as you kick gang members hundreds of feet away, and throw their cars off of 
 mountains while they're still inside!
  
  Leveling up your main skills gradually increases Crackdown's entertainment level. One of the most 
 engaging activities is climbing buildings. It is amazing how every single ledge, overhang, and 
 window sill in the massive world of Crackdown is interactive, meaning they can be used to hang 
 on. There may be a one hundred story building peering down at you, but you could be on the rooftop 
 in a jiffy with max agility. Crackdown offers a great sense of freedom, and within a few hours 
 of playing the game you'll be climbing all over the place. Strength skill is also a lot of fun 
 to toy around with. Players can lift up and throw almost anything within the vast city, even giant, 
 missile-carrying flatbed trucks. You can also kick objects very far, which makes for some pretty 
 comical occurrences. Add some explosives skill to the blend, and its even better.
  
  Let's say hand-to-hand combat just isn't your thing , and you would rather use guns. Crackdown 
 does not disappoint in this field. There are tons of weapons to unlock, and you will often find 
 new ones in each city. Weapons can range from pistols and grenades, to assault rifles and rocket 
 launchers. The shooting is a lot of fun too, because you can easily lock onto enemies simply by 
 holding the left trigger. It is really great to lock onto an enemy, jump about 30 feet in the air, 
 and shoot him on the way down, making a crater as you land. As you discover new weapons, you will 
 also want to seek out new supply points throughout the city. Bringing newly discovered weapons 
 to a supply point enables you to get the weapon again at any previously discovered supply points. 
 That way, if you need to adapt your weapons to defeat a certain boss or infiltrate a base, you 
 don't have to go all over the city searching for weapons. These small conveniences only add to 
 Crackdown's amazing feeling of freedom.
  
  I'm sure that those who considered buying the game probably looked at a few screenshots first. 
 Some probably said Cel-shading! This is Xbox 360; where are the realistic graphics?! Do not let 
 the graphical style turn you away from Crackdown. There is a slight hint of cel-shading present 
 in the environment, but it still looks gorgeous. Each vehicle has a nice shine to it, and the explosions 
 are mindblowingly bright and colorful. As you stand on top of the high and mighty agency building 
 and gaze down on the city, you will see how beautiful this game really looks. Crackdown also has 
 really good sound effects. Although many of the music tracks are in Espanol, it is fitting for 
 the game due to the large population of Spanish gang members in the first city. The guns all sound 
 great, and I especially liked the explosion sound effects. Some explosions were so massive that 
 my whole room shook.
  
  If you have Xbox Live Gold, or known someone else who owns a 360, you will have a chance to experience 
 Crackdown's highly entertaining co-op. Although the game can only have a maximum of two players 
 for co-op, it is still loads of fun. Let's say that you have maxxed out skills, and are playing 
 with an inexperienced player who can't jump very high. Simply tell him to get into a car, pick 
 up that car, and then throw it to wherever it needs to go. You can also take out the local gangs 
 with your co-op friend, which can be very helpful, especially with the later bosses. If you're 
 not in the mood for multiplayer missions, just run around the city and blow things up for a chance. 
 Just don't kill any civillians, or your skills will decrease. Sadly, there is no split-screen co-op, 
 but such a feat would be nearly impossible due to the sheer size of the city.
  
  Although I personally had fun with Crackdown, constantly killing gang members can get a bit repetitive 
 after a while. Even so, there are so many different ways to kill people that even the repetitive 
 shooting doesn't hinder the gameplay too much. The campaign mode has a decent length to it, and 
 once you beat it, you can still do car races and rooftop checkpoint races to extend the game a 
 bit. To tell you the truth, me and my friend had fun just collecting agility orbs on top of tall 
 buildings, but surely not everyone would enjoy such a thing after a while.
  
  Now, the game is coming to an end. Your super clone soldier dude is tall, buff, and ridiculously 
 powerful. You can easily scale the tallest skyscrapers in the game, and you can even jump off of 
 them without dying. You're free to do whatever you please, whether it is messing around with the 
 physics, collecting the rest of the orbs, finishing the races scattered throughout the city, or 
 even starting a new campaign on a higher difficulty. Crackdown is an awesome game with hours of 
 fun gameplay to offer. If you're not into GTA style free-roaming shooters, then Crackdown might 
 not be for you. But if you enjoyed Spider-Man or Psi-Ops, I'm sure you'll get a kick out of this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  crackdown is one of those games that looked very lame when they first advertised it, being basically 
 a super hero cop with guns' but the game turned out to be rather fun.
  
  The graphics are good, it looks like its out of a comic and its fun to watch the cars explode as 
 you send a volley of rockets down on the streets below.
  
  powers from super agility to super strength and driving ability make it fun for quite a while. 
 as your driving improves your agency cars get better, the super car goes from just another fast 
 car to a speed freak that can slide under any other car, and it has machine guns on it, how much 
 more could you want in a car?
  
  sadly, i have found it to have very little replay, the multiplayer is basically singleplayer but 
 with a friend, it adds some things like rocket tag but other than that its exactly the same
  
  my score: 7.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  First of the game ships with the Halo 3 multiplayer beta. Actually the beta has ended so it really 
 will not effect the game much. So getting back on track Crackdowns massive city a. k. a Pacific city 
 is sprawling with gang bangers, cops, pedestrians and you the one man army known as the Agent . 
 The city looks amazing and the draw distance is far, which is good. The pedestrians, cops, and 
 gang bangers not to mention your own agent (theres about 6-8 different agent skins) are all incredably 
 detail and the A. I. is pretty good. Of course you get a massive city to roam around and lots of 
 ***** to blow up. Cops get pissed if you kill to many citizens and the gangs get pissed when you 
 kill their own. The gangs also send hit squads after you and won't stop till your dead. Leveling 
 up in the game is fun and easy and your will become crazy strong and be able to leap buildings 
 in a single bounce (oooops) . The multiplayer is pretty good with to agents going up against the 
 gangs, its really fun. So overall this game is great but after awhile it gets boring, but its still 
 worth the money to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FenixMagerX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  The title doesn't lie one bit. Crackdown is another open box sand game but still, does that take 
 away the fact of it being good? One thing to keep in mind, Crackdown IS NOT a GTA clone in all 
 aspects. With the feature of being a Super Human cop on the Agency side, it definitely is not a 
 GTA clone. There really is no story in Crackdown other than getting all your skills to 4 stars. 
 You skills include: strength, shooting, explosives, driving and agility. You have to kill members 
 of the following gangs in order to boost these skills up: The Los Muertos, The Volk and the Shai-Gen. 
 In that order, it basically ranks the gangs weakest to strongest. If you kill innocent civilians, 
 you skills do not improve but make it so that you have to kill even more gangs members to bring 
 the skills up. Strength: It's probably one the easiest skills to bring up. All you really have 
 to do is kick gang members and throw things at them, per say cars or street lamps. Although once 
 you unlock all four stars on it, you can throw things really far.
  
  Shooting / Explosives: If you read the beginning of this, you should get some idea what you do 
 with these skills. Although if you keep getting different guns from drops, take them to a Agency 
 Supply Point and store them in there to where you have them forever. Same with the cars except 
 you have to drive them back into the Agency, not at th supply points.
  
  Driving: Very fun. This involves either A running over the gang members or B hitting their car 
 which makes them come out and start shooting at you if you kill them with strength, shooting or 
 explosives, you'll earn points in driving and whatever you killed them with. Also with driving 
 you can complete races in order to bring up your driving skill.
  
  Agility: Probably one of the hardest skills to get up. You basically collect orbs on top of buildings 
 and different high places. You can also do foot races that are timed and complete those as well.
 
  
  Crackdown overall is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  There isn't much to the soundtrack but the surround sound is top notch. Sometimes a little too 
 loud. There are very few frame rate issues which is impressive when you get multiple explosions, 
 enemies and bystanders (all doing their own thing) . Which is refreshing since the world that you 
 play in has it's own coloring and unique art style.
  The game controls rock solid and is fun to play. There are races to do, orbs to collect, buildings 
 to scale and enemies to fight, but unfortunately it all gets a little boring after 10-12 hours 
 because there really isn't a story, just dossiers of bad guys to take out. So add that in with 
 the enemies and bosses basically being uninspired and the multiple paths you can take isn't as 
 cool as it sounds when you feel like you are wiping out cronies who have a death wish anyway.
 
  The game gives you that sense of a superhero long jumping, throwing cars and jumping into the 
 water from HQ. There are some interesting things to do and you have to rent this game at least. 
 Honestly, I would place its value at $30. Which is surprising because it is a good game, the things 
 you do on the path to completing the missions just don't differentiate enough.
  This game got the achievements right and they are fun to go after and have various degrees of difficulty. 
 This is what gives this game a reason to be put back into the console after those hours listed 
 above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_riku
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  ok so... the game is quite satisfying i guess... but the problem i found with it was the worthless 
 missions... actually would've been better if they just threw you into the world and let you be 
 mister renegade cop who does side missions... cuz the story itslef was nothing more than BORING.... 
 but it does still make my day for the fact that I get to blow things up and stuff which is very 
 fun to do actually... especially if you want to release your anger... I guess it was OK... but 
 hey like i said... it fooled me...
  i guess this game taught me that you shouldn't get fooled by the HYPE the promoters send into your 
 ears... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggong
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown, in my opinion, is one of the BEST games to come out on the 360. Not only did it involve 
 jumping from rooftop to rooftop, throwing trucks and unleashing kegs o' whoop-ass on thugs and 
 criminals, but it also came with the Halo 3 Beta which is a mega bonus. From the moment you get 
 in your first vehicle and race up that shute into Los Muertos, you are bombarded with a very long 
 draw distance, beautiful graphics and plenty of bad guys to crush into the ground.
  
  Now that the new gameplay content is out, the game amps up even more. You get five new weapons 
 and three new vehicles, each increasing the amount of fun that can be had playing either the Campaign 
 or the Keys to the City mode, for example the Harpoon Gun can send enemies and civilians through 
 the air to impale them on a wall, lamp post or even a car with just one shot, and the Armoured 
 Car, which has a triple barreled version of the Lobber launcher, can withstand a load of fire and 
 make you look awesome at the same time.
  
  There's the Co-Op mode where two players can go rampaging around the Pacific City scoring any achievements 
 they couldn't get by themselves. What's kinda annoying is the fact that only two people can play 
 together, so the amount of fun is limited to a certain degree. There mini-games also like Stockpile 
 where to have to make a pile of objects and other things and Rocket Tag which is basically like 
 Tag except you have to be hit by a rocket or have the game's ragdoll physics kick in from an explosion 
 to be It.
  
  There's also Street Racing which is just laps around Pacific City or one of the areas in the game.
 
  
  I love playing this game, it got a load of explosions waiting to happen, plenty of bad guys to 
 fight until you finish the game and loads of things on the side. Totally addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyndFlyte
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  So this was my first 360 game purchase as I had just bought the system. I was a little leary due 
 to mixed reviews of Gamespot and my friends. But I can say that I am not dissapointed one bit. 
 This game can get addicting very easily and before you know it you are through one of the gangs. 
 But there are other things such and road and roof races to keep you occupied if killing people 
 gets a little old. I can say though that without the upgrading system, the game would just be another 
 GTA. The upgrading just draws you more into the game because you want to try and max out your Agent 
 so that you can raise some major havok. Overall, I am quite pleased with the game. The only problem 
 I have with it is that it may be a little short. I've played probably 6 hours and I'm almost done 
 with 2 of the 3 gangs. But like I said, the game is worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonHarre
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a surprisingly good game for what the graphics appear to be. The game play is solid but 
 it sometimes gets repetitive. There are some surprises and humorous deaths but the storyline is 
 lacking. They need to cover the background of the agent more in depth because for the first half 
 of the game i had no idea why i had 'superpowers'. It is very similar to may other games in its 
 genre but overall it is another quick shooter that performs quite well for the quick bursts of 
 firefights that it has. I think that too many people bought it, though, because of the free 3 week 
 trial of Halo 3 Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman2304
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  If you have an XBox 360 I recommend getting this game. You are like Robo-cop, going about beating 
 gangs up, trying hard not to hurt civilians and trying to max out your 5 stats. You have agility 
 (which is raised by collecting green agility orbs on roofs) , explosives (raised by blowing gangs 
 up with grenades and missile launchers) , Driving (just run gangs over) , Strength (punch and throw 
 objects) and finally Firearms (shoot gangs) . As you go up levels you can see your armour change 
 and you can really see a different in your agents performance. You have 3 agents vehicles which 
 become better and you get to see it change once you jump into it, which is pretty cool and when 
 you get to level 4 driving each vehicle has a special ability in place of its horn. Jumping around 
 buildings, shooting, punching and running people over is great fun, its takes your mind away from 
 all those 1st person shooters and role playing game with something a little less serious and fun. 
 My only downfall to this game is the story line. Yes you have to kill 3 gangs and generals and 
 the gang leader but there isnt really a point except to protect the city and once you clear an 
 area no gang members will enter it until you complete the game and choose crimes on in place of 
 play now. But even without a story line, this is great because as I said it lets you take a break 
 from more serious games :D hope this helps those people wondering whether to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienspider1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Think of this as the opposite of Saints' Row or GTA: instead of taking down police officers, you 
 take down crime as a genetically engineered Supercop, if you will. Crackdown has one of the highest 
 replay values I have ever seen because it never ends. Even after you beat all of the leaders, it 
 won't stop. You can go back and revive the leaders and kill them again, or you can play the downloadable 
 Keys to the City, which is my favorite. Keys to the City is essentially a cheat mode where it gives 
 you a menu of things to turn on, such as infinite ammo, health, super speed, super strength, spawning 
 cars, and my favorite, ramp trucks. The achivements are mostly easy, ranging from maxing out your 
 skills to winning races. All in all, Crackdown is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatspie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is defnetily the type of game you'd want to rent first cause the fun dosen't last that long. 
 In case you dont already know you play an android like cop that has super strengh super speed really 
 good driving and explosive skills literally. Only problem is you have to earn theese skills . Infact 
 you start as a scrawny weakling and buIld your way up to the super hero like cop you become. And 
 even when you get too the strongest point in the game you can still get killed by a shot with a 
 rocket launcher. Online play sucks cause theres only 2 player co up no pvp. Also the graphics arent 
 that good either. Also theres no replay value at all. The only real fun youll have is in keys to 
 the city mode and even in that mode theres really not much fun to be had. To think I spend 60 dollars 
 on a game im only gonna play one time i give crackdown a 6.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside2501
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Crackdown may be a short game, but it's still a great one at that. The gameplay is a little like 
 Grand Theft Auto meets Spiderman. You have a large map to explore with several missions going on 
 at once and tons of minigames spread around town going hand in hand with long jumps from building 
 to building and supernatural powers.
  
  The gameplay works well. You take the role of a nameless character and after a brief intro you 
 are thrown right into the game. The main point of the game is to run around taking out the higher 
 ranked members of gangs in order to weaken their bosses defence, but charging straight into the 
 enemy bosses compound is an option. The bosses are generally easy and can be killed quickly with 
 a few kicks to the body and are often dissapointing, but the fight to reach them is where most 
 of the fun is at. Most bosses will be guarded by dozens of soldiers ready to tear you apart the 
 moment you enter the enemies combat area. Occasionally you will also be required to win back bases, 
 which is as easy as climbing a building to reach the spawn point. These bases act as quick transportation 
 throughout the game, a place to store enemy weapons and a spawn point if you die.
  
  As you play the game you can increase your stats making your character more effective. Collecting 
 agility orbs and rooftop races increases jumping distance and running speed, driving over enemies 
 and completing races increases your driving ability, blowing up enemies increases explosion effectiveness, 
 kicking enemies and throwing objects increases strength and shooting increases accuracy.
  
  The levelling is actually fairly well balanced and you never feel TO powerful, the problem is the 
 game could probably be finished without much stat levelling at all.
  
  The graphics in Crackdown are fairly nice. There is alot of variety in terms of regular enemies, 
 despite the bosses being a bit similar at times. There is a thin black outline on alot of characters 
 visible if you get close enough, and the main characters have some nice design. The city is large 
 and well detailed containing alot of unique areas, from amusement parks to oil rigs, aswell as 
 alot of hidden orbs to collect and races to complete.
  
  The two main problems with Crackdown lie within the story. Well, there pretty much is no story. 
 There are only a few cutscenes and they are fairly uninteresting to watch. There is no character 
 development either. You are told about an enemy and are sent to kill them, engaging in no conversation 
 with them whatsoever. Infact, the main character doesn't even talk. Aswell as the lack of story 
 the game is REALLY short. You can finish it aswell as max out a stat or two in a few days, probably 
 100% completing it shortly after.
  
  Overall, apart from Crackdowns short story it's still a worthy play (or rent at the very least) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha360x
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games for 360!!! just like in gta u go around and do missions... for the 
 good guys... but u r a super human that has skills that lvls up when u use them... so if u kill some1 
 with a gun... u lvl up ur accuracy and power when u fire guns.... also u can use ur strength to pick 
 up idems as big as trucks!!!! along with jumping from building to building... and how could forget 
 explosions?!?!?! along with a feature i havnt tried yet... a multiplayer in 1 city, avalible through 
 online play.... which sounds AWESOME!!!!! wats better than 2 superhumans going and killing ppl??? 
 maybe nothing! but i regret to say i borrowed this the first time i played it... its a must own 
 game!!! i plan to buy it in the near future!!!! all in all i would make this 1 of the best games 
 for 360 to date.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duducar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  well i wouldent finish the game but just mess around and make the city nothing but a war which 
 is very addictive and fun at once its good to play just for fun but not taking it seriousely.
 
  its a game for the people like me who just luvvvvvvvvvv killing and annoying people on the streets 
 on games on the gta genre and just making massive distruction when you really need it.
  good to play not but not good to play when in the games concept.
  
 
  good but not as gta. ffffffffddddddsssssssaaaaa
  kkkk : good
  kkkkk : ok kkkkk : fine
  kkkk : not bad
  kkkk : cool
  kk : yes to the game
  kk : funny and cool
  kk : madddd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinwebby
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  this game was hard to learn as at start i had know idea what i was doing untill the voice said 
 kill the boss boss and win the agency . so i did and then found it an instant classic as i defeated 
 numerous bosses and some times found it to easy. quite hard to complete all skills 4 star but i 
 eventually got there after lots of time. i really brought the game because of the halo 3 beta online. 
 some of the bosses took to long and really anoid me. good on-line play doing the co-op and helping 
 people. this game needs to help you on the controls and the storyline more as i did not have a 
 clue what the buttons where at first and the same with the storyline but then it got alot better 
 once you have managed to find out what to do. once you have completed it that is it game over all 
 is left to do is to do achievements which are quite easy, abilities, car races and roof races. 
 overall a very good but short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metalhead8282
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the biggest letdowns for me. Crackdown is a GTA clone with an enormous amount 
 of potential that did not live up even close to it's hype. The whole premise of being an engineered 
 cop with upgradeable super abilities plus being able to play in a similar GTA like environment 
 with multiplayer is a great concept but unfortunately Realtime Worlds was not able to pull this 
 off.
  
  The game play itself was very repetitive after the first boss and became stale. The weapons were 
 all very similar to each other in the classes and unimpressive. Each boss and their underlings 
 were way too easy to dispatch.
  
  Overall, this game is about as good as a weekend rental and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyominguk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  The games is not as bad as every one is saying. I like the halo series but i didnt buy this game 
 to play the beta (and never downloaded it) .
  
  yes the main story can be short but the rest of the things you can do will take you ages... if you 
 dont use any help from guides, like gettin all 500 green orbs, 300 blue orbs, all stunt markers, 
 rooftop and road races, stunts etc.
  There is alot to do if your goin to get all the achievements, there is a big feel of freedom in 
 the game thanks to the way you can leap great heights like something out of the matrix whilst using 
 the cloaking shield from the live marketplace, i could go on for hours about this great game but 
 i wont as i have 4 more hidden orbs to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve12992
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  From the creator of the legendary GTA series, comes the high; y anticipated Crackdown. What's there 
 to say about Crackdown? Given the lack of depth, not much. Infact, Crackdown is easily the most 
 overrated game on the 360 gaming console. Or possibly for any console... Crackdown's story basically 
 takes on the role of a comic book, used to get you use to the games cell-shaded graphics. After 
 the story, what's next? Well you get to fly around a poorly designed city, (or should I call it 
 a town) and kill some gangs in the process. 21 gangs to be presice. What else? Well you can kill 
 some random people on the streets if you want. But there has to be more, right? Wrong. That's all 
 Crackdown really lets you do. Well you can hop in a car if you want, but what fun is driving a 
 car that moves at 5 mph and drives like your grandpa's old station wagon? Not much fun there. Well 
 Crackdown does have its good moments. No other game that I can think of let's you take control 
 of a rocket launcher with an attached sniper rifle, but other than that, this game ain't got much 
 goin for it. I'd suggest buying Saint's Row if you're a 360 owner in search of a good open world 
 gaming experience. Or maybe you could just buy GTA if it's been updated for the 360. Either way, 
 you'll be getting your moneys worth. More than I can say for Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  There was a time, long ago, when action games were my favorite category. Sadly, those times seemed 
 to have passed. Action games, for the greater part, seem to be rehashes of the same overdone concepts. 
 Even Grand Theft Auto, a series I generally enjoy, is getting a bit stale. The super-hero genre, 
 which seems to be somewhat popular, boosted by newly released movies every couple of seasons, just 
 rehash what we've all already done. Shooters are shooters, even in the FPS realm, little sticks 
 out as new and impressive.
  
  Enter Crackdown. For those of you who are XBL fanatics (as am I) , the achievements alone can keep 
 the game fresh even when it feels like it might be time for a break. The collection of orbs for 
 general and agility experience, while simple in it's approach, can keep you hoping building to 
 building and searching nooks and crannies long into the night. The nearly RPG-style abilities and 
 their progress add an extra edge to this fantastic game. The graphics are good, despite my usual 
 distaste for cell-shading.
  
  The overall game play, especially with the first (Latino) gang is fairly easy. Though the AI seems 
 pretty decent in many cases. The bosses themselves aren't even that difficult, but the mass of 
 gangsters throughout the city can keep you on our toes.
  
  The variety of weaponry (though I overuse the Limpet Charges I admit) , the collecting of weapons 
 at the drop points and the vehicular usage in the game is on par, at least, with other games in 
 the genre. Your ever-improving strength capability, even to the point of throwing vehicles, gives 
 you yet another weapon, so-to-speak, in your arsenal.
  
  Overall, the game is not terribly difficult, but it's fun factor is pretty dang high. I definitely 
 recommend this game to everybody, doubly so for those looking to reignite a passion for action 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of those games that come along every once in a while that you will easily forget, 
 sure it has a innovative real world real time feature, but all in all we know why you bought it. 
 Halo 3 Beta.
  
  I like to compare crackdown to Snakes on A plane. Movie sucked but the had effective marketing 
 ploys that caused the movie to do well in the box office. Well crackdown, besides from the annoying 
 pop up banners on almost every gaming site. Had one very effective marketing ploy. Halo 3 beta. 
 I mean sure Crackdown is a terrible game. It has graphics that are different, but they just are 
 not cut out for the 360's high quality standard. Sure the game has a evolution feature in your 
 agent standards but haven't we got enough of that in RPG games. So basically what crackdown is 
 a NMMOSEMRPG (Non-Massively Multi-player online Shoot Em Up Role Playing Game) Now Lets get down 
 to the bear bone of this game.
  
  The Graphics are definitely different from any other 360 game. They are a cross between Ultimate 
 Spider-Man and Gears Of War. Crackdown pulls this off very well. However it causes texture glitches 
 galore, but I will just ignore that because the game has no loading screens what so ever so I can 
 give major kudos to that.
  
  The Sound, the music flat out sucks. Sure I like electro, but not with Spanish gibberish all over 
 the place. I know Spanish and half of it is rapping about how gangster or how much crack they got. 
 The Gun Shot noises are regular they are not even close to the real thing but they do fine. However 
 I will say that the game does a great job on when you're in the city. It sounds noisy and loud. 
 Nice.
  
  The Gameplay sucks I mean just flat out. It is like a frigging Tony Hawk game mixed with GTA. Complete 
 goals to level up. What is this Final FRIGGING FANTASY?!?!?
  
  Over All most people probably bought it for Halo 3. Other then that It is pretty mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gravemind456
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Whilst there is nothing majorly wrong with this game in general (not including that the water splashes 
 like a year after you hit it.) this game has nothing really good to offer. Ok its all well and 
 good jumping around but aside from that there is nothing really at all else to do. Every mission 
 is practically the same never varying from going into a building and killing a mob leader. The 
 extra things like city races fail to thrill and collecting orbs just gets tedious. I would only 
 recommend this game to anyone who wanted the Halo 3 beta really badly or anyone who is a major 
 GTA fanboy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanzerMatt
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the best games you're gonna play for the first few hours you're beating up 
 gang bosses, collecting orbs and making a damn right nuisance of yourself but when you've beaten 
 all the gang bosses, what then do the weirdly tilted races in which some are difficult and oddly 
 some are too easy however the rooftop races are OK (innovative) . The Graphics - it's different 
 cel-shaded style gives it a good start when you play the game as it makes all the explosions look 
 great
  
  Gameplay - yay jump shoot jump shoot (getting a bit bored now) jump shoot jump shoot and drive 
 (shudder) Lifespan - Once you beat the bosses you find yourself either jumpin around Pacific City 
 lookin for orbs (with the gangs off) or killing everything and I mean EVERYTHING cos you're bored
 
  
  And the difficulty if you're a GTA fanatic prepare for the easiest warm up to GTA IV you're gonna 
 get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jl_maddog
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Once I started playing this game, it was confusing. It seemed like there was no beginning; I just 
 started in the middle of the conflict. But after a while, I learned the controls and what I was 
 supposed to do. This game is very addictive. Once I began, I couldn't stop until I finished the 
 game. Unfortunately, it's is pretty short. I finished in about 5 days. But it's extremely fun. 
 You can go anywhere, kill anyone, pick up and throw anything, use any gun you find, hijack and 
 drive any car... You're completely free to do anything you want. It's even more fun with the guns 
 you can by off the marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgrezz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I have been hearing that some people bought Crackdown simpley for the halo 3 beta now i really 
 dont think crackdown is as bad as to buy it only for a 3 week beta. Now The first thing about the 
 crackdown is its lack of a storyline which is very dissapointing, but its not a total failure co-op 
 swings in and allows you and someone else to battle with each other or just split up and go anywhere 
 you want, and do what you want. Its basically just a big old sandbox for you to cause some carnage 
 in. First glance at crackdown and youll notice the crazy selfshading going on which looks cool 
 and fits well with the game and causes no complaints with me. Just as most games like this it takes 
 alot of its ways from the grand old GTA which is good if something works why not borrow from it, 
 but do it right. Theres radio in the veicles but its more annoying then anything theres no set 
 radion channels its just one big music list that plays through you can skip songs but you cant 
 turn it off which can be annying seeing as alot of the music was not to my taste. There are 5 skills 
 you must level up to advance and become the ultimate agency  
 explosive but its way to easy to level up and often takes away the feel of acievement. The main 
 concept of this game is to run around cause carnage and havoc with a friend. It may not be worth 
 buying but its definatly worth a rental its a very fun game buts lacks the abilty to keep you playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  You take the roll of a super human in an agency called The Peace keepers. Your main goal... well... 
 your only goal is to eliminate all gang bosses and then kill there kingpin. The game is WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY 
 too short left alone only 2 side missions 26 ALL together but is still worth the purchase. There 
 is a new download that alows you to replay bosses and spawn things and jump way higher. You have 
 a skill in Agility, which allows you to jump super high and run real fast Strength, allows you 
 to pick things up weighing up to 10 tons, Driving, makes the Agency cars you drive get transform 
 to get diffrent abilities, Explosives which makes your explosions with explosives bigger, and Firearms 
 which makes your guns more powerfull. To get Agility up you need to collect green orbs to get Driving 
 up you need to drive through little rings or run gangsters over or win races and every other skill 
 you need to kill people. But over all it's mainly for people who just like to fool around and expeirement, 
 and that's much easyer to do now with the new DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danplunkett
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  this game takes GTA's characteristics and embarrasses it the controls are easy the leveling system 
 is revolutionary you shoot a guy your shooting skills increase you run people over your driving 
 skills increase and when they increase your cars pull a transformers on you and literally transform 
 the most important skill i have to say is the agility skill which improves your overall health 
 lets you jump higher and run faster and the new keys to the city download lets you have super agility 
 you can run like 150 mph and spawn explosive barrels which is fun if your trying to see how big 
 of a explosion you can create 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Story: This game has a story that anybody can get with. You're a Agent working for the Agency and 
 your objective is to kill some some dudes that are standing in or on some buildings waiting for 
 you to kill them... and they are waiting , and waiting , and waiting... If these guys wouldn't try 
 to kill you , they could be your best friends, because only a true friend can wait you forever. 
 Gameplay: This game is more than a regular kill those fools . You can kill dudes by shooting them 
 , blowing them up , throwing stuff at them (like dead bodies , car doors , construction stuff and 
 cars at the later strength levels) . Killing dudes is as fun as exploring the city. Because you 
 are an Agent you have these all kinds of crazy abilities. Through the game you will upgrade your 
 skills. These are Firearms (you will shoot more precise) , Strength (you will be available to throe 
 trucks) , Agility (You will be available to jump high and I mean really high) , Driving (Your agency 
 cars will pimp out) and Explosions (more damage) . All of these skills except agility you upgrade 
 by doing them, like to upgrade Strength you have to kick the crap out of dudes. But to upgrade 
 the agility skill you have to collect agility orbs. Actually the whole city is your playground. 
 Multiplayer: There is a Co-Op which kick ass. It's like the single player but with 2 dudes. You 
 can kill the bosses or just do some crazy stuff , like car surfing and making gigantic explosions. 
 You can join games in the middle , but the hosting player will have to restart the game. Graphics: 
 The game is made in this cartonny looking style. Which isn't really original , but still works. 
 Graphics do the job and looks really nice , specially the explosions. The FPS go smooth and there 
 are no lags. As for the physics , they are superb. Only don't try to crash with your car in docents 
 of people , because i will really slow down the game.
  
  Sound: The basic sound effects fore game that features guns and shooting. There are few tracks 
 in the car radio , but you really don't use the car all that much.
  
  In the end: This is a pretty original game , which is really fun. Killing dudes with cars and garbage 
 cans is as fun as traveling trough rooftops.
  
  Oh and did I forget the Halo 3 Beta ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xepherys
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  There was a time, long ago, when action games were my favorite category. Sadly, those times seemed 
 to have passed. Action games, for the greater part, seem to be rehashes of the same overdone concepts. 
 Even Grand Theft Auto, a series I generally enjoy, is getting a bit stale. The super-hero genre, 
 which seems to be somewhat popular, boosted by newly released movies every couple of seasons, just 
 rehash what we've all already done. Shooters are shooters, even in the FPS realm, little sticks 
 out as new and impressive.
  
  Enter Crackdown. For those of you who are XBL fanatics (as am I) , the achievements alone can keep 
 the game fresh even when it feels like it might be time for a break. The collection of orbs for 
 general and agility experience, while simple in it's approach, can keep you hoping building to 
 building and searching nooks and crannies long into the night. The nearly RPG-style abilities and 
 their progress add an extra edge to this fantastic game. The graphics are good, despite my usual 
 distaste for cell-shading.
  
  The overall game play, especially with the first (Latino) gang is fairly easy. Though the AI seems 
 pretty decent in many cases. The bosses themselves aren't even that difficult, but the mass of 
 gangsters throughout the city can keep you on our toes.
  
  The variety of weaponry (though I overuse the Limpet Charges I admit) , the collecting of weapons 
 at the drop points and the vehicular usage in the game is on par, at least, with other games in 
 the genre. Your ever-improving strength capability, even to the point of throwing vehicles, gives 
 you yet another weapon, so-to-speak, in your arsenal.
  
  Overall, the game is not terribly difficult, but it's fun factor is pretty dang high. I definitely 
 recommend this game to everybody, doubly so for those looking to reignite a passion for action 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game had some mixed reactions, it was slightly easy on tough, I could beat it within 
 a few hours (seven or eight, but still) . As soon as you were done though, that was it. Nothing 
 happened after you're done, no gang members, just civilians. You can reset the gangs, but then 
 it gets to being repetitive. Gameplay: Great controls. I don't have any real complaints here, just 
 that sometimes the controls weren't sensitive enough, but they're tight, tight enough to play anyway. 
 Some of the controls are screwy though, I can never remember how to zoom in :P.
  
  Graphics: Good. We'll leave it there. They can be better, but they're good. Immersive, but not 
 brilliantly perfect. Things look 2D sometimes, but maybe it's just me.
  
  Sound: There are some good songs, but I know most people just play their own music no matter what 
 game they're playing. Gun sounds are cheesy, and so are car sounds, but they can at least kind 
 of personify the thing they're symbolizing. Replay: Haven't stopped yet.
  
  Expansion: That is so much fun to screw around on, but that's about all it's good for, which isn't 
 bad by any means, but it's still the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smakkjoo
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very good game shadowed by the Halo 3 Beta that came with it. It definitely doesn't 
 deserve a 7.8. It really is a good game and it gives you hours of fun. With the leveling skills, 
 the side-quests, and the full-blown action and super powers, it really is an exciting game. The 
 basic point of this game is like a good version of GTA... with super powers. I really enjoyed playing 
 through the story, but after that, there isn't really much left to do... Unlike GTA, the story-line 
 is a tad short, and there isn't much to do after the game ends. Not a whole chunk of side-quests, 
 but I really think the $60 would be justified if it had some more extra content... Hopefully, the 
 extra content in XBLM will give it some more replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PJC6
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  crackdown is probably one of the most free-roam games ever made allowing you to climb skyscrapers 
 exsplore 3 citys and fight gang boss's and libarate all 3 islands,
  
  but i would be lieing if i said this game had no flaws the first is that the boss's are too easy 
 like the mine you go in there 2 guys with rocket launchers 10 guys with machine guns that respawn 
 every time you kill them and the guards next to the boss all have rocket launchers now thats hard 
 but the problem is you can skip all those troops and rocket launcher troops by just jumping up 
 onto the outskirts of the mine and drop down in front of the boss throw a grenade in and thats 
 it and all the other peaple in the mine dissapear and allmost all 21 of the boss's are like that 
 so the boss fights feel like side missions rather than actual missions but the core gameplay in 
 crackdown is what is the fun part that keeps the game from being no fun at all ,
  
  if you like games that let you go on a rampage you might like it but anyone else probably wont 
 like it but some peaple might 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is only known to get a Halo 3 beta key, although, I'm one of the few people that wanted 
 to play the game itself, the game is made by the same guy who was part of GTA, so you can expect 
 a freeroaming game, right?
  
  Gameplay:
  This is the addicting part of the game, it has some RPG in it, you can up some diffrent skills 
 you have (agility, driving, shooting, strenght and more) and they increase after a few hours of 
 play, in the beginning of the game you can jump higher then any other average human, and you can 
 lift trashcans, but later in the game you'll be jumping skyhigh and you are able to carry bodies 
 and cars, and even kick cars out of you're way, how bad ass is that?
  
  The vehicles are pretty cool, if you increase driving you get certain vehicles unlocked, one each 
 of them are replaceable and you can control them while being airborn.
  
  Agility isn't easy to level tho, there are diffrent agility orbs spreaded over the whole Pacific 
 city, if you pick up a orb, you'll be able to jump higher, there are hundreds of orbs, so if you 
 have them all, you'll be jumping on huge buildings in no time.
  
  Their are also stunts and tricks to overhaul, like if you do a stunt like a noseflip, you'll unlock 
 a driving skill, you can do alot of these sidemissions to increase some of you're stats quickly, 
 some fun ones to mention is the Body juggler, which is shooting + autoaiming a body, and shooting 
 it up the sky hundreds of times. And ofcourse some certain weapon combos.
  
  Graphics:
  It has something neo-tokiyo to it, you're character is abit cellshader and the rest of the city 
 is fully textured, explosions look just.. amazing, you'll be spending lots of time throwing vehicles 
 up in a hill and make them explode because it looks awesome.
  
  The drawdistance is amazing to, civilians and gang members look interesting and have good ragdoll 
 features, which comes in handy if you kick them around.
  
  Story:
  You are this agent dude, and is part of The Agency, the objective in the game is to kill the leaders 
 behind three gangleaders that are terrorizing the city, there are also alot of sidemissions to 
 do like Agility missions, which is getting form Point A to B, and ofcourse lots of driving missions 
 and killing missions.
  
  The campaign mode is TO short, I don't know why, all GTA games were lenghy, but this games campaign 
 mode is to short.
  
  AI:
  Bosses are to easy, gang members just shoot alot, yourself won't die from bullets much, but more 
 from random stuff like a car falling on you or explosions that come out of nowhere.
  
  Sound:
  GTA had good music, this games soundeffects sound great, soundtrack is this keyboard-techno 
 slab I'm not used to and doesn't fit into the game that well.
  
  Co-op:
  Bad mechanism, if somebody joins you, you'll have to reload the game for a good few seconds, then 
 if the other person logs out, you'll die to, its just a mess really.
  
  Is it a good free roaming game:
  Addictive as hell, the RPG elements of the game make you do 
 incredibly stuff, but after you got anything (which takes alot of time, more then finishing
  Dead Rising) it'll become boring because you've done everything already, but other then that: Every 
 360 owner should get this game, especially if you're into GTA style games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote32
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 31, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Good : I like the fact that you can pick what you look like, kind of. It gives you a little choice 
 in character customization. Exploring is another plus for me. I personally like to explore though 
 every game I play. Any FPS games, I explore them. Any RTS games, I explore them. Any MMORPG, I 
 TRY and explore them. The superpowers is really cool. Its different and it makes the game what 
 it is. I like the co-op but its not that good IMO. Picking up cars is fun too.
  
  Bad : Gets boring to quick. Theres nothing really to do when you kill the bosses. Hell, the bosses 
 are wimps. The superpowers overpower anyone. It doesn't run well when you do Co-op with two wireless 
 people. Theres not enough cars, the graphics look badish. Not my favorite. If only they made it 
 more like GTA, that me and others would like it more. If your a cop in a game you should be able 
 to arrest someone. But you cant in this game. I hate how you look at something it turns blue or 
 green. My Rating
  8.5
  
  Gamespot rating.
  7.8
  
  You peoples rating.
  8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icenflame
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 31, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with great anticipation and I though that it would be a great game that I could 
 keep coming back for more. I soon found that its not all that its Crackdown to be :) The game dynamic 
 is easy to learn and you'll soon be on your way to bashing crashing and maiming your way through 
 the respective gangs in the city. However I believe they missed many a great opportunities to make 
 this game unbelievable. A more free form of game play for one and a more interactive story line 
 might of helped. The one thing they did get right is your agents super human strengths and once 
 you've levelled up your skillz the game gets interesting jumping from roof top to roof top at incredible 
 heights is great fun. But honestly I don't see this game offering as nearly as much range as the 
 GTA series has. But all in all its worth a rental and or buy if you keen on large stages and free 
 reign on movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_Louch
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  At first, I was worried bout Crackdown and how good of a game it would be. But after playin it 
 for a while, plus the experience points u gain throughout the game, the game kinda grew on me. 
 I would play it and be use to that type of a character that can jump ridiculously high, unlike 
 other games. But otherwise, if u give this game a chance, instead of buryin it within minutes, 
 this game is pretty good, minus the Beta of course. The Beta happened to be like dessert. Play 
 Crackdown for Crackdown, dont waste the money just to get the Beta, which ends in another week 
 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  crackdown is an open world game that has FUN FUN FUN printed on the cover it just encourages you 
 to play about in co-op like tossing your mate of a skyscraper or blowing him sky high.
  
  anyway the story.
  you have to kill 21 gang bosses which are not easy at the end but they are 
 fun to fight and feel rewarding to beat in some ways.
  
  thats the story sorry but it is.
  
  the game gives you 3 agency cars to drive
  agency supercar 
 guns and can go at 233mph max
  
  agency suv this thing can do huge jumps its hillarious to drive about in
  
  agency truck cab 
 bad in agility but it can do 200mph with its nos boost and can destroy anything it touches except 
 the supercar
  
  the co-op is amazing there is just far to much to say i cant even be bothered but you will know 
 anyway since its been out for a good few months.
  
  overall
  i still play this all the time and i bought the new dlc to turn this into the best freeroamer available 
 right now until gta iv arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 30, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown takes the increasinly popular sandbox genre and takes it one step further. For better 
 or worse, there are no missions to be completed. No plot to work through. No structure of any kind. 
 In Crackdown, freedom is exactly how it is defined; from the minute you set foot Pacific City, 
 you're free to go anywhere, do anything. You're dropped into the sandbox, and that's where the 
 game both ends and begins. The rest is up to you.
  
  In concept, the idea is solid. In execution, it's anything but. The game simply falls short at 
 every hurdle. The complete lack of structure doesn't feel like unparalelled freedom, instead coming 
 across simply as an unfinished game. And on that note, if i were a betting man, i'd happily wager 
 that that was the case. You can almost picture the board meeting:
  
  Well, the game-world is finished and ready. The physics engine is working. The character models 
 are done. Now what? 
  
  Next, we have to actually make the game... 
  
  Ah... but we only have four dollars and a week of development time left. 
  
  Box it up son, 
 this game's releasing anyway. 
  
  So what gameplay is there? Surely there's SOMETHING to be accomplished in this sandbox? Well yeah, 
 there is, in the form of three gangs which each control one island on the map. Though they're different 
 in appearance, from the Latino group Los Muertos to the eastern-european mobsters The Volk to the 
 evil Shain-Gen corporation, however the differences stop there. The three gangs behave in exactly 
 the same manner; namely roaming the streets, not really doing anyone any harm. They happily leave 
 you alone until you first open fire and kill one of their members, at which point they develop 
 a natural hostility to your presence. There are no gang-wars. No drive-by shootings. No battles 
 for territory. Indeed, it's hard to see exactly what the narrator is talking about when he begins 
 the game with an overview of how the city has become enveloped with crime. Regardless, it's up 
 to you to take these gangs out. Each group has a series of gang bosses who sit in various buildings 
 around the game-world, surrounded by an absurd number of henchmen. As a genetically-enhanced agent, 
 it is up to you to charge into these buildings and gun down hundreds upon hundreds of infinately 
 respawning henchmen before taking down the boss himself. After eliminating all of these bosses 
 in any order you like, you can move on to the King Pin, who will be weakened by fewer men and poorer 
 weaponry thanks to the lack of his bosses. Removing the king-pin removes the gang.
  
  After that you move on to.....
  
  Actually, that's it. In essence, that's Crackdown. You can 
 beat it in a single sitting, however there are many contrived add-ons to coerce you into returning 
 and not searching for your receipt. One of these is the stats meter, which increases as you shoot, 
 drive, make things explode and collect any of the five hundred agility orbs littered about the 
 city. All of these are tied to achievements, in the hope that addicts will hold on to the game 
 long enough to score all of the points.
  
  It's not worth it, however. The hidden-package hunt of GTA is basically ripped into Crackdown, 
 only taken to rediculous extremes with a tedious five hundred orbs to collect. Finding them all 
 brings about no satisfaction whatsoever, only a sense of relief that such a chore has finally been 
 completed; now you get to move on to the 300 hidden orbs . Whoopdy-doo.
  
  The mechanics of the game itself are probably its biggest issue. Like the old saying goes, Crackdown 
 attempts to be jack of all trades, but ultimately ends up master of none. Shooting is a sordid 
 affair of simply holding the left trigger, at which point the game automatically targets an enemy 
 for you to gun down. Rinse and repeat. Despite such ludicrous ease, the game has a wonderful obsession 
 with targeting cars and dead bodies before allowing you to fire on the goon standing ten foot away 
 with a heavy machine gun opening up on you. It also targets peace-keepers, your allies who open 
 fire on you should you do so much as clip one of their cars by mistake. I wish i was joking.
  
  Driving is incredibly dull, until you manage to max out your driving stats by completing races 
 and running over goons. Ninety percent of the cars on the street are slow family sedans with the 
 turning arc of a double-decker bus, resulting in you having to trek back to the agency headquarters 
 to grab the supercar every time you need a car for any serious activity. Everything else will be 
 far too slow for a race, or far too weak to take to a fight.
  
  The only thing to really work well is agility. You can jump onto high rooftops with ease, hop around 
 the city at will. Again however, this is fatally flawed as you are genetically enhanced with the 
 ability to jump onto a sky scraper, but jumping back down will kill you. You can jump onto a ledge 
 with ease, but god forbid there be a bit of gutter above your head, because that's an immovable, 
 unnavoidable obstacle in the world of crackdown which will halt any climbing progress at once.
 
  
  It's not all bad. The graphics are a nice, odd sort of cel-shaded but not cel-shaded affair. There 
 are a decent number of weapons to tool around with, and simply exploring the city itself is fun, 
 though it isn't especially large and there's not much to do once you've completed the 14 races.
 
  
  Sure, i'm taking a somewhat negetive viewpoint here, and there is definately fun to be had in Crackdown. 
 A game like this cements the negetives however, as it's clear that so much potential has been wasted. 
 The game falls just short of the gate in everything it attempts to do, and many of the mechanics 
 seem geared toward frustrating you, rather than allowing you to enjoy the game. Why do the peacekeepers 
 try to murder me for the tiniest of crimes? Why does the auto-targeter pick out peacekeepers in 
 the middle of a firefight? Why does killing civilians decrease my stats when you litter the streets 
 with them and plot a race-course right through huge crowds of them?
  
  Why Crackdown? Why? At the end of the day, you'll have some fun screwing around in Pacific City, 
 but as one negetive aspect after the last rears it's ugly head, you'll ultimately end up taking 
 the game out of your console and sighing, as i did, that's another one for the trade-in pile. 
 
  
  
  
  *but hey, at least it comes with a two-week Halo 3 beta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 30, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is an okay game, it is interesting at first and it compels you to want to play more and 
 more, but that gets old pretty quick. After you increase your skills to a certain amount and you 
 beat a few bosses the game gets pretty repetitive. Kill a boss, run/drive around collecting agility 
 and hidden orbs and then kill another boss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 29, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown creates perhaps the most detailed GTA-style freeroaming city to date, its size greatly 
 increased by vertical scope: you can jump on anything and hang on to ledges, vault onto rooftops, 
 and explore thousands of nooks and crannies. Your character is an 'agent,' a genetically engineered 
 superhuman who has upgradeable abilities. You'll go from a pretty normal person with average strength 
 and weapon skill to a superhero who can jump 50 feet, pick up buses and throw them, and smash the 
 pavement upon landing a high flying jump. The point of all this is so that you eventually become 
 strong enough to take out the city's 3 gangs which are causing havok. This is the single player 
 'campaign,' and is little more than killing mobs of gang members and their leaders, who are the 
 same but with more health and weapons. This gang-killing is actually the least appealing part of 
 the game, mainly because combat is frustrating and unsatisfying. You cannot even cycle targets 
 when engaging enemies, which makes the already horrible lock on system (frequently targeting dead 
 enemies was last gen, I'd hoped) a nightmare. The bad guys apparently are all eagle eyes, as the 
 game doesn't really factor in range, so if you are within the line of sight of a gangbanger a football 
 field away, he'll still be hitting you dead-on. The AI isn't good either, the game just tosses 
 bunches of heavily armed morons at you trying to wear you down. You can jack any vehicle in the 
 game, but until you level up your driving skill, the handling is atrocious. Jumping around can 
 usually get you there faster anyway. The camera angle is too shallow behind you as well. There 
 is an in-game car radio, but it has terrible music and no real funny diversions. Other than that, 
 the only sound comes from repetetive pedestrian phrases and an annoying agency spokesperson who 
 makes inane comments all the time. If this was all crackdown had to offer, it would amount to a 
 pitiful excuse for a game, but the mini-missions around the city make it fun. There are around 
 a dozen of each street races and foot races. The foot races have you bounding around rooftops from 
 checkpoint to checkpoint and are lots of fun. But the best activity in the game is orb-hunting. 
 All around the city, there are 500 agility orbs, located on rooftops and spires, and 300 hidden 
 orbs which as their name might suggest, are trickier to locate. This alone can provide hours of 
 fun. The game's graphics are fairly odd at first, but soon you will appreciate them as some of 
 the 360's finest when you see there is virtually no draw distance, and the ocean surrounding the 
 city has to be seen to be believed. There is also online co-op, which can be fun if you find a 
 fun person, and a recent download pack includes many new coop missions to extend gameplay. Of course, 
 most copies of the game include the Halo 3 beta, which is tons of fun and a valuable selling point 
 for crackdown. Even without this, it is a worthwhile game that combines platforming and gta gaming 
 into a pretty unique game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  cracldown is a great amazing game with lots of fun stuff to do however that stuff is limited and 
 there just isnt enough.
  
  gameplay 10
  the gameplay s what makes this game, its realy amazing and soooo much fun
  
  graphics 9
  
 realy looks nice with a cool cartoony look to it which suits this style of gameplay
  
  sound 5
  the sound is verry poor, sound effects will be used repeatedly and tracks are awful, 
 also the agency boss becomes soooo anoying after a while
  
  value 6
  its a great game which should be played with multiplayer, becouse the multiplayer is awesome, its 
 like being starsky and hutch, however the game is by far and definetly just needs to be a rental
 
  
  tilt 9
  its fun while it lasts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  The Good: Youre able to jump at impressive heights, achievements are good, able to flip and pick 
 up heavy objects, action packed, large city to explore.
  
  The Bad: Story could be more flexed out, story is short and doesnt really make sense, driving 
 is only good when youve reached four star, gets boring once you have completed it, car stalls, 
 gameplay isnt that impressive, commentators voice gets extremely annoying at times, not worth 
 the price it is sold at the online isnt at all addictive.
  
  The Ugly: Graphic textures and car collisions could be improved Crackdown is a third-person action 
 adventure shooter, which takes place in Pacific City. Doesnt sound interesting I know and so is 
 the story. The main plot of the game is that you are a newcomer agent that has been recruited to 
 an agency to wipe out the gangs controlling Pacific City, and it is up to you to eliminate every 
 gang. Thats it.
  
  The gameplay in Crackdown could be adjusted quite a bit, especially the driving in the game. The 
 reason why is that when you hop in a car most of the times it stalls which is extremely annoying, 
 so you are forced to stop the vehicle and drive off (this occurs practically every single time) . 
 But not all of it is rubbish, the good facts about the gameplay is that once you have maxed out 
 you agility you can jump roughly around 75 feet which is pretty high, and when your driving has 
 reached the maximum level, when you step in an agency vehicle is morphs into a new model of that 
 car like: the agency supercar has machine guns attached to it and you can mow down lots of gang 
 members with the bullets you spray at them. The bosses can get quite challenging at times as they 
 have a lot of gang members guarding them and shoot at any agent in site. There are roughly 7 bosses 
 and once they have been killed you have to kill the rioting gang members, nothing special really. 
 The city however is quite large and has tons of buildings to climb or jump on which is fun, including 
 the agency building! Another thing is that there is loads of orbs you have to collect which involves 
 you jumping everywhere and you are rewarded with an achievement for all the hard work you put into 
 it.
  
  Now lets talk about the online play. Again isnt that interesting. All you do is just join a game 
 and cooperatively do story missions and races and help get achievements, which can be helpful, 
 but you might as well waste your time playing on something else than online on crackdown. Another 
 thing is that it seems to lag a lot, as I have a strong Internet connection and whenever I do online 
 with someone else with a strong Internet connection it still seems to lag. Overall I wouldnt really 
 recommend Crackdown as a must get game but would be recommended for achievements or the Halo3 Beta 
 and is not worth the price it is today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vader_300
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The games of the free roam/sandbox genre changes up from time to time; whether its a cult classic 
 countryside free roam like GTA : San Andreas, or a futuristic environment like Jaks II and 3. Crackdown 
 brings the genre to a new light, by putting you in control of a genetically enhanced agent with 
 superhuman-like abilities. The comic book style of the graphics are just amazing, I mean the explosions, 
 the buildings, are just entertaining to watch. Leveling up your character moves at a fast pace, 
 and also changes the look of that character. The driving, I have to say, really blows; I makes 
 me wanna hop from building to building as an alternative. (which is really fun by the way :D) Anyway, 
 while the sounds and graphical presentation is outstanding, there are a few things that set me 
 off. First of all, you go through the entire game being coached by a VERY annoying disembodied 
 voice that never ceases to shut up. Second, the lack of time wasters and multiplayer content was 
 pretty dissapointing. Third, and last, I get the feeling that bungie used Crackdown as an advertising 
 vehicle for their Halo 3 beta, there is a deeper explanation for my theory, but I don't want to 
 share it. Overall, the game is very fun, and it may not be the best game, but it has the ability 
 to kick a$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 27, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  So, you know when you start hearing the sounds of a videogame in your sleep? In my case, it was 
 the throbbing wub-wub of a hidden blue orb, stashed somewhere deep in my subconsciousness. That's 
 the sound of a great game.
  
  But keep a few things in mind. Crackdown won't last that long, it's uneven, and the story and the 
 music are weak sauce. Some things are great while others areas fall flat (even the bosses are predictable 
 and easy after a while) . But overall the thrill of jumping like a mutant kangaroo from rooftop 
 to rooftop is unrivaled! The smart blend of collecting orbs in a wildly vertical setting while 
 constantly feeling the reward of powering up creates an unbeatable sensation of addictive fun. 
 You'll have a blast, even if for a short while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustHawkeye
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is far more than a way to get into the halo 3 beta, the co-op is fantastic and there 
 is alot to do when just roaming around. i have heard many things about people complaining how the 
 story isn't very good and not much of one at all and that may be true, when compared to GTA. but 
 one thing i remember about GTA was i got tired of the story and the whole reason i played was to 
 drive around kill people and go crazy with the police right behind me while using cheats, and i 
 know im not the only one. this game has all the fun i had when just roaming around but they put 
 it on crack and its increadibly fun. i think that was what realtime worlds was going for and for 
 what it was aiming for it got a bulls eye, and if you don't like it at first give it some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwdthunder
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 27, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Crackdowns co-op is endless hours of fun... from teaming up on the gangs, to setting up insane 
 jumps to get your driving ability up.
  
  The single player game itself is pretty good but there's no real surprises.
  
  Find boss, kill 
 boss... do that until you find the Kingpin and do the same to him.
  
  However, even though it's fairly straight forward, I still have a blast playing this... the world 
 is so well built it's hard to believe there's no load times... no matter where you are in the city, 
 it won't load anything unless you die or transfer to a different supply point.... and even then 
 the load times are very quick compared to the enormous size of the playing field.
  
  The new content that was released is a great addition also.... download the new content for free... 
 you can pay for the content if you want access to the new weapons and vehicles... or, you can just 
 play with a friend over xbox live who purchased it, and you get access to all the new stuff through 
 them... really good way to do it.
  
  really fun, really good graphic style. the first video game that has ever given me vertigo when 
 standing atop the highest building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 27, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Lately lots of people have been buying crackdown, about 1 million people have boughten this game 
 about 100 of them bought it cause they enjoy it the other 900,000 bought it for the halo 3 beta. 
 Does bungie and microsoft like to rip off? Yes it seems by making it so we need to buy a horrible 
 game to play halo 3 beta. In general microsoft and bungie will do anything to make money, overprice 
 systems, games, and make every scam they can think of. I mean really when halo 3 comes out they 
 have a legendary halo 3 that costs 110$ what is that systems themselves used to cost that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_rush
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 23, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was a game i had been waiting to get for a while when i first heard about it, when i first 
 got it leveling my character was the funnest thing, but then it got to the point of where there 
 wasnt much left to do. The Boss battles are just like fighting the normal enemies only they have 
 more health, i was hoping of more of a challenge. The game is pretty fun, the graphics might not be 
 realistic but the game play is definitely fun. I just love jumping from building to building, and 
 the explosions are just great! I think that if you like the Sci-Fi/action games you will definitely 
 want to check this out, even if it is repetitive, its still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfme70
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 22, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Open-ended world. Good. Ability enhancement. Better. Two hour gameplay with ridiculously easy enemies 
 and mediocre story. Back to good, and maybe worse. Crackdown is the perfect example of a great 
 idea gone bad. In the Realtime Worlds game Crackdown, you play a prototype cyborg cop fighting 
 crime in Pacific City, a futuristic city infested by crime. Your name....... the Agent. Sounds like 
 fun, but the extreme lack of variety brings Crackdown way below it's potential. I believe I will 
 give you my review as a compliment sandwich, I'll start out by saying something good about the 
 game, where it's lacking, and then end with something good. Crackdown is original. Bar none. In 
 almost every open world action game you play a crook in some way, but Crackdown puts you in the 
 shoes of a police officer. A cyborg police officer. Ability enhancement is also a first for the 
 genre, bringing a bit more depth into the scene. With ability enhancement, you can watch as your 
 Agent develops from an armed and dangerous cop, to an unstoppable, all powerful weapon of justice. 
 You can update 5 different skill levels, not a whole lot to deal with, but enough for some excitement. 
 The first of the 5 skills is Agility. You can up your Agility meter by collecting Agility orbs, 
 which are scattered around the world, competing in Roof Top Races, which are foot races that take 
 some fancy jumping, and shooting enemies from a high elevation. By increasing your Agility, you 
 can jump higher, run faster, and just generally be more agile. With a beginning game Agility level, 
 you can jump twice as high as a normal human could, but a maxed out Agility Master can jump several 
 small buildings. There is also the Driving skill meter, which you can increase by competing in 
 Road Races, or plowing over an enemy gang member. By increasing your Driving, you will go faster, 
 have better handling, and will have updated cars from the Agency garage, such as Nitrous, machine 
 guns, and hydraulics. Another skill level is the Explosives meter. This is upped by.... well, exploding 
 things. By killing gang members using grenades, or the ever-useful Firefly, you can cause bigger 
 and more powerful explosions. One of the most impressive levels is Strength. By killing gang members 
 with 'The Boot', a melee attack in which you fly forward with a Bruce Lee style spin kick, a beat 
 down with your weapon, or picking up and hurling a variety of objects such as cars, trash cans, 
 and even dead bodies, you can increase your Strength level. Increased Strength will allow you to 
 lift heavier objects, throw objects farther, and just generally increase your power in the physical 
 department. The final skill level is Firearms, one of the more challenging skills to increase. 
 Shooting and killing gang members is the only way to upgrade this section. As your skill with Firearms 
 increases, your cross-hair will get smaller, and you will be more likely to hit your enemy. Having 
 evenly spread skill levels is important in taking out gangs. There are 500 Agility orbs scattered 
 around the map, usually at higher places, along with an extra 300 Hidden orbs, which provide an 
 increase in all skill levels. Crackdown has several key flaws that keep it from being that 'Oh 
 so good' game that we crave. There is an extreme lack of story, a two minute opening video explaining 
 the condition of Pacific City, telling you to end the war on crime, and setting you loose. There 
 is a brief video that you see at the beginning of each gang explaining their history, and an ending 
 video for each as well. The worst moment of the story comes at the end. No plot twist without a 
 plot. A. I. reaches a bad low in Crackdown. Enemy movements seem random and pointless. Gang members 
 mostly just get out of the car, and shoot at you continuously until killed. Also, not enough material. 
 You have your story, your races, and Time Trials, if you love the game, but that's about all there 
 is to it. One thing Crackdown does a good job of is Achievements. There is a great variety, from 
 the usual beat this, collect these story achievements, to some unique, flip your car, kill 5 gang 
 members in a single jump more outlandish awards. There is also a good graphics engine. A thick 
 black outline makes characters more vivid and detailed. Water looks great, and there are some nice 
 details that you never notice, such as weeds on the sidewalk, or the under-work of the cars. Most 
 of the weapons sound great, and the game has explosions to rival Saint's Row. All in all Crackdown 
 is good, but not great game, that feels rushed and half finished. I think if Realtime Worlds had 
 held-off release for a few months, the game would be a better finished product. If you love open 
 world action games, this is a good purchase if you have some extra dollars, if not, I'd rent it 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1137
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game was so much fun, I never wanted to play it before because everyone gave it such bad reviews, but 
 It was actually allot of fun. This game is way better than GTA. I like how they did the grapgics 
 in the game, they made it look cartoony and that was a nice change. Allot of game developers try 
 to make realistic looking games and end up screwing it up, But the way they made Crackdown was 
 just plain awsome. The weapons in the game are so much fun, especially the rocket-launcher, it makes 
 things go boom. And the vehicles are sweet. as your driving skills go up the better the cars get.......... All 
 in ll this game is awsome, I would recomend it, even if you cant find one with Halo 3 on it, lol. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nae_botherr
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 21, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  and the gameplay of bein able to jump miles is a good way to pass time and collect all the orbs. 
 though the only reason i bought this game was for halo 3 beta. yeah sure halo 3 beta is good but 
 this game disapointed me i completed the whole story and got all skills level 4 and maxed out in 
 a shocking amount of time. as much as i like free roam games it does'nt compete with any of the 
 GTA series though there is not many of this type of game out for the 360 when the new GTA is out 
 this game will be forgotten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packr4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I got crackdown over the weekend so I can play the Halo 3 beta, Well turns out I played the Halo 
 3 beta once so far and since then all I have been playing was crackdown. I put in maybe 15 hours 
 in the past 2 days. Very good game and I will recommend it to anybody. Its just a different game 
 climbing up to the tallest building and leaping of to another one just gave me the chills (im afraid 
 of heights) . And one of my favorite things is leveling up, leveling up will make you jump higher, 
 be more efficient with a gun, drive better, its just a great game. well thanks for reading. -packr4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Lately lots of people have been buying crackdown, about 1 million people have boughten this game 
 about 100 of them bought it cause they enjoy it the other 900,000 bought it for the halo 3 beta. 
 Does bungie and microsoft like to rip off? Yes it seems by making it so we need to buy a horrible 
 game to play halo 3 beta. In general microsoft and bungie will do anything to make money, overprice 
 systems, games, and make every scam they can think of. I mean really when halo 3 comes out they 
 have a legendary halo 3 that costs 110$ what is that systems themselves used to cost that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a true virtual playground. You can jump, climb, swim, drive, shoot, and give one hell 
 of a beat down. The game puts in the role of an Agent with the task of cleaning up the city of 
 gangs. There are 3 gangs with 6 captains and 1 kingpin each for a total of 21 bosses. Your goal 
 is to kill them. Simple right? For the most part it is simple, but it ends up being a hell of a 
 lot of fun. You have different skills that will advance as you use them to kill gang members. You 
 will increase your strength for beating a gang member to death, marksmen for shooting, explosives 
 by blowing up and so on. My favorite skill happens to by agility. You can increase this skill three 
 ways. The first being killing gang members from tall places. The other two are a lot more fun. 
 One being completing roof top races that require you to jump from one checkpoint to the next under 
 a certain time. The next being finding the 500 agility orbs one the rooftops, mountain tops and 
 so on. There are also 300 hidden orbs that will increase a little bit of all your skills. There 
 are also cares races, which will require you to drive through street checkpoints under a set time. 
 You can also team up with a friend to take on the gang bosses. It would have been nice to see some 
 side quests or some other ways to spend time, but this game is still a ton of fun.
  
  UPDATE: With the new content downloads there a some fun new stuff to do. There are new vehicles, 
 weapons, and some fun stuff to do in co-op. Be sure to get booth content packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight00
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Incredibly Revolutionary it has done all that saints row wanted to do; (no motorcycles, no planes, 
 etc.) and more with its comic book graphics, the game is truly insane. The explosions look so good. 
 If you been craving a sand box game this is definitely it. Go, and buy crackdown, its awesome! 
 lets be more specific:
  Graphics: The cell-shading is the perfect kind of graphics you want for this game.
  Game play: 
 insanely awesome, but it can be repetitive.
  Story: No such thing. LOL
  Difficulty: can be very easy for beginners, but for the experts it is so hard to survive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  When Crackdown came out earlier this year, there was a huge fuss about the game simply being released 
 as advertising for Halo 3. The game contains a beta access key, so that you may join and play the 
 Halo 3 beta until the 10'th of June.
  
  Crackdown has been here for a few months, and that lead to two brand-new Downloadable Content packages 
 just a week ago - One of them free, the other at the mere price of 800 Microsoft Points. ($10)
 
  These content packages adds new weapons, tasks, game modes, vehicles and so on, and it's a lot 
 of good stuff, if you want some new life blown into your copy of Crackdown, or simply to maximize 
 the fun!
  
  Anyways, in Crackdown you play as a genetically enhanced agent. This means that you've got near-superish 
 powers, that'll prove to be your most important tool against crime in the Pacific City. There are 
 five core skills that you can improve in different ways, according to what they are. Agility, driving, 
 explosives, strength and weapons are the five core skills to improve. You can improve these powers 
 by finding agility orbs, participating in either rooftop races (Where you jump from point to point) 
 or road races, driving through Stunt Makers (Huge rings that are placed in the air, and you will 
 most likely need to fly in your car to get there) , beating up Gang Members with your bare hands 
 will gain to strength to lift heavier objects, and using weapons and explosives will let you gain 
 skill in the last two of the five core skills.
  
  There are three different gangs. Los Muertos, The Volk and The Shai-Gen. Your objective is to eliminate 
 the leader of these gangs, also known as the Kingpin. To do this, you need to take care of the 
 lower bosses first though - The generals. These are much easier to find, gain access to and take 
 out, than the Kingpin. Every time you take out a boss, your chance of eliminating the Kingpin increases. 
 However, you also need to advanced your five core skills, before you're able to take out these 
 Kingpins.
  
  Crackdown is like many other games, a Sandbox Game. This means that you can run around in this 
 major city just as you wish, and go on a mission whenever you feel like it. The City looks amazing. 
 Huge buildings, highways, mountains and such is what this city contains over the three landmasses 
 there are. The buildings looks absolutely amazing, however, you may be unlucky to find some buildings 
 a bit weird sometimes. I've seen buildings that have some parts invisible and very low textures, 
 almost as if they weren't done yet, but still in an early stage of developing. However, this can 
 most of the time be fixed by turning off the Xbox and turning it back on. But, when you do, the 
 building that was just weird is most likely fixed now, some other building might look weird. These 
 are a rare sight though, but they do happen to show up in the Pacific City. Other than some graphical 
 glitches and such, then Crackdown has some amazing visuals. They combines normal looking buildings, 
 with vehicles and people that looks a bit 'Cartoony'. If you're afraid they might look a bit too 
 much 'cartoony', then don't worry. It's not a whole lot, and it really adds something different 
 to the game, and some extra detail.
  The explosions are probably one of the best parts of this game, graphically. They look completely 
 stunning, and no matter how many things you blow up, you will always love the satisfactory look 
 of the explosions.
  
  The sound is good - Blowing up stuff, the vehicles, weapons and all that sounds great. One thing 
 that is annoying though, is a voice that tells you what is going on, and what happens when you 
 pick up an agility orb or whatsoever. This voice can be frustrating sometimes, and there is no 
 option to turn it off, sadly. The campaign is not that long. It might last you 6-7 hours to complete 
 it, by finding all of the bosses and eliminating them, as well as improving in skill, which seems 
 to happen quite fast, until you're at the last part.
  
  But as I said, there is some new content available that might increase the time you spend with 
 this game, and make it a lot more fun. There are three different Agency Vehicles - The Supercar, 
 the SUV and the truck. (The content adds a few more vehicles, but I won't spend any time talking 
 about those.)
  
  The Supercar is a quite fast car with a great design, good handling and good speed. Once you've 
 got four stars (Maximum) in driving skill, it will also be equipped with guns on the sides.
  The SUV is more of the fun vehicle. While the Supercar drives below every other vehicle it hits, 
 the SUV goes above instead. It's a great car to gain some airtime and bust out some cool tricks 
 when you're in the air.
  The truck is the most violent vehicle. At four star rating, then it gains a speed-boost function, 
 that seems somewhat similar to Nitro. When you use this and gain an amazing speed, and then hit 
 another car, then it will most likely be smashed away, and destroyed. The great part of Crackdown 
 is the online Co-op. Here you can play the main Campaign mode, or the brand-new Cheatmode, Keys 
 to the City, with a friend on Xbox Live. It's tons of fun to drive around, run around or whatever 
 if you feel like doing. There's always a bunch of stuff that needs to be done in the Pacific city, 
 and a lot of fun stuff that you can do with a friend. How does climbing the tallest building, and 
 throwing your friend, who's in a car, over the edge sound like? Cool, eh?
  
  Well, if you like Sandbox games, then Crackdown will be one of your favorites, as it's definitely 
 mine. However, the game will probably not last you very long, but it'll always be a fun game to 
 pick up and play whenever you feel like it, especially if you've got a friend to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I had extremely low expectations going into this game however it wound up being a lot of fun. I 
 loved the super human attributes that you can build up and the shooting is pretty good too. I loved 
 the fact that its multiplayer! Having a buddy with you made all the difference. Its cool to have 
 people working on a team and riding around in cars to lay the smack down on criminals. One of the 
 best things is the constant updates and add-ons. I loved the fact that they have given me new agents 
 for free, added an editor as well as new content. All I have to say is curse you Microsoft and 
 your Microsoft points they burn a hole in my pocket. But I love the updates so it tortures me 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 17, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure why I have read so many reviews about this game that say that it is not so great... I 
 happen to really like this game, leveling up is friggin sweet, and getting to throw cars at gang 
 members as a way to kill them off... priceless... so why is this game received a editorial **** slap 
 from so many people's reviews? Probably because the replay value is low... after maxing your character, 
 it doesn't seem nearly as fun anymore... sure they came out with a thing that you an start the game 
 over as your maxed out character, but why would I want that for more than perhaps one game session 
 of mass killing? So in that aspect I can understand why it is so low in ratings... but jumping from 
 building to building, jumping off the agency tower and actually feeling like you are really falling 
 makes this game the best sandbox game out there. Grand theft auto broke barriers, and this game 
 took advantage of it to the fullest. Give this game a try, and not just for the Halo 3 beta... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I finally picked this game up and gave it a spin and I find it hard to put the controller down 
 while I play it. First off, I really like free-roam games to begin with, but the people at real 
 time and Microsoft have combined to come up with a unique game experience that ends waaaaay too 
 early for my taste. I hope they are looking into Crackdown 2 with some different skills upgrades, 
 so on and so forth.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Controls are extremely easy to use and are very responsive. I haven't ran into a single glitch 
 while playing the game. Flying from rooftop to rooftop is virtually seamless, picking up cars (and 
 just about every other object) , aiming and throwing them is a lot easier than one would imagine. 
 The strength you build up is outstanding to the point where I don't want to use a gun if I don't 
 have to . The only knock on the gameplay from me is the early stage driving. until you level up 
 you are behind the wheel as if you have never driven before. Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics are actually pretty good and better than what the previews showed. The character models 
 are a little cartoon-ish but I believe that was almost done on purpose. Personally I don't like 
 the character models or graphics. I do enjoy the visuals of the cities, night and day, the colors 
 stand out very well and your visual depth is outstanding. Everything except the character models 
 are pretty damn good, it's too bad they aren't a little more life-like. Some thinks it adds to 
 the games charge; to me it seemed a little lazy. Not TERRIBLE, but not the greatest graphics.
 
  
  Sound : 8
  
  Player voices and the sound effects (i. e. explosions, car accidents, engines, gun fire, etc.) are 
 very nice but soundtrack kinda blows. The music is extremely repetitive and is one of the reasons, 
 albeit a MINOR portion of the reasons, why I hardly drive in the game. Otherwise the sound is great.
 
  
  Value: 7
  
  The reality is this -- Crackdown is a fun game that leaves you feeling a little empty. Co-op is 
 fun but it is a little dry. Online multiplayer in these types of games is hard to pull off and 
 Crackdown is evident of that. However, free-roam games are RARELY bad when it comes to replay value 
 because even if you have beaten the game, you can still blow up cars and get in gun fights with 
 cops. The achievement list is extremely fun and most are pretty easily obtainable.
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  I like this game... A lot more than I thought I would. The added elements of strength 
 agility give the game a fun factor that is very tough to beat on any system. This game won't please 
 EVERYONE, but the average gamer will more than likely find they have a lot more interest than what 
 they originally had once they actually play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oakfront
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  When i first got Crackdown , i wasn't too sure how long it was going to last me , although the 
 main story may seem a little short , you'll soon be loading it back up trying to max your stats 
 out. Also , the achievements are fun and are quite easy to get , some more difficult than others 
 , if you know what to do ;)
  
  The gameplay is great with the ability of total freedom! and no invisible walls which is a plus 
 point. Its also fun just jumping from rooftop to rooftop when you need to get from one place to 
 the other. The graphics are easy on the eyes and the sound is spot on! Value for money is good 
 aswell as although you may of finished the main storyline , achievements will keep you occupied 
 for many more weeks to come.
  
  Overall , ive gave Crackdown 9.1 as its a all-round fun gaming experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheartssj1
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I had first reserved this title so I could get the Halo 3 Beta invite.... but was pleasantly surprised 
 when I actually started playing. This game is addictive and fun. It has a seemingly endless set 
 of miniature goals right from the start. From collecting agility orbs, to collecting hidden orbs 
 to completing rooftop races, street races, unlocking supply points, collecting weapons, defeating 
 bosses....... and so much more. Not to mention the insane amount of time I've spent trying to get 
 all the achievements, and with the recently released downloadable content, I will be back at it 
 again. Don't forget all of the co-op mayhem you can cause as well. There is a non-existent story 
 here but if you're looking for good ole fun, you've found the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is Microsoft's answer to the Rockstar GTA forumula. EA has theirs with The Godfather, 
 Activision has True Crime, and not Microsoft has theirs. The graphics aren't super realistic, they 
 have a cell shaded feel that goes well with the game because it's characters and stylized action 
 has a comic book type feel. The control set up is pretty much like GTA. The music is forgettable 
 and the sounds aren't out of place. The game it's self is exactly like GTA. You play as a super 
 cop with the ability to jump high and take some serious damage. You basically are trying to clean 
 up the city from the gangs that rule it. Your boss gives you directions and you find it on the 
 map. Then you go and kill a bunch of punks.
  
  If you've played the prior incarnations of the GTA style game then you've played this game. There 
 really isn't anything new here. It's a bit more limited then GTA. If you like that type of game 
 I would recommend this to tide yourself over until the new GTA comes out. If not then either rent 
 it or demo it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because my best friend for as long as i can remember bought this as well and 
 we played the demo together and had a great time. We bought the actual thing and had fun for every 
 day for almost a whole month and then his 360 broke and it was gone for about 1 month and i can 
 honestly say if it wasn't for the fact that he bought it i would have returned it. There is no 
 split screen co-op which is kind of lame thinking of how fun that could be and 4 player co-op would 
 yes probably make the game to easy but it would make it so much better. The diffuculty needs tweaking 
 as well, the standard mode is just to easy for anyone with a rocket launcher and the Big ass machine 
 gun. Once you max out your skills you kind of just get bored if your not playing with a good friend, 
 and joining one sucks because most people decline it because it's not a nice join in the heat of 
 action no inturuptions, it's stop what your doing and reload everything so your buddy can join. 
 With the new keys to the city mode it's quite a blast being able to do those things but still, 
 if my buddy's crackdown breaks down or something like that i would return it the next day and that's 
 the honest truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrbanSpartan125
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Crackdown does what other games havent, playing as a type of super soldier is loads of fun and 
 using the abilities are great. The combination of the cool graphics and the highly addictive game 
 play give crackdown a great score. The replay value of this game is great and it will be sure to 
 last for a long time to come. Running around on the streets of Pacific City gives the player freedom 
 to do what he wants. The only bad thing about this game is the short story line but that is supersceded 
 by the excellent gameplay. Over all i think Crackdown is a must have and you get the Halo 3 beta 
 with it, what can be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arab-man666
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  1st of all, Crackdown is no GTA clone. It's been influenced by every freeroaming game every to 
 come onto any console, but it's a completely unique experience on it's own.
  
  Your'e given a gaint playground, with lots of neat weapons- although none revolutionary- and basically 
 a hit list. Other then vauge clues and information given to you by some some guy, The game has 
 no real story, but it's completely alright since you won't really care, it's too much fun to care.
 
  
  While I wish there was more than a Co-op multiplayer mode in the game, it's still very fun. In 
 terms of visuals, the game is stunning. Obviously, realism is not the aim, but it's surreal look 
 is definatly fitting for the next generation.
  
  I love the skills system. It gives you a sense of accomplishment and eveolution in the game. You 
 can not only see how your eveolving but you can feel it. The vehicular transformations are a great 
 idea.
  
  Crackdown is insanely fun to pick up and play, and is definatly worthy of your video game library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cajiman
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  cracdown is a very fun game but right now i am stuck. The hardest bit in the game would have to 
 be trying to get up to the old guy i still cant get up. i have jumped off the agency tower its fun 
 i advise u to tru it sometime but remember jump into the water. my little cus played it and liked 
 it. my complaints are physics system is mad. it is very cool jumping from building to building. kicking 
 cars to tip them is fun aswell. driving hitting into cars and tipping them or shooting the wheels 
 out has the same effect. i think you should get this game its really worth it. my friend has it and 
 he likes it aswell it also wasnt hyped as badly as games like gears which is even better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wergfwefwef
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has gameplay similar to the grand theft auto series. You run around the city, able to 
 take cars and gun down people. But what is special about it, is that the city and environment are 
 somewhat futuristic, and your characters abilities are able to grow to the point where you can 
 lift up thousands of pounds items and jump 30 feet high and such. The object of the game is to 
 just kill gang members and gang leaders. Throughout the game you kill each gang leader, and once 
 you kill the last one, the game is over. After this it is sorta boring, because there is nothing 
 to do. But during the campaign and building your character it is super fun and addicting, but if 
 you are really looking to buy this, you should do it for the halo 3 beta, or just wait until the 
 price drops. Overall it is a decent game, it just leaves so much out, and leaves you wanting more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudgiebrown1
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. It offers a vast world for you to explore and contains a variety of weapons 
 and vehicles. There are many characters for you to choose from. As you play the game and increase 
 your skills your agent will become an uber killing machine. You can take semi's and throw them 
 hundreds of feet or you can bound your way onto buildings. The coop play online is amazing and enables 
 you to talk to your friend while killing to. This game will also allow you to play the Halo 3 Beta 
 which is an awesome addition to an already great game. This game is a must have for any gamer. I 
 guarantee you will enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoJomaster1
Rating: 5
Date: May 11, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  You'll be jumping high with this shooter. One of the things I loved about this game is the sheer 
 size of it. You have to collect orbs which can also add to the fun. Jumping from building to building 
 I feel a bit... ok I sound stupid but.... spiderman-y. I must say it is a real addictive game even 
 if the storyline is a bit thin. I think the game would have benefited, from having more customizations 
 such as the people and not default people. Though, saying that, I love the evolving cars and truck. 
 Also, whats with that voice-over guy. Very annoying that you can't turn it off. All in all is a 
 very good game that people should play even if the halo 3 beta is coming... the games worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tytomes9
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  very addictive... should be more gangs awesome weapons vechiles lack a bit should be different ones 
 . i would play this over grand theft auto. didnt take long to beat, if your a quick learner. the 
 jumping part makes the game better and there isnt much glitches. pick the black guy the other guys 
 are goofs if u have the chance buy it! make sure to find everything or the game is pointless. have 
 funhplaying this game!!!!! crack down crack down crack down dont give up if u keep dying i am just 
 writing random **** right now cause i am drunk **** the police 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I always wanted to love GTA, but it would leave me cold after awhile. While the dynamics of plot/story/missions 
 in Crackdown are simpler in many ways, Crackdown for me was just whole lot more fun. The art direction, 
 sound design and voice over work make for the perfect big scale comic book. The scale if insanity 
 as you work through the city make for a lot of fun, and the needs to scale up your super powers 
 become increasingly important. While i found the driving handy but not entirely necessary. Strength 
 however as an attribute became the most important for my experience as leveling up gave you great 
 options in escapability and survival
  
  Flat out fun. One of the best pieces of escapism I have played in last few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncjpr1993
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an amazing sandbox game in which you stop gangs by killing their leaders and bosses.... 
 or something.
  
  Usually I am a bit more smart with my reviews, but I didn't pay much attention to the story. The 
 game play is pretty straight forward with a Halo-like weapons system. The games graphics are pretty 
 unique, basically and upgrade of GTA with a Comic book type of style. Your character has 3 Super 
 Human abilities, he can run like a crack head, he is as strong as a gorilla and jumps as high as.. 
 well, some kind of thing that jumps really high. All of these skills can be upgraded by using them 
 in combat, but agility related skills can only be upgraded by finding agility orbs scattered around 
 the city. The best part of the game, is co-op from what I hear, I will get to try it out soon on 
 system link with my friend. If possible, I would suggest you load a Megadeth CD on to your 360 
 and blast it up on surround sound. There is not much to hate about this game, and I would suggest 
 it to any GTA fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poncho88x
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown... Basically is wat it says u go araound and crackdown on the criminals and bad guys . 
 The attributes view in this game is intense u go around shootin, beatin up, and runnin over. And 
 in the end u will earn exp. for those specific attributes. Eventully ur grenandes will blow up 
 like atomic bombs. Your driving real isnt noticable unless ur in a agency vechile, which turns 
 them into some futuristic vechile. Guns more acurate, And not to mention u can jump 30 feet in 
 the air. And the best is pickin up SEMI'S. i like this game its fun to play. Not to mention the 
 added bonus of the halo 3 multiplayer beta demo. Always fun........................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent473
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  It was a petty good game overall. Many features, and lots of ways to fool around. Crackdown takes 
 place in a pretty big city, and there is lots of room to explore. There is a pretty cool leveling 
 up system, but that can get kind of dull at times. Pretty vague storyline, they don't tell you 
 much, just that you are a cop in a futuristic city, aiming to clean up the streets. You are basically 
 a super-human, jumping 25 feet in the air, picking up cars, etc. The aiming system is pretty cool, 
 you can choose to lock onto their arms, legs, torso, or head. A variety of weapons, but not as 
 big as it could have been. Storyline is quick, over before you know it. You could probably graze 
 through it on 10 hours. A small variety of vehicles. You have your SUV, cars, and freight trucks, 
 with some modifications in-between those. With the agency vehicles, you can level them up depending 
 your skill, and watch them transform before your eyes. Crackdown is a fun game with lots to explore, 
 but it lacks in the main story department. A good game to check out if your into action/shooting/free-roaming 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitekiller1172
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the commercial I thought oh cool a new game and it looks like a comic book thats very 
 unique. And then once the commercial finished invitation to Halo 3 Beta, I just almost pissed my 
 pants. I was thinking sweet 2 great things on one disk thats so gangsta. Once I had the money i 
 went straight to go buy it, once i played it I fell in love with it. I love it how your character 
 just keeps on improving after you kill the gangs and pick up the agility orbs. I noticed that your 
 body and your armor that you have grows and changes, its so cool because once your maxed out, damn 
 you can do anything. You can jump over high buildings pick up heavy objects like big cars and trucks. 
 Once i have finished the game its still fun you know you can still do a lot of things, but after 
 a while you kind of start to get a little bored but i cant wait till the halo 3 beta comes out 
 thats what I'm really waiting for. Well I think this game deserves a good because it just is a 
 good game not great but good, peace out everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePerkster15
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't like alot of people who got crackdown for the beta, but its surely a plus! This game was 
 so much fun. I spent the whole time on it with my friends and talking about the latest and coolest 
 thing to do on crackdown, weather it was jumping off the top of the agency building and getting 
 shot by a heat seeking missile or just screwing around. The levels are really fun, and once you 
 get everything maxed out, the game gets 2x better. its so much fun and highly addictive. You have 
 the freedom to do so much! The only draw back was the graphics, they wern't bad, but they looked 
 a little cartoony. But its still awesome, and i recommend it to anyone.
  later
  -cp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etiennec9
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game a while ago and I must've played it for quite a few hours because I don't 
 remember the month of March. Those long falls made my stomach sink. I enjoyed building my character, 
 but why no women? For a sandbox game, I was a little disappointed because the races were not fun, 
 esp. the rooftop races. The bosses were too easy a lot of the time, though if you went to the top 
 city too soon, that was hard. I know the point was to wipe out the gangs, but when a city is devoid 
 of bad guys it's really no fun anymore. Then the only thing keeping me going back is the search 
 for the green and blue markers. As much as I'd like to be able to claim I found them all I am not 
 about to go back and try anymore. I have all but 28 of the green markers and I haven't a clue where 
 the rest are. That about drove me insane. It was super fun, though, and I must recommend it highly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizzvalve
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the most enjoyable games for the Xbox 360. The gameplay is very addictive. 
 It had me playing for hours. The city is big. You can easily get lost in the scenery. I like it 
 how you collect the orbs from the roofs of the skyscrappers. The aiming is good and you can easily 
 shoot down as many guys as possible. It's mre fun to ruyn down enemies with your car. The coop 
 is the best part of Crackdown. You can explore the city with a friend to help you defeat a boss 
 that you are stuck on. It's also fun to create havoc in the city with a buddy.
  
  For the graphics I like how they use cell-shading with this game. It fits very well with the game. 
 And the sound is phenomenal even without a surround sound system.
  
  Overall this game is very enjoyable and this is a much have in my opinion. If you are waiting for 
 Grand Theft Auto 4 to come out, this will keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholhamster
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  Crackdow. It's a pretty damn fun game. I mean, how many games give you the role of a supercop, 
 who can jump around on top of buildings?
  
  picture spiderman, minus the licence and the fact that gameplay is tied to a strict storyline. 
 or GTA, only with super powers, and the fact you are technically a good guy.
  
  Gameplay: its really fun. easy controls, and plenty of control over your movement and everything. 
 the auto aiming- sure, you might sneer at this- is very good. it allows the gameplay to proceed 
 as it is supposed to, that is being able to shoot criminals while jumping over their heads, or 
 from building top to building top.
  score= 10.
  
  Graphics: very good. it's a very nice game to look at, and the style is great- cell shaded style 
 black lines around everything, and textured colours inside the thick lines. it is strange when 
 you first look at it, but with a 360 hooked up to an HDTV, its real pretty. explosions look real 
 nice.
  score= 10
  
  Sound: the licenced music is crap. nothing decent like in GTA, no themed stations. fortunately, 
 the ability on the 360 to play your own music seemlessly in the game renders this irrelevant. the 
 speech is great, corny voice acting, but that is what is called for here.
  the sound is good, with some real nice explosion sounds
  score= 8
  
  Value: ah, now. this 
 is where it falls down.
  i got around 35 hours out of it, and im not sure how many you'd add with the new content. BUT the 
 vast vast majority of those hours were in co op, so i messed around with my friends a lot. the 
 game is really quite short. co op and achievements save it from being put back in the box after 
 ten hours. and then, you have to remember that the demo was out for a month or so beforehand, so 
 maybe i got a few less hours from it....
  however, you have to remember that it gives you entry in to the Halo 3 Beta!
  score= 8
  
 
  i really enjoyed Crackdown. it is a great game idea, and well executed. there are few places in 
 which it falls down, but these places do hurt it.
  
  it doesnt deserve all the crap its has been getting about how bad it must be to need the Beta to 
 sell it, but i have to admit, the Beta is a big sweetener.
  i recommend it, and even more so if you have XBL gold.
  
  my tilt= 9
  total score= 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a really good game BUT with a short singleplayer but if you beated singleplayer you 
 gonna stunt and jump and shoot everything and get all the Archievements and after that; you just 
 play the whole game over again and again and again... Almost everyone says: 'Aah there's another 
 GTA Rip-Off... ' That's ttally not true cus this is a whole other game with other gameplay. Its 
 totally unrealistic with those overwhelming stunts and explosives.
  This game aint got a real good storyline but it doesnt matter to me cus this' is just Fun.
  
 
  Conclusion: If you want a game with an overload of action nice explosions and stunts ( just read 
 the review ) then buy Crackdown.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a Sandbox game like GTA with a twist, you get to play as a cop, a cop with awesome 
 powers.
  
  Initially you begin as your everyday supersoldier killing the Los Muertos gang members, kicking, 
 shooting, and exploding anything that stops you, and along the way maybe pickup some agility orbs. 
 As you progress your skills become more phenomenal, one of the most noticible is the driving skill, 
 every level you increase the cooler your car looks. eventually the supercar looks like the batmobile 
 with guns, the suv can jump, and the Truck Cab can use nitro and boost up to 200 mph.
  
  Another important skill is agility, which with every level you obtain, you get an increase to speed, 
 and jumping height. once you get level 4 you get to jump up to 75 feet in the air and run almost 
 as fast as the speed limit (About 20-25 MPH)
  
  In short crackdown is a fun game, with decent graphics and a style of its own. It is worth buying 
 even though you dont get the Halo 3 beta with it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mallowman87
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a total fantasy shooter which is kind of a Reversal on the GTA/Saints Row storyline 
 (Not that Crackdown has much of a storyline other that Here are Gang Bosses. Kill them ) . 3 rival 
 gangs control the 3 sections of Pacific City (Los Muertos, Volk, and Shai-Gen) , and you have the 
 task of weakening each Gang's Kingpin by assassinating their lower ranked officers, making the 
 gang weaker. As far as storyline goes, this is pretty much it, apart from a couple of videos explaining 
 what each gang boss has done, or what they did (Before you murdered them) .
  
  Each gang boss is (If you do them in the correct order) harder than the last, which is where a 
 key element to an otherwise boring game comes into play. By using different methods of eliminating 
 gang members and bosses, and doing other things on the side, you can make your character better 
 at certain tasks. Agility orbs (located on top of buildings etc) allow the charachter to run faster 
 and jump higher. Driving through htunt rings, or running over gang members makes the player better 
 at handling cars, as well as eventually being able to enhance agency vehicles. Perhaps the most 
 comical of the 5 skills, a high Strength skill meter allows the player to pick up cars, people, 
 and a whole bunch of other stuff, and throw them far far away. Explosives and Firearms skills speak 
 for themselves.
  
  You might think that this is all there is to it (Which, if you are like my friend JoeTonks, it 
 is) , but as an Achievement Whore, I am having loads of fun just levelling up my character, playing 
 around in the Agency SUV (It can go up vertical walls when you achieve a high enough Driving rating) , 
 and generally just pissing about.
  
  Hardcore gamers may be put off by how it isnt ridiculously hard, but from my point of view, that 
 is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a fun game and should not be overlooked due to the fact its got the Halo3 beta. Even 
 without it i would still say buy it because u get a lot of fun and a good laugh out of it. The 
 story begins with u being this kind of super cop called an agent and your mission is to rid 3 gangs 
 that have taken over Pacific City . U start off in the Agency building which is based in the middle 
 of the map and makes it easy to travel to the 3 islands which make up the city. So the first job 
 of the day is to go get your car and drive out of the Agency building . As soon as u leave your 
 already stuck into the battle when the los Muertos gang attacks cops outside the the building. 
 This is pretty easy and helps you learn the controls of shooting and such. then its on to the first 
 gang leader, make your way to her and kill her ( pick up any useful weapon along the way) . Once 
 u killed her instead of going to the next, go find a supply point so it can store the guns u took 
 from the gang members and then continue on with your mission. The gameplay is great. Its got elements 
 of lots of games which are kind of based around open world like GTA and even The hulk due to the 
 jumping and such. So think Grand Theft Auto with superheros and that what crackdown is. he world 
 is pretty dam big and if compared to a GTA game i would say it was a lot bigger then GTA Vice City, 
 There also an rpg element to it as well as you are able level up 5 thing which are agility, driving, 
 explosives, strength and weapons. Each can level up to 4 stars and it take sometimes to level up 
 but is worth it because with a skill like agility , when its full u be able to jump much higher 
 and further then if u didn't level it up and with driving the better the level the cooler the Agency 
 Car looks and well be a lot faster and become more easy to drive. The world is just so open and 
 other stuff to do like foot races and driving races are fun to. The finally great thing is u can 
 play it co-op as well and can help other people with mission and such plus u can take the guy you 
 been working on so u be able to still jump really high, still have the weapon u got over the game 
 and such. The graphics are really good to. Keeping to the theme that u are a kind of superhero 
 they made it cell shaded which in my own views i feel is much better then going for the real look, 
 Characters models are really good to and there a few so u can make your agent look different to. 
 The music is not really my kind of thing but again this is just my views, no real voice acting 
 apart from the guy who talks threw out the game which does get annoying. It starts of ok when u 
 start playing for the first time and he give u some handy tips but half way in you wish he would 
 just shut up and let u get on with it, Plus he also get stuff wrong a lot when he says thing like 
 this is a great view when your not even climbing up a building.
  
  Well we move on to the value which really lets it down now there a great number of guns and cars 
 and there quite a bit to do but the story, well the fact is apart form killing gangs there is no 
 story, its pretty much u killed that leader go find the next and so on. also the gang leaders aren't 
 even that hard to kill, even the king pin are pretty easy. But yeah the fact that there no back 
 story or no real incite into the main story is a real let down but u be playing this for a while 
 due to the mayhem and co-op over xboxlive .
  
  So to sum up Crackdown is a great game that has a lot inside it. If u like me then u be taken it 
 slow and having fun while playing. but if u rush threw it kinds of spoils the game, The co-op is 
 one to watch out for in this game and overall even without the Halo3 beta i would still say buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oraledeaki
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 3, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I actually rent it, every review says to rent it judge for yourself and if you like it enough well 
 buy it, but i think they&acute; re going too soft there, this game is boring to the bone once you 
 kill all the gang bosses there&acute; s nothing to do and finding those orbs is not that fun at 
 least not that fun to keep you playing more than 10 or 15 hours, it took me 2 days to kill all 
 the bosses.... and.... that&acute; s it... well graphics are good enough, when you get to lvl 3-4 
 on agility is fun (for a while) to jump from rooftop to rooftop and climbing the tallest buildings 
 climbing the agency tower is fun to.... a bit of a challenge (only a little bit) .... but in the 
 end this game has more bads than goods and the goods don&acute; t last very much so my recommendation 
 is DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCE (halo 3 beta only) BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Pacific City is under attack! The streets are running rampant with violent hooligans and gang leaders 
 are completing corrupt business transactions within the safety of the shadows. Citizens of the 
 once great city are becoming fearful for their personal security and local law enforcement is simply 
 outnumbered by the amount of widespread crime.
  
  Enter the mysterious group, the Agency.
  
  The Agency is the newest and brightest hope for 
 reclaiming the tainted streets of Pacific City. As a massive faction that combines the use of law 
 enforcement and experimental sciences, the Agency has nearly unlimited resources when pursuing 
 their fight against crime. The most secretive, yet reliable, of these resources is their new super 
 agent program.
  
  As one of said experimental super agents, it is the job of the player to single-handedly rid the 
 city of crime. It may sound like a lost cause when up against the countless hordes of gang members 
 and criminals, but gamers will soon discover the secrets that being an Agency super soldier have.
 
  
  Closely resembling the surprisingly fun superhero game The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, 
 the X-Box 360 game Crackdown takes a more over-the-top approach concerning its characters and action 
 unlike the more realistic approach earlier sandbox game predecessors such as the Grand Theft Auto 
 series and Saints Row decided on. Possessing extraordinarily amplified agility, strength, and skills, 
 players are allowed to use their agents to achieve their own measure of martial law any way they 
 deem necessary.
  
  Using firearms, tossing grenades, hurling dumpsters, or simply sending the welcoming committee 
 of an agents foot to the face of an enemy are just some of the many ways to dispatch of unruly 
 enemies. As gamers continue to wipe out the gang presence and explore the city, experience orbs 
 are collected and the agent will grow even stronger in skill levels, abilities, and physical appearance.
 
  
  At the beginning of the game, players are able to jump about 15 feet in the air, have decent firearm 
 and explosive experience, and can handle a car relatively well. But if a player wants to improve 
 at a certain skill, theyll need to practice and increase experience for their agent to evolve. 
 Shooting and killing bad guys will drop firearm orbs which in return will increase shooting accuracy, 
 while jumping from rooftop to rooftop collecting agility orbs will allow the agent to jump even 
 higher in search of those hard to reach areas on the taller skyscrapers.
  
  This feature of Crackdown is a pretty fresh concept when compared to game after game of never evolving 
 as a character in games like Grand Theft Auto (except San Andreas) and it keeps the game addictive 
 as gamers will continually want to increase their stats to see what powers are gained in return. 
 But as fun as evolving the agent and exploring the giant map of Pacific City is, Crackdown has 
 its disappointing aspects as well.
  
  The biggest problem with Crackdown is the main mission structure of the game. Instead of silly 
 escort or driving missions that plagued games like Saints Row, Crackdown features 21 different 
 main mission tasks. Its just a shame that all 21 are the exact same in nature. As the main character 
 continues to evolve and explore, hell inevitable come across various leaders of one of the three 
 gangs in Pacific City. All three gangs have six leaders and one kingpin, but they hardly vary in 
 difficulty or tactical approach. Sometimes simply running past the leaders cronies and kicking 
 him to death is the simplest way to achieve victory, and there is really no instance of ever needing 
 to do anything else to win against them.
  
  This lack of mission originality really hurts a game trying to be innovative in other areas, but 
 another big issue with the game is the troublesome lock-on view. Instead of the ability to cycle 
 through targets, Crackdown picks the closest object to the onscreen reticle and locks on. This 
 lock-on ability could target an important item such as an attacking criminal or exploding barrel, 
 but more often than needed will it target a useless item such as a dead body or a car driving almost 
 a football field away. Being able to cycle through various targets would have greatly improved 
 this wonky targeting system, but it ends up being incredibly frustrating at times, especially during 
 heavy shootouts.
  
  With these faults in mind, the absolute redeeming grace for Crackdown is the inclusion of co-op 
 mode for X-Box Live players. It may be more than a little bit annoying when trying to find the 
 correct target to aim at or facing the 15th boring gang boss, but when a buddy is virtually beside 
 you cutting flips inside their Agency sports car or taking the rooftops as you take the street 
 level, those flaws often fade away.
  
  All in all, Crackdown is a very well crafted game that with a little more fine-tuning and mission 
 variety could be considered an instant classic to the sandbox game genre. Despite the few minute 
 flaws, the game is definitely worth checking out, if not for the sheer enjoyment of sharing a co-op 
 experience with an online friend as you both clean the crooked streets of Pacific City together. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz96
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 2, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The crackdown is a pretty good game and one you should definitely try the demo first. To see if 
 you like the style. The game has 3 gangs I think about 3 kingpins a. k. a. generals and bosses working 
 under them. Los Muertos is the first gang you would meet they are easiest and most fun gang to 
 beat. The Volk is the next one they are military gangs and there good with explosives. The Shaingen 
 is the last they are the toughest gang you will meet. But if your upgraded you should be fine. 
 In the game you have an agent that is skinny and short. You have 5 skills agility, strength, explosives, 
 firearms, and driving. They are all easy to get and are fun to get. You can get 4 stars to be fully 
 upgraded. But it usaully takes alot of work to get there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Age of Decay. the future is a dangerous thing. Soon ill need to start watching where i park my 
 car. but if anytime trouble happens i know i can call... the agency? damn no super friends? oh well...
 
  Crackdown begins with your recuitment into the agency; a well... agency established for one reason. 
 To destroy 3 crime familys. But you are no mere human. you are a geneticly enhanced super soldier 
 with constintly developing abilitys in Agility, Power, Stamina, Firearms and explosives and driving 
 skill. Crackdown is just plain fun. as you advance through the game eliminating the crime familys, 
 you obtain level ups that make your major skills develope giving you the chance to jump higher, 
 run faster, drive better and take damage better. the only problem is sometimes you get overwelmed. 
 graphics are taken from comic book games and sometimes look bland. sound could be better with music 
 and voice acting getting annoying. Crackdown is just plain fun and is a decent buy. just quit playing 
 halo 3 beta and enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  I was sceptical when I first heard about this game. My scepticism only grew when they announced 
 that they would offer beta access for Halo 3 for those who purchased the version of this game with 
 the beta access sticker on it. After reading some reviews for this game and hearing my friends 
 rave about the game I had to try it. So off the the local Blockbuster I went to rent this game. 
 After getting it home and putting it in my 360 I sat down to play. Hours later the open ended game 
 play had me hook line and sinker. The graphics have a slightly comic bookish feel to them but are 
 excellently rendered. The environment is huge and a blast to explore. When you stand atop some 
 of the taller buildings in the game you can see for miles. The story line for the game is far too 
 short unfortunately for me to say anything more than it is disappointing. Fortunately you can run 
 around doing the races, collecting orbs, freeing supply points, and getting all the available weapons 
 in the game. All of this and the unlocking of accomplishments turned this game for mediocre to 
 absolutely great. The game is a bit pricey right now but if you have no interest in the the Halo 
 3 beta just buy it used and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hollis360
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I was never going to buy this game in the first place! I thought it looked stupid and the commercials 
 never even caught my eye long enough to take a second glance.
  
  but I guess you should always try something once. my friends all went out and bought crackdown 
 just for the Halo 3 Beta Invite, little did they know that they would be buying one of the most 
 fun open world games to hit the shelves in years!
  
  they kept on telling me to buy it just because of how fun running and gunning everything down in 
 the whole city was, as well as flying from rooftop to rooftop. so I picked it up just to shut them 
 up!
  
  I love it, it may not be the most polished or best looking game, but in fun factor... I give it 
 a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  crackdown is a shooter/driving game that gives you no bull ****. it just plops you in a city and 
 basically says go nuts. there is lots to do even though the story line is terribly short. but where 
 crackdown makes up for its bad story length it makes up for in co-op. the co-op on this game is 
 just fun to play, there is so much stuff to do in-between exploring to races- driving and agility.
 
  or just goofing off random driving performing stunts, if you wanted to take a ramp truck up to 
 the tallest mt. in the game and get the agency SUV and just jump off thats an easy achievement 
 there. and to top it all of (if you got a marked box) you also receive halo 3 beta codes. wait 
 but thats not all, crackdown i coming out with a new vehicle on XBOX LIVE. crackdown also is not 
 a GTA clone, because it resembles mercenaries more than GTA.
  crackdown is good at being that open-ended world we only dream of, without being a GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is so close to being amazing that it is painful to see it fail.
  
  The graphics are far above average, though the cell shaded look is a little flat. Yes, I know it 
 isn't really cell shading. The explosions are gorgeous, and almost justify purchase of the game 
 alone, and the solid frame rate only heightens the value of this already great game.
  
  Sound is above average, but not perfect. The Radio guy is awful after the first 5 or 6 hours of 
 play.
  
  The gameplay is literally perfect, minus one little exception. The jumping feels even better than 
 it does in Mario, and most of the controls are solid. The one problem is the awful lock on system, 
 which is only bad because it won't change targets once an enemy is dead. It does not detract too 
 heavily from the game itself, but is annoying.
  
  The biggest problem with Crackdown is that the end comes too soon, as it is only about 20 hours 
 long. Adding to that problem is the fact that there is no way to reset all the gangs after beating 
 them. This means most people will begin to spam multiplayer for an excuse to replay the game until 
 they get sick of it.
  
  On the other hand, Downloadable content is on the way, so this should be rectified.
  
  This 
 is a great game, but it is just short of being amazing. As soon as the DLC comes out, the value 
 should increase by a lot.
  
  ***UPDATED***
  The addition of the new DLC makes this game a must play. Keys to the city is brilliant, and the 
 ability to reset the game makes the replay value far higher. PLAY IT IF YOU HAVE XBOX LIVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushycookie800
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is defiantly not a must buy game. For the current retail price it is not worth buying 
 because any gamer could easily blow through this game in a weekend. Although, if you turn up the 
 difficulty you may manage to squeeze a few more hours of entertainment out of this game. Overall 
 this game deserves a 7.1 because it is far from perfect.
  
  The storyline will offer fairly little enjoyment because even on harder difficulties is still very 
 easy. Once the main storyline has been completed Crackdown offers little enjoyment because there 
 is almost no replay value. You may come back to this game several weeks after beating it and attempt 
 to complete some of the achievements but aside from the occational revisit this is one of those 
 games that sits in your collection of unused games that just waits to be played again.
  
  I paid $59 CAN for this game several weeks after it was released and lets just say: Halo 3 beta 
 better be worth the money cuz Crackdown definatly wasnt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj729
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a spectacular third-person shooter that brings a new meaning to the term Run-N-Gun 
 . In crackdown you play a member of a secret law enforcement organization known simply as ,The 
 Agency. You are a scientifically-enhanced operative within The Agency whose sole purpose is to 
 eliminate the gang threat within the nation's capital of Pacific City. Making this easier is your 
 agents abilities that far surpass that of the average human. The fact that they can increase your 
 abilities throughout the game draws you in even more. Just like every rose has it's thorn, every 
 game has it's flaws. This games main one is the fact that it only has one goal. THE ERADICATION 
 OF THE 21 GANG BOSSES AND LIEUTENANTS THROUGH EXTREME FORCE AND TREMENDOUS PREJUDICE. Yes, No plotlines, stories, 
 or side anythings pretty much. While the shooting is fun, the free roam aspect adds a completely 
 new layer of fun upon an already tasty platter. The Multiplayer mode is completely awesome when 
 playing with friends to clean up Pacific City, one headshot at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryoung4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Crackdown on the Xbox 360 is, in some peoples stand-point, a GTA rip-off. I can definitely tell 
 you this right now. Crackdown is not a GTA clone. However, I wouldn't say that its not quite up 
 to par, either.
  
  To start off, the story obviously wasn't the point of Crackdown. The story is almost nonexistent. 
 You are an genetically enhanced super soldier of the Agency that was created to help save the city 
 from three major gangs: Los Muertos, Volk, and the Shai-Gen Corp. So basically your a Super-Cop 
 that fights crime. And from their you set out to defeat 21 gang bosses. Then you will almost NEVER 
 here about the story again. Graphically, Crackdown is ok, its sort of a comic book art style that 
 works well with the city and its inhabitants. The sound design is average. You go in a car, you 
 listen to music that is basically a rip-off from the GTA music, but some of the songs are good. 
 The thing that kills the sound is the announcer. He starts of with helpful advice given to you 
 through a very annoying voice and quickly switches to nagging.
  
  Where Crackdown really shines is the gameplay. You start out as a skiny cop, but by the end of 
 the game your 9 feet tall and your arms are 7 or 8 inches wide. This is accomplished through Crackdowns 
 leveling system. There are 5 skills: Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength, and Weapon. Its very 
 simple to level up: for weapon, shoot a guy with a pistol, for exposives, kill enemies with a grenade, 
 for driving, run over them. Its a very fun and easy way to level up. Besides the gang bosses, theirs 
 not much in the terms of side quests. There is online co-op aswell, but I found that most of the 
 time you can't find anyone that wants to play with you. Overall, this is a solid game, but not 
 worth the price tag. You should definitely rent it. This is a game that definitely succeeds with 
 giving you a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgewd
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I bought Crackdown on the strength of the demo, I'd read a few reviews which were a little negative 
 and despite usually steering clear of anything which rates below an 8, I went for it. The action 
 is instant in Crackdown - you're not given time to debate whether you should've picked the even 
 more tough looking agent or whether you should've taken the SUV for a spin, ultimately neither 
 of these things matter! As soon as you get out of the garage you'll soon be out of the car leaping 
 from ledges and seeing how far you can kick pedestrians, although you may get some stick from the 
 booming voice which advises you throughout the game! (He does get slightly annoying)
  Ok, so the game play isn't very varied and perhaps it is a bit short, the missions are over quickly 
 and the bosses are not hard cookies to crack - BUT its all great gameplay and you can juggle people 
 using a rocket launcher and kick cars, even pick up and throw them! What else do you want?
  Having said that the best part of the game is being able to scale massive buildings, and the first 
 time you climb to the top and look out over all the city is awesome.
  I played through Crackdown fairly quickly, leveled up my abilities to the max and now only dip 
 back into it for the odd bit of co-op or stress relief but it was still worth every penny, it occupied 
 me enough for me to not mind it being short, if anything the speed I got through it was because 
 I didn't want to stop! And there's the Halo 3 beta invite included!
  Great game, pick it up if you enjoyed the mindless fun of the demo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I played the Demo, I said to myself, Man! Another GTA clone!, This sucks!!! . I then went online 
 and played it with my brother In-law I gave the game a chance then got hooked! This game really 
 is fun! You pick an agent and start the game by going up against all these key bosses in each city 
 to weaken the OG before taking him on. You get cool upgrades like strength ,speed, and driving 
 skills. This makes the game great and fun to progress in. For example strength. First you can lift 
 a few poles and garbage cans, then cars, then rigs and etc. Then agility, you can run and jump, 
 then jump higher and higher and run faster and faster like the Bionic man. Not to metntion when 
 you get so good at driving you can drive up buildings and pull out the big guns in the vehicles. 
 The co-op in this game makes it. Its like playing a GTA (but yes it is different by 50%) with a 
 buddy together. Explosions are HUGE and its just one of those games you will be sucked into. This 
 is really a great game. Trust me, buy it and try it out with a buddy online. You won't be dissapointed!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeTonks
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is essentially GTA without an excuse. It's basic plot goes no further than a fmv before 
 the game kicks in, then it's all up to you. The game assumes that it's players want to drive cars 
 and kill people and thats it. But - as the game shows - there's nothing wrong with that.
  
  The outrageous attributes your character gains as you increase your stats in the comicbook-esque 
 world allow you to throw cars, leap buildings in a single bound or shoot someone in the face with 
 a pistol from half a mile away; making easy work of anyone who stands in your way.
  
  And herein lies a bit of a problem, as the game really is too easy. The three islands boast three 
 separate gangs, each with eight bad guy targets, one being the gang leader. Strategy and the game 
 suggest you pick off the underlings to cut off the leaders munitions, vehicles and subordinates, 
 but you don't have to do this. You don't HAVE to do anything! But if you kill the gang leaders 
 first it becomes all the more evident that this just isn't a game worth owning.
  
  The quasi-cel shaded graphics, outrageous arcade orientated gameplay and excellent revisions of 
 the sandbox genre make it a solid game for parties, online play or just to blow through. But despite 
 the Halo 3 multiplayer beta that ships with the game, there's no reason to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good, and whats better it has so much more it can add on should they decide to 
 bring out a sqeuel (fingers crossed)
  
  i hear people complaining oh its not long enough its just the same thing over 
  let me tell you 
 since when did quake, fear, prey any of those games come with 200 hour story lines? Sure theres 
 more replayability in GTA but i never really got into GTA. We arn't talking final fantasy here 
 come on.. But the time spent playing is amazing
  I got this game for free in my 360 1 year package, wasnt expecting too much from it but had a go 
 anyway before i was gonna sell it.... but then i got hooked. This game i would never of thought 
 id like because im not a huge fan of GTA series
  
  youve got to kill 21 gang bosses in total, part of 3 gangs.
  You can straight shooter it. walk 
 straight in or you can be strategic to try number down the hits you take
  
  When i went into the final area they gave me wang first on my radar! haha! i hadnt even completed 
 los muertos yet i was like Crap!... did the rest of the bosses came to wang last took me maybe 
 45mins at most love it its a masterpiece! well ill call the sequel a masterpiece because theres 
 so much more they can add to the series which is a huge bonus.
  
  The only annoying this is the auto aim at some times when it aims for the car instead of the person 
 behind it..
  
  the achievements are relativley easy and keep you going for a while after story mode is done (i 
 recommend story mode first to get skills up you will need it especially agility) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangedReCoN
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  If this game didn't include the Halo 3 Beta I wouldn't have bought it, it's fun for awhile but 
 than it just isn't fun anymore searching for the Hidden orbs and all the Agility orbs. It's a PAIN 
 in the ASS jumping from roof to roof searching for them.. I've been stuck on 496/500 for like a 
 week on the Agility orbs this game can really piss you off and make itself un-fun . If it didn't 
 have co-op online than this game would have even been more boring, I mean the guys I play with 
 online we have a load of fun just like jamming the highways and just letting cars smash into each 
 other. This game can have it's real fun times but it has way more I want to throw my controller 
 at the 360 because I can't find these damn orbs times... Sorry for the people who actually like 
 this game but this is my opinion and I only mainly bought it for the Halo 3 beta. See you all online 
 on MAY 16 BABY!!!
  
  Sincerely,
  
  RangedReCoN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris_Godlike
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Nice explosive effects and... hmm, that's all. Medium graphics, medium abilities, medium game interface 
 and of course, please, fix that TILT problem. It give it to my nevres. I can say that the loading 
 is fast enough (for a console) but for some reason, i don't know for you, i feel strange when loading. 
 I don't know if it's the music or the crackdown symbol spinning around. The menu of the game is 
 VERY POOR. What i mean abou this? Is not very fascinating. You think that the menu is to just start 
 the game, but i disagree. The menu is half of the game for me. You think i'm crazy and some... idiot, 
 but that's for me guys. The main story of the game is STUPID... sorry for that... and generally i 
 don't like it. The score i put is from the bottom of my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmurder
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  well crackdown promised to deliver a game like GTA but where you are on the good side. They even 
 let us be a super cop with extra human powers. but the truth is the game is one of the most repetitive 
 you can get. I'm not even over-exaggerating. The main idea for the game is you are a cop in gang 
 infested land and it is your job to get rid of them. There are three main gangs who stand in your 
 way of justice. on top of that you are a super cop. jumping off buildings, picking up cars and 
 expertly controlling weapons are all in a days work. sound alright doesnt it. well it is, for the 
 1st couple of days, and then it becomes more of a chore than a game. The gameplay is pretty good 
 and it is really fun to have all those abilitys. but apart from taking out gangs theres nothing 
 more you can do with them. it would have been fun if you could have had better side missions other 
 than racing in cars and on buildings. the multiplayer online co-op is alright on the bright side 
 though. the only problem is it isnt any fun unless your playing with your mates.
  
  all in all crackdown offers some fine features you wont find in other games. but it also offers 
 a lack of story and lack of things to do. my advice would get this game but make sure you keep 
 the receipt so you can get all your money back when you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox360-gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the funnest Xbox360 games EVER! you can spend hours just jumping from roof 
 to roof. The locking on tecnique is amazing and the way how u can lvl up is also pretty cool. You 
 start of in the AGENCY, a place where they cloned u. As u are getting started, u get to choose 
 from a few cars. There is the supercar, a amazingly fast speed car. Then there is the SUV that 
 is usually used to run into people. And there is the truck, this thing is UNSTOPPABLE! As you drive 
 out, you appear in between a huge firefight between the gangs and the agency men. Crackdown is 
 an amazing game with a new style of shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpman5000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game is great the only thing that sucks is most people bought it for the Halo 3 beta. I like 
 how they incoperate evrey thing in the enviorment with in the game play from picking up bus to 
 use as a weapon, to jumping thirty feet in the air from one building to another. Those who don't 
 have it should really consider getting it those who just bought it for the beta should really play 
 through the whole game. Great experience great gameplay beautiful graphics. I toally give this 
 a 9.1. Even if you rent this game play beat it and enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gws898
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  The Story: The story takes the near future when the plot said: 'This is war, A war on crime'. Your 
 mission is to get rid of 21 gangs and bosses around the Pacific City. And the bosses are easy to 
 fight when you can choose the difficulty of the game. After you get rid of 21 gangs and bosses, 
 the story ends. But not really ends, you can choose with crimes turn on or off.
  
  The Gameplay: Controls are easy to the shooter and driving games. There are road and rooftop races 
 which you can get driving and agility points. These are okay to me but some road and rooftop races 
 are hard and must not waste the time just to get the driving and agility points. There are agility 
 and hidden orbs to collect. Agility orbs can be found around the rooftops while hidden orbs of 
 course, are hidden. But you can hear the sound and find where is the orbs nearby. The explosions 
 are really great, and sometimes can be lag when there is a chaos.
  
  The Sound: The songs are mixture of songs when you can hear around the four areas and you can heard 
 while you driving the car or the main menu.
  
  The Graphics: Is like a comics style free roaming games when anything and everything can be picked 
 or used.
  
  Others: Co-op are fun and Achievements are easy to get. From Easy like 'Take Me To Your Supply 
 Point' Achievements to Hard like 'Ring Leader' Achievements. This is a must buy and a Great 'hell 
 yeah' Time game with your friends and gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnhoole
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Well Crackdown is deffinatly one of my most favorite 360 games. The whole story to Crackdown is 
 that in the future the world is completely overrun with crime and the crime is too much for individual 
 police forces to take care of. So all of the police in the world have banded together to make a 
 final stand on crime, calling themselves The Agency. You are the first super cop created by The 
 Agency and they have assigned you to clean up a place called Pacific City. Pacific City is made 
 up of four different islands and they are all under control of a a certain gang. Pacific City is 
 controlled by three different gangs, the Volk, which are Russian or Eastern Europeans that control 
 are the medium level gang. They specialize in illegal immigrant work and traficing. Volk also have, 
 in my opinion, some of the coolest vehicals in the game. The second gang is the Los Muertos, they 
 are the easiest gang and the control two islands (funny since they are the weakest) . Los Muertos 
 are Central Americans and they are responsible for drug trade mainly. Los Muertos are the closest 
 to the typical urban street gang, they use converted civilian cars and trucks along with standard 
 weapons such as stub shotguns and pistols. The last gang in Crackdown is called the Shai-Gen and 
 they consist of the Asians that worked for the cities pervious government. I like to think of Shai-Gen 
 as being modeled after a sort of classic mafia type gang. They have very strong members and use 
 powerful weapons like homing rocket launchers and machine guns. The reason I think of them as a 
 mafia like gang is that they have total control of the section of city they control and they drive 
 cars and suvs that remind me of high class gang cars. Basically there isn't much of story behind 
 Crackdown, but that is ok your only objective to eliminate the gangs in anyway you see fit. That 
 could mean taking out the Shai-Gen first (although it would be next to impossible without leveling 
 up your skills first) or just infinitely skirmishing with gang members (that won't beat the game 
 though) . Justice through any means nessisary! The best part of Crackdown besides being a sandbox 
 game in my opinion is the fact you have a skill tree to level up. There are five different skill 
 categories to max out in Crackdown, shooting, agility, strength, driving, and explosives. You level 
 them up by just doing what they are, ex- shooting your guns, collecting agility orbs or doing races, 
 using grenades or explosive weapons, and doing stuff that involves strength. Pretty straight forward. 
 As you level them up, depending on the skill you level up, your agent will change in appearance. 
 By the time you have everything up to four stars (which is the max unless you count getting up 
 to five which gives you no advantage) your agent will be very tall, buff, fast, and generally deadly. 
 Other great things about Crackdown are that the game has online co-op, good graphics, and a big 
 area. Online co-op is best played when you have a friend invite you to his or her game so you can 
 work out what gang bosses to take on. Playing with someone you don't know is ok, but really not 
 nearly as good. I mentioned gang bosses earlier so I will clue you in on them. There are 21 total 
 and seven per gang. There are two gang sub-bosses which are the easiest to take out, then there 
 four gang bosses which range from somewhat easy to somewhat hard to kill. Lastly, there is one 
 gang leader per gang. Here is were I am very impressed with Crackdown, you can take out any gang 
 boss in any order and each one controls a strength of the gang. If you kill the leader at first 
 the gang will become less organized, if you kill the guy in charge of recruitment then there will 
 be less of the gang on the street, ect... Now if you try to take out a gang leader first he will 
 be surrounded by many tough, advanced weapon carrying gang members, but if you take care of the 
 lower level bosses then the last boss will be a lot easier. Now here are the bad things about Crackdown 
 that I have noticed. First off, you can only play through the game once unless you delete your 
 game memory. This means you have to play online co-op to fight the gang bosses over again. The 
 second thing is that the city is really lacking some major city things. There are on airports, 
 schools (children for that matter) , or specific buildings like car dealerships or fast food places. 
 The city is just a bunch of different size and color buildings, with weird names on them. Another 
 thing is that there are no boats (besides one docked) , motorcycles, helicopters, planes, bicycles, 
 civilian houses (apartments only) , or really any memorable places. I can clearly remember areas 
 of Vice City, but this game is just a blur of different buildings that look slightly different. 
 There is also a lack of different police units which is disappointing. I mean, it would be very 
 cool if The Agency had some S. W. A. T. team units that would get called in after a lot of their vehicals 
 were destroyed. My biggest problem with game though is the fact that even after you get all of 
 your stats to level 5 you are not a mega killing machine like in the training videos. There are 
 several training videos in the game that show what your agent should be able to do once they max 
 a skill and it was all filmed before they made final tweaks to the game so I was very sad when 
 my agent could not kill a guy in two or one shot with is pistol, instead it takes around 16 shots. 
 What the heck is up with that!? Conclusion, Crackdown is a very good game for xbox 360 and you 
 should buy it if you are into sandbox games and are not wild about dealing drugs are selling prostitutes 
 like in the GTA games. I should say that you can still kill civilians in this game though, which 
 is fun. There do need to be some improvements made to this game, but they don't prevent you from 
 not enjoying it. Most of these things will be ironed out once they make a second one (fingers crossed 
 that they add swat teams and improve your skills) . So if you are looking for something that you 
 can come back to again and again after you have beaten the story line, Crackdown is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sappfan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  The game could have been better. The gamplay was nice the idea of the game was nice been it needed 
 more of a story line. The games great features and abilitys just needed a better storyline and 
 i'd rate this game a 10. But there wasnt. WHat i'm trying to say is that the game was game and 
 worth buying, but if your looking for a game that has a nice story with some important characters. 
 Than this is not the game for you. I'm am hoping for a crackdown two but there are some things 
 that need to be tweaked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  All it's cracked up to be (hehehe) , It's like i said, the game is great until you beat it, enough 
 said... OK, so maybe I have more to say, but you get the point. Anyways, back to the review. The 
 game to me, seems like the guy responsible for making GTA said OK, we I've got a good game here, 
 so how do I improve on that? His response, Give the character super powers! . At fist, it seemed 
 like a good idea, and maybe it is, but the game just doesn't play out well. It gets boring quick. 
 The campaign actually take a bit to bet, about 8 hours on normal mode, that is if you don't skip 
 around. If you do, slightly quicker. After the game is beaten, there is no more objectives to do, 
 and your fully upgraded, so in your mind you think, Whats the POINT!? . The answer, there is none. 
 After I beat it I went around trying to get more achievements, and thats how I put in my 30 hours 
 or so in to it, but after a while I got extremely bored of it. The only reason I kept the game 
 around is for the Halo 3 beta, and THATS enough said......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  Open world games are a some what mixed bag, for every GTA: Vice City or S. T. A. L. K. E. R there are 
 games like True Crime: Streets of LA and its Sequel, True Crime: New York City and those latter 
 two are proof enough that this genre is a hard one to master. However for those you understand 
 this simple premise and strive to try something new, the results can be nothing short of spectacular. 
 Real Time Worlds are developers who get it and their first game of the type, Crackdown, is a master 
 stroke of open world game play. Rather than simply a GTA knock off with better graphics, Crackdown 
 innovates and gives players one ability that makes all this open world silliness work, and this 
 simply the ability to jump. Jumping is as key to Crackdown as any combat and while it is nothing 
 new, jumping has been around for a fair old while lets face it, the simple fact that you can leap 
 to the top of buildings in one bound makes Crackdown an example of the genre done staggeringly 
 well. This combined with the frenetic combat makes Crackdown a joy to play and gives you, even 
 very slightly, the feeling that this is what gaming is all about. The premise in Crackdown is simple, 
 you played a genetically modified soldier for the Agency, a group dedicated to the eradication 
 of crime (think FBI on steroids) and must leap/driving/run about the city taking out gang bosses 
 and generals until you come to the final confrontation with that gangs kingpin which then gets 
 rid of that gang entirely.
  
  Groups of gang members litter the rooftops and streets of pacific city and as you move about and 
 kill them, you gain experience in whatever method of death you deal out. Kill someone with a machine 
 gun or shotgun and earn weapon points, use a rocket launcher or grenades and your explosives skill 
 increases or simply kick them to death and your strength increases. Two more stats round out your 
 list but theses are levelled up in a slightly different way. Agility is your main skill and is 
 upgraded by bounding about the city and finding the glowing green agility orbs littered around 
 the landscape as well as increasing your other skills. With each level (5 in total) you are able 
 to jump higher and run faster in the same vein as if your weapons skill increases your guns become 
 more powerful. The final skill is driving and this one proves to be the most pointless thing in 
 the game and its biggest let down. Driving generally isnt required in Crackdown, and as it is 
 the hardest skill to level up, it pretty much becomes redundant about of a third of the way through. 
 Its not that the driving isnt done well, far from it, as you level up you find your vehicles becoming 
 much easy to control, its that its really pointless when most of your targets and many of the enemies 
 are located on the rooftops which are only accessible via jumping, and that you can get around 
 the entire game world by jumping alone. The coolest thing about driving though is that you get 
 the very cool looking agency vehicles which grow bigger and beefier as your skills increase which 
 is a very cool effect and adds to the sci-fi setting of the game. Again though cool looking vehicles 
 wont elevate the driving from pointless to essential. Crackdown certainly has a very cool art 
 style, lodging it firmly in the comic book section of the local gallery. The cars and people 
 have a thick black outline and everything as a slightly cell shaded look to it which makes this 
 game genuinely different from most of the Gritty crime games out there. With little frame rate 
 issues aside, the graphics certainly show off the power of the 360 and the draw distance easily 
 rivals Oblivion for sheer scale and wonderment. The sound is also excellent, though the lack of 
 an overall sound track unless your in a vehicle can make the game seem a little dull until a massive 
 explosion erupts in the distance and you realise that this really is a living breathing world with 
 a huge war on crime happening right smack in the middle.
  
  Apart from the driving, Crackdowns biggest fault is its repetitiveness. Though it is fun to bound 
 about the city, over the course of a 12  15 hr+ game this can get a little boring and as all the 
 fights are pretty much the same even the combat does little to alleviate the problem. There are 
 no side missions either, so your only purpose is to take down the gangs in the order set out by 
 the game, so for an open world game the mission structure is surprisingly linear. While there are 
 no competitive multiplayer options in this game, there is a co-op mode which is not separate from 
 the main game, so anyone who wants to play co-op can just jump straight in with you so long as 
 you agree to their request which is a very neat feature and can help with some of the tougher bosses 
 but is never an essential part of the experience. All in all Crackdown is an excellent game, let 
 down slightly by repetitiveness and the pointless driving. As an example of how to execute a open 
 world game, however, this game truly excels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewezzy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about crackdown, it was like oh wow another shooter... 
  Then I hear about how it'll have Halo 3 beta. Again I was like wow, is the game gonna be good?
 
  
  It is. I'll say The skills system is great. Although you'll level up your firearms and strength 
 skills quicker.
  The bosses were pretty good. It's basically a stronghold for most of the bosses in the Shan Gen 
 area.
  
  Los Muetoros was not that hard. Volk is full of Explosives (My opinion) and relatively medium difficulty.
 
  
  The Weapons are fun, but I'm all about kicking someone 10 feet and throwing an enemy at another 
 enemy. Picking up items and people and vehicles is fun.
  
  Although there are things I do like.
  I think there coulda been a chance to make a character 
 from scratch.
  and maybe a larger selection of weapons, and boats. I know you can swim, but i want boat chases 
 and a boss battle in a huge ship.
  
  But all in all. This game was great. And the halo 3 beta is gonna be fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I didnt not REaly Like to play for Long this game
  The Game is Short For Story All The thing is Crush the city into piece
  if only it would be Like 
 GTA san Andreas &amp; Saint Row maybe
  It could have more fun it too much Like oh let kill anyone on the Street
  All the time with same 
 weapon driving car isnt that fun on this game
  It miss someting i dont know just bough for play the most enthusiast Games Comings Halo 3 Beta
 
  (Warning) Be Ready to be Owned Will be a Good beta it will be here a quick tip to what to do : 
 put the DVD Crackdown inside ur 360 Console Select Halo 3 : on 16thmay : Get inside a Game : Cry 
 because ur losing
  
  note : if ur losing this is not because of Crackdown dvd but ur Skill may variate online :) We 
 will Help Bungie make Halo 3 Better FTW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoogleDragoon
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The name alone caused me to not want to play this game. I didn't hear much about it prior to the 
 demo coming out. So, with that being said when I saw the demo was available I was going to skip 
 it Just having bought my X360 I hadn't realized yet that I had it set up to download all demo's. 
 I figured what the hell and gave it a quick run through.
  
  I was very impressed with the demo, I called up a friend and had him download the demo as well 
 so we could do the co op part of the game and had a blast running around throwing cars, jumping 
 from building to building. It felt very Grand theft auto like with a bit of spider man which made 
 me fall in love with the game instantly. The fact that I could bring a friend along the ride as 
 well just got me even happier. Later on it was announced that you would get in the beta for Halo 
 3. So, I quickly ran down to my closest videogame outlet and got my pre order for the game. After 
 the game came out however and bringing it home. Myself and a friend started the game from the beginning 
 and well we just never experienced the same fun that we had. I don't know whether the demo burned 
 us out (Which it shouldn't have it's a game, the fun factor should last a bit longer then that.) 
 or whether we discovered there just wasn't that much too the game other then running in a city 
 collecting orbs and fighting guy's who couldn't win a fight against the agency grand mother. The 
 game pits you against 3 gang leaders. Each gang is unique and has there own style from the different 
 type of cars, city structure or people to keep things a bit interesting. Each gang controls a section 
 of the map, pretty much broken down into 3 cities. Each is hard then the other. The point to the 
 game is to take down each of the 3 major gang lords by eliminating there generals and lieutenants 
 to weaken the gang leader. Each boss you encounter will spawn a bit of a story to give you a little 
 back story on that unparticular character and their influence in the gang. But, other then that 
 there isn't much of a story going on. The graphics in the game, though being a bit outdated looking 
 because of the cell shaded look works well with the city and characters in the game. As a whole 
 the city in which you are trying to set free looks amazing in details. Building's are unique so 
 once you have the city memorized you can pin point exactly where you need to go by remembering 
 certain details like a gas station or a detailed statue in a court yard. So, even though I'm a 
 bit disappointed in the graphics for a next gen system they certainly made up for it with the city. 
 The music in the game is nothing to brag about or have blasting out of your speakers however there 
 are some songs in the game that are quite good there just enough in the game for me to warrant 
 listening to the sound track. I prefer to listen to my own music. Once again I love Microsoft for 
 adding that feature into their system. To sum it up crackdown is a pretty decent game it just lacks 
 a story and more content to keep you interested for long. If wasn't for the Halo 3 demo in it I 
 would be kicking myself for paying a full price for this game. For how short the game is. So, if 
 you want a game that is fun pick it up as cheap as you can find it or rent it. You can finish it 
 real quick. The achievements in the game make it last longer and have you playing longer then you 
 want to but trying to find 800 orbs for two achievements is a bit much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has you playing as a nameless agent for an organization known as The Agency . Your job 
 is to clear the city of Pacific City of the three gangs Los Muertos, Volk, and Shai-Gen. You will 
 do this with a variety of weapons, your fists, and anything you can pick up of the ground including 
 cars, lamp posts, explosive barrels, and bodies. There are five skills to advance in the game including 
 Agility, Firearms, Explosives, Strength, and Driving. Each skill can be upgraded four times and 
 then can be maxed out. When a skill reaches four stars you will be able to do some pretty cool 
 stuff. For example, when you reach four stars in Agility you will be able to climb up every building 
 in the game. Another good thing are the achievements. There are a lot of them, they are challenging, 
 and some of them are very creative.
  
  Now for the bad. The announcer in the game gets annoying very quickly. For example, he will complement 
 you for climbing a high distance when you are standing on the sidewalk. Also the game isn't very 
 long. It should take you about ten hours to get rid of all the gangs. Overall Crackdown is a great 
 game that fans of action games should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamfinder83
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  To put it in a nutshell this game's atmosphere can be described with I love the smell of napalm 
 at morning .
  
  In this game you play an agent, a superhero, in a city full of villians. You're alone againt the 
 hordes of them, like in many games alike... but this time you have enough arsenal to dispose the 
 petty gang in a fashion which makes you feel both happy and addicted. It is true that the content 
 which follows the plot is short and can be finished in no time. And some reviewers see only this 
 content. But notice that this game is a sandbox game. A free environment where you're given tools 
 to make out your own content. What happens if you pile up all the cars in the block to a one huge 
 pile, get a truck and jump trough them with the pedal on the metal? Graphical assets of this game 
 are impressive and the engine renders a large, beautiful and detailed environment without any loading 
 or pausing. Framerate is actually so smooth, that it hurt me to get back to play Oblivion. I wish 
 to see more engines like this one in the future sandbox games. Artistically everything is cartoonish, 
 and it works. It's not overly done, but just enough to make you wanna wear latex lingerie over 
 your trousers. The most addicting part of the game is skill evolvement, which is not as in-depth 
 as in RPGs, but the effects are nevertheless breathtaking. I am not going into details, because 
 this is the section which you need to experience yourself. Sounds are nothing out of the ordinary, 
 but the narration and dialogue as well as npc one-liners are made to match the cartoonish overblown 
 image of the game; some like some dont.
  
  With games like this it all comes down to controls, and they work fine, although the targeting-lock 
 (locks reticle on a mob if you want, you can shoot and kill without too) is a bit lost time to 
 time when there's **** of mobs in sight. Grabbing a bus nearby and throwing it at them mostly solves 
 this problem though. ;)
  
  About value, once you have maxed out the stats, killed all what's worth killing the rest lies on 
 your own imagination. If you lack the ambition and creativity to try things out, or play games 
 only for their plot, then this game is too short and not compelling for you. On the other hand 
 if you're one of those gamers who want to fool around in an open world with tremendous amount of 
 possibilities to create your fun, Crackdown is a quality game with the smell of napalm all over 
 it. :)
  
  Note: some of the copies include a beta key to Halo 3 multiplayer, this is an in-game invitation, 
 not a code, so if you want to secure a spot in beta-testing Crackdown is the way to go.
  
  Demo of the game is available in Xbox Live! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II-FBIsniper-II
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and I completed it very fast and had mixed impressions of it.
  
  At first I felt that it was fun collecting orbs and jumping around. It was the first time in a 
 sand box game where the last thing I wanted to do was to get in a car. This is what makes Crackdown 
 unique among other sand box games along with leveling up to help you along the way through the 
 Single Player.
  
  I will first start with the sound which I didn't find very good. The guns sound pretty good but 
 the voices are sometimes annoying. An example of this is the narrator that talks to you through 
 out playing the game and repeats the same things times and times again. The cars sound the way 
 they are suppose to but were nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  Believe it or not, the game is not cell shaded even though it seems that way. It has a unique art 
 style that gives it a good super hero/comic book feel. I was not blown away with the graphics though 
 because there was not much detail put into the city and people. Overall, I felt the graphics were 
 pretty good and achieved the feel it was going for.
  
  The most important part of a game, in my opinion, is gameplay. In Crackdown the gameplay is good 
 for the most part and it has good controls. The thing I didnt like about the gameplay is that 
 it got repetitive very soon. The missions were mainly composed of killing gang bosses that were 
 the same as the other gang members except with more health. This soon became very tedious after 
 you beat you first seven bosses. I think this game had pretty value which showed in the co-op mode 
 which can be fun. The story was pretty non-existent but had a nice twist at the end that made room 
 for a sequel. There is not much to say except without co-op, this game could be forgettable in 
 a few days for even fans of it.
  
  Overall I think the game was a rent unless you are a diehard Halo fan and wanted to play the beta. 
 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axgamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought Crackdown was a good game, pretty fun, but annoying at points.
  So here is the good and bad for the game.
  
  The good- It is fun and the graphics are very 
 smooth and really great to look at. The auto aim system is cool and easy to use and kill enemies 
 quickly. The explosions are amazing. Killing alot of people is fun and makes the game longer and 
 more of a challenge. The bad- Horrible driving even with maxed skill. You die way to easy even 
 after you max out your health. Taking out the gangs are almost impossible unless your always hiding 
 or if you have high skills. Killing civilians costs you to slowdown upgrade.
  
  Overall- Really fun game, some flaws, but more good then bad things in the game. I'd say buy it 
 if you really want it and have the money to spare, but if you only buy one game, then rent this, 
 buy something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have to say, Crackdown is a sweet game. Sort of like GTA in reverse, you play as a super hero 
 cop, and I have to say, it's awesome. First off, I love the concept. The freedom, the action, the 
 leveling up, etc. I love the fact that you can level your character up. So near the end of the 
 game, you can jump high in the sky and send people flying off into the sky with a kick to the face. 
 You can also save your weapons, and in that aspect, it's better than GTA. You can even level up 
 your car. Co-op was hella fun! The graphics were nice, a cel-shaded look helps maintain the comic 
 book feel. Well all that's great... but then we get to the not-so-great. First off: The length. 
 This game can take you a mere 5 hours to beat if you just play it all the way through. Just kill 
 one gang leader after another. That's it. Of course, if you play like me and enjoy running over 
 innocent people (Insert Manic Laughter Here) more than killing some old guy the game lasts a lot 
 longer. But the simplicity really hurts the game TERRIBLY. Also, there is this guy that dosen't 
 shut up! He is always saying Agent, beware! or Agent! The target is near! He always gives you the 
 tutorials again and again, even if you have beat the game. All considered, Crackdown kicks ass. 
 I suggest renting this bad boy before you buy, but you should at least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillyBr00t4l
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Overall, this is a great game. I loved it and enjoyed playing co-op online. the things i didnt 
 like about it was the fact there was no splitscreen co-op. that really dissapointed me. and the 
 fact that once you max out all ur powers thats it and it becomes another gta but without the deep 
 storyline. that and when you collect the majority of orbs in an area it becomes impossible sometimes 
 to find any. so if your one of the people who are just running around trying to level up first. 
 im telling you this now it will take a while and you will die. not literally but you might die 
 here and there. anyways for people you havent played this game and are unsure because of another 
 users review, i suggest you rent it, it'll get ur gamerscore up, you'll have fun and its pretty 
 easy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamsilverwood
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Emm the game its self is quite good. Graphics are a bit too cartoon. Not much to do besides kill 
 the gang leaders. Once there dead thats it game over and i mean Game over You'll never want to 
 play it again. The gang leaders never come back and the life span of the game is about a day. You 
 could complete this in a few hours. The only good things are jumping up buildings and seeing you 
 evolve. Your Cars changing as your level increases. As i said Rent complete and never play again, 
 Good for children boring for adults once completed. I borrowed it and not bought it and i'm so 
 glad i did as my friend is now stuck with it and my other freind sold his before he finished it 
 he got too bored!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the best looking games on the 360, with a very cool visual style (Kind of a 
 subtle Cell-Shading mixed with some very very nice textures) . The city design is second to none, 
 and the quiality of explosions, lighting and other special effects are brilliant.
  
  The games controls seem to take a little while to get used to (And there is a very poor learning 
 curve) but once you have a grasp of them they make for reasonable controls (Though even now I occasionally 
 find myself fighting with the camera to see in the right drection or having to take several attempts 
 to Lock on to the correct target) .
  
  The problems for this game come down to the quality of the Gameplay. While the visuals are amazing 
 it feels as if the game itself was tacked on . In essence Crackdown feels like an amazing tech 
 demo with very little in the way of anything to do. The entire game is nothing more than Hunt down 
 x boss then hunt down y boss . In this respect it is very open with stealing the formula from the 
 last-gen game Mercenaries - however while Crackdown looks far cooler it is very shallow in comparison 
 and shares none of the cool missions, impressive explosions or other aspects that made Mercenaries 
 so great. The sound in the game is something that is worth mentioning, since it is terrible. The 
 guns sound like pea shooters, the explosions sound more like a toilet flushing and it is the first 
 game in years that I have actually turned the music off. It's not just bad music, it is terrible 
 in every manner.
  
  At the end of the day Crackdown dose offer some basic brainless fun, but it is far from amazing 
 and I doubt it would hold the attention of even the most easily contented gamer for more than a 
 few hours. It's not that it is a bad game but I cannot help but feel it is a game that could have 
 been brilliant.... if only they had taken the time to actually make a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthflavor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  The draw distance, sound, and variety in achievements make this a fun game and one for your game 
 shelf.
  
  First, the draw distance. Wow! You can blow up stuff to your hearts content -- a loooooong way 
 away. Some have said the graphics are cartoony. Not as much as other junk that comes out. The buildings, 
 cars, etc. look great. Your playable character and NPC can be a little on the cartoony side, but 
 the amount of detail is CRAZY!
  
  The sound is an outstanding feature of this game. The layers have amazing depth. Street noise, 
 chatter, each gun, grenade, the variety of cars &amp; trucks, wind up high, and all the other white 
 noise is rich and varied.
  
  The varied achievements are nice. Agility, strength, explosive, driving (my least favorite) - they're 
 all in there. And the several random ones make the replayability longer and just plain fun.
  
  One main gripe: wish there was split-screen co-op. GRRR!
  
  One more thing. Gotta have 
 me some orbs! 362 agility orbs, 208 hidden orbs and counting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriordoc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  A mix sandbox, RPG, and shooter that makes for an addicting game, similar to the GTA series. I bought 
 this game, partially for the Halo 3 beta, but i thought the game looked fun and original. When 
 you first start out, it is almost like GTA, because you can't jump very high, melee is weak, and 
 guns are inaccurate. But, as you invest more time, you get better and better. Although the graphics 
 aren't the best the 360 has to offer, the animations are original, being cell shaded, so it adds 
 even more the the super soldier theme. I'd say one of the few downfalls would be that it is pretty 
 easy to beat the game, and the co-op only multiplayer is a bit of a dissapointment (Although it 
 would be pretty hard to have 8 or so super soldiers running around killing each other.) Overall, 
 give this game a rent, if not a buy, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterchestnut
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  First impressions were pretty good. I like the open map world, and the feel of interactivity with 
 the environment is good. The character development skillset is good in that you don't have to play 
 a menu game to improve your character. The weapons are fun, with a variety of ways to kill , and 
 I like the old GTA jack-any-vehicle trick. Although I have a hard time with the driving in this 
 game and was a disappointment. The game feels strong, and gives good visuals. The only time I had 
 funky sprite overlaps was during a crouching movement. Otherwise very clean. I like the overall 
 comic book look. The map needs help and needs to be tuned up to show races, races completed, and 
 some tracking on the ability orbs.... 500 is fun for someone like me who combs boards looking for 
 goodies, but too many without any history saved. The control set needs some help too, with the 
 zoom mode and then zoom in/out controls specifically. The autotarget is nice, but only gets more 
 accurate as you improve in skills. So the zoom mode is key to saving bullets, but using that mode 
 is more complicated than other games make it. You immediately find that there is not a fully development 
 story or path in the game. There are a half dozen bosses to kill on each of the three islands, 
 but they are not enough to fully flesh out what is a beautiful backdrop. The races are pointless, 
 they are still available after you have completed them, and apparently don't provide any incentive 
 to complete other than attribute boosts. The rooftop races are fun in their own way, especially 
 as the character becomes more powerful to jump farther, etc. It plays like Vice City and San Andreas, 
 but lacks much of the character of those games. It also feels a little like X-men Legends/Marvel 
 Ultimate. I got some good time into the game before I was done with it, so it's worth a long rental, 
 but not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guayolove
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is an action game developed by Microsoft. The main character is a ultra super high advanced 
 futuristic cop, taking care of pacific city. You have several skills you have to upgrade, like 
 agility, driving, explosives, strenght, and weapons. The main goal is to clean the city from 3 
 gangs, Los Muertos, Volk and Shai Yen, ( one harder than the before) . Each gang has 6 bosses and 
 one leader. So in order to increase your chances defeating the leader, you have to defeat the bosses 
 first ( sounds logic huh! ) . The gameplay becomes starts slow at the very beginning, but everything 
 changes when you find the rocket and grenade launchers, after a while it becomes boring cuz is 
 always the same. The soundtrack is ok, the graphics are not so well sometimes it looks like a cartoon, 
 anyway I hardly recommend try to rent it first before buyin' it, there are more worthy games to 
 spend your money ;)
  
  Sorry 4 my english! Greetings from Guatemala 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is kind of a type of Grand Theft Auto well it was made by the person who made it anyway 
 Dave Jones from DMA Design's hes now CEO and Creative Director for Realtime Worlds. The game has 
 the best graphics i have seen on the 360 so far with a nice big city and quite a bit of stuff to 
 do. Jumping high in the air is whats so fan about this you can jump to building to building. One 
 of the bad things about Crackdown it doesnt really have a story to it no cut scene's which is a 
 down to the game. It looks great and brilliant to play to shooting can be hard as they sometimes 
 go off target easy which is annoying. Theres 21 gangs in all once thats done the game will be finished. 
 I only wish i had XBOX live i would have got more play out of it. No where as better as Grand Theft 
 Auto. But Crackdown is miles better then Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashkon91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game well worth the $60's. It is a great sandbox game with endless possibilites 
 with the crime on and off features. Also the skillz are very fund and usefull, such as going full 
 speed while shotting from ure turret at gang members. Or scaling building's 100+ floors. The online 
 co-op is very usefull to have frieds come and help u beat campain or lvl up ure skillz. My opionion 
 Crackdown is one of the really good games out there to buy for the Xbox360. Also i thought crackdown 
 wouldn't be that good when i first got it but after playing it was really good. + the invite to 
 halo 3 beta is also worth 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Nothing fights crime quite like an experimental super cop. Crackdown, the first release from Real 
 Time Worlds, puts you in the boots of a genetically engineered agent who must combat crime the 
 proper way; by firing thousands of rounds from high powered machine guns, throwing cars, and leaping 
 tall buildings in a single bound. As fun as it sounds, it's unfortunate that the games lack of 
 content and niggling multi-player problems drag the game down.
  
  Crackdown eschews the conventional game narrative ideas. Perhaps the purest of sandbox games, you're 
 given your mission and left to accomplish it in any way you see fit&amp; - as long as the way you 
 see fit involves gunning hundreds of gang members and leaping around the city skyline. The only 
 aim of the game is to track down and slaughter the 21 main villains scattered around the city. 
 While you may be thrown the occasional hint (and the occasional full blown boss location if the 
 game gets bored by your lack of progress) , it's down to the player to hunt down each baddie's location 
 and work out the best way to render them bereft of life. In theory it's possible to make a beeline 
 straight for the kingpin of the most powerful gang; in practice, this leads to a swift bullet filled 
 death. A more successful route is to work upwards through the gangs, picking off the lower gang 
 lieutenants then hitting the gang leader. The removal of each lieutenant will weaken the kingpin 
 in some way, be it lessening the number of bodyguards or the fire power they'll be packing, making 
 that assault on their stronghold a little bit easier.
  
  While the minimal storyline, narrative and structure set the game apart from normal clockwork city 
 style games, it's the agent and his evolving, overblown super powers that make Crackdown unique. 
 While the newly hatched agent is relatively weak, he'll eventually acquire the kind of abilities 
 that would have Stan Lee muttering about them being a bit much . The agents has five key skills, 
 four of which are increased through repetition. The firearms skill is advanced by introducing criminals 
 to the business end of a high calibre machine gun; the explosives skill increased by blowing gang 
 members up; the strength skill evolved by punching, kicking and generally breaking the faces of 
 ne'er do-wells; and the driving skill developed by leaving tire tread marks on the foreheads of 
 scumbags. The agility skill stands by itself; it's mainly evolved by gathering the glowing green 
 agility orbs that are scattered around the rooftops of the city. Increasing the agent's skills 
 has a very real impact on gameplay; the most obvious and overt affects coming from advances in 
 the strength and agility abilities; it's difficult not to notice that your agent is now able to 
 throw cars around and leap 40 feet straight up. The other skills are slightly more subtle; the 
 firearm skill will speed up and increase the range of the agent's lock-on, the explosives skill 
 will (bizarrely) increase the area and intensity of explosions, and the games vehicles start to 
 handle better as the driving skill is increased. The driving skill itself presents a strange anomaly. 
 It's possible to go through the entire game without getting behind the wheel once; it's faster 
 and- due to pedestrians getting in the way - a lot less hassle to stay on foot and use the rooftops 
 to get around. Of course, all these superhuman skills are for nought if you don't have somewhere 
 to use them. Pacific City is designed a little differently than your usual sandbox game cityscape; 
 as would be expected, the entire town has been shaped with the agent's ever increasing agility 
 in mind. Given that you'll be scaling most buildings and leaping from a lot of rooftops, a lot 
 more effort has been spent on their design. Every building is climbable in some fashion. Each island 
 has its own look, with the buildings growing progressive taller in step with the agent's developing 
 skills. Unfortunately, there just isn't all that much to do in Pacific City. Crackdown's major 
 flaw is that there is very little to do outside of the 21 gang targets. In fact, the only diversions 
 from the main game are the race missions. There are 12 foot and 14 vehicle race events; all are 
 checkpoint dashes against the clock. And that's it. There are none of the occupation side missions 
 that you'd find in the Grand Theft Auto games (sadly, there's no superhuman pizza delivery service 
 in this town) , no extra mini games, nothing to really pad out the slender campaign. While Crackdown 
 could be applauded for its singular focus, it just feels like there is a real lack of content. 
 The 21 gang lieutenants can be burnt through in 10 hours and there's very little to do afterwards. 
 The time attack mode proves an interesting diversion, testing how fast you can taken down individual 
 gang bosses but only the truly devoted will sink hours into shaving seconds of their killing times. 
 One of Crackdown's most flaunted features is the co-operative play. You and a chum can team up 
 in either of the game's modes and take down villains in tandem. While having two players running 
 around the same city is an impressive feat and one that has rarely been attempted in other sand 
 box games, the co-op is perhaps not as well executed as it should be. Much was made of the ability 
 to jump into a friend's game over X-box live but in practice it's not quite as seamless as suggested. 
 Instead of dropping straight into the game in progress, both players are dumped to a loading screen 
 and restart from the agency headquarters. The city will be based on the host's progress, meaning 
 any lieutenants killed already stay dead. The co-op is at its best when the players are at similar 
 points in the game and have similarly developed agents. Any disparity in agent skill levels can 
 rob some of the fun from the game; players with high powered agents will feel held back, while 
 the player with the weaker agent will feel left behind. The content problems of the single player 
 campaign are carried over but off set slightly by the joy of throwing a truck at your friend's 
 head.
  
  Part of Crackdown's charm is its unique look. The game features a subtle cel-shaded look; the buildings 
 and characters have a strong dark line around them giving the agent and the city a comic book style 
 instead of the overtly cartoony feel normally reserved for cel-shading. Pacific City streams as 
 the player traverses its roads and rooftops; save from the initial start up the game only drops 
 to a Now Loading... screen when warping from supply point to supply point. Perhaps the most impressive 
 visual trick is the draw distance. The view from the higher buildings is truly magnificent with 
 very little pop up. Pacific City is perhaps the best looking city to feature in this style of game.
 
  
  Sadly, the audio doesn&amp;'t reach the high water mark set by the visuals. The gunfire, explosions, 
 wailing of pedestrians and revving of engines is fairly standard; nothing stands out, which is 
 a good or a bad thing depending on your point of view. Special mention must go to announcer who 
 comments on your exploits. Or tries to at least. While he has a great voice the suits the slightly 
 earnest tone of the game, his comments tend to be woefully out of sync with the game play. Commenting 
 that I can see my house from as the agent scrabbles around a under ground parking garage being 
 one of the many gems unleashed upon the world.
  
  It's hard to shake the feeling of wasted potentially. Crackdown has some great ideas; the agent's 
 superhero style skills, the truly open ended nature of the game and the fantastic look set it apart. 
 But the lack of content, multiplayer quirks and the unfinished air drag the game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahkarisazael
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It is a lot like Grand Theft Auto, but you can scale buildings and throw 
 cars at people. Personally, I can't complain. You're playing as an agent of The Agency . You fight 
 to bring down those ugly, backstabbing, street thugs. However this game is almost completely held 
 up solely by the fact that its achievements are fun, if tiring, to get. However since ultimately 
 there isn't very much punishment for driving a semi down a sidewalk, running over hundreds of innocent 
 civilians, I have to love it. Just not enough to give it a ten. Don't play this game if you don't 
 like games that don't require that you follow the story, this is due largely to Crackdown's lack 
 thereof. There's also an absolutely pointless cliffhanger at the end... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  All I can say about Crackdown is that Im glad it was a rental. It just has too little depth or 
 gameplay to be priced at 60 dollars for an extremely short game. It has nothing I would look for 
 in a next gen game, no great graphics, gameplay, or fun.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay couldve been better. Run around, collect orbs, kill randomly spawning enemies, 
 kill a heavily guarded liutenant, than kill the boss. No depth, just repetitive shooting, jumping 
 and driving crappy cars.
  
  Graphics/Sound- Both are passable. The graphics are cel shaded, but look nowhere near next gen 
 standards, and the explosions are the only graphical quirk that is even worth mentioning. Your 
 agent doesnt speak a word, and you have a douchebag sounding commander blaring into you ear little 
 tips and tidbits of information every minute. The in car music sucks too.
  
  Fun/Value- I really didnt have much fun playing Crackdown, it was so extremely repetitive. You 
 do the same poorly designed moves and kills hundreds of times, with no variety. This game also 
 has no value, due to the fact that there is no story and you just kill random enemies for less 
 than 10 hours, not worth even close to 60 dollars.
  
  I would not recommend Crackdown to anyone. It has not depth, passable graphics sound, gameplay, 
 no story, and just isnt very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is very very addictive. at first it is so hard because wen u kill 1 gang member 1000 
 of them chase after u. this game is in the middle of realistic it takes so much shots to kill a 
 gang member. this game also lets u get huge and be stronger better aim, jump higher, drive better, 
 and u can blow anything up. the only bad part is dat this game is so short but when ur done u get 
 ur abilitys up. also wen u beat the game u can bring the gangs back so u can get abilitys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Xeauz_
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  so crackdown had just came out, I went to the shop that morning and brought it straight away, I 
 had been waiting for about 2 months and could not wait. That night I played Crackdown and thought 
 Wow this game is better than I expected . Fantastic visuals, great abilities making for an original 
 title and of course the option to play co-op on-line. What more could I have asked for? Two weeks 
 later and I complete the game and nearly have all the gamer points... I'm thinking I should take 
 it back. What good are fantastic visuals when you've seen everything? What good are great abilities 
 when you have nothing worth using them on, and what good is on-line play when you and your friend 
 just run around and do whatever you'd do in 1 player?... This game is like bubblegum, yes... Bubblegum. 
 It has a nice shiny shell and is really big at the start but once you get down to the middle it 
 gets more and more sour (the bad kind of sour :) ) the replay-ability wears thin quickly when you've 
 discovered all there is in the game to discover. I don't recommend this game if your looking for 
 a long in depth game. Unless your one of those sad people who watch the same movie over and over 
 again and know all the words (common with Monsters INC) .
  Also one noticeable let down of the game is the story which I think was incredibly terrible. It 
 feels rushed and under-worked. Overall this game is let down by its replay-ability, game length 
 and story which all fall short of what could of been a fantastic title as even game spot said themselves. 
 This game lacks any real backbone. Good for a rent but not the best thing to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Crackdown was a great surprise to me.
  I went to Gamestop wanting something different, and came out with Crackdown.
  
  Originally 
 i went in for G. R. A. W. 2 but i wanted something funny, action packed, and adverse from the good 
 old tactical shooter.
  
  I don't think a 60 buck hole in my pocket was nessecary, but all in all, it was worth a buy.
 
  
  It impressed me with the skill system and the skin chooser, even though you are restricted to certain 
 looks, there is a skin for everyone and they all look good.
  The action just puts you thier, and you feel so dominant and from scaling buildings to rooftop 
 races, to throwing cars, and stomping on people; Crackdown was a nice asset to my collection.
 
  
  Gameplay: Different, yet, it could be better.
  Graphics: Good, no complaints.
  Sound: Was nothing special.
  Value: Ehhh.... not what it costs.
  
  Tilts me to liking it, 
 plus, it comes with a Halo 3 beta... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimus_kezzer
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of crackdown my interest was grabbed right then and there, could it be the 360 
 was to get another great original title? Well after watching the videos and praying to the gods 
 of gaming it could live up to even half its hype I finally got my hands on a copy. After playing 
 through it in single player and finishing it, and even having a little dabble in multi-player I 
 am pleased to say it was much better then I could have hoped for. Crackdown has a story you could 
 pretty much write on the back of a stamp, you are a super agent sent to destroy the gangs that 
 run the city now. Normal weak plots are a big turn off for me, but it never stopped sonic or Mario 
 before and even the mighty Gears of War. Really the plot is an excuse to get you into the game 
 play and that is where the game shines more then anywhere. This game lets you feel like you are 
 playing a comic book, and not just because of the cell shaded graphics. You Agent starts been able 
 to do things normally reserved for the best Hollywood action star, but as he levels up you reach 
 the heights some super heroes would long for. The game mostly is about your agent taking out gangs 
 on his own, and as its sandbox style you can do this how you like. There are three major gangs 
 with a kingpin at the top, bellow him there are generals and crawling around everywhere are peons. 
 You can just go right to the top and take out the gang that way, or you can slowly move your way 
 through the ranks making it easier and easier to finish off the gang. Overall as you shot, blow 
 up, drive over and throw very heavy objects to finally kill your target you will be doing so with 
 a smile on your face. That is until near the end when you realise you have done it all already, 
 there is very little difference between destroying one kingpin to another. If you do get bored 
 with taking on the world of crime there are some other things you can do, such as car races, foot 
 races and some stunts to do in a variety of cars. But really once you have killed all of the gangs 
 off this game has surprisingly little to offer you despite its sandbox nature. You can get a little 
 more life using the two player mode, but really its just going to let you go through the main 
 story once again. I would have loved to see something other the co-op play. These agents can do 
 amazing things, and watching a group fight to the death in the city would have been great. Overall 
 this game lets you have a lot of fun for a while, but starts to lack after a time. This is something 
 I think will be fixed in the Inevitable Crackdown 2, all it needs is to be added to. This is a 
 great start and well worth playing, but I can see it been forgotten about as soon as a sequel hits 
 the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman120
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  crackdown is brilliant! words can't describe how much fun it is it's one of those games where you 
 are addicted to collecting agily orbs to upgrade your'e agent all the time it's so fun! but to be 
 honest a lot of people bought crackdown for the halo mutiplayer beta for live, everyone did'nt pay 
 much attention to crackdown because people was saying it was'nt that good.
  well real time worlds proved us wrong because it is a riot!.
  
  the story is that pacific city 
 has been overun by tree main gangs the los meurtes the shai gen and the volk and are tearing the 
 city apart.
  
  that is when the turbo charge agent steps in to the line of fire!
  
  well that is all i have to say because crackdown is so much fun! words can't describe how good 
 it acutally is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotputking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  while it lasts, crackdown is an awesome game, an absolute blast to play. the super hero aspect 
 works great, and the powers are fun to use. although the interesting, and somewhat difficult at 
 times, achievements add to the length of the game, hopefully the dlc will help add some length, 
 instead of adding new agent skins. the online is a mess... a fun game to mess around in though. 
 still nothing better than throwing a semi through an unsuspecting crowd of people. a a a a aa a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PVT_WARD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  crackdown :
  
  Crackdowm starts of a great game with quite a few original features. My first day with the game 
 i played from 3:00pm to 4:40am the next morning. bosses and king pins have no order which is a 
 good effect as you can choose what boss to kill depending on you'r current stats. These stats effect 
 the gameplay in a massive way and is a huge part of how you will get around in the islands. Driving 
 stats ? drive around easy-er. Why not just hop from roof to roof and improve you'r agility stats. 
 There are also strength which effect what you can lift and throw, increasing you'r fire-arms stats 
 improves you'r ability to aim faster and more accurate. Explosives improvements increases the radius 
 of your explosives. All these stats are equally important in their own way and thats what makes 
 Crackdown so great! the open world theme gives the game much more value and thats what is expected 
 of todays gaming industry. While you can do all this by yourself easyly this game offers co-op 
 . You can set a limit to who can join ( your friends or strangers as-well ) either way you can 
 always deny a request to join which is a great feature. However the co-op does not work out as 
 good as it sounds. e. g if your in the middle of a game and someone requests to join, you are kicked 
 out of you'r current game and reloaded onto the game again. Not so fun when you'r in the middle 
 of killing a boss and you get a request great i thought. *screen goes black*........ not good. The 
 weaponry on hand is rather typical for a game of this genre. Thats not a suprise though for most 
 ideas have been thought of and if they were to be used realtime would have been convicted for copying 
 ......
  
  That concludes my review on Crackdown ! I hope atleast three people read this ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most addictive games I have ever played. I didn't like it at first because there's 
 no story; you're an agent and it's your task to take out all the gang leaders in city - that's 
 it. But what got me hooked was the gameplay itself. You start off with 5 basic skills, all of which 
 can be improved throughout the game by killing bad guys. Eventually you'll have the power to pick 
 up trucks and throw them, leap from building to buiding in a single bound, drive at superfast speed, 
 shoot any weapon with pinpoint accuracry and cause massive explostions. In short, you start off 
 being a normal guy and end up being some kind of superhero. It's great fun. And then there's the 
 orbs: 500 of them located around the city in hard to reach places. Collecting them all seems impossible 
 at first but as your skills increase so does your ability to reach them. The graphics are also 
 amazing. You can stand on the highest skyscraper and move the camera around and see the whole city 
 without a hint of slowdown. A cracking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1CK1NSON
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game might be a piece of crap since the Halo 3 beta was packaged with it, but after 
 hearing good reviews from friends I decided to buy it. I'm a big fan of sandbox games, so I was 
 instantly pleased from the start. But the pleasure slowly faded the more I played. Pros:
  -Looks great
  -Innovative concept
  -Cool adaptation of cars as you increase your skills
  
 -Plenty of criminals to fight
  -Skyscrapers finally have purpose, even if you can't go inside
  -Overwhelming number of collectibles 
 to satisfy anyone's OCD symptoms
  
  Cons:
  -No plot
  -Character movement is a struggle
  -Lifeless city
  -Pedestrians are nothing more than road 
 blocks
  -Terrible music
  -Severe lack of options
  
  Bottom line: There is no plot, but it isn't really necessary. The premise was original and exciting, 
 but falls short in many categories. This game has everything to consider it as decent , but fails 
 to separate it from the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-051
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I like Crackdown alot. Its gameplay and graphics appealed to me, but this game could have been 
 so much more. After becoming a master agent and completing the game i felt a sense of emptieness, 
 what else was there to do? I got bored with killing civilians and moved on to other games. Crackdown 
 was good but it needed more depth. This game could have been better if it had more skills, more 
 gangs, more islands, and, in general, more everything. I cannot understate the fact that this game 
 was to short. liked its fundamentals but, IT NEEDS MORE. Hopefully future expansions will contain 
 more islands and gangs. I hope that real time worlds improves the next next game in the Crackdown 
 series (yes I can almost be sure there will be more) and gives it more depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWood
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, one may look at this title as some Grand Theft Auto clone that hardly lives up 
 to the genre and that the only reason for owning this game is to get first crack at those Halo 
 3 invites. However, after spending some time with this title, most gamers will consider that notion 
 very wrong as Crackdown offers gameplay, while similar to most GTA wannabes out there, offers some 
 very intriguing and addictive gameplay that will not have XBox controllers put down for hours.
 
  
  The reason to pick up this game (besides that Halo 3 beta) is its gameplay. At first it feels like 
 a basic 3rd person shooter as your character sets out to rid crime from the game's city. The main 
 objective of the game is essentially to go from gang hideout to gang hideout to drive three different 
 games out of the city. Not too much thought was put into the differentiation of levels as they 
 are all just about the same. (You find the hideout, plow down all in your way and find the boss 
 in charge.) Just about all 24 boss levels in the game consist of that formula. However, the fact 
 that you can level up your characters abilities in several different ways does make up for the 
 occasionally stale levels. The player levels up the the characters attributes in driving skills, 
 shooting, agility, explosive skill, and strength. The nice thing about the leveling system is that 
 there is more than one way to level up each of the character's skills. For instance, if the character 
 needed to be leveled up in driving skills, the player could either do driving races around the 
 city or just get in a car and start running down creeps. This goes for other attributes as well 
 such as agility where the player can level that attribute up by either finding certain orbs on 
 top of hard to reach rooftops, doing roof races, or just shooting gangs from the rooftops. One 
 other thing to note about the leveling system is that you can't just go out and run down everything 
 in your path as if you hit civilians or cops trying to protect and serve, the character's leveling 
 ability will become slower as you will lose experience. So one can't just take a shotgun or a car 
 and reach five star status in just 10 minutes of gameplay.
  
  Another thing that adds to the game is its simplicity. For example, if you need a rocket launcher 
 or the fastest car in the game, it can always at the character's disposal. For getting top of the 
 line weapons in this game, simply commender it from a gang member and take it to your supply point. 
 When this is done, the weapon is yours for the entire game and all you have to do to get more ammo 
 is to either acquire it from gangs or just find another supply point. Supply points also adds to 
 the simplicity of the game as it allows the player not only access to weapon storage, but teleportation 
 to all of the other supply points the character has access to. They are spread out so frequently 
 in the games map that if you die in the game, it won't be hard to get back to where you were previously.
 
  
  In the main supply point of the game, you are allowed access to three different vehicles that allow 
 you to either go under, over or through opposing obstacles. While vehicles in the game really are 
 not that diverse, it is still a lot of fun to get the agency super car and basically send criminals 
 flying up into the air. The only thing more over-the-top than the super car is the abilities of 
 the character once you start progressing him in levels. The game almost plays as a super-hero game 
 as your character will eventually have the ability to roundhouse kick cars out of his way Chuck 
 Norris style or be like Spider-Man and be able to leap at top most buildings in the city. These 
 abilities may come off a little over-the-top at first, but after getting used to them, they are 
 what sets this game out from others by giving it its fun and addictive style. That and the abundance 
 of explosive objects strung out through the city.
  
  Overall, Crackdown is isn't a killer app, but the simplicity and addictive gameplay offers for 
 both quick sit down and long gameplay sessions. It's one of those games that lets the player play 
 like he wants to rather its online with a friend, trying to do time trials on missions and races, 
 or just exploring the city and leveling up along the way. While not being a graphical masterpiece, 
 it still offers a very nice wait until Halo 3 and GTA 4 arrive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I believe a lot of halo fanboys will have just bought this game for the halo3 beta I (although 
 i'll be entering it) did not do that. The game is all about you becoming an agent and you have 
 to clean up pacific city by eliminating three gangs (similiar to the saints row story.... except 
 your a cop) . The graphics are amazing there really good and the buildings and cars look the best.
 
  The gameplay is great and jumping around is easy and the shooting is really is easy.
  However WHERE'S THE PLOT WHERE'S THE MISSIONS?!?!?!
  You have to king around 9 people from each 
 gang... that's it. Absoloutely that's it. Ok there are sopme road races and some agility roof races. 
 There is no depth to the game ok levelling up yu=our agent is fun but takes a long time and can 
 seem a bit tiresome.
  Overal the game is great but they really should have added some back-story to it to make it replayable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gambitarchangel
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was a fun game, if you're not looking for anything with real depth. There is basically 
 no story. You are an no named agent who hunts down the leaders of 3 gangs that are scattered around 
 the city. They're are around 20 or so gang leaders to kill. The cool thing about this game is that 
 your character will level up with all different abilities: speed, strength and agility. It definitely 
 has a GTA feel, with the urban environment and the ability to take cars and run around and shoot 
 civilians (which is frowned upon) . But to me, it reminded me more of Mercenaries, because there 
 are no real missions, all the gang leaders are hiding in different locations and if you find one, 
 you can take him down or go look for more and come back later; that is exactly how Mercenaries 
 played. After I beat the game, I honestly had no want or need to explore more of the city. I would 
 rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Having been out for six weeks now I have had some time to extensively play Crackdown. On one hand 
 it is a purely addictive gaming experience that is actually very fun. On the other hand its lack 
 of story and cohesive structure make the game a slight bit disappointing.
  
  Crackdown for those that live under a rock is the recent XBOX 360 sandbox game. Unlike some other 
 sandbox games Crackdown puts you in control of a police officer, or in this imaginary slightly 
 futuristic world an Agency Agent. There isn't really much to tell about the story but I'll try 
 to explain what there is. In the not to distant future the gangs have gotten so out of control 
 that they basically run the three districts of Pacific City. The Agency is the police force that 
 attempts to keep everything in line. Since that has failed they created you. Well not actually 
 created you but did some genetic experiments and came up with you the nameless agent who will eventually 
 be able to perform ridiculous feats of strength and agility. Oh and if you die, fear not good agent 
 because the Agency has your genetic make up and has clones on the stand-by. Your job is to clean 
 up the city of the three gangs. That's it end of story.
  
  There are 21 bosses, seven each for the three different gangs. Unlike say Grand Theft Auto, where 
 you go to a set place to get a mission, the mission in Crackdown is just one. Kill the gangs leaders. 
 Basically you will just go out wander around the city waiting for intel, or sometimes stumbling 
 upon the intel, on bosses to eliminate. Along the way you will collect orbs. The two primary orbs 
 are Agility and Hidden and you actually will collect these but doing other things, like kicking 
 a guy to death or shooting him or blowing him up will result in different orbs being collected. 
 Let's call them experience orbs. Once you reach 100 on any of your skills you will go up a level 
 enabling your agent to do something even more super-human, than what he can already do.
  
  There are also street races and foot races that will help you gain experience for driving and agility 
 but that's it for side missions. The bulk of this game is finding the bosses and killing them. 
 And its a damn blast to do but once it is done the game is pretty much done as well unless you 
 have a friend on XBOX Live who wants to play as well. The exclusion of offline co-op really bugs 
 me. This game cries for co-operative play and while I understand that they were most likely limited 
 in how they could implement the co-op, offline co-op would have really helped this game out.
  
  That's not to say that online co-op isn't fun because it is a blast to play BUT I did come 
 to the realization that if you are using an agent that has already completed the game and playing 
 with someone who has just started you are putting that person at a huge dis-advantage later on. 
 Case in point - I played some co-op this week (first time actually and why this review is so late) 
 and my friend had only finished the first island. In a matter of 45 minutes I had cleared out all 
 but two bosses on the second island with him but I was doing most of the heavy lifting meaning 
 I was getting the experience for it and not him. Going up against the final island he is going 
 to have a tougher time of it than I did because of that lack of level building.
  
  Anyway, graphically the game looks fantastic using a slightly cell shaded look, making it seem 
 like a comic book come to life. No it is not the most impressive 360 game but it does look exceptionally 
 well especially the explosions. Don't believe me? Set yourself up a mound of cars and toss a grenade 
 in to the pile and if you still aren't impressed I think you may be blind. Sound wise I was less 
 impressed. Those same explosions that I praised graphically are not so great on the sonic scale. 
 The guns have a nice pop to them and the NPC dialogue is nice, even if it is really only chitter-chatter 
 in passing. Where the sound may come to annoy some people is in the form of the announcer . This 
 character is at times slightly helpful but more than not he will just say mundane things that make 
 little to no sense. And as you play the game more he will make even more idiotic statements like 
 This is one of the best views in Pacific City , while you are in the Agency garage. As with all 
 360 games Crackdown comes equipped with a host of Achievements to grab for your gamerscore and 
 I am happy to report that these are some fun achievements and most can be gained on your first 
 play through but will take some work on your part to get them. Crackdown does not offer easy achievements 
 but they aren't over the top ridiculous nor do they rely heavily on online play.
  
  For me Crackdown was a fun play and I will probably go back to it again at some point. Despite 
 the terrible ending, this game screams for a sequel that is much more fleshed out. If you haven't 
 played Crackdown yet do yourself a favor and take a ride in Pacific City, I'm pretty sure you won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  espectacular gameplay that you can jump of the building to building and if you are in the roof 
 and you want to kill someone in the floor you only jump 40 meters and you wont break your legs 
 your strong its amazing you can charge and throw cars or if you want a truck or a bus, you are 
 very fast and its one car that transform into a huge depotive car extreme fast and hhas a shield 
 thta wreck all the cars in your way to let it you pass and make your own way, the story its simpkle 
 its quite Grand theft auto style game, you are an agent and you must kill every boss that are the 
 heads of the 3 bands in pacific city.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are very good in place to be the toon graphics, in fact is the best game 
 in graphics mode to htis kind of toon graphics. the city is so so big and all its so detailed but 
 you cant interact much at all with the enviroment like get insede of the building or houses in 
 fact the game is developed outside in the streets, the city its so good designed, the re are a 
 lot of buildinf diferents there are not repetitive enviroments or infraestructure so all are very 
 originzal and you recognize when you are in every place and you dont confuse because there places 
 are not repetitive in fact there are so diferent.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay its good but its not original at all excluding the part when you jump 40 
 meters and carry a bus to throw to your enemies.
  the aimign are godd but the AI help you to aim the enemies to meke your way easiest, the drive 
 mode its low until you reach you max level in skill mode.
  
  sound: the sound its good, you can diferenciate all the sound that interact with you and the voices 
 are excellent there are a lot of insult to you not a gfew ones that get boring you there are a 
 huge that you can notice any repeat.
  
  Music the music its normal there is a electronic alternative music and the only way that you enjoy 
 more its getting inside the car and listen to the radio you own music or the music of the soundtrack 
 of all kinds.
  
  Motos engine: the motor engine its soo goos that the loadings are very low and very fats to play 
 to play, the frame rate its so good and never geet down.
  
  Its a very balanced game to buy and play much people bought the game only fot the beta of halo 
 3 let aside the good of the game.&ntilde;
  
  I highly recommend the game to the grand thef auto fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is the creation from the same company that created Halo and whilst making Halo 3 , have 
 found enough time on their hands to make this , you play a cop of the future with superpowers who 
 takes out all the criminals who work for the 3 rival gangs , Los Muertos , Shai Gen and The Volk 
 . There are 21 Bosses to kill and 5 skills to max out , thats pretty much it .
  Crackdown is a good game butit tends to repeat itself and lacks significant depth . If this game 
 is supposed to contend with the GTA series , a lot of changes need to be made . When you take out 
 all the leaders the game just ends really as you can just patrol the city taking out every gang 
 member that you rarely see . The driving on this game isnt great either , you can get 3 cars from 
 the agency each with a different power but even that gets repetitive .
  Crackdown is good for about a week ( how long it took me to complete ) but after that there's no 
 point to it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalinkwense
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Seriously, Crackdown is repetitive, uninspired, and lacks depth. You're basically some super agent 
 that has super strength and can jump really high. The main missions have you go to certain places 
 to kill people and that's it. Those are the only missions in this game. That is boring. There are 
 races that you can do to increase your driving skills, but I didn't do them. There are also hundreds 
 of orb things to collect, but the game is so dull that I couldn't be bothered going around looking 
 for them. There are no cutscenes, so don't expect any. There is a voice over that speaks to you 
 repeatedly and tells you what to do and which people to kill and where. The graphics are okay. 
 The draw distance is pretty good, and when you stand on top of buildings and look around, everything 
 is able to be seen. You can't talk to civilians or enter buildings. The size of the map is pretty 
 big, but it is also pretty empty and dull. Like I said, the only things to do here are the main 
 missions (finding certain people and killing them, which is far too repetitive for my taste) , the 
 races, and finding orbs.
  
  Crackdown is not as good as GTA or Saints Row simply because it lacks depth and the missions are 
 too repetitive. For those of you looking to play another GTA or Saints Row, you'll be disappointed 
 here. This is indeed a sandbox game, but is nothing like those two. The atmosphere of those two 
 games is not in this one. This one is just boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtodaD
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Very short and that's the only problem with this game. Also there's a big bonus if you buy the 
 game when it first ship. Yep that's right it comes with a Halo 3 Beta free for download when you 
 purchase the game. So let's talk about the game you have a choice of different agents to choose 
 from in the beginning of the game. There are 3 different levels of difficulty to choose from. Once 
 you choose your difficulty setting you're briefed in the beginning to inform you of your duties 
 and what your job is. And that job is to clean up the streets and that's it. You have 3 different 
 gangs to choose from but the game is very linear when it comes to how to go about it. You can go 
 straight to the big boss if you choose too but you'll be very difficult to take him out if you're 
 not at full potential meaning you have to level up your strengths and skills to be able to defeat 
 your enemies. The story is pretty straight for it. There's no cutscenes or anything but there is 
 a short video clip of what happens once you eliminate a boss. The graphics in the game looks great 
 nothing amazing but watching a view from on top of a building looks great. The sound effects are 
 pretty satisfying when you blowing up stuff. The gameplay can get pretty addictive especially when 
 you're jumping around the city looking for orbs all over the place. You have 300 hidden orbs and 
 500 agility orbs all over the city. You also have co-op before your start it game it ask you if 
 you want invite friends, friends only, or anybody can jump in at all time option. Before you start 
 a game but the only problem is not as seamless like it was on gears of war. The game blacks out 
 and you have to go through a loading screen before you're able to start playing together. And once 
 you or your friend quits the game you die or your friend dies right there on the stop. This game 
 is pretty short as far as the main story goes. But I know some will continue playing this game 
 just to collect all the orbs and for the achievements alone people will continue playing this game 
 and for another thing included on the disc Halo anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bungholio55
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  A must play. Crackdown is fun but isn't worth $60 its to short. A must buy when the price drops 
 down until then rent it. I have not played online yet so i can't tell you about that. I would be 
 better it there was a better story mode (not enough content.) But I found it fun just smashing 
 cars and hitting jumps. With this free run around game type this game is fun. I wish the driving 
 was a little bit better but you don't really notice it when your having so much fun. YOU MUST RENT 
 THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robodawg11
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown i think was a fun game thats story mode was way to short, well actually there really 
 isn't a story just killing alot of gangsters and kingpins. Goofing off in co-op was always fun 
 but it didnt last forever. I thought it was cool that how you leveled up with your agent his appereance 
 started to change. My favorite part of the game other then co-op was getting my agility skill up 
 and jumping up on really high buildings and sniping.
  
  I personally bought the game for the halo 3 beta. If you dont want the H3 beta then i defintly 
 recomend renting it. The graphics are like a comic book style they are not what i would perfer 
 but their nice especially the explosions.
  
  Overall i say this game is defintly worth checking out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomtech85
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  What do you call a game that combines near future technology, a GTA style of play, and Supercops? 
 Well, Real Time Worlds and Microsoft introduces to you a different open world way of playing with 
 Crackdown. Its no secret that this type of game has been done to death, but it's good to see something 
 fresh in the genre.
  
  Now I know youre wondering about the storyline. Sorry to announce, but their isnt much of one, 
 this is a sandbox type of game. Meaning the city is your personal playground of destruction so 
 you do whatever you desire.
  
  At the start of the game, you pick for an assortment of super agents. All have somewhat of a different 
 look in terms of facial appearance. With these agents come abilities that level up over time. 5 
 to be exact. Agility, Driving, Firearms, Explosives and Strength. Agility can be earned by simply 
 collecting orbs around the city which enhances your ability to leap certain distances and run faster, 
 while the others can be obtain by using that specific skill constantly on enemies or finding many 
 of the hidden orbs which can little by little help you in all of your skill areas.
  
  To increase your driving (which is pretty bad from the beginning) you can run over enemies and 
 do stunts. This enhances speed and handling. Once you hit a 4-star rating, the super car, SUV, 
 and cab truck you get from agency headquarters can also transform making it look and feel like 
 a beast on the road. For firearms skills, you can use the auto-targeting system and gun down enemies. 
 For explosive skills, same as firearms, but youll have to use grenades and rocket launchers. By 
 leveling up that skill you increase your blast radius and for more damage. Increasing strength 
 gives you the ability to lift up heavier objects such as cars and trucks as well as more health 
 which youll need against the tougher enemies. Using close combat a lot is the easiest way to gain 
 more strength. Although killing innocent civilians in any fashion can slightly slow down your progress 
 in skill.
  
  I guess there is somewhat of storyline, and it has to do with defeating 3 gang organizations. All 
 3 gangs have 7 leaders each held in different territories. Los Muertos, Volk and the Shai-Gen territories. 
 Before encountering a boss, their is a debriefing that explains the whereabouts and criminal motives 
 of that individual. It doesnt really matter what order you take on these leaders, just defeat 
 all 7 leaders in one city then go right to the next to face the others and so on. The problem is 
 that these leaders dont bring much challenge to the table so youll find yourself beating this 
 bosses quicker than you think. Once youve erased the gang bosses in each/all the territories, 
 all you have to do is finish off the remaining criminals and their will be no more crime on the 
 streets. Doing all this will result in a ending cutscene.
  
  The biggest part of the gameplay is how vertically these cities get. For example, the Agency Tower 
 in Los Muertos, its clearly one of the tallest buildings in the game. As your agility increases, 
 you will be able to scale many of the buildings, some really high like the Agency Tower and some 
 not so high. Each city has its own type of architexture. Los Muertos looks like more of urban/suburban 
 city reminiscent of California. Volk seems to be a industrial inspired city, with oil tankers, 
 ship docks and shorter buildings. The Shai-Gen is basically a metropolis like Tokyo or New York 
 city and looks the cleaner of the three. As for climbing, each city gets harder then the next and 
 becomes more difficult as the environments become varied.
  
  Through out each city are supply points that you find for replenishing ammo, and serves well for 
 checkpoints. So if you happen to get yourself killed by a boss or a bunch of enemies, you can go 
 to the closest supply point to where the boss is located. This will save you some heart ache from 
 traveling a long distance to get back to where you started. Their are also races to participate 
 in, rooftop and standard racing. The rooftop races have you on foot going through checkpoints to 
 finish a specific time, same goes for driving races. Who says you have to tackle the streets alone? 
 Online co-op is here to save the day. Even though its fun to go through the campaign with a friend. 
 Its not as seamless as it should be for an Xbox Live game. For example, you have the option of 
 playing a solo game or co-op, both allowing friends or random people to join. You also can deny 
 people for joining if you wish to do so. The problem occurs when the other player quits or joins 
 the current game your in and if you accept, the game kicks you out, and then forced to restart. 
 The developers could of done a much better job with this part seeing how some games like Gears 
 of War does it so well. On the plus side, taking on missions, climbing buildings and driving with 
 another person is one of the most enjoyable aspects of Crackdown and adds a little more replay 
 valve as well.
  
  Graphically, its not the greatest in the world, but its not to bad either. Just think of it as 
 a open world comic book, with its cel-shaded design and detail. Its something different that 
 we have yet to see on the Xbox360 until now. The sound is well done. The explosions and gunfire 
 especially. The music is decent, which can only be played when in a car, nothing special though. 
 It would have been nice to listen to the music while doing missions or just exploring the city.
 
  
  Overall, Crackdown could of offered more then it did. But instead gives you simple and fun gameplay 
 mechanics to build on for potential future iterations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflfalcon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  In Crackdown you play as a agent and you must rig the city of three gangs. Crackdown has a open 
 world much like GTA and has fast and furious game play. The graphics have a nice cellshaded look 
 that is right for the game. Theres are all the regular guns in your arsenal from rocket launchers 
 to snipers. The most fun is to be had storming a gang leaders base. Witch the objective is to kill 
 the the enemy gang leader. It is also fun just to run around the city. Theres only one real problom 
 with Crackdown and that is its over to quickly. Sure you can play it on co-op and replay bosses 
 but still it seems to short. So overall Crackdown could be explained as GTA, Spider man, and Mercenaries 
 if you mashed them together. Its fun but its over just to quickly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  When I plugged in the game, I was so excited about the Halo3 Beta Invitation that I had forgotten 
 that I had gotten a game. Crackdown, the name sounds entertaining right? Well, the game sounded 
 entertaining, too, when I heard people talking about it and everything. Here comes the review!
 
  
  Now why in the world do we have to fight so many bosses and neutralize every one of them?! With 
 saying that, it becomes rather addicting to fight them. The Agility/Hidden Orbs are a nice addition 
 to it and you will spend a long time finding all of the Orbs. The graphics are pretty good, and 
 it's no original shoot 'em up... oh wait, yes it is. It's very very similar to GTA, BUT, it differs 
 in the fact that you're the Po-Po. It's a much different open-world experience than GTA is though. 
 You can't go into buildings, but you can change character appearances, which is nice! The aiming 
 is a little weird, but easy to grapple. Jumping is soooooo awesome. Why take a car around the city, 
 when you can hop buildings in half the time?! Anyway, the game gets a 7.5/10 for the repetitive-ness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn-CeNa346
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game. I can't believe that people only bought it for the Halo 3 Beta and not 
 for the game that it came with. To start off, Crackdown has no storyline, what so ever. If you 
 like storylines in games, don't get this one. The multiplayer is great. You can play co-op and 
 roam around the city. The game play is wicked fun. You can shoot, kick, and explode people. The 
 only problem is is that Crackdown is way to short. And once you beat all three gangs, there is 
 really nothing left to do except to play co-op. The graphics are nice with the comic book look. 
 The sound is great also. I dont like the music but the guns sound real. Overall, Crackdown is a 
 good game that is too short. But don't just buy it for the Halo 3 Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad_double_agent
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  whats good - lets see well... its erm.. ermmmmmmm... its erm no.
  o i got one its nice too play along side a m8 on this type of game. like when your playing G. T. A. 
 your like it be good if i cod play wid me m8s... well now you can!!!! and you get that halo thing 
 =)
  
  whats bad - this game gets old in like one day.
  its the type of game you buy play it for a day and do the hole GAME in a day and then think THAT 
 WAS &pound;40 WHY DA I CHECK SOME REVIEWS THEN THINK ABOUT GETING IT ????
  
  and also if that halo thing was not on it thay wood av not sold one copy!!!
  
  and thats why 
 i got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  First thing that comes to mind when you start to play Crackdown would be GTA. Crackdown quite obviously 
 takes a lot of queues from the landmark GTA series and for the most part does a decent job of adding 
 some new elements as well. Too bad there isn't more GTA in it, because it would have helped.
  
  The game play is a mixed bag. On one hand you have some great platforming going on with your 
 agent jumping from building to building blasting the bad guys, and on the other hand you have really 
 boring driving. I probably spent around 95% of my time on foot (or on air) vs. the rest of the 
 time driving. The driving portion is just that bad, and the jumping portion is just that good.
 
  
  The biggest draw to me was collecting orbs that are sprinkled throughout the game. The green orbs 
 power up your agility, which results in bigger jumps. So as you gather more you can jump higher 
 to gather even more, which isn't as boring as it sounds since the jumping controls are so well 
 done. Your agent will automatically grab onto any ledge and you can jump straight up from there 
 to higher platforms or ledges. It really is quite fun jumping from the top of one sky scraper over 
 to the top of another. You really get the sensation of being really far off the ground, and get 
 quite the sinking feeling if you miss and fall all the way back to earth.
  
  The graphics are pretty solid. Not the best, but great for this type of game. There is a lot going 
 on at once on the screen, and barely a frame rate drop to notice. The draw distance is the farthest 
 I have seen in a console game before and pop up is virtually non existent. Crackdown has a slight 
 cell-shaded look, but it is certainly not overpowering or distracting. Some of the textures have 
 this weird grainy look to them, but they fit in pretty well with the style.
  
  The sound is nothing special. Generic music while driving, and typical explodey boomy sound effects. 
 The cars could have used some more work to differentiate them from each other, but all in all the 
 audio is serviceable. Not sound awards for this one. The biggest gripe about the sound is the stupid 
 voice over that is supposed to be your boss. He never shuts up, and there is no option to disable 
 him. He will continue to repeat the same crap over and over, even when it is totally irrelevant 
 to what is going on at the time.
  
  The targeting system is a bit finicky at first and takes some adjusting to get used to. It will 
 target downed enemies for some odd reason, even when you are trying your hardest to target the 
 guy 2 feet to there left. You have to have the targetting site right on the person you want to 
 lock on to, or it just may not work. This is a bit odd and a little bit clunky for an auto aim 
 feature. Why both with auto aim if you have to manually target anyways? Well the game somewhat 
 answers that for you by making your shots absurdly accurate once you do lock on. One of the nice 
 touches here is that once you lock on to a target you can use the right stick to target their torso, 
 head, either leg, or either arm. Shots in the arm make them drop whatever gun they were holding, 
 and shots in the legs make them fall over for awhile. This even works on the mob bosses, making 
 their encounters somewhat easy. This mechanic is a cool extra, but since the auto aim is already 
 so accurate, there is really no point to using it because killing the person in 3 shots is just 
 as effective as making them drop their weapon in 3 shots, then plugging them with 4 more. No real 
 advantage to using it since just targetting them in the torso makes the game so easy. Beafing up 
 enemies hitpoints does not a hard game make. The AI could have used a bit of work to increase the 
 difficulty, and perhaps a toning down of the accuracy for both the player and the enemies would 
 have been a good idea too. Being able to snipe with a pistol is a bit odd.
  
  The biggest pitfall with this game would be how short it is, and how shallow it is. Jumping from 
 building to building is a blast and all, but once it's over and you finish killing the last gang 
 boss (only a handful of bosses per each of the 3 gangs) the game pretty much comes to an end.
 
  
  The side quests are few and far between and those that do exist are almost all the same variety. 
 Driving through checkpoints and jumping through checkpoints are both the same thing.... checkpoint 
 races. These get boring fast. At least you get some achievement points for completing them.
  
  The online features are a bit sparse too. All you really do is play co-op with a friend and 
 complete the same missions available in the single player. There is no need to even work together. 
 One person can take off and just kill gang members all day, while the other does all the work. 
 The missions are not ramped up in difficulty or adjusted in any way for the co-op. Almost a pointless 
 tack on at the end just to say the game has co-op. Not quite a seamless experience either. It would 
 have been ideal to just be able to join someone in their already live game, but what ends up happening 
 is both get kicked out and the city is reloaded fresh depending on what status the two players 
 are at. Not the best design decision really.
  
  Overall the game is a blast while it lasts. The replay value is extremely low since once you have 
 seen the entire city and finished off all the bosses, there is not much else to do.
  
  I would have to say that I am glad I picked up this game since it also did come with the Halo 3 
 beta entry. Had it not come with the beta, I might have picked it up anyways, but that just sweetens 
 the deal a bit. Somewhat easier to forgive the shortness of the game that way I suppose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solonel
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, it just didn't draw me into it. Sure it is an open sandbox environment, the flip 
 side of Grand Theft Auto, just not implemented nearly as well. The commercial for the game is certainly 
 interesting, but the game itself doesn't lend itself well to me.
  
  The missions were repetitive and boring. I didn't try multi-player, so I don't know how well it 
 is for this game.
  
  This was another wasted rental title.
  
  My advice, pick up Saints Row, be a goody goody police officer (steal a police car -IN GAME) and 
 go help out your people. That would be a much better use of your time than playing Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazamy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is really a fun game. you get to go all around this really great and big city and destroy 
 everything that wants to harm the innocent. although your a cop, you can hurt civilians, you don't 
 want to do it on purpose because it will slow down your progress in the corresponding attributes 
 but it sure is fun to shot a rocket launcher at the bad guys and by the way hit some civilians.
 
  driving in this game isn't all that good, especially at the beginning when your driving skills 
 are at level one you can beraly turn the steering wheel.
  with a really disappointing story line, crackdown is still just plain fun, from jumping around 
 to amazing heights to blowing up crooks with homing missiles to throwing trucks off bridges, i 
 think this is a game any GTA fan should try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  Lets get this out the way early, I did not buy this to get some Beta download for a game I couldn't 
 care less about, I lost all interest in Halo when the ending for 2 was revealed to be... poor.
 
  Anyone looking at screenshots of this will have every reason to be sceptical about its looks, 
 still pictures do not do the game justice, seeing and playing a demo was enough for me to search 
 it out and make a purchase.
  I can't remember the last time a game had me playing till 2.30am when I have to be up for work 
 at 7am, but when I checked my clock first time of loading, it was 2.25am and I had to find that 
 last supply point before I packed in for the night.
  Whilst taking down gang lords isn't particularly new, the idea of under-mining the gang structure 
 before launching your asault is magnificent, take out the firearms cheif and the gang members lose 
 weaponary skills, take out the auto cheif and the heavily armoured gang vehicles become a thing 
 of the past, take out the trainer and they lose strength... take them all out and your task of 
 killing the kingpin becomes much easier.
  Levelling up also has a noticeable effect, you can run quicker, jump higher and further, throw 
 objects further and the vehicles take on a whole new perspective when you get your driving stats 
 up.
  Ignore the haters that think this has only sold for the Halo 3 Beta download, for none 360 owners 
 its just console envy as they sit and look at the paltry range of games they have available, for 
 360 owners... then they're just missing out on a belter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  i rented this game, and i have to say, im going to totally buy it. The gameplay is awesome, you 
 have different abilities like agility, and when your skill get better, you can do better things, 
 say for example, when you start the game you can jump about 10 feet, well every time your agility 
 skill increases, you can just another 5 feet higher. Lots of fun things to do, not just missions, 
 but just driving around, there are just so many things to do, things like races that increase your 
 driving skill, boss's (which is really just a leader, not that hard) time trials (run around in targets, 
 this also increases agility) There are just so many fun things like this, and lots lots more. BUY 
 THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I play this game but only for the achiviments, the lest do I feel is the Game system. All the time 
 I died because the lack of accurancy of Jumps. And also the explosions are very hard to evade, 
 many times you will fall because a rocket and if you are lucky you died if not you will live and 
 see that the burns kill you.
  
  The bosses are very easy to beat and the normal guards are very hard.
  
  The game is very short 
 and 900 point for achiviments?? I cant understand why??
  
  But that to good there is a HALO 3 beta version on there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan-666
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  okay the game may be slightly good with the graphics and gameplay and all the other trivial things, 
 but, it is no where near worth the 
  
  this because i completed it in 3 day and was then extremlely bored with it as it has nothing (fun) 
 to do when you hav completed the story  
 so do not buy this game at all costs it may be fun to start with but then it just gets realy boring 
 when u hav don the measley 21 bosses.
  
  online however can be quite funny expecialy when you kick so one out of there can and then listen 
 to them swear at you as you drive away into the distance!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulledabooth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has a great online co-op a blast and I like the amount of destruction you can cause and 
 the level up system gives it a twist i wish the missions were more varied but you won't worry about 
 that in co-op me and my mates were always busy having street races or throwing people off the tops 
 of buildings. My favorite aspect is the sort of comic book super hero one with super man like agents 
 and the king pins all have that feel to them like the shi gen kingpin there is always on of those 
 in comic book you know the old chinese
  guy who lives in skyscraper surrounded by guards but dies anyway well thats all i can say but all 
 in all a great game well done real time worlds 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubrick_11442
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing crackdown i believed it was a good game but after completing all missions 
 in less than 4 hours and then another 2 hours doing opional races it seems that my first impresions 
 were ever extremly wrong, this game has a great potential to make a great sequal but it is lacking 
 the depth and quality to make it worth while buying. the story line in crackdown if you can call 
 it a story is you are a genetically modified super cop, and you have to kill gangsters in a city, 
 thats about it no cut scenes, no real dialogue other than an anoying voice over telling u stuff 
 around you like there is a rooftop race nearby agent which really really becomes annoying after 
 a while.
  
  the controls in crackdown are really easy to master however, the aiming system in crackdown is 
 really really frustraiting because most of the time you find yourself locking on to cars orn barrels 
 instead of gangsters even if the gangsters are closer which i think is strange.
  
  all the critacism aside i would reckonmend playing crackdown but only on rental there is no way 
 i would ever consider spending &pound;40 on this again when you can easily complete it over 2 days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Syll
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  The game sucks . is it a shooter??? well the shooting is extremely lame in this game ............ 
 is it an adventure ........... boring repetative missions of kill this guy is, well, boring ........... 
 I, personally, like realistic games (Rainbow Six, GRAW, etc) when it comes to shooting.............. 
 The mechanics in this game is just too bland and ........... BORING ......... that is mainly the 
 only word I can think of when talking about this game ...... this game SUCKs mega a$$ ....... I 
 wouldnt get this crap , I rented it and I wish i didnt, that money could have gone toward food 
 ................. and I'm done ................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesismism
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  this game sucks scats right its to easy you get bored of it coz u can only do a thew things that 
 include stealing cars and kiling goups it just another crappy remake of GTA but with like some 
 more crappy updates anyone whos gonna go and buy it it get the demo first coz either way there 
 both gonna be disapointing i dont havwe anything else to say so ghg hgh hghghghd fhfhd fhd hf hd 
 f dhdhfdhhshdf dhdfh dfh dh fdhdfh fdh dfh dh dfh dfh dfh dfh dh fdh dfh dfh dfh dfh dh dhfhdfhdfhdfhdfhdfh 
 dfhdhdfhdfh dfh dfh dfhdh dfhdfh dfhdfh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckwap3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  You may have heard Crackdown was a lousy GTA Ripoff, well, that's wrong. Crackdown is one of the 
 best games i've played on the Xb360 in a while. Well, I'll quit flapping my mouth and get to the 
 review!
  
  Gameplay - At first glance, this may seem like a GTA Ripoff. But if you actually play, and get 
 into the game, it'll seem very innovative. The abilities part of the game is the best part, in 
 my opinion. Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength, and Firearms. Each one levels up one star at 
 a time, by collecting agility orbs, and hidden orbs. Once you have them maxed out, you can jump 
 higher, drive better, blow some crap up better, throw stuff at people (my favorite) , and have precision 
 aiming. The free roaming is great, since you can improve your stats before you HAVE to do any missions, 
 for a greater chance to get that mission right. Overall, the game play gets a 10 for being innovative, 
 and fun!
  
  Graphics - This game has the graphic you'd expect from a 360 game. The water is beautiful, the 
 objects have the most details, and the cars look awesome. There's not a lot I can say about the 
 graphics, so they get a 9 for being stunning, amazing, blows you away, and all of the above. Definitely 
 a 10.
  
  Sound - WOW. The sound in this game is very atmospheric! Whether it's blowing a car to a heap of 
 scrap metal, or just enjoying the sounds of crickets at night. Especially if you have surround 
 sound, you'll be immersed in the game once you here all the sounds there's to be heard in this 
 game, the sound, indefinitely, gets a 10.
  
  Value - Well, I've only rented this game, but hey, I got my money's worth definitely! A 10!
  
 
  Overall - This is a great game that shouldn't be missed. Not just another GTA Ripoff, a great game 
 that is very innovative. It's hard to describe, I'll just leave it to you to play it, and fall 
 in love with it. So overall, A 10, for a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  i canot belive how dissapoting this game is im glad i played the demo. i thought this was gona 
 have style, good soundtrack and loads to do. insted the music was like lego land in the 70s. the 
 style was like lego land and well the loads to do...... crap all u can do is steal cars and kill 
 gangs and face it that will get on your nerves after about 20minnits the only good thing to do 
 whith this game is to get the achivments on it and get rid of it. now i got to write 100 words to 
 end this so im gona write jibrish tttttthhhhhiiissssssss gggaaaaaammmmmmeeeeeee ssssssuuuuuuccccccckkkssssss 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  To me GTA never caught my eye, but when I picked this game up at blockbuster it turned out to be 
 a lot cooler than every GTA game I have ever pleayed. Not because there are hookers or any other 
 asset you can name from GTA, but because you are a super cop that can jump at least 50 feet high 
 increase explosive skills, increase driving skills, increase strength and pick up cars, run super 
 fast, and increase weapon accuracy. I love it so much I am going to buy it instead of rent it 100000s 
 of times. I just don't understand what is so good about GTA. It's extremely boring because all 
 you do is kill cops. End of story. This game gave me something to do during my lazy life :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donnyp
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  You first start out being a super soldier and learning the ropes. As you play you get stronger. 
 That is the basis for the game. The story is to clean up the streets because there far to dangerous. 
 With a fun system used for the maneuvering and leveling the game is fun to just cause mayhem and 
 run around.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  GAME PLAY
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  
  The game revolves around becoming stronger and making your self better so your a force to be reckoned 
 with. The 5 groups are Driving, Fighting, Agility, Weapons, and Explosives. The way to level them 
 up is naturally using them. With Fighting you get more Health and can lift heavier objects and 
 throw them further also being able to hit harder. With Explosives all explosions become bigger 
 end of story. Weapons you become more accurate and get better marksman skills all the while being 
 able to aim at different spots on the body. Agility you can run faster and jump higher. Driving 
 your maneuvering increases and so does you agency cars getting guns and also becoming faster. With 
 these five skills leveling can take some time but the process is fun. I have only run into one 
 glitch. It was Excessively bad but only once so far. I ran into a guy who couldn't be hurt by any 
 means. Yeah that is pretty bad
  
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  GRAPHICS
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  
  Using cell shading they attempt to make this game look more like a 
 comic book. But like many games before them it comes off kind of cartoon. Now i don't care for 
 graphics and its not that big of a deal but if you don't mind playing a game that looks cartoon 
 then this is a good pick
  
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  SOUND
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  
  The sound is basic gun noises explosions people running and demanding authorities voice. The music 
 i didn't even listen to because it wasn't a good selection of songs and i couldn't be bothered 
 with it. Also you can't turn down the volume of your car so it almost always above your music if 
 you decide to put it on off the hard drive.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  VALUE/REVIEWER'S TILT
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  
  This game is a fun run around shoot em up 
 game. Its nothing revolutionary but not so boring you should walk past it and completely ban it 
 from your mind. I would say you should at least rent this game and play it. If you like it buy 
 it and if not then at least you rented it before you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I've played GTA, and Saints Row, but I was pleasntly supprised with Crackdown. This game takes 
 the older tryed and true formula that GTA created and puts a new spin on it, now your the good 
 guys.
  
  What makes this game stand out amongst its fellow GTAstyle games is that your the good guy, but 
 more than just a normal good guy, your a SUPER good guy. Yep thats right you can jump from building 
 to building, take hundreads of rounds and pick up large objects and crush those pathetic gangsters 
 in a fury of distruction, and all while the world thanks you.
  
  Now the dark side of Crackdown is that you can burn through its content extreamly fast, and thats 
 realy what hurts this game the most. The gameplay is great and it has all the action a GTA fan 
 could want with the perks of jumping off a building and leaving a nice cracked ground effect kinda 
 like in the Matrix, but at the end of the day you may have been better off renting it (luckly thats 
 what I did) . Its a great game and if your a true fan, than buying it can be justified, but with 
 only a good days worth of gameplay (from 24hours not sun up to sun down) your going to finnish 
 this one in a week if you play it slow.
  
  Over all the graphics, controls, sound, and all the general core aspects of the game are extreamly 
 solid, and the comic book feel is well warented. With the engine created, hopefuly Crackdown 2 
 and Realtime Worlds have plenty of time to create an extreamly massive experiance. I look forward 
 to seeing a Crackdown 2 with double or even triple the content, as the game is very much worth 
 a sequel.
  
  As title says its a highly addictive game, but man it'll drop you hard when you finnish it way 
 to quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodyrooster
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Great game, wished they would have spent a little bit more time making a more complete game. After 
 you have beaten it you feel that it should have more to it. The game is pretty fun in that you 
 can coop with the friend through the whole game. After I beat the final boss I should have been 
 introduced to a whole new map with a few other new villian groups, then the game probably would 
 have felt more complete. That would have brought the game from good to great and I'm sure it would 
 have had much better ratings.
  
  The major advantage Crackdown has over other games like it (GTA) is that you are actually the good 
 guy.
  
  Overall the game is worth buying because you can play online with a friend through the whole of 
 it and still have a super fun time doing it. You can help each other out by swapping guns and then 
 killing bosses. It also has a good RPG element to it where you level up certain skills. You can 
 waste a good week on it playing with a friend a few hours each night. It's a nice casual game you 
 can play with a friend when you are talking or deciding what you should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Holydevil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is set in the near future, you play as a an Agent, a genetically enhanced being made 
 by the Agency. Your goal is to elimate criminal life in the city.
  
  The first thing you notice when you start up Crackdown is, like any game, the graphics. It looks 
 cell shaded. When i played a demo of this game, the graphics really put me off. Luckily for me, 
 i grew to like these comic booky style graphics. Not only that, the colours are really quite vibrqant 
 aswell, not as bad as say, Viva Pin&aacute; ta, but in some places it looks like a sweet shop. But 
 i said, it grew on me.
  
  The next noticable thing is the the deep well spoken voice of the man from the Agency. You never 
 see him, only hear him. For the first few hours of play this voice acts as your guide. after a 
 while though, the same comment keep churning out as you make your way throught the game - There 
 is a Road Race nearby agent. Or, Complete the nearby Road Race to increase your driving skill. 
 (More on that later) The seemingly most annoying sentence is - Impressive asent agent, its rare 
 for any one to reach hights of this magnitude. This comment often follows after you have, say, 
 climb a flight of steps, shot someone, got in your car or even stood still for a bit. seemingly 
 anytime other than when you are in fact climbing.
  
  This brings me to the gameplay. There are 5 skills for you to increase and improve apon: Agility, 
 Driving, Strength, Firearms and Explosives. The skills uses a star rating system, as your become 
 more skilled your number from a 0 to 100 raises, once 100 is reached, the one star is added. There 
 are 4 stars for each skill in total, and a chance to max out the fourth star after achieving it. 
 Firearms and Explosives are self explanitory and can be increased in the most obvious way - increase 
 your Firearms by shooting criminals and and increase your Explosives by blowing up enemies, using 
 grenades and rocket lanchers etc. As your Firearms increases, your shooting becomes more accurate 
 and weapons become more powerful. Uping Explosives makes the size of explosion larger.
  
  To increase your driving skill, you will need to kill crimals by crushing them under your wheels, 
 and completing Road Races in a set time. A more rewarding skill than others as once a star is reached 
 in this skill, an agency vehicle will transform into a more evolved version when u get in it. With 
 improved speed and handaling and eventually, when 4 stars is reached each agency car has its own 
 special ability. vehicles other than agency seem to be a waste of time, as none are as fast/agile/awsome 
 etc.
  
  Strenth is improved merly by kicking a criminal to death by taping B. As this increases, you will 
 be able to pick up and/or kick heavier objects. This is also quite a rewarding. When your strenght 
 is high enough, you can literally kick lorries from one side of the highway to the other.
  
  And finally Agility. This is what sets the game aport from all other sandbox games. With a 
 landscape desingned with skyscrapers, a very clever playground is set for you to navigate. The 
 way to improve your Agililty is primarily by collecting Agility Orbs. There are 500 in total for 
 you to lay your hands on. another way is Rooftop Races. These races quite obviously see you dashing 
 about check points. the effects of Agility are truly what sets this game apart form all other sandbox 
 games. pressing A sees you jumping, what you would think as a slightly abnormal height to begin 
 with, but once you start increasing your Agilitythings become really interesting. by the time you 
 have reached your fist star, you can clear a car mno problem, and you are jumping from rooftop 
 to rooftop with grace of a balerina. by the time you have maxed out this skill, you can clear 50 
 ft no problem. make you soar like the hulk on steroids from one end of the city to the next. it 
 truly is a brilliant peice of gameplay.
  
  eventually found to be too short for many, there is going to be extra content soon to be released, 
 including a final 100 gamerpoints worth of achivements. This game is perfect if you are looking 
 for something to fill a whole while you wait for the next big thing to be released in stores. Download 
 the demo off Marketplace now, i ganrentee you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cborowik
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I Love this game, yes the story line wasn't brilliant, but it was just plain fun, running along 
 rooftops, climbing the Agency tower, everything was just plain fun.
  One of my friends got it recently, up until then I'd been playing GRAW2 online but for the last 
 3-4 days I've been plying this online, co-op just makes it so much better, you can either help 
 each other or kick each other about (basically what me and my friend did.)
  The graphics are unbelievably comic book, from the outlines and colouring of the cars and buildings 
 to the explosions. The way the character evolves with the upgrades that happen, the Agency cars 
 aswell, one example being the SUV when you first drive it, it seems really bad but when you reach 
 the top driving you can drive up walls (as me and my friend found out today) .
  The only let down being the soundtrack.
  
  IF you like over the top fun this is a game for 
 you basically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGShacker
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  i recently bought crackdown thinking it was just going to be another gta wannabee game. it was 
 the oposite. its kinda cool how you get to be good guys instead of bad. and its pretty sweet how 
 you have super powers and can jump really far. now for the graphics, the graphics are great. they 
 are meant to be a bit cartoony but for what it is the graphics are insane. the open world in crackdown 
 gives you so many options of what you want to do. example, if a gang vs cop war is going on (or 
 anything) you can pick up objects (including dead bodies lol) and chuck them and cars, people, 
 in to the ocean or whatever you want to do. im not very good at writing reviews but i tried and 
 i hope it helped you! in the end i give it a 10 out of 10.
  
  REMEMBER. IF YOU CAN'T DO IT... CHUCK NORRIS CAN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword-man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is so big and huge. I liked it very much and I play it every day and I didnt get board 
 from it. The gameplay is like GTA and much better perhaps in GTA you dont have special kinds of 
 cars like the car that jumps so high and you cant climb high buldings. The sounds are great and 
 the wepoans and the shooting way is amazing. I dont know what to write else because i didnt seen 
 everything in this game but i advice everybody to have a big fun with this big game and enjoy it. My 
 xbox 360 is in front of me and i will play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostar537
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was one of the most fun games i played. But after i killed all the gang members from 
 each gang I was left nothing else to do. come on it took me 2 days to do that. thats not long enough 
 for me. oh well. Ya but all the jumping, shooting, blowing up, throwing, kicking, and climbing was 
 very fun. also the game is overly easy because you dont have to retry things when you die because 
 you can just regenerate and pick up where you left off.
  
  I thought the graphics were so cool because they were different and they looked great.
  
  The 
 music wasnt my type of music but it was alright but the gangsters voices werent that great.
  
  There is not much replay value to this game because of the lack of bosses and other things 
 to do but it is fun while it lasts.
  
  I give the tilt a 9 because it was a very fun game while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gefault
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Crackdown, a unique experience well executed. The fun you can have just leaping about the place 
 collecting the stupid orbs scattered across the rooftop is unbelievable, but the real fun comes 
 when you take on one of the bosses. Because you have these amazing powers to leap buildings, and 
 throw most of the objects in the game, the number of different ways you can tackle a boss is seemingly 
 endless. This does also make a lot of the early bosses a little easy, because instead of walking 
 through the front door and tackling all the Hench men head on, you can just climb over the rooftops 
 and go straight to the boss, and then kick him to death. I spent 5 straight days playing this game 
 and played the whole thing through on co-op with my mate over Sys Link, and it was fantastic. In-between 
 tackling the crime in the city, and killing bosses, we played on the roof tops and played my favourite 
 game Does this hurt? This game is simple but highly entertaining. Simply find an object, maybe 
 a cement mixer, wheel barrow, car or a skip and throw it at your co-op partner, and find out how 
 much it hurts them. Its then there turn to throw something at you. We managed to work our way up 
 from rubber ducks, to wheel barrows, to paving slabs, to lampposts, to cars and finally trucks. 
 Not only is it fun to watch your friend get crushed or have a breeze block smash across there face, 
 but this actually gives you useful info on whats worth throwing at enemies and whats just a waste 
 of time.
  
  The range of guns in Crackdown is great and it gets even greater when you finally get your hands 
 on a Firefly rocket launcher (5 shot homing missile launcher, you cant go wrong) however when 
 it comes to dealing with bosses, grenades (or rockets if youve got em yet) and kicking seem to 
 be the order of the day. Knock em down from a distance with the grenades and then get in there 
 and kick em while there down. The kicks knock them straight back down when the finally do get up 
 and the fight will be over in no time. Theres rarely more than a couple of bodyguards in the main 
 boss area, so for the most part, the first island at least, you can ignore the plebs and get straight 
 in there.
  
  I think the problem is the balance isnt right. Youre given these amazing powers of super human 
 strength and agility so the choice to make the game balanced is to either pitch you against lots 
 and lots of weak enemies, or against fewer stronger enemies. For the most part, Crackdown goes 
 for the first option, and once you get on to the 3rd island this can get very frustrating. You 
 know all the enemies are easy to kill but there are a literally infinite number of them (they just 
 constantly spawn so you have to wade in, or figure out a sneaky route to the boss) . No matter how 
 much you spam them with rockets, they just keep on coming so you have to pile in and just desperately 
 make it to the boss and kill them so the minions stop pouring out. This wouldnt be so bad if there 
 was an option of being a bit more sneaky and not alerting them to your presence so you can get 
 past the masses without taking 1000+ bullets. Some cover to hide behind even, but for the most 
 part your just in a big room with lots of people running at you, and the health recovers so slow 
 (you can only recover health by standing about without getting hit, which means cowering in a corner 
 which is lame, and it takes ages) that it is just constantly being drained until finally it gets 
 so low your forced to run away like a coward. Maybe Im just not very good at this game because 
 I was doing it on Tough which is the lowest difficulty, and the enemies could still strip my health 
 like nobodys business so god know what its like on the harder levels. If you do try and sneak 
 in, because theres no real game mechanic for it (you can crouch and thats about it) the enemy 
 will soon spot you, and then everyone magically knows exactly where you are.
  
  In summary though, this game is fantastic. Despite using the same basic formula of GTA there is 
 plenty thats unique in this game and I had a hell of a lot of hours of fun playing. Working your 
 way around the city cleaning up is a refreshing change from being the criminal taking over the 
 city, but once the clean up is over, there really isnt much left to do. When you finish all the 
 criminals are gone so theres no one to fight. So the developers have put in the option to turn 
 crime back on. However rather than turning bosses back on, or making some other form of sub missions 
 to do, crime on just means there are criminals are EVERYWHERE and if they see you theyll shoot 
 at you. And there are an infinite number of them. This isnt exactly entertaining. No structure, 
 just try stay alive. It doesnt matter how many you shoot, you will achieve nothing (except maybe 
 more stats but Id pretty much got them maxed out before I finished the main game anyway) . Basically, 
 this game doesnt have enough replay value. Once you max your stats and kill all the bosses, theres 
 really nothing left to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilass
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  The game is amazingly fun i had been playing for like 4 hours and i cant stop i didnt even want 
 to stop but this game will grow on you and you will love it, it has some nice stuff beleive me 
 try it and plus it has the Halo 3 Beta what do you want more from a game , the game delivers some 
 good graphics and nice sound but the game is like GTA but way better i really didnt enjoy GTA as 
 much as this , i have tell you this game is a MUST HAVE!, it has it fluws but still its a nice 
 game for me if you are a GTA fan you will 100% like this and if you arent will then i dont know 
 80% you will like it so try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Being a cop isnt easy, just about everybodys on their case and hates them. For many years, particularly 
 in videogames, cops have often been looked at as some of the most annoying opponents. Well, Crackdown 
 has decided to turn the tables around. Instead of you playing as a gangsta wanting to kill any 
 and all cops interfering with your business, youll be the cop taking out the gangs. Primary cop 
 of the Agency, youre given the objective of killing every single gang member in Pacific City possible.
 
  
  Now, before you start complaining and say, But I dont want to be the Fuzz! do know that Crackdown 
 isnt like many other games in its genre. And by this, Im referring to how, like GTA before it, 
 Crackdown is a sandbox game. Youve got all the basics like being able to steal other peoples 
 cars, run civilians over and take part in gang battles. But unlike many other GTA rip-offs, Crackdown 
 decides to take your character, inject him with steroids, caffeine and a whole load of kick-ass. 
 Unlike just about every singe GTA clone out there, Crackdowns emphasis is action as you break 
 the boundaries of a regular human being.
  
  Basically, youre given multiple abilities such as being able to pick up cars, jump to insane heights, 
 and even cause certain cars to morph. Initially you cant do all of this, you need to work your 
 way up. Crackdown has an RPG-like leveling system in which you have five skills, each of which 
 are measured by stars, allowing you to reach a total of four stars. These five skills are agility, 
 driving, explosive effects, strength and firearm use. Three of these skills can only be improved 
 by killing gang members by utilizing that skill. So, killing gang members with guns increases your 
 firearm skill, killing with grenades, rockets or any other method involving explosives raises explosive 
 skill and strength is improved by beating enemies up. Driving skills can be improved by either 
 running enemies over, performing insane stunts (usually in midair) or doing checkpoint races.
 
  
  As for agility, youll need to either collect agility orbs scattered across the city or set new 
 records on rooftop races. This is where the games exploration comes into play since you can find 
 two different kinds of orbs. There are agility orbs which increase your agility and hidden orbs 
 which raise all of your skills by a small percentage. There are a total of five-hundred agility 
 orbs and three-hundred hidden orbs, so theres plenty to look for during your free-time in the 
 game. And trust me when I say this, youll want to find these orbs if you hope to increase your 
 skill. Otherwise you might as well schedule your next few dozen clones to be ready off the assembly 
 line.
  
  Yes, you heard me right; Crackdown has an excuse for why you can keep on coming back to life. Apparently 
 during the future in Pacific City cloning is possible, so whenever you die, a clone will come to 
 take over its predecessor. It may not sound like much, and the game might not be the most realistic 
 considering your abilities, its still nice to see at least one game make an excuse for why you 
 come back to life. And dont worry about losing your characters progress when dying; your clone 
 will take on the attributes of their precursor.
  
  So, whats the story behind Crackdown you might ask? Well, funny you should ask, since about all 
 the game offers in this department is you trying to take out the three leading gangs of Pacific 
 City-the Los Muertos, Volk and Shai Gen. Thats it, nothing more, nothing less; aside from the 
 nameless Agency leader who gives you advice, with lame dialogue, lots of lame, corny dialogue. 
 While some of the lines he says may get a chuckle out of you, most of them are random and flat-out 
 awful at their best. Oh, and yes, since you are able to climb skyscrapers you will hear him utter 
 I can see my house from here .
  
  But the story isnt what Crackdowns about, its about the crazy action, and it does this exceptionally 
 well. Once you begin to improve upon your skills the true game will begin to come out. This is 
 where Crackdown really shines, as it manages to nail off the concept of wacky, a**-kicking in every 
 sense of the word. With being able to morph your Agency Supercar into a Batmobile look-alike and 
 let your SUV do long jumps, kick enemies several feet away in one hit and kill enemies by jumping 
 from rooftop to rooftop, style is what Crackdown is all about.
  
  And Crackdown has an interesting style to its visuals to help accompany the games crazy attitude. 
 Rather than just focus on making the game look realistic, Crackdown uses a graphics engine that 
 draws a combination of cell-shaded and realistic visuals. The result is a stellar look to the game 
 that, while not the most technically proficient, proves to give the game a bit of flavor. Pacific 
 City itself is nicely detailed, from the buildings, to the water and cars. On the other hand, the 
 character models are less than impressive; not even your character looks that detailed. Youll 
 also notice the framerate dip in a few areas when the action gets really intense, primarily when 
 you chain together explosions that could rival a nuke. Fortunately, Crackdowns graphical style 
 manages to outweigh its few performance issues and graphical shortcomings.
  
  The games sound and audio isnt so solid, more like absurd and barely passing quality. As I indicated 
 earlier, the voiceovers and dialogue are about as bad as a game can possibly get. Crackdowns radio 
 soundtrack is pretty large, though incredibly forgettable with almost no recognizable artists. 
 The audio and effects are what really help the game rise above being a failure in regard to its 
 sound. Each car in the game has its own distinctive tune and most of them sound as youd expect, 
 though there are obviously a few exceptions as with any game with as many cars as Crackdown. As 
 for the weapons, they usually sound realistic, although I cant say a light machinegun sounding 
 muffled compared to an assault rifle isnt exactly fitting.
  
  Next to the sound, Crackdowns biggest weakness is its longevity, which is becoming a standard 
 weakness for just about every game out there now. While the game can potentially hold your attention 
 for a few short sittings if you explore a bit, its possible to beat the game in about ten hours. 
 Beyond those few hours the only thing youll have left is collecting all the orbs, maxing out your 
 skills and getting the last few achievements. Unfortunately, these side objectives in their own 
 right are uninteresting and not that fun to take on if youve already beaten the game. There is 
 a cooperative mode, which is a hit or miss depending on your taste and tolerance of certain issues, 
 but it really isnt a necessary addition for a short game like this.
  
  Crackdown is likely to be a game in most 360 owners collections strictly to gain access to the 
 Halo 3 beta. But for those who are planning to get a 360 or are thinking about getting this game, 
 Ill give you my recommendation. If youre wondering if Crackdown is worth your time, the answerss 
 a yes, but since it likely wont hold your attention for long, wait for the price to go down and/or 
 for the betas release to be announced. If youre a die-hard Halo fan that simply needs to get 
 anything Halo 3 ASAP, then do what you think is necessary. Otherwise, depending on whether youre 
 a fan of Halo or not, either rent the game or just wait for a price drop and beta release announcement. 
 In its own right though, Crackdown is a good game well worth checking out, but it just doesnt 
 manage to have enough to hold your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zjohnson77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is easy to pick up, fun and is pretty original, its much like GTA, with super abilities. 
 The thing about this game is it's lack of depth makes it very bland, its the same thing retitively, 
 there's no variety. There's a few things to do as far as mini-games besides the actualy storyline, 
 if you'd call it that, which are races, and time trials, time trials can be enjoyable, or very 
 painful, but if a deep storyline, with much detail and specifics, this game isnt for you, on the 
 other hand, if you want something quick to get the hang of, and not hard to understand, id recommend 
 this one. There's many positives to this game as well, the world is amazing, tthe free-roaming 
 is great, and tons of fun, the combat aspect of the game is pretty straight-forward. The shooting 
 system is simple, the melee on the other hand is pretty boring, but being able to launch a 5 ton 
 trucker at a group of enemies is always fun. The driving in this game can be fun as well, theres 
 not a huge variety of vehicles, but if you can find things to do with them, besides racing, the 
 driving can be one of the morepositive aspects of the game. Basically, this game is great on the 
 surface, but thats really all there is, is a surface, which is why this game is lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't say there is a learning curve but it takes some play time to get your agility/strength/firearms 
 to the point where you are jumping around the game map and feel like you are in full control. The 
 driving part of the game is a let down. First of all the driving missions ( I haven't completed 
 one) are unnecessary. Once your agility is full you very rarely even need a vehicle. This is the 
 biggest difference from GTA. THE DRIVING DOESN'T MATTER. It is kind of like GTA meets Incredible 
 Hulk Ultimate-which is a good thing. There is also a problem with using stealth. I like games with 
 missions that have sneak attacks. Thus far in the game there isn't enough of that. I would say 
 though that Crackdown is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I've heard loads of people say 'rent it don't buy' 'you'll get tired of it in the end' but i haven't! 
 It may not be the most interesting games, i know ones that can top it, but nevertheless it's brilliant! 
 The best bit is when you jump really high and play truck football (wait for a truck to come and 
 boot it into the distance) ! You'll try this game after you've read my review on the game because 
 you're all going to buy it lol! No really buy it! At the moment it's underrated, i don't usually 
 contridict Gamespot' review rating but this time you guys have got it wrong! Don't rent it because 
 then you'll be wasting 4 pounds that could go towards the price of the game becuase you're gonna 
 buy it after you rent it! so take my advice and BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drlove06472
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  In Crackdown you play as a super cop and you must clean the city of 3 big gangs. As you may heard 
 this game has no story. There are 21 one mob bosses to kill in the game. During the game your driving, 
 shooting, explosives, agility and strength enhances when you kill a gang member or collect an orb. 
 In the game there are two types of orbs to collect. There are 300 hidden orbs and 500 agility orbs. 
 Find the hidden orbs is some what hard, there is a map online show where to look. But the agility 
 are easy until you get to the end, you need to look everywhere for them and there is no good maps 
 online for them. After you kill all 21 bosses there is really not that much to do, 12 rooftop races 
 and 14 road races. The graphs are the best I have ever seen in a game. You can go to the top of 
 the highest building and see for miles. Not once in the game I have any lagging or fame rate drops.
 
  The sound is ok in some places, the explosions and gunfire and such that you'd expect from the 
 typical action game. The announcer is broken, I could be under ground and he would say I can see 
 my house from here. The announcer is there to help you with the game with tips here and there 
 but keeps repeating them over and over. There is music when you are in a car, its ok but I wont 
 talk about that because Im not in to music very much.
  Crackdown has big problems like not having a story or not that much to do but with its great graphs 
 and unique game play makes it fun to play. This game is good to rent or when everyone trades their 
 copy at Gamestop or EB after the halo 3 beta (Yes that right halo 3 beta but the chance of you 
 getting one now is zero) is over buy it there. This is a game to play but to keep well that your 
 chose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvin950
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  It is very easy and short and lacks a story. Other then that, it is a pretty good game. Skill progression 
 is fast and the driving skill is point less. The game can be beaten with a couple of nades. If 
 u get a 4 star explosive rating, a couple of nades and u can beat the game. I suggest u rent it 
 and not buy it. I beat it and all i do know is throw cars and people. The sounds is meduim and 
 the music is not very good. The graphics are cartoonish and the game play is ok. The vaule is very 
 low casue u can beat it in a couple of hours. No matter if u suck at gamming, this game should 
 be a breeze. The cars handle very weird. The only cars that handle good are some ganster cars and 
 agenncy vechiles. The cop car woulld be ur main trasport cause its the nearst vechile at hand since 
 the civiy cars suck. You can actually beat the game with out touching the driving skill. There 
 is no story to this game. But the ending would leave u shoked. One good thing about this game is 
 that there are different skins to choose from. The one worst thing is that when u die, u just respaw. 
 This offers no callenge. There is a limite weapon selection and you are limited to nades (grenades) . 
 there are few kinds of nades avalible. agility orbs will be useless once you have maxed ur agility 
 level. Unless ur a achiement hound. Over all, this game has some highs but it lacks some things. 
 Its still pretty good and it will keep u busy for a while but after u beat it, u will prabably 
 want to throw it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is the bomb really its a great game which anyone who likes to shoot, jump off insanely 
 tall buildings, drive cars and of course kill. The games takes place in a future city full of gangs 
 which you must kill using your powerful and futureistic weaponary. Lots of things to do like climb 
 the tallest building in the game and then of course jump off and kill yourself. You could also 
 jump 50 feet buildings and then throw bombs off of them. You could pick up a truck with a loaded 
 nuke and then throw it at some enemys or people. You could drive cars that change when you get 
 in them. There pretty much nothing bad about the game except it is lacking more weapons, cars and 
 a better soundtrack not techno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  The game that comes with the Halo 3 beta. Crackdown should be given more credit than that. After 
 all, it atleast it tried some things new in the sandbox genre unlike some other games (Saints Row) .
 
  
  This game features a big city were you have to take down three different gangs. What sets this 
 game apart from others like it is the platforming elements and the ability to upgrade your character. 
 The graphics have a very unique look. Cel shading has always been a cool thing to use in videogames, 
 but it all depends on the content of the game, and I think it fits well here. The one thing this 
 game that truly amazes me is the draw distance. You can climb really high buildings and still be 
 able to see everything. The music is average. To put it one way, I can't remember one song. The 
 story, well there is no story really. The game just centers around you blowing everything up. The 
 game is pretty short. Upgrading your character is fairly simple and each boss for each gang is 
 not much tougher then the average thug. The game does feature online co-op which adds a little 
 to the value. Overall this is a fun game, but very short. Its not like GTA games, with tons of 
 activities. Once the story is beaten, there is really not much else to do. Leveling up your character 
 is simple and fast. This is a great rental and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strezz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  For me Crackdown was to be the king of the free-roaming genre... Instead i find myself with a feeling 
 of being let down by the developer..
  
  The whole game had s much good going for it, that it just had to blow the sceptic's out of the 
 sky, i mean: Free roaming, cars that changes, the vertical possibility, and the gene modified agents... 
 What could go wrong?
  
  Well, for starters, the whole game was WAY to short! i cleared the game in about 10 hours and only 
 needed to get my shooting skill's at max, and find the hidden orbs... Come on; NEVER have af sandbox 
 game been this short!
  The graphics is another thing.. Even though the whole cell shaded thing have been done a million 
 times over, the developer (Real time worlds) really went for a cartoony look, but does that mean 
 that the texturess have to be flat, and downright boring? Well, not in my book...
  
  Truth be told: I really wanted this game to be huge, full of missions, and a GTA killer, which 
 the world had never seen the likes of before... Instead, i got was a small game, with nice explosions, 
 but not much to do...
  
  If i where to suggest a game in the free roaming genre, i would suggest Saints Row, or wait for 
 thee new GTA game comming up!
  
  CHeers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirkFaulkner
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  If your the sort of gamer looking for a pick up and play game, then this is for you? Within 30 
 minutes you will have mastered this, which can be a good thing because it lets you get strait in 
 to the fun and action. Visually its stunning the game world is of a good size and the fact that 
 you can get as high as you want the rooftops gives the game added dimensions and approaches. And 
 with player developments constantly going up you can go back to where you have been and find more 
 hidden orbs. But its just to short and easy!! It only took me a total of about 6-7 hours to complete 
 the campaign mode and im no top gamer. And while your doing this you hit most of the other objectives 
 in the game, The time trial street and roof top races ad a little something but seem a little out 
 of place and you can max oyt your character with out worrying to much about them. Bit like i said 
 its great fun!. i haven't played on line with the co-op mode but with the likes of C. O. D i cant 
 see it being a big player, more of a way of building up your gamer points. So you might want to 
 pop down to the Video Rental and get this out for a few night and you should get most of it done 
 a, good few 100 gamer points, more if ya on-line. and save ya self &pound;40. But you will have 
 fun either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was a game I was a bit skeptical of at first. It didnt look all that great when I first 
 saw it. The first thing I said was not another Grand Theft Auto knock off, boy was I wrong. 
 The game is far different from Grand Theft Auto. Actually the only thing it has in common is the 
 sandbox setting. You play as an agent that works for the Agency in an attempt to reclaim Pacific 
 City from rival gangs that fight for power and control. Unlike Saints Row, (a game that tried a 
 little too hard to be GTA) , it actually has some things that keep you playing and wanting more. 
 It has a leveling up system much like the ones in RPGs. You have five core skills that you work 
 to upgrade throughout the game. The five skills are; agility, driving, strength, firearms, and 
 explosives. You gain experience in these areas by doing various things like collecting orbs or 
 killing gang members. Each skill has its own way of gaining experience. Each skill area has a total 
 of four levels you can upgrade to. With each passing level brings something new to the table. For 
 instance, leveling up to 4 in strength gives you the ability to pick up objects weighing over ten 
 tons! Pretty cool! So with that being said I would like to break the review down into sections.
 
  
  Graphics: I enjoyed the graphics in Crackdown. They are nice looking with a hint of cell shading. 
 Which adds a nice touch to the game. The city looks great especially from the rooftops. The cars 
 also look great and even though you wont use them that much, (because running 40 miles per hour 
 and jumping 30 feet into the air is just too damn fun) , they give a nice sense of what the city 
 is like. The only real complaint I have on the graphics is the character models for all the non 
 playable characters (NPCs) . They get redundant and seen to just wash into each other. Overall I 
 thought the graphics were refreshing although not very unique. Sound: For the most part the sound 
 is good. The gun fire sounds good and the explosions are awesome. However the voice acting for 
 the NPCs is just atrocious. They say the same things over and over and over again. To the point 
 you just want to yell ENOUGH ALREADY with guns blazing. Which is OK in this game. That doesnt 
 take too much away from the sound as a whole, because the rest is very good.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Crackdown is very addicting. Jumping 30 feet straight into the air is 
 just hella fun. The core shooting mechanics are not incredibly interesting but necessary for how 
 fast you are moving. Other than that the game does have some more faults but the amount of fun 
 you will have playing it distracts you from them.
  
  Value: The main story sets you up to take down three rival gangs that control Pacific City. The 
 gangs are; Los Muertos, Volk, and Shai-Gen. Each gang has seven gang bosses including the head 
 boss. You have to locate each one and take them out in any order you choose. This may seem like 
 a lot of work but you can actually finish them all off in around seven hours. This would mean terrible 
 value if that was it, but its not. The game has a bunch of side objectives like races and stunt 
 rings to keep you busy after the main campaign. There is also the achievement factor. Gotta get 
 them points! There is also a Co - Op function that lets you play with a friend over Xbox Live and 
 do anything you want. Some downloadable content over Xbox Live is scheduled soon so that could 
 be interesting as well. Oh yeah, one more thing, specially marked copies of Crackdown come with 
 an invitation to the highly anticipated Halo3 Beta!! Im sure you already knew that and Im sure 
 some of you got the game for that reason alone. So that gives the game a lot more value than a 
 standard seven hour game.
  
  Overall I thought this game was a great surprise. It was a lot better than I anticipated and is 
 certainly a lot more than The Halo3 Beta with Crackdown. This is an excellent choice for anyone 
 that wants a fun game that they can enjoy until the heavy hitters come in May. I recommend Crackdown 
 to anyone who likes sandbox games or fun games in general.
  
  
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spykiller
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  First of all buy this game because you will need lots of time to finish it. Second , if you want 
 to get yourself a super-hero and win easily the boss get some agility. Third , the best part of 
 this game is the explosions , you can do huge explosions with some cars and grenades launchers. 
 And last the funniest part of the game the Multiplayer. With the Multiplayer you can play with your 
 friends for hours without watching the hours.
  If you don't want to be a goodie-goodie just kill some cops but remmeber if you kill civilians 
 or cops your skills will decrease and you will have to increase them again.
  A tip for the Multiplayer games go to the Internet and watch some movies to have more fun.
  The 
 game could have more skills (don't ask which) and more isles.
  But in the end it's a really great game came out of nowhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariocardoso
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I think Crackdown is a very good game... for me it's like a gta game but now we're the police and 
 we fight the gangster's.
  In spite of the bad driving control Crackdown has a good game-play.
  I also think the orbs system 
 was very well choose. It has a logical sense, we need to gain experience to catch the most difficult's 
 one.
  I also like the aiming system and I think is very useful, because you can choose where you want 
 to shoot, in the leg, arms, body or even in the head, you only need to wait until the aiming is 
 complete.
  I haven't finished the game yet but i'm in a good way to finish it, and i'm not disappointed with 
 the game. I recommend it to everyone who likes GTA types of games. (GTA is my favourite game) .
 
  Keep playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  When I started playing Crackdown I couldn't get over how I felt like I had played this game before. 
 Jumping to amazing heights, climbing buildings, completing objectives scattered around a city, 
 etc... It was then that I realized that I had played the game before on my xbox, but I didn't drive 
 or wield guns. Also, I was green (or grey if you unlocked the skin) and taking down buildings. Now 
 this isn't a bad thing since it was actually kind of fun to jump around, throw things and shoot 
 to your hearts content. But the game was short if you played straight through without side quests 
 and the story line rather non-existent. Basically the developers just needed a story that would 
 allow you to go around and kill bad guys.
  
  I keep seeing comparisons to GTA which I think is a real dishonor to this game on several fronts. 
 One, GTA has a story and a basic linear path to an ending. While Crackdown does too, finishing 
 the game can be done in different ways while in GTA, you have to follow the story line in a linear 
 set path to reach the end. Yes, you can do side quests in GTA without touching the main story, 
 but if you want to reach the end you have to go in a linear plot line. Two, GTA has some very colorful 
 characters that you interact with. Crackdown only has the announcer guy who quickly becomes annoying 
 after he tells you for the 20th time that no one has reached the heights that you have when you 
 are standing on a 2 story building. The lack of characters kind of leaves you disconnected from 
 the agent that you are since you have no personal interactions to kind of gauge your own character 
 or even build one.
  
  Visually the game is done pretty well with a feel to a graphic novel design. I was also impressed 
 with the draw distance which went out pretty far.
  
  The controls were also pretty responsive but the building climbing sequences I felt were not as 
 responsive as I would have liked. Sometimes when trying to hang from a ledge it was a test in patients 
 and woe to you if you missed the ledge. More woe if you fell 30 stories and had to start all over 
 again.
  
  Another aspect of the game was driving. A little word of advice on the driving. If you want a real 
 challenge (I mean practically impossible) try completing the driving challenges without an agency 
 car. There are a few I can recall (but don't remember the name of the race) that would be impossible 
 to complete.
  
  Oh, one more note. Once you've killed a bad guy you can go back and do a time trial to see how 
 long it takes you to kill them again. Nice addition but not overly necessary unless you need to 
 unlock some achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  You have no story, you have no life. Protect and serve has been your motto since you remembered 
 as a clone of somebody else. You heard of reports of clones before you died in action, and have 
 done very life threatening jobs that make the authorities give the jobs. You accept anything, and 
 nobody can stop you. With the four gangs still living in the vice of the city, it is up to you 
 to get out of that Supply Point right now and clean up the city that was once cleanse from the 
 former union of protection. Crackdown is just one of those lesser versions of the famous Grand 
 Theft Auto series with an exception that it was created by the makers. Honestly, Crackdown does 
 not crack any new in this new busting the balls of the king of killing innocent people game type. 
 With this game diving into the promotion of the Halo 3 beta, there is a little deal that can be 
 made with this bargain. Since then, Crackdown shouldn't be bought, but good for renting and for 
 the die hard fans of those GTA games.
  
  The story won't live, and will not appreciate anyone except for six graders. Remember that game 
 along time ago, like in the stone age, Mercenaries? Exactly like that, but the player can't pick 
 which he or she wants to do. The player has to be the Peacemakers, which really don't make sense 
 because they make peace action by using suicidal agents that will accept any contract. The Peacemakers 
 are basically the police force for Pacific City, without the part where cops die, the stay dead. 
 These Peacemakers have agents cloned, so if they die they can respawn with same data memory and 
 skills before. It's kinda cool, but dumb in the gameplay part. Anyways, there is four gangs running 
 around the oceanic city, and it is up to you to clean up the city. You will have this manly-voice 
 voice that will mostly tell you what to do in the game, but he really has no point but give up 
 some useless clues. The gameplay is basically what the player would expect from the makers of Grand 
 Theft Auto. You got the same auto target L button action, the same firing mechanic, but you got 
 the awesome A button that will preform really high jumps and will allow it to level up. Like San 
 Andreas, the player can level up, by doing Driving, Beating, Shooting, Jumping, or Throwing Grenades. 
 A great way for a game, but we all played it way long ago, and the story ain't going to win any 
 prizes. There will be some new races, or challenges available in the game, like Agility Courses, 
 Driving Races, or other challenges that will boost up the skills provided. The driving portion 
 will allow the player to morph their super cars into batmobiles (Lv. 4) or have their jumping up 
 to thirty feet into the air. It's all great, until you get them all up.
  
  One word for the graphics... explosions. Hearing the ringing, ear shattering slash teeth chomping 
 explosions make every once of it quite worth it. After that, it just looks like a game that almost 
 just got stepped out of the original Xbox and got a little boost upgrade. Supposedly I might be 
 using this a hyperbole, but the game really shows some good details in some matter of perspective. 
 Character models look a little less Xbox graphics, which is not a very good comment, and the city 
 model looks superb, but the one thing that makes it beautiful is seeing the ocean surrounding the 
 city of Paradise. After that, Crackdown is just an average looking game.
  
  The sound production is mighty quite handy dandy ambidextrous good? The music is flat out... retarded. 
 Since the game is supposed to be in the future, you guess it might be hard right? Well it must 
 be, because that soundtrack is just not the **** if you asked. The sound of the explosions are 
 mighty fine, but can also get very repetitive since you can basically hear it over and over again. 
 No really good voice acting, and only the manly-voiced voice is the only actor of the game. Disappointing 
 from the makers of the GTA homeboys, but they can't make a game where a cop does not have no personal 
 background and expect to make a story out of it. The story just adulterated the game, and it is 
 very, very displeasing to hear from them.
  
  At the end of the day with Crackdown, the game is very good, but will need some elements to bring 
 back the perspective up a bit. With a bad storyline, and soundtrack, Crackdown misses the bargain 
 for a game to be bought and not rented. Another horrible part is when the player beats the game, 
 you can't go back! Only fight gang leaders and such at your level, but what's the point since the 
 level up system is just not that superb . You have to create profiles (Xbox 360 profiles) to start 
 over, and who wants to do all the achievements again? Good game, but not superb enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: al_110
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best 360 games I have played yet. It has every thing rolled into one: shooting, 
 explosions, driving, leaping off tall buildings and flying though the air. The graphics were great 
 and the game play was very very addictive. The game was a little short but over all it was amazing. 
 Out of the whole game I'd have to say that my favorite weapon was the rocket launcher. Once I got 
 the rocket launcher I started blowing up everything. It was so fun!!!! I just love blowing up stuff. 
 Specially when I got my explosive skill all the way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyet00th
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Run, jump, shoot, climb, repeat. This game is very fun for the first hour you play it, and then 
 you realize that you don't see or do anything new for the rest of the game. After a few hours of 
 play, your hero gets super strength and super skills, and the game gets super boring. It's pretty 
 hard to die once you've powered up, and the enemies don't seem to get any tougher. You have 28 
 or 29 gang leaders to kill, and then it's game over. The game offers hints that you can sneak up 
 hidden paths, or snipe the enemies from a distance, but you can easily clear each boss hideout 
 just by running and gunning.
  
  It's not very much fun to drive the cars, since you usually get in crashes which take away your 
 skill points, Travelling from place to place is more satisfying by leaping from rooftop to rooftop. 
 Now that I think about it, getting the Achievements in this game for particular tasks is probably 
 the most fun to be had. Otherwise, it's a quick game, and I would sell it back right away if I 
 didn't want the Halo 3 demo!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider4Life81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game that will probably get alot of attention because of its Halo 3 beta but this 
 game has alot of showing. Its gameplay will be loved from all GTA fans as it resembles perfectly 
 but adds more gameplay with its superpowers. The graphics are one of the best for cellshading and 
 doesnt affect much. The sound of the lands you do when you make a high jump are great and the gun 
 fire is perfect. The Value of this game is automatically a 10 for giving a very good game with 
 the Hal0 3 beta. Thats is my reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightember1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  i like this game alot, but if you want a story then look elswhere. basicly they start you off with 
 a back story, then set you off with the instructions to kill all 21 gang bosses. thats all... so 
 you go out and collect your xp and kill whatever gang members you find and then the boss. thats 
 all there really is to it. when that gets boring though you can always go online and hook up with 
 a buddy or some random guy and either 1) he/she and you can take on the gangs together. or 2) you 
 guys can have city wide killing sprees and duels. or what ever else you come up with. i like to 
 kill my frnds when there trying to do mission just to annoy them lol. i like this game and have 
 fun with jumping all over buildings and destroying stuff. well thats really all there is to it 
 and hope this helps ya decide if you want the game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  In Crackdown you are a super-cop... You can high jack cars (mmm... sounds like GTA) but it is really 
 fun. Here is my return to the review boards!
  
  Gameplay: The best part of the game is probaly the abilty to run around and do anything. When you 
 shoot people your firearms go up. Same for expolisives, driving and strength if u use something 
 to enforce the law it goes but can go down for killing cops and inncoent people. To gain agilty 
 you must find orbs and complete races (same for driving except for the orb part) . The gang bosses 
 are 2 easy i've been killed by just 2 out of 21. 9 out of 10 for gameplay
  
  Graphics: These are even like GTA except better but i think they could have been a little BETTER!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 But pretty good. Not much too say.
  
  8 out of 10 for graphics
  
  Sound: The music is okay. The voices overs are VERY GOOD!!!!!!!!! So if you like voice overs then 
 u'll like this game the gang members could talk more tho.
  
  8 out of 10 for sounds
  
  Overall this is a good game but I would rent it first like i did if u like then buy it.
  
  
 8.0 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  i love this game! i cant get enough of it. but i will stop every now and then. i am a pro at this 
 game. the graphics to me were very good. the gameplay was perfect. the sounds were perfecto. this game 
 was so worth the 60$. like i said it is a addictive game. to learn how to play the game it takes 
 at the least 5 mins. the diffuculty is just perfect. i call it more then amazing but i dont know 
 how to put it. i spend 15 hours playing. but i take brakes so i can eat and stuff. i also did it 
 for the halo 3 beta. which will be starting very soon. rumor is it starts around easter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack-The-Ripped
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Everybody has said this game is awsome, and well... it is. Crackdown is one of the better GTA like 
 games i've played for the 360. The first level is preaty easy. But when you make it to the 2 later 
 gangs it gets a bit harder. The only major downfall of this game it's not that smart at times. 
 You'll end up hitting somthing that you didn't even see and end up blowing your self up. The only 
 frustrating moments you'll get from this game is when you kill yourself accidently, or when the 
 gang members are juggling you with rockets. This game is fun, it's basicly the same game online, 
 except somones helping you. This game is not a must own, but it's definitly nice to have and play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  i had huuuuuuge hopes for crackdown, along the lines of gta + with superpowers and cell graphics 
 ( my weakness ) but all in all this is a thoroughly disappointing game.
  
  il start with the halo 3 beta, not everyone gets it and im willing to bet this game sold at least 
 twice what it would of without the beta
  
  secondly the whole superpowers thing, great fun well for a while yes i suppose it is, lifting trucks 
 and throwing them mid jump into a crowd of gangbanger is quite fun BUT in the 4 days ive had the 
 game ive levelled up to max, on all skills just by playing the game for say 16 hours.
  
  the missions well theyre boring, essentially go here, find a boss then kill em, and repeat 21 times 
 and youve completed the game. its just really dull the vehicles are boring and uninspoired , you 
 dont run around looking for a car and look at the crowd of motors and think il have this one over 
 that one because theyre all crap. the agency cars are cool but you have to go all the way back 
 to get em.
  
  achievements are fun but the hardest was climbing the agency tower and jumping off, which took 
 about an hour once id completed the game. all said and done maybes im to much of a gaming whiz 
 and finished the game to quick but i doubt it its just a poor game that mainly sold on the back 
 of the beta. i rented it so im thankfull i did as if id bought it i would of been very annoyed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Forget about the Grand Theft Auto series for a minute. Developer Realtime Worlds may have been 
 influenced by that series heavily, but they set out to create their own brand of free-roaming action. 
 Crackdown is as ever brilliant and influential as Grand Theft Auto was when it was first released. 
 The sheer amount of customization, abilities, and freedom will have you hooked for a very long 
 time.
  
  The developers at Crackdown hate when their game is being compared to GTA, and rightfully so. It 
 is far from anything players have done in the series thus far. What makes Crackdown such an interesting 
 and fresh change from the genre is that players will take on the role of a genetically altered 
 law enforcement agent, breaking away from the norm of Mafioso and crime infested scenarios. That 
 isnt to say the game is free of violence, as there is still plenty of mayhem to undertake and 
 lots of angry people who need to learn their lessons. Crackdown is set up into four islands, one 
 for your agencys base with the remaining three left for the individual gangs. Every island is 
 open for exploration from the start, but some islands may need more improved attributes in order 
 to successfully commence attacking. Your goal for the game is to seek out and kill all 21-crime 
 lords scattered throughout Pacific City.
  
  A grueling task indeed, and it is by no means an easy feat to accomplish. Some bosses are atop 
 massive skyscrapers, deep within caves, or surrounded by dozens of gun-toting henchmen. The order 
 in which you dispose of them, or the matter in which you do is entirely up to you, leaving you 
 with the ability to choose your own path. As a genetically altered agent, you already have minor 
 superpower abilities, such as super strength, fast speed, and increased reflexes. At the start 
 of the game your skills will be more powerful than anyone in the town, but they can be improved 
 to nearly four times the normal which makes you one of the most dominant forces in the entire city. 
 While the ability to overpower your enemies from the start might seem like an unfair advantage, 
 enemies will still provide plenty of hard-to-get scenarios. They are relentless and unforgiving, 
 constantly hitting you as you are knocked down and double-teaming you in firefights. Your only 
 option is to improve your overall skills in order to become better accustomed to the goals at hand, 
 which is to rid Pacific City of crime once and for all. There is also several supply points, which 
 when captured offer you a quick means of transport and ammunition, located around the city. There 
 are numerous supply points on every island so it is detrimental to try and capture each one, since 
 some missions may have you venturing off far away from the main city, and ammunition is the most 
 important thing you need.
  
  Your character has a total of five abilities that can be enhanced throughout the course of the 
 game; Ammunition for better precision targeting, explosives for a bigger blast radius, agility 
 for improved speed and jumping, driving for enhanced steering and car control, and firepower for 
 an advantage in firefights. Each of these five skills can be improved five times each in the game, 
 some of which may take longer to max out than others. In order to get experience points to improve 
 your skills, you must eliminate the enemies in any way you seem fit. Shooting enemies with your 
 gun improves firepower, running them over with a car improves driving, and so on. While killing 
 enemies can improve all of the skills for the most part, collecting agility orbs scattered around 
 the entire city can mostly only enhance agility. These green orbs help you in your overall endurance, 
 as well as how high you can jump (a total of over 50 feet at max) , and even at how fast you can 
 run.
  
  That is the beauty of Crackdown. There literally is no mission structure or storyline so you can 
 basically do anything you want at any given time. If you feel bored of taking down crime lord after 
 crime lord than you can simply go on an orb finding spree, or hop in a car and tear up the roads 
 and do special stunts from the top of buildings. The amount of freedom in Crackdown is astonishing, 
 and there will never be a moment in the game where you will be bored or confused of what to do 
 next as there is always something to please even the most anxious of gamers. What makes exploration 
 so much fun is how visually stunning the game looks. Crackdown went for an unusual gritty-noir 
 style, which helps represent the feeling the game is trying to exhibit. The styling is fitting 
 for the cops-and-robbers style of gameplay, and everything is beautifully designed and illustrated. 
 Character models for the agency cops are some of the best seen, with facial models, clothing, and 
 body structure all evolving as the agent evolves over time. By the end of the game, some agents 
 look like robots with huge sets of armor.
  
  No two buildings look alike either, so you will never get bored when you venture into a building 
 searching for an enemy, or hopping atop rooftops to your next destination. Even vehicles and weapons 
 all look impressive, and like the character models, they advance over time along with the agent. 
 Unfortunately though, some enemies look alike and many of the interior structures of the buildings 
 look all too familiar with simple staircase to show the paths to take. Simpleness aside, Crackdown 
 will get you lost on numerous occasions. Bosses arent depicted on screen until you are in relative 
 distance to them. Realtime Worlds probably did this intentionally so players make full use of the 
 city and dont spend most of their time inclined to certain parts of the islands or supply points. 
 Needless to say, it does feel kind of mean to have us running around constantly just so we can 
 find the new boss to take down. Hours upon hours of free roaming will no doubt cause irritation 
 before you finally see your intended target. But the ensuing boss battles will have you forgetting 
 about the mindless wandering.
  
  Unlike past GTA games, Crackdown makes use of an excellent new co-op feature, which lets two players 
 tackle the entire single player campaign together. You can even take out separate bosses on separate 
 islands at the same time, and if you ever want to know the location of your partner you can simply 
 look at the HUB to see his exact location. He is even displayed on screen as a little marker pointing 
 at his general direction. While Realtime Worlds states that the co-op has an instant drop-in feature 
 that is highly the case. Players must coordinate beforehand and start the games from the main menu. 
 It gets annoying sometimes to have to exit your current game, start a new one, wait for your friend 
 to join, and restart whatever it is you were just doing. While the co-op is definitely a nice change 
 to the genre and something that makes Crackdown stand out, it could have been handled a lot better.
 
  
  Overall, Crackdown is as fun and addicting as the GTA games that came before it. With the ability 
 to enhance your characters growth and skills, as well as have the chance to enjoy co-op with a 
 friend, Crackdown is a true masterpiece in a genre that has long been dominated by those folks 
 at Rockstar. Once you start soaring over rooftops you will not want to put the controller down, 
 as Crackdown will have you hooked for a very long time. Plus it has free entry into the Halo 3 
 beta, which is a nice aftertouch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game ive always been on the fence about, seemed cool but didnt really have that 
 something that grabbed my interest........ until i played it and had some fun doing it along the 
 way. Crackdown is one of those, oh what do you call them these days.... um... sandbox games or something. 
 Its very straight forward and simple, you are a genetically made monster of a cop with super human 
 abilites (like insane super jumping, incredible strength, and expertise in firearms) and your mission 
 is to kill gang members........ um.... thats it..... you kill game members..... no really, seriously 
 THATS IT. Unfortunately there in lies the problem, NOTHING ELSE TO DO. The GTA series has been 
 made famous for allowing you to do a TON of things and side-missions none of which are in this 
 game, you level up and kill gang members...... and cause MASSIVE amounts of carnage which is fun 
 when your all the way leveled up. Graphically its nothing really amzing. It looks kinda basic with 
 a kinda cel-shaded-esque look to it that kinda grows on you over time. The levels are nice and 
 sharp but your enemies and other pedestrians look like crap, sporting very little detail and almost 
 no AI what so ever (the AI had to have been taken straight from a GTA game, people walk aimlessly 
 and enemies just shoot at you relentlessly) . The game sounds good enough, machine gun fire and 
 cars exploding boom through your speakers with nice highs and loads of bass. The controls are pretty 
 spot on, getting your goliath to go where you want is easy whether it be jumping from building 
 to building (a la spider man) or scaling the tallest buildings in the city its fairly easy to pick 
 up and play. Over all its a decent game that can be kind of addictive. You will want to level up 
 your character because once you do it makes the game loads more fun. Rent it definately but think 
 about it before you plunk down the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown was not a game I was biting my nails in anticipation over ... that is ... until I played 
 the demo. I don't think it was the first time I played the demo, though. At first, I thought it 
 was going to be an attempt to mimic GTA or something like that. It wasn't until I discovered the 
 upgradeable superhuman abilities in the game that I found myself wanting to play more and more. 
 So without delay, the breakdown of the good, the bad, and the ugly.
  
  The Good
  
  - Ever imagine being able to jump from rooftop to rooftop, jumping so high sometimes that you worry 
 about how hard the landing will be? Well this game allows you to do that, and in an urban setting 
 filled with different sized buildings.
  
  - Aside from being able to jump high, you can also improve your strength to a point where you can 
 kick a car like it was a tin can. You can eventually work your character's strength levels to a 
 point where you can pick up a big rig and toss it easily into other cars or you can pick up a sedan 
 and hold it overhead while you hop from rooftop to rooftop.
  
  - The explosions in the game are well done. You can really feel the power of them with the rumble 
 and the animation. (Hey Sony, rumble is NOT a thing of the past, btw)
  
  - The graphics are very impressive. It's a combination of 2D and 3D worlds, in a way. The outlines 
 of the characters and buildings are highlighted in a way that makes it seem like a comic book, 
 but the reality factor is still high in terms of the physics (nevermind the superhuman abilities) .
 
  
  - The Co-op multi-player is an awesome additive. It's one thing that I liked a lot about Gears 
 of War and I'm hoping to see as an option in future games as well.
  
  The Bad
  
  - There's not much structure to the storyline of the game. All you get it a digital dossier of 
 some sort that pops up when you're in the area of a boss . Just a lot of random activity in the 
 game overall.
  
  - There's not much reward for finding the secret orbs in the game. If you collect all however many 
 hundred of them, you get ... ready? ... 50 gamerscore points! Woo hoo! *rolls eyes*
  
  - The driving in the game is rather hard to control even with the driving upgrades. To the driving 
 aspect's credit, though, I think being able to run so fast and jump from rooftop to rooftop makes 
 up for that.
  
  - Enemies appear randomly out of thin air sometimes as well as vehicles. Incredibly busy sidewalks, 
 horribly empty roads. It's odd, because if you jump on what looks like a busy freeway cars will 
 often disappear from that freeway when you jump on it.
  
  The Ugly
  
  - Going back and doing the time trials, I realized that it can take you under 30 seconds to beat 
 the bosses in certain areas that are surrounded by henchmen or what not. It would have been cool 
 to have had rooftop chases with an enemy that had similar skills, but they just stand there and 
 get killed ... easily.
  
  They did a good job on this game overall. It surprised me for sure and brought one of the more 
 enjoyable experiences I've had with the 360 so far. May be a renter, but I've had mine out from 
 Gamefly for over a month, so .... Plus! You can beta test Halo 3 if you get a specially marked 
 package of Crackdown, so I think it might be worth a buy then.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Realtime worlds, founded by one of the original GTA developers, has come out with a sandbox style 
 3rd person action game. But unlike any other sandbox games you would know of, Crackdown puts you 
 in the shoes of an agent, a super cop sent to Pacific city to clean up the filth of the town. The 
 3 rival gangs of Pacific city are the Los Muertos, the Volk and Shang-gen. The peace keepers of 
 the city can't handle these powerful gangsters so as an agent it's your job.
  
  Lets start with gameplay. The most interesting part of this game is the fact that you can jump 
 from roof top to roof top and scale a building like you were king kong. It can be very fun and 
 you might spend most of your time just doing that rahter than going after criminal bosses. One 
 thing about bosses though is it can get repetitive seeking out and killing a boss that felt like 
 the last boss. You can kill bosses any order that you want but it isn't exciting. This game revolves 
 around an experience gaining system where you will level up particular attributes as you use them 
 more to defeat gangs. There's agility, explosives, fire arms, driving and strength. Say you shoot 
 and anemy and he dies the experience orbs you collect from him will add to your fire arms skills. 
 But you will definatley want to level up your stength. Doing so will allow you to pick up heavier 
 objects like cars and throwing them further. There's nothing like throwing a car into a group of 
 gangsters or round house kicking them.
  
  Of couse this experience system isn't all positive. If you run over civilians with a vehicle you 
 will lose driving experience and same will go for if you shoot them then you will lose fire arm 
 skills etc. You really can't help killing civilians because they are everywhere and in large numbers 
 and the fact that driving in the game isn't great.
  
  The graphics in Crackdown are cel-shaded and it's probably the best I've seen in a game. One of 
 the best things about this game visually is the explosions. Pile a bunch of cars together and fire 
 a rocket into it and the explosion is awesome with the cars flying so high into the air. The cars 
 look cool and the agency super car when you level up your driving skills looks mad. There are multiple 
 agents from the start menu you can choose from and as you level up and get stronger the agent's 
 appearance changes. And you're not stuck with choosing one agent. Every time you quit and go back 
 into the game you have the option to change agent. Some of the agents look cool while others not 
 so.
  
  Sound wise the game is alright but I wish they had a better soundtrack. It seems to be all fast 
 paced dance music with some songs a bit different so really the music doesn't appeal to me. The 
 narrator of the game which sounds like your boss can get really annoying also.
  
  This game can last you a week if you do things other than track the next boss. You can continue 
 to collect green orbs that level up your agility, there's 500 in the city or 300 hidden orbs to 
 collect. And with xbox live co-op so you can wreak havok on the city or on each other if that's 
 what you like to do. But with driving being less than impressive and music that seems to stick 
 to one genre, this game will appeal to gamers wanting a free roamer that's different to GTA. This 
 game can be loads of fun so if you're still sitting on the fence about it then definatley rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krois
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game, i just thought it was gonna be a decent GTA rip off. BUT... HUGE BUT: This 
 game is crazy fun. As soon as I started kicking guys halfway across the city and tossing cars around, 
 I suddenly realized that this game was WAY better than I expected it to be. Jumping accross all 
 the rooftops is crazy addictive and satisfying. Don't know what more to say except that it's just 
 a crazy satisfying, great looking, super super fun game. At the very least, rent it and check it 
 out. I'm hooked on Crackdown and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Crackdown tried to be innovative, but unfortunately it is not. You can't blame them for trying. Crackdown 
 turned out to be GTA with super powers, which is the best way to describe it.
  The graphics in this game are good, but could have been the same on X-Box.
  The soundtrack for 
 this game sucks. You get repetitive voice overs, and alright sounding guns.
  The gameplay can be addicting, but it is nothing to just rave about. All you do is fight crime, 
 find orbs, and constantly find gang bosses. The game is also pretty short. There is X-Box Live play 
 on it, but I havn't bothered to even try it.
  In the end this game is pretty good. That's it. Rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonicBlade_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is insanely additcting and quite simple to play. Now the concept of this game when you 
 think about it, is incredibly stupid. You are a cop with SUPERPOWERS and you kill three gangs, 
 killing more civilians then the games ever had. I do love this game but in the end it is pretty 
 repetitive and you end up basing all your activities on grinding up your skills. The boss fights 
 got me interested at the beginning, and i tried to cherish ech one but by the time I was halfway 
 through the Volk (gang Number 2) I was killing them as fast as possible just trying to get experience. 
 in the end the game is worth the money, IFyou have a friend to play with you constantly. Other 
 than that the single player portion was mostly based on getting as much experience as possible 
 as fast as I could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pupaluppa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is the highly anticipated game for the Xbox 360 video game system of 2007. For the most 
 part, it's an extremely addictive joyride through a completely interactive world. It's hard to 
 imagine that a game that features some free giveaway when you buy it could be so good (Advent Rising, 
 anyone?) , but Crackdown would be well worth your money even if it lacked the Halo 3 beta sign up 
 (which makes the package so much sweeter) . Gameplay:
  For the most part, Crackdown behaves like most other free-form sandbox crime games... with one exception: 
 lots of action. The Grand Theft Auto series is known for some great driving aspects mixed with 
 some superficial shooting. Crackdown turns this on its head and emphasizes mainly on the explosions, 
 shooting, and action and gives a fairly basic driving experience. It controls similiar to a 3rd-person 
 action game, for which it gets kudos points for making the XB360 controller feel like an extension 
 of your hand. The story mode (which is essentially the only mode in the game) can be played solo 
 or cooperatively via Xbox Live. In it, you're a supercop clone designed for one purpose: to CRACKDOWN 
 on crime. You're charged wtih the task of dismantling three crime gangs that plague the fictional 
 Pacific City: Los Muertos (a Mexican street gang) , The Volk (a Russian gang focused on recruiting 
 European immigrants) , and Shai Gen (a corrupt corporation that has complete control of one of the 
 city's islands) . You romp around this huge (and beautifully rendered) city blowing up cars, shooting 
 criminals in the head, picking up trucks and hurling them at your foes, and jumping 30+ feet in 
 the air. This is what makes Crackdown so innovative and addictive. You're not just a cop, realistically 
 running around and taking out bad guys in warehouses and high-speed car chases. You're a genetically-altered 
 superman with the ability to leap over buildings, pick up enormous loads throw them forty+ feet, 
 and can snipe heads off while jumping through the air. With this, you can also level up such abilities, 
 being able to collect experience from enemies killed in strength (the ability to pick up objects/kick/throw 
 them) , agility (the ability to run as fast as cars and jump 30 feet in the air) , marksman (the 
 ability to easily snipe enemies in the head and do more damage with firearms) , explosives (the 
 ability that increases the radius of your explosions and their damage) , and driving (the skill 
 that increases your adeptness at handling vehicles, and unlocks special upgrades for your 'Agency 
 Vehicles') . All in all, this superhero feeling makes it just more fun than your average gang warfare 
 game. As well as killing gang members, collecting the various and fun achievements, and doing the 
 superficial street/rooftop races, there are 500 agility orbs and 300 hidden orbs for you to find. 
 These are scattered throughout Pacific City: on tops of buildings, under buildings, on balconies, 
 tucked into corners, etc. These orbs will keep you lusting for more long after you beat the relatively 
 short campaign. That being said, the campaign IS short, but being able to turn crimes on afterwards, 
 and with the plethora of orbs/achievements to collect, this is easily shrugged off.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Crackdown are nothing fancy, but they ARE worth some definite merit. 
 The draw-distance of the environment is absolutely huge, and the framerate can still hold up strong. 
 There are some nice bump-mapped lighting effects and relatively high-models on cars/characters, 
 and all of this makes for a rather artistic game, even though it's not up to the caliber of, say, 
 Gears of War, or Half-Life 2 or the like. Sound:
  The sound in Crackdown is meh. There's no real music, except for the audi provided by the cars' 
 radios. These songs consist of rap, metal, alternative, etc. None of them are really anything amazing, 
 though a few (such as Si Senor ) can be very catchy. The voice-acting is extremely hammy, and sometimes 
 you want kill your guide. Overall, the audio is nothing fantastic, but not absolutely horrible 
 either.
  
  Value:
  Crackdown is a fantastic game, even with its minor flaws. It being part of a Halo 3 beta package 
 makes that so much better, not only because you get the freaking Halo 3 beta, but because it's 
 very refreshing discovering that the game is actually worth getting on its own. I honestly believe 
 that this game is better than the GTA series in gameplay, even though it's seriously lacking in 
 the story department, because huge-ass explosions, throwing cars, and jumping OVER buildings is 
 just so much better than realistic gang combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAJA_RAMEEZ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  clearly inspierd by (grand theft auto) (crackdown)
  is the new video game for xbox 360 that packs just enough mayhem, action and carnage to keep things
 
  interesting. its a 59.99$game with a suitably ludicu\rous
  stury where u play enhanced police officerwho must shoot, jump and drive throw relentless hordes 
 of bad-
  guys .
  there, s certainly alot of nonsense but u probably be too busy
  mowing down gang members in the streets of pacific city
  to notice.
  the coolest part of the 
 game are the enhanced abilities you, ll gain
  by collecting by the power, upscompoleting races and beting bosses.
  (crackdown) likely won, t pose 
 much challange for experienced gamers
  like me however. the default difficulty is called (hard) but blissfully simple
  is more like it. even 
 on the hardest setting called (*psychotic) these gangmembers are incredibly dumb as they are standing 
 around
  waiting to be picked off 1by1.
  they graphics are good if not awsome and the sound backup is also good
  but what the (crackdown) lack 
 is good artifical inteligence like the (gta)
  (crackdown ) when with action instead of story which keeps it still behind
  the (gta) but playing 
 it is fun specially on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozybear
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  We all tried out the demo. It was very new and unique, a new spin on GTA style (sandbox) games. 
 A lot of us were hesitant though to buy it b/c since it didn't have much of a story line, it might 
 get old fast. That however, isn't the case.
  
  Crackdown is an open world, sandbox, Gta type game. You basically start the game off as a super 
 cop of The Agency . Your main goal throughout the whole game is to beat each crime family (including 
 their generals and kingpins) . Thats it, thats the main mission of the game. Yes, that alone would 
 get boring but they put a good spin on it to make you wanting more.
  
  Whats new to this game is the inclusion of different skils and the ability to upgrade them. Driving, 
 Strength, Agility, Guns, Explosives can be upgraded to 4 stars by utilzing their talents. To increase 
 in strength, you got to fight a lot. To increase in driving, you have to kill enemies by using 
 a car. To increase in Agility, you have to go around on rooftops etc. and gain agility orbs. Once 
 you have full strength, you can pick up huge 18 wheelers and almost every interactive item in the 
 game, its amazing. The unique thing about the driving skill is that, with each star you gain for 
 it, your Agency Vehicles (super car, SUV, and truck cab) morph into a slightly greater car. If 
 you try out the free demo, you can get a better look at it.
  
  The difficulty of this game is relatively simple and for casual gamers could be beaten in just 
 a couple of days. The thing that keeps this game living on after its completion is the vast achievements 
 it includes. They are fun to do and are well worth the effort.
  
  Crackdown is a good game and is definitly a good filler for your sandbox needs. (can also come 
 with halo 3 beta) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Crackdown puts you in the role of a bio-engineered Agent who is unleashed into Pacific City to 
 put a stop to 3 major terrorist groups - the Volk, Los Muertos, and the Shai-Gen Corporation - 
 with the help of local law enforcers.
  
  Its a somewhat sandbox game, so you can run around the entire city if you felt like it, but there 
 are no side missions. You can shoot, collect enemy weapons like rocket launchers and powerful shotguns, 
 throw grenades such as cluster grenades or frags, jump, throw objects, drive, and more.
  
  The point of this game is to increase your abilities by killing terrorists in a variety of ways.. 
 by this I mean if you shoot a lot of gang members your firearm capabilities increase making aiming 
 faster and more accurate. If you enjoy blowing them up, your grenades will eventually be able to 
 explode to ridiculous proportions. If running enemies down in a car strikes your fancy, after awhile 
 you'll be able to have complete control of your car without any drifts, etc. You can also increase 
 your physical strength so you an pick up trucks and kill gang members with a single punch, or you 
 can increase your agility which makes you jump to building proportions. It was an entertaining 
 idea.
  
  A really cool idea for this game was the ability to play co-op online. What do I mean? Well, lets 
 say you are stuck fighting a member of the Volk and could really use some help. Have one of your 
 friends (or someone you know) pop in their copy of Crackdown, go on X-Live and join your game so 
 you can both slam that one enemy. Then from there, if you feel like it, you can both go on and 
 take down the remaining enemies and actually beat the entire game together. I loved it, but its 
 somewhat unbalanced. For example, you can have an overall 2 star agent, and you'll be playing with 
 a 4 star.. the 4 star will slaughter the enemies wile you're just trying to catch up. There are 
 these semi-side mission things to help increase your driving and agility abilities faster. Basically 
 they are just racing missions where you have to either drive through a checkpoint, or jump through 
 them. The driving ones obviously take place on the streets and off-road, as the agility ones require 
 you to jump from building to building. Meh.
  
  The graphics are a mix between 3D and X-Men: Legends, by this I mean that the environment and city 
 is 3D and looks nice while the characters look cartoony and semi-cel shaded. The sky changes from 
 night to day, and it looks really nice as do the explosions... but the characters look really goofy...
 
  
  The music is where Crackdown shines. I don't know if the artists in the game are signed or what, 
 but they have a whole selection of music from hard rock to techno to Latin.... it was really different 
 and a lot of the songs were really catchy. It helps add to the atmosphere.
  
  So whats the problem? Well for one, once you beat the game there isn't anything left to do - seriously. 
 Secondly, the enemies converge on you non-stop at some points (like when you are fighting a boss, 
 enemies will just keep coming making it extremley hard at lower levels of abilities) . Thirdly, 
 there is this REALLY annoying guy who I guess is your commander and he keeps talking to you throughout 
 the game.. hes just really annoying. And the ending...... was just boo. You take down the last 
 kingpin and are told that the agency you work for actually set up the whole thing for some lame 
 reason. Thats really it..... wow, I wasted time in my life for that? Oh, and the driving at the 
 low levels is HORRIBLE. Also, sometimes your character will not grab a ledge as your scaling a 
 building and you'll go plummeting down a thousand feet to your death
  
  Overall, Crackdown is an okay game worthy of owning only if you enjoy leveling up and playing online 
 a lot. However, I'd say rent this game first because it is enjoyable, though it has its shortcomings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Crackdown should've been a game to buy off of XBoX LiVE Marketplace. It has no soul. To me it reminded 
 me of State of Emergency. Great game to run around and cause mayhem. . . . for about 30 minutes. 
 After that its just life-less. Even GTA had life in it after you had beaten the game. Dont get 
 me wrong the idea of haveing super abilities and stuff is awesome, but I need more story, I need 
 more life into the game. By the time you have 4 stars on your skills bar your finished with the 
 whole game, and I was one of thoughs players that searched for every orb in the game so I could 
 have some fun against these bosses. Like I said if it wasnt for the Halo 3 beta on the disk this 
 game wouldnt have sold much at all. Smart thinking Microsoft. Smart thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow4287
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Crackdown, the monster sandbox game devoleped by david jones and his team at real time worlds is 
 an addicting, amazing, and overall very very good game, and thats good with capitol GOOD. the strongest 
 aspect of the game is just how fun it is regardless of its low replayibility because its so fun, 
 from the building jumping to the extremely time consuming leveling up aspect of the game, in which 
 you use each ability to level it up. in the end the game is an amazing experience that every 360 
 owner should have. oh and before i forget that in the case of addiction be very very careful to 
 ignore any agility orb buzzing that you may hear afterwards and you should under no circumstance 
 try to climb a building just to fall when you realize there was nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeblofromidaho
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  A superhero cop? Thats what it seems like after you pick up your first car or climb your first 
 high rise apartment. Going from roof top to roof top seemed to be kinda weak when i watched the 
 game play footage. When you start getting around it really becomes addictive seeing what ledge 
 you are going to hook up on as you ascend. The rockets are a must have and just a little note: 
 there will be civilian casualties. You are also given a nice choice of agent vehicles that morph 
 into something with a little more umph as your driving skill increases. All in all great fun and 
 playing co-op is a blast. The game moved quite quickly and once you take out all the gangs, generals 
 and leaders they still let you go about the city. Now you are given the option if you want to play 
 with crimes on (which makes every gang come back in full force wanting to kill you) or crimes off 
 which lets you stroll around and collect items or finish some side games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatton777
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Let's get it out of the way since this one thing seems to be the reason for some of the negative 
 feedback towards this game. Crackdown does not deliver the cut-scene based story progression that 
 we've come to know and love from the GTA series and most recently Saint's Row. Instead, it is truly 
 a wide open game environment full of challenges and fun. Interaction and direction to missions 
 is very limited but sufficient. You never Go To Location on Map-&gt; Watch Cut Scene-&gt; Start 
 Mission -&gt; End Mission. Instead you are given information about an Enemy Target, if you want 
 to take them out, give it a shot. If you don't feel like taking out the target fine. Do racing 
 challenges, super jump navigation challenges, help out the local law enforcement when you see them 
 in a fire fight, or just hop into one of your Super Powered Agency Cars and explore the sites of 
 the beautiful city. It's up to you.
  
  Before I continue discussing the gameplay of Crackdown let's talk about four other important issues 
 to me, controls, game camera, graphics and sound. The controls for Crackdown (both in and out of 
 the cars) are tight and responsive. The button setup makes for intuitive gameplay with a short 
 learning curve. The camera just works. I never thought about the camera while playing. That's how 
 you know the camera system is good, you don't think about it while playing!
  
  The graphics for this game are stylized and cool. Does it look like GOW, no, but I really like 
 the look and feel that the developers chose for their character models, environment, and vehicles. 
 The use of the cell shading mixed with the pixel shading, bump mapping power of the 360 makes for 
 an interesting and satisfying graphic look.
  
  The sounds in Crackdown are spot on. The voice overs are well delivered and a little bit melodramatic 
 (perfect for this comic book world) . The guns sound great, explosions rumble, the sound team did 
 a great job here. Turn on your 5.1 for this one, you're going to like what you hear.
  
  Ok, back to the gameplay of Crackdown. The gameplay is fun from the beginning. No starting out 
 as a wimpy character who has to hunt around for your first pebble so you can attack a beach crab. 
 You start our as a tech enhanced super cop with a good aresenal of weapons, cool cars, and a set 
 of super powers (all at lvl 1) at your disposal.
  
  Let's talk about those super-powers.
  Agility : As this power increases you are able to leap higher (up to 35 or 40 feet in the air) 
 and run up to 35 miles per hour.
  Strength: As this power grows you will find yourself picking up cars and using them as projectiles. 
 Think car=bowling ball, group of baddies=pins.
  Explosives: As this skill increases the power of your grenades, rocket launchers etc... becomes 
 incredible. The sheer destruction displayed by this power at it's highest level is a blast to watch.
 
  Guns: At the highest level, your a shooting machine, accurate and deadly.
  
  The fun comes when you start to combine these attributes. Imagine being stuck in the middle of 
 a wild firefight. Your armor is dropping, death is coming soon. Instead of just running away and 
 hoping you can escape, you leap into the air, take aim at the apex of you jump, launch a rocket 
 where it will do the most damage, and watch the carnage from your aerial point of view. Landing, 
 you can see that the situation is still grave. Leaping to the roof of a nearby building, you gain 
 a good vantage point to take out the rest of the baddies with a hail of bullets, grenades, whatever.
 
  
  Another cool thing about Crackdown are the vehicles. As your Driving Skill increases, your collection 
 of Agency Vehicles modify themselves proportionately. By the time your driving skill is maxed out 
 the Agency Vehicles are so sweet. They look fantastic and cool, they are fun to drive, responsive 
 and fast, with just the right feel.
  
  In other games, raising stats can be a drag. We have all done grinding to get that next stat increase. 
 In Crackdown, the stat increasing system is simple and the rewards are very cool. If you want to 
 increase your strength, beat down your enemies instead of shooting them. Need to increase your 
 Explosive Skills, use those hand grenades, and shoot those famous exploding barrels that the developers 
 have surrounded with bad guys. Bottom line, increasing your stats is fun and rewarding.
  
  I really enjoyed Crackdown. I didn't put it in the 360 with to many expectations, the GameSpot 
 review was out and it was mediocre. After playing Crackdown for a couple of hours I knew that this 
 game had the major fun factor. After 15 hours of gameplay, I can say that the game has stayed fun 
 the whole time. And isn't that what it is about, just good old fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  The Good: Highly addictive gameplay. Easy to pick up co-op. Nice cell-shaded graphics. Rocket Launchers!
 
  
  The Bad: Some co-op games can get laggy. Awful soundtrack. Driving is a total bore. Very short 
 game.
  
  Everybody remembers Robocop, right? This motion picture followed a half man, half machine cop as 
 he served justice in his own way. Taking a hint from that movie, and borrowing some GTA-esque elements, 
 the guys at Realtime Worlds came up with Crackdown, a third-person shooter action game which is 
 very... vertically inclined.
  
  In Crackdown, you play as a super Agent out to rid the city streets of the vile gang members and 
 their leaders. There isn't much of a back story here, as you are thrust into the thick of things 
 as soon as the game starts.
  The virtual city is split up into 3 islands, each controlled by a different gang. Naturally, you 
 start off against the easiest gang, but things get a bit harder as you progress. Each gang has 
 7 leaders you can take down, each different from one another. A gang is decimated as soon as you 
 kill the final boss and take care of the Final Crime.
  
  There are some supply points scattered throughout the city, on each island. Not only do these count 
 as spawn points, but they are also areas where you can restock on ammo and also drop off enemy 
 weapons for future use. Once you drop off an enemy weapon, it'll be available to you throughout 
 the game. But to get to these, you'll need to be vertically inclined, since they are all located 
 at the top of buildings. The first ones are easily attainable, but you'll have to boost up your 
 agility to get to the others later on in the game.
  To boost that agility, you'll have to pick up the Agility Orbs scattered all around the city. There 
 are hundreds of them to collect, and you'll have loads of fun (and frustration) in trying to get 
 them all, especially the last batch.
  
  Speaking of upgrading, agility isn't the only skill you'll need to upgrade on your Agent. There's 
 also firearms, explosives, driving and body. Firearms and Explosives will upgrade as you shoot 
 down enemies and downgrade if you heppen to shoot helpless civilians. Driving will upgrade when 
 you complete races scattered accross the city and perform certain jumps and acrobatics with your 
 vehicle or if you run over gang members, and it will downgrade if you run over civilians. Your 
 Body skill will upgrade when you complete rooftop races and kill enemies by kicking, punching or 
 melee and it will downgrade when you do the same to civilians.
  There are also Hidden Orbs which are, you guessed it, hidden all over the city. When you collect 
 these, it will slightly upgrade all of your skills. The highest level you can reach, for any skill, 
 is 4 stars. As you gain a star, you'll see your Agent evolve physically, as will the environment 
 around him, like the Agency cars he gets into. An Agent with all his skills maxed out is practically 
 invincible.
  
  Shooting in the game works really well. As with other shooters of the genre, you aim with the left 
 trigger and shoot with the right. You also have precise aiming, where you can target a leg, an 
 arm, the torso or the head. Some guns will be more effective for head shots, while others will 
 be more deadly when you aim for the chest.
  You'll also dispose of grenades and grenade launchers, which aren't as precise but can wipe out 
 a bunch of enemies faster than any gun could. And, naturally, there is the coveted rocket launcher, 
 the most exciting and fun weapon in the game and the most effective. Once you lay your hands on 
 this baby and that your Explosives skill is pretty high, you'll be practically invincible.
  
  The driving aspect of the game feels like it was just thrown in there for good measure. I had 
 absolutely no fun at all driving around the city, and why would I, when I would much rather be 
 jumping and climbing? The races are a repetitive and boring task you need to undertake if you want 
 to upgrade that Driving skill. Most of the cars look exactly the same, except in a different color... 
 Oh, and there are no motorcycles at all in the game. Now those would have been a good addition, 
 especially with all the jumping going on.
  
  There isn't much of a story in Crackdown, aside from brief gang and boss introductions. With a 
 more robust storyline and some character development, this game could've been very good and would 
 have stood out from all the other sandbox games of the same genre. The ending is rather bizarre 
 and leaves the story wide open for a sequel.
  
  The graphics, without being revolutionary, are pretty damn good. The comic-book, cel-shaded look 
 gives the game a very artsy style. The game doesn't hang when a new part of the city is loaded, 
 which keeps the fluidity going. It's quite a breathtaking sight when you get to the top of the 
 Agency building and look down on the city.
  
  The very minimal voice acting in the game is very repetitive and gets on your nerves really quick, 
 especially that annoying, mysterious voice you keep hearing throughout the game. Most of the time, 
 it's completely wrong anyways. For example, you'll be underground and you'll hear the voice say 
 Look at that view! Best one in the city! or you'll be walking down the street and he'll go I can 
 see my house from here! 
  The gang members will also repeat the same thing over and over again, their favorite phrase being 
 Prepare to die! Let's just say that the dialogue wasn't one of the developers' top priorities for 
 this game.
  The techno and house music heard while riding in vehicles is beyond boring and comes from unknown 
 artists, for the most part. The other orchestral arrangements aren't spectacular, but they do the 
 job.
  
  The area in which this game really shines is how addictive it is. Collecting orbs, shooting bad 
 guys with your rocket launcher, jumping on buildings and from rooftop to rooftop, all of this blends 
 in seemlesly and makes you come back for more.
  Co-op gameplay is also fun, but there are a couple of glitches that prevents it from being superb. 
 Sometimes, as soon as you get close to your partner, the game will often crash and bring you back 
 to the title screen for no reason whatsoever. The lag can also get really bad in some instances. 
 But there's nothing more satisfying than kicking your buddy off of a building or blowing him or 
 her up with a rocket launcher.
  
  You'll probably be able to complete the main story missions in about 10 hours or so, and the rest 
 of the activities shouldn't take you too much time either, unless you're going for every achievement 
 in the game, which should take you another 2 hours or so. The game is fairly easy on the default 
 skill level and with a maxed out Agent, it becomes a breeze.
  
  Despite it's very short length, relative ease, lack of story and minor bugs, Crackdown is still 
 a good, addicting game and a ton of fun to play through. For a game that came with the Halo 3 beta 
 key included, it still can hold it's own, with or without the Master Chief backing it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THE HIGHS OF THE GAME..
  
  The graphics are like comic-booky they are quite good. And I very much like them actualy.
  
 
  Finally a totaly  game.
  
  And I love that its really big and Co-operative. So much fun with friends. amd xboxlive!
  
 
  This game is pretty much like GTA except your guy is from the future and has super powers! It's 
 just plain fun and addicting and .... fun!
  
  this game is awesome and has tons of cool sueprhero abbilities and u can play it for hours and 
 hours on end.
  
  I very much enjoyed my time with this game. it is aweseomly action packed. check it out.
  
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  THE LOWS OF THE GAME..
  
  The narrorater is so annoying when he talks to you whenever your just trying to enjoy the game 
 or have any fun.
  
  The story if this game is pretty much NOT THERE so its pretty much an empty game.
  
  Sometimes 
 when your just driving and trying to have fun u accidentaly run over stupid civilians and the police 
 get all mad at you. THE CIVILIANS FREAK OUT TOOOOO EASLY!!!!!!!!
  
  You can't go in any buildings!!!!!!!!!
  well i suppose u can go in a few but not like normal 
 houses.. of course why whould u want to? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  this game has great new fun ideas but lacks enough depth in the game. if you like gta style games 
 its still a game 2 get
  
  story- lacks a good story theres not realy a story to it, it just tells you a bit about the boss 
 then you must kill them. so it dosnt enspire you enough to try and get further.
  
  gameplay- is a very fun game with great ideas, and the rpg part of the side where you level up 
 your skills is cool, and is a great idea. its clever beacuse eg if you get your driving skill to 
 the last level it upgrades gets faster and better things that suit the car. the leveling up is 
 a very fun part of the game beacuse you could be trowing cars getting xp or jumping to rooftop 
 to rooftop and getting agilty xp its a very good idea. and has never been done before. its a shame 
 realy beacuse once you have leveled up all your skills there nothing more to the game anymore acept 
 from yeah kill the bosses which you would have probaly already have done. its a very fun game for 
 a couple of weeks then begins to get a bit repeitve and old.
  
  graphics- nice graphics great skyline when your on the top building and its got clever nice cartooney 
 but realy graphics. its clever that as you rplayer skills up you will notice your character will 
 change his apearance more bulky, and he gets more older you will notice.
  
  sound- ok sound explsions sound what you would expect and cars, the agent tutariel guy will get 
 a bit repetive and anoiying but its not that bad
  
  vauleandtilt-if your willing to pay a game that will amaze you and you will love it for a week 
 then buy it, if you like action adventure games like gta style games this game is a game to get. 
 this game has good ideas but this game can be much more worked on hey its good for the first game 
 the second crackdown should be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Crackdown, I wasnt impressed. So many games have followed in the footsteps 
 of GTA, and have failed miserably. Now theyre making a GTA where you play as some type of Robocop 
 on crack? Pass. I couldnt have been more wrong. Not only has the visual style of Crackdown surpassed 
 my expectations, but the gameplay has too. In fact, Crackdown makes some improvements over the 
 GTA standard.
  
  The story takes place in a fictional Pacific City that has been overrun with crime. 3 major gangs 
 control the city. To fight this a global group of police officers has developed genetically altered 
 super-cops called Agents. Thats pretty much it. There really isnt any further narrative to get 
 in the way of the action. If youre an action fan, this can be a great thing, but it also weakens 
 the graphic novel feel of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Your agent can gain levels and become stronger in several key areas: agility, driving, melee, firearms, 
 and explosives. Gaining levels in these areas will make you agent much more powerful. Maxed out, 
 they make you virtually unstoppable. You can leap small buildings, throw cars hundreds of feet, 
 and make huge explosions.
  
  The controls are simple, yet offer new twists on old ideas. For example, you have a lock-on system, 
 but you still need to aim at your target before you lock on. Once locked on, you can target specific 
 parts of your target. This allows you to perform headshots, shoot a weapon out of an enemys hands, 
 or blow the gas tank on a car. The latter is especially impressive thanks to the Havok physics 
 engine. Explosions are huge, and car parts go flying in all directions.
  
  Speaking of cars, like GTA, you can steal any car you see, but primarily youll be using one 
 of the three Agency vehicles: the super-car, SUV, and truck cab. While some are more useful than 
 others, theyre still fun, and will change appearance and gain new abilities as your driving skill 
 improves.
  
  Crackdown is heavy on action. Although the AI isnt very bright, the game does tend to throw dozens 
 of enemies at you. Your main mission is to take out bosses of each gang. Although they can technically 
 be done in any order, this is a logical progression to them, and by taking out the lesser bosses, 
 the leader will become weaker.
  
  Unfortunately, because of the lack of an engaging story, many of these boss battles are uninteresting, 
 and repetitive. There are multiple ways to infiltrate a base to kill the boss, but once the battle 
 starts you pretty much just keep shooting until theyre dead. They just simply cant standup to 
 the kind of power your agent can unleash. The boss battles would have been a lot more interesting 
 if they could do the things your agent is capable of.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Crackdown has a unique visual style, thanks to its use of black outlines for most of the objects 
 in the game. This gives the game a comic book feel to it. The opening cut scene, which uses still 
 images like they were pulled from a graphic novel, further emphasizes this. However, this is the 
 only time youll see this or any other cut scene. Which is a shame because its so well done. All 
 other information is done through a poorly designed popup GUI that only tends to get in the way 
 of the otherwise great gameplay.
  
  Thanks to the Havok engine, the game is very visually appealing; especially with huge chain explosions. 
 Although the characters might not have the highest polygon count, this also means that the game 
 never once slowed down. Even with dozens of enemies on the screen.
  
  SOUND
  The sound effects in Crackdown are great. All the gunshots, explosions, and other effects sound 
 fantastic. Therere also some nice touches like being able to hear a cars music playing from outside 
 the car. The narrator of the game sounds good, but he can get quite annoying later in the game. 
 Hell frequently spit out helpful information early in the game, but later he just gets in the 
 way. Hes the only voice-over youll hear except for the occasional shout or expletive from gang 
 members.
  
  The music in the game only plays when in a vehicle, and even then theres no way to turn it off 
 unless you go to the options menu and turn off all music. There is a wide variety of licensed music, 
 but its not from any bands Ive ever heard of. Some of it fits the game, like the Latin rap, but 
 stuff like the Christian rock feels out of place. A custom soundtrack would have been nice, but 
 no such option exists. Perhaps the most annoying aspect of the music is every time you enter a 
 car, a large pop-up window appears in the middle of the screen with the track info.
  
  VALUE
  You can easily beat Crackdown in 10 or 12 hours on your first play through. But after 
 you beat the game you can continue playing in the city to unlock achievements. The achievements 
 are well balanced between being easy and more difficult to unlock. Many of them require you to 
 experiment with the physics engine and the sandbox world.
  
  Multiplayer is almost of an after-thought in Crackdown. The interface for it is lack-luster, and 
 requires you to exit your current game to have someone join your game. Therere also balance issues 
 since your agent from single player is used online. Therefore, you can sometimes be playing with 
 a weaker or stronger player. Crackdown screams for an agent versus mode, but that was apparently 
 left out of multiplayer.
  
  Overall, Crackdown does a lot of new and interesting things for the open world action genre. But 
 it also misses on some great opportunities. Crackdown isnt a killer app, but its still one 
 of the best games on the 360. If you love action games, or open-ended worlds you should check it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggatone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of those games where you find yourself switching on your console and then looking 
 at your watch and noticing that several hours have passed and you haven't really done anything 
 to move the story forward. The story itself is fairly basic and requires you to systematically 
 kill 21 gang bosses to clean up the city. The main attraction is your ability to upgrade your character 
 as the game progresses allowing you to drive better blow things up in a grander way and jump higher. 
 Initially the ability to climb up buildings and leap about doesn't feel that great but as your 
 skill increases you find yourself leaping across the city skyline covering massive distances. There 
 are a few minor gripes with the game, mainly centered around the driving, You are instructed that 
 to increase your driving skill you need to win the races dotted around the 3 islands, unfortunately 
 due to the large number of civilians wandering around, coupled with the bad handling of 99% of 
 the vehicles you can drive means that the skill points gained for winning are almost totally undone 
 by the amount you lose by accidentally mowing down the civilians. This makes the races only worth 
 doing once you have maxed out your skill and therefore cannot lose any skill points. Nonetheless 
 Crackdown is a game that can be finished in less than 10 hours, yet I found myself playing it for 
 comfortably 30 or more. The graphics are nicely done and the sound is functional if not amazing. 
 Definitely a game you can lose yourself in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a single, and multiplayer game for the Xbox360. It contains a single player campaign, 
 and a multiplayer Xbox Live feature. It contains a fairly unique feel and playing style. This game 
 has class.
  This game is special. It is made to look like, and feel like, a comic book. The opening story video 
 is like a video comic book. The weapons are deadly, and players can deliver ownage to just about 
 anything. And the narrator, the voice that will be booming through your speakers for the rest of 
 the single-player game. All 5 hours of it.
  
  Oooo, Pretty.
  The graphics look a lot like Grand Theft Auto III. However it is a lot more colorful. The colors 
 and textures in this game are a force to be reckoned with. The explosions are pretty, espessially 
 when the explosives skill is maxed out. In this case, ka-boom becomes KA-BOOM!
  
  Sounds speak more then words themselves.
  Sounds... music, gunshots, explosions, cars, voices, 
 etc. nothing really to be said. Its pretty average. A little repeatance in the music for the cars. 
 Techno gets annoying after the 100th time.
  
  Shortness.
  The campaign is about 5 hours long. Its short, and sometimes annoying in how hard some of the boss 
 battles are. At one point, you have to climb to the top of a skyscraper, and they keep using rockets 
 to blow you the hell off.
  
  In the end, this game is a fun title to add to any Xbox 360 game library. Even though the campaign 
 is rather short, it is satisfying in the short time it is offered. This game is a good time killer, 
 its a good game to play while passing the control paddle among a few buddies and listening to loud 
 rock music. Long live the Agency, and Rock on mother f^#%&amp;@! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown, like many have already stated is very addictive fun. Now Im not a GTA fan at all. So 
 when I first started hearing things about Crackdown, I said Meh . Can't be anything worse than 
 a GTA clone right? Well luckily I was wrong. After a friend convinced me to download the demo via 
 Xbox Live, I was hooked. Heck I spent a couple hours on the demo just trying to level up as much 
 as I could. At that point I knew I needed to play it. And so should you. Running around a vast 
 city, leaping tall buildings in a single bond, causing major havoc with your superstrength ! What 
 more can you ask for. The thing that makes this came so addictive is no only some great achievements, 
 to unlock. It's the all powerful orbs . You need orbs to up your super human abilities and really 
 kick some ass in these mean streets! Orbs can be acquired in many different ways. Killing, foes, races, jumping 
 onto rooftops, etc. However upgrading can become very frustrating sometimes. Personal I think the 
 driving mechanics in this game make me wanna pull my hair out! Though once you relax and try, try 
 again. Leveling up is very satisfying. I haven't done a lot of on-line for this game it just doesn't 
 to seem that fun. Guess I've been spoiled by Gears or something. Anyhow this game is fun and in 
 the future I would love to see some sequels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good!
  - Pacific City is Big and worth to explore.
  - The graphics are pretty good, almost everything has alot of detail.
  - Comes with the Halo 
 3 Beta.
  - Big Variety of Characters and Weapons.
  - Better played in Co-op or with a friend.
  
  The Bad!
  - Over to quick.
  - Not a big variety 
 of Veichles.
  - Should have been more things to do such as side missions, etc.
  
  This game is worth a check out if you like the open world type of games or looking for something 
 new and fresh. Defiantly worth a rent at least but the Beta makes it worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is the first game from Real Time Worlds and what a start they've made. This is free-roaming 
 action like never before with great action, funky art style and brilliant co-op multiplayer. The 
 whole game rocks!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay si simple and this game is great to pick up and play for short or long periods 
 of time. The controls are inch perfect and the things you can do are amazing. You level up your 
 agent through the game and when you get him really pumped up it's mind-blowing. There are 3 huge 
 main areas to explore and while the missions aren't partucularly interesting, when the game is 
 so darn fun-who gives a crap?!
  
  Graphics: A very cool art style is employed here. The effects are great and the physics (while 
 a little over the top) are also good. The environments look great and the character animations 
 are also excellent. Overall this is a really good showcase for the power of next-gen.
  
  Sound: The weakest part of the game. The soundtrack is decent and the voice acting is OK but there 
 is nothing that really stands out here.
  
  Value: You could buy this game and just free-roam because it's so fun! It won't take long to do 
 the missions but there are some other entertaining things to do. There is also some awesome online 
 co-op which is awesome.
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game that is a whole lot of fun. You don't really need to take it seriously 
 and if you can look past some of the problems then you are looking at one of the best next-gen 
 games thus far and a great game to fill the void until the long awaited return of a certain game 
 known as GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayze21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  What can i say.. This game is amazing! You are a superhuman agent working for your agency to clear 
 up the city. You must take out 7 bosses on the city you are on before moving to the next one or 
 you might be in for a bit of a challenge! There are 3 islands, and each one is harder than the 
 other. There are 2 easy bosses, 4 medium bosses and 1 very hard boss on each island. Each boss 
 specialises in a different thing and killing them decreases the power of what they specialise in. 
 For example if you were to kill the ganglord who is in charge of the vehicles that run in and out 
 of the city supplying weapons and drugs then less vehicles would go to the harder bosses making 
 them significantly easier. So as you can see if you run in and try to tackle the last boss first 
 you would have a great difficulty! You get 5 different stats which you can increase to make your 
 character more powerful, these things are : -
  
  Firearms - You can increase this by killing your enemies with guns instead of your bear hands and 
 increasing this skill will increase your accuracy and damage untill guns. When you have mastered 
 the art you will be able to do many things such as shooting gas tanks on cars to make them explode 
 as they move!
  
  Explosives - There are many explosives in the game from grenades to rocket launchers and each of 
 these are very powerul weapons, if used well.
  To increase this skill you must kill your enemies with explosives. Blowing up masses of vehicles 
 at once will also improve it rapidly. Increasing this skill increases the damage and radius of 
 explosives and if you manage to master this skill then you will be able to use rockets as if they 
 are weapons of mass destruction and annaihilate your foes.
  
  Strength - This is a very funny skill. You can use your strength to pick up things such as cars 
 and barrels. You can also use it to kick your opponent off of buildings or simple kick them to 
 death. You increase this skill by killing people with your own arms. Upgrading this skill will 
 alow you to kick or punch your enemies to death in 1 hit or pick up massive oil tanks and lob them 
 at your enemies to crush to death.
  
  Agility - This skill is one of the greatest in the game. Agility allows you to jump massive hights 
 from rooftops or mountains. You can climb very high buildings with this ability such as the agency 
 tower, the largest building in the game ( great view btw :P ) or just have a nice relaxing run 
 with your increased speed. This ability is upgraded by collecting agility orbs from high places 
 or killing gangmembers while in the air. This skill is fun when fully upgraded as you can jump 
 ludicrously high and run like the wind.
  
  Driving - This skill is yet another great addition to the game. Cars are all over the game and 
 can be used to get to your location faster or simply used to run over your opponents. You upgrade 
 this skill by running over gangmembers and although it is hard to max out, it is definately worth 
 it. Once your skill is fully maxed out you can use 3 amazing cars from your agency tower. each 
 of these cars are very powerful in their own special way, from the agency supercar which is so 
 fast and slim that it can simply drive straight under cars to the agency SUV which is like a monster 
 truck flipping over cars and turning in the air. The more you upgrade your driving skill the more 
 powerful these cars become.
  
  Each of these skills can be upgraded 4 times which is quite a challenge.
  There are alot of achievements 
 to unlock in this game such as killing a certain number of gangmembers while in the air to driving 
 over 150 of them. Another great thing about this game is that there is no restriction to where 
 you can go. You are free to do whatever you want from jumping rooftops to driving your agent supercar 
 around the city at 200mph! This game has a unique type of graphics as it is has a dark shading 
 around the character, but the graphics is definately a good thing. It looks slightly cartoony is 
 a good way.
  The sound is realistic and this game will provide hours of fun gameplay so this game is definately 
 worth it. Buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthNader26
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is GTA... except you play the role of a super cop that kicks so much behind it would 
 make The Terminator break down and cry. We've all seen that scene from Kill Bill where she kills 
 60 people in 60 seconds right? Near the end of the game my character could do that AND have time 
 to scale the nearest skyscraper, leap into a parking garage, steal a car, and kamakazi it into 
 the gang boss's hideout. But thats all you really do. There are 21 gang bosses in the game and 
 the whole game is focused on killing them. Once you do that, that's it. Not that thats a bad thing. 
 Don't get me wrong, the game is a blast and I had a ton of fun. I found my self saying, HOLY ****! 
 DID I REALLY JUST DO THAT! before cackling my head of at the hapless demise of some poor slob who 
 I kicked off a 60 story building. And killing the gang bosses is fun, abeit rather easy. It all 
 consists of infiltrating the base, killing the bodyguards, blasting the bosses, and getting out 
 before you get blasted yourself. There are alot of interesting methods for infiltration. An agent 
 with a high demolitions can use some agency sachel charges to blast the old gate at and unguarded 
 entrance to an old fort. Or agile agenst can swim up to the rocks at the base of the fort and scale 
 the walls. Or a good driver can charge through the front gate, pasting baddies underneath your 
 tires. After you beat the game, you can activate an ambient crime mode that will spawn an unlimited 
 supply of bad dudes for you to take out at your leasure, and this proves entertaining, if pointless. 
 All in all, your left feeling like they made the game, but forgot the story. Fun, but you kind 
 of have to make your own fun, not that thats a bad thing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed all of the GTA games and was expecting this game to be a rip off of them. I was 
 also disappointed in the demo because it felt so much like a rehash of GTA. But the demo did not 
 allow me play long enough to really appreciate everything the complete games offers. The power-ups 
 really add to the game and it feels and looks really great on the 360. I am generally reluctant 
 to buy new 360 games since they cost $60 and are rarely worth it. But this one lives up to the 
 hype, especially when you consider the Halo 3 Beta comes with it. This is also the most addictive 
 game I have played on any platform. Downside: TERRIBLE LAG IN ONLINE PLAY!!!! ALSO, the update 
 which cost $10 deleted all of my stats. I received an apology from Realtime, along with, Oops sorry 
 dude, nothing we can do. Our bad. Seriously major F-up and they acted like they could care less. 
 Luckily, the update has now been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuafirez3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the funnest game I have ever played and it comes with a Halo 3 Multiplayer Beta! 
 What could be better!?!?!
  The gameplay is perfect and the more experience you gain, the more abilities your character has 
 like the vehicles you drive in morph for example.
  The graphics are almost comic-book-like.
  The sound is not great but not bad either.
  This 
 game provides all the ingredients of a sandbox like GTF with the added bonus of superhero characteristics. 
 You can jump 30 ft in the air! How cool is that?!?
  This is a funfest that deserves more credit than it recieves.
  Microsoft Game Studios has never 
 brought out a game I haven't played that I haven't thoroughly enjoyed.
  There is guaranteed fun packed into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brnkid
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much potential. Yes it follows the GTA mold but, it separates itself far enough 
 with unique abilities. The agility feature to example is incredable. There's nothing like launching 
 yourself of tall buildings, and some bad guys make it imperitaive to have a certain level in order 
 for you to even get to them. Strength is another one. You can increase your strength in hand to 
 hand fighting, which as your level up increases, so does the amount of damage done. Also, your 
 ability to lift and throw objects increase for garbage cans, to cars, eventually large Semis. Firearms 
 and explosives increase the same. While firearm increases allow you to lock quick on targets, explosive 
 upgrades increase damage done and blast radius. My only complaint is that the game could have been 
 longer, maybe 5 bosses instead of 3, but I bet they plan a sequel. Overall I really enjoyed the 
 time spent, I just wish it could have been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scoop8487
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  How to explain Crackdown in one word? FUN. Crackdown is an exciting open world genre that is just 
 plain fun. You take a role as an agent whos goal is to kill all 21 gang bosses. There are 3 gangs: 
 Los Muertos, The Volk, and The Shai Gen. The only downfall is this game is short. You can easily 
 beat this game in 2 or 3 days. What is a cool thing about this game is that your ablitys upgrade 
 depending on what you do. For example if you kill people with a gun, your firearms skill will increase. 
 There are the skills: Firearms, agilty, strength, driving, and explosives. If you lke a open world 
 game which is like Grand theft auto in the future, you will not regret getting this game!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmulisha808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun if you are into the grand theft auto games. It is quite similar but your on the 
 other side in this game. This game has no load screens (with the exception of the beginning one) 
 with means the worlds are streamed while you play. I like how you can do whatever you want, you 
 could go and try to beat the hard bosses right from the beginning or wait and level up by facing 
 the easier ones, it is all up to you. The weapons are good. You have a variety of weapons to choose 
 from, from rocket launchers to pistols and grenades. The only disappoint was that being a superhuman 
 cop, you could only carry so much. The gameplay is different from any game I have played so far. 
 I like how you can jump from building to building or just jump over them completely. The vehicles, 
 if you drive the cars from the people, are hard to control at times but the agency vehicles are 
 easy. They also look nice when they transform depending on your level of driving in the game. The 
 sound in the game is alright to me. The explosions are nice to listen too. Overall the game is 
 a must buy for fans of sandbox and grand theft auto games, and XBox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minime78362
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  First off, before even reviewing this game, I'd like to say, I played the demo a lot, and I had 
 a lot of fun with it, and after seeing that this came with a Halo 3 beta, I was going to get it 
 on day 1 instead of in a week or two like I planned. So after getting this game into my xbox, and 
 beating the bosses that were in the demo I got excited, as I was gaining abilities, and finding 
 orbs and such. The graphics are Generally good, but not breathtaking. It is a comic book style 
 that seems like a good idea, but doesn't last long. Seeing that everything is sort of Cell Shaded, 
 give the game a distinct, but Un mature look. Imagine Spiderman with blood flying all over the 
 place.
  The Gameplay is pretty fun, Shooting is Exciting at first, but Gets old, as you don't really need 
 to aim. Jumping is very fun when being shot at by Gangsters. driving is terrible, and I wish it 
 was fun. The voice that Helps you gets very annoying. There has been many times where I've been 
 inside, or in between covered areas, and he says Now that's a view, best in the city agent 
  Sound is Average, and the Buttons are well placed. Co-Op doesn't last long, because you don't even 
 play with each other, because you'll probably get lost, and do different stuff instead of helping 
 each other.
  You'll probably blow through this game in about 4 days at most, and then you'll have to max out 
 your stats if you want the achievement, but it's not that much of a deal.
  Graphics=6
  Sound=7
  Gameplay=5
  Overall, I give it a 6...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game had practically no hype until it was announced it would be bundled together with a beta 
 test invitation for one of the biggest and most anticipated game in arguably the whole gaming world. 
 Yet it stands as a good game none the less.
  
  This game place's you as a scientifically enhanced cop in the middle of a run down city. It is 
 your duty to eradicate each and every criminal walking the streets and make it safe for the civilians 
 to wander in the daily life. But this is were the problem arises, your primary objective is to 
 of course clean out the city of criminals. So how would you fit this into a story line? Well Realtime 
 has based the story not on levels but you explore the city and eliminate the gang leaders making 
 it easier and increase the possibility of eliminating the Islands Kingpin. There are 18 gang leaders 
 to search out spread out over three decent sized Islands. Then 3 KingPin's running the Islands, 
 which are securely hidden in the utmost confound of the Islands preliminary defenses. So finding 
 them may not be as easy as first imagined. Which leads us to your Dossier; the Dossier is your 
 communication between you and base. You will get a Dossier update whenever a gang leader is near 
 or needs your attention. Showing you the general direction of those pesky gang leaders; this can 
 be a life saver at times.
  
  The graphics are what make's this game feel truly next generation. Its set out in a cartoon style 
 with a sprinkle of pixel shading. The graphics from the ground are fairly standard but when you 
 get your abilities up and begin to climb to the top of tall building you will notice there's a 
 nice scenery and atmosphere once the city has been restored to its peaceful state.
  
  Crackdown has also been tampering with a little bit of the RPG side of things. With the abilities 
 gauge which as you increase you grow levels which gets you stronger/faster or what this game is 
 most famous for the extreme jumping skills. When your jumping ability is at max you can jump around 
 30ft at a time. This is more than the standard double story building!
  
  It is one of the only game's I have had the pleasure of playing that has this sort of physics system 
 and still become a success. After the hugely hyped Hulk game becoming a flop, most would have thought 
 casually jumping 30ft in a video game also died at that moment.
  
  Another major downside to this game is the driving capability. When you first begin the game you 
 will barely be about to slide around a corner while going at a high speed but as you grow your 
 driving ability it will slightly improve. But not up to the par I am used to, sorry Real-time you 
 let me down here. But when you do eventually get to do some insane stunts after you have been launched 
 of a cliff in your little van you can do a lot of cool stunts, like back flips and barrel rolls. 
 Which nearly makes up for the lack of driving potential. Because if you cant even get up the ramp, 
 whats the point of being able to do all these insane stunts?
  
  I guess not many people would choose to drive when you could easily go faster and have a lot more 
 fun jumping from rooftop to rooftop....
  
  The abilities are split up into 4 main categories  You can 
 increase these skills by doing simple tasks such as shooting opposed gang members or driving through 
 stunt markers, mainly just meeting requirements for the corresponding skill. As your agility level 
 increases you can do better in each category such as shoot more accurate or jump higher. But it 
 may take some dedication to bring all these abilities to the max.....
  
  This game will last you about 20-40 hours if you have online and a friend who plays it also. Because 
 online Co-op is the high point to this game; its sandbox with a friend. Youre in the city at the 
 same time, exploring or helping each other with missions. Or even creating some games if you are 
 imaginative.
  
  But if you are willing to spend the money for possibly a game that will be completed in a few days 
 then be gather dust in your collections. But this game would last you longer with a friend. But 
 those hours you spend playing it will be a happy and extremely enjoyable one. So you may want to 
 just rent it if the single player is all your interested in. But the online for so much more....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostrecon3892
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay was pretty good go around killing stuff but the worst thing is whith this 
 game is when someone a way higher level then you go and just kill all the bosses. So if you want 
 to actualy have fun dont let anyone join if their just going to kill bosses because for one boss 
 thats dead a whole bunch of enemies to kill goes with it. Also some of the skills are realy hard 
 to level up and takes a while just to get to the next level. The best thing is though is when you 
 find the skills you like and level them up then you can do a lot of fun stuff with them.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are realy decent its like a cross between comics and 3-D. I personaly think 
 the graphics are realy good.
  
  Story: Theirs almost no story just kill all the kingpins doesent make up a good story at all.
 
  
  Sound: The sound was good everything exploding and the guns shooting all sounded realy good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  
 
  [The Good]
  
 
  
  Jumping &amp; Climbing &gt; Never been so fun to climb up all these buildings and then jump around! 
 Really innovative and fun to do, pretty much the main reason to buy this game. This opens a whole 
 new dimension to open world games, it's going to be hard playing another GTA or Saints Row without 
 looking up for every roof and hearing those orb sounds!
  
  Gameplay &gt; Very easy to control, job well done! Good variety of weapons and all are easy to 
 use.
  
  Agency Cars &gt; Really cool how cars morph based on your skill, would've been nice if it happened 
 to all Vehicles.
  
  Achievements &gt; Achievements are pretty well balanced. I don't really like the 500 orbs and 300 
 hidden orbs ones too much, it's painful to do but overall not bad.
  
  RPG Elements &gt; Definetely a plus, wish it had more depth and more options and character customization.
 
  
  Audio &gt; Good soundtrack and menu song is really cool. Still not as good as GTA Vice City though. 
 The orb sounds are well designed and the sound you hear at the top of high rise buildings is very 
 realistic, adds so much to the game.
  
  
 
  [The Bad]
  
 
  
  Story &gt; Non-existent. I understand you want to make a very open world but that doesn't mean 
 there can't be a decent story, it doesn't have to be 100% linear either. It would've added so much 
 to the game.
  
  No Multiplayer &gt; Co-op is fun but this game has so much multiplayer potential, too bad.
  
 
  Minor Glitches &gt; The framerate drops sometimes especially when restarting a Timed level. The 
 rumble feature hangs after you just finish a mission which just ended with an explosion.
  
  Presentation &gt; The graphics is average for a game coming a year after the 360 release.
  
 
  Mini-Map &gt; The mini-map isn't really helpful. Saints Row with their innovative waypoint feature 
 really does a much better job than Crackdown or GTA.
  
  Vehicle Variety &gt; Cars only, some bikes/boats/helicopter/planes would help!
  
  Value &gt; 
 After getting most of the achievements, there's really no reason to go back and play the game again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsongirl
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  i'm not a shooter gamer. i mean, i'm in awe of the Halo franchise (who isn't?) but by and large, 
 i need more from my games than mindless explosions and blood-spattered graphics (yes, i'm diss-ing 
 the shooters ... so shoot me.)
  
  this game isn't fabulous. it's too short, it's too simple, it's too linear and yet ...
  i'm completely 
 addicted to it.
  
  some of the reasons for my addiction are that the learning curve is really short. point, shoot, 
 drive, kill bad guys. another reason for my addiction is the humor. i'm not about collecting 'hos' 
 and building territory and generally perpetuating urban violence mythology, those games just piss 
 me off. but this game does not even come close to offending my militant feminism. seriously. as 
 i'm shooting my way through exaggerated-ly stereotypical bad guys with their comical accents and 
 their ridiculous taunts ( you're a waste of skin! and eat **** and die! ) i can't help but laugh 
 out loud at the achievements you can earn for keeping a body aloft with shoulder mounted explosives 
 or performing suicidal/homicidal stunts in your vehicle.
  
  i sat in my SUV honking at a woman in my path and not only would she not move out of my way (the 
 other characters tend to flee like lemmings from the swerving vehicles and the shooting fray) , 
 she shook her fist at me, clearly castigating my aggressive honking. another female character picked 
 up a machine gun and started blasting away at bad guys. she totally had my back and she was an 
 NPG in a mini skirt and a tube top. i laughed out loud. yanking people out of their cars to commandeer 
 them and falling off rooftops to bounce repeatedly before you can right yourself is just nihilistic 
 fun, i don't know how else to describe it, but it's light-hearted, silly and in some ways, totally 
 awesome.
  
  the controls are simple to master and respond reliably, thank heavens! the graphics are pretty. 
 in some cases, the graphics are even awesome, they're not universally jaw-dropping like Gears of 
 War. but they're clean and consistent. even while you're wreaking mayhem on the city's crime lords, 
 you'll find yourself childishly amused at what you can do with explosives and bullets.
  
  it seems like this is a good place to mention the sound track which is atypical and energetic. 
 it's not the most innovative music to hit the xbox360 but it's fresher than most and i like the 
 grittiness of the tunes. it's better than a lot and that's saying something.
  
  sure, the game should be longer. it's pretty short. and yeah, it can be repetitive. it can also 
 be frustrating getting off the ground. the character you start with has terribly agility and can't 
 drive his way out of a paper bag. but if you keep working at it, you can progress quickly. which 
 brings up another complaint. you can't play a girl. and while i'm used to a limited selection of 
 characters aimed a grrl games, would it kill the makers to include ONE Trinity? still, i'm finding 
 myself shooting my way through the night into dawn because i think it's fun and ridiculous. and 
 sometimes you just need a mindless shooter to distract you from your reality-saturated existence, 
 no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerrman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The line I use whenever someone asks me What's Crackdown anyway? 
  
  Ok, just to start this off.. this game is just ridiculously fun. There's no way around it. If you 
 disagree, you need to losen up a bit. The idea of bounding from rooftop to rooftop immediately. 
 Being a cop while I do it sold me. (being a future police officer myself)
  
  Gameplay - Jumping rooftop to rooftop, blowing nearly everything up, tons of gun fire. Love it, 
 just plain fun. Agility Orbs, Hidden Orbs, Time Trials, Upgrading Skills, and Achievements (that 
 are actually VERY fun to get I might add) really add to the replay value since the story is yes, 
 quite short.
  
  Graphics - Cell shading is always a plus in my book. They drew the line perfectly between realism 
 and cell shading in my opinion. The amazingly over the top storyline and super human abilities 
 are shown nicely through the graphics too, as it makes it look and feel like a comic book.
  
  Sound - Mexican hip-hop and techno. I loved the radio!! Lots of different sounds when you throw 
 various things, satisfying THUMP when you jump off a building and make a crater. Explosions are 
 really loud compared to everything else, which is realistic. Also the pure amount of yelling at 
 you keeps you focused on who is around you (when you hear someone scream in Russian/Spanish/Chinese, 
 you're in trouble) . One of the greatest failures of the game is the disembodied voice that feels 
 he should tell you a tip every 5 seconds. Really didn't like that guy after about 3/4 through the 
 game.
  
  Value - I'd say you get your moneys worth with Crackdown. Not only was it really fun, you can always 
 play some co-op and chase eachother around the city with rocket launchers (once you hit full strength 
 you can take a good 4-5 rockets before dying, so it doesn't end fast) . All of the things I mentioned 
 for replay value add to the greatness of the game. I was very happy to throw down 60 bucks for 
 this game.
  
  So if you're looking for a great game that surely won't let you down, take a look at Crackdown. 
 It throws the greatness of free roaming into the greatest of super powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  A part of the development team that made Grand Theft Auto 3, a game that set the bar for all other 
 sandbox style games, has gone off on their own to create Crackdown. Crackdown is an amazingly fun 
 game... for 6 hours.
  
  Crackdown's story is along the lines of: You're an agent working for a world police force (with 
 it's own hidden agenda that you'll find out about at the end) called The Agency. The city is out 
 of control with 3 gangs tearing each of its three districts apart, but thanks to having superhuman 
 powers crushing these gangs will be easy. So, not much of a story to be found here and the one 
 interesting twist that's found at the end of the game will be thrown in rather randomly with no 
 build-up to it.
  
  The game plays out pretty well. You have one main goal in the story mode that you may approach 
 however you want. This being the murdering of 21 gang bosses, but an interesting thing about this 
 game is, like I said, they can be approached anyway you like. Want to take out the hardest boss 
 first? Sure. Want to take them out in order? Sure. Completely randomly? Sure. That's what's great 
 about Crackdown, there's no real order to it and you can approach your objectives any way you please 
 and at the same time it won't ruin your experience with the game by wrecking the story because, 
 well, there pretty much is no story.
  But, one would argue that the main draw of the game (Besides the Halo 3 Beta) is the superhuman 
 powers system. Strength, Agility, Driving, Explosives and Firearms are the 5 superhuman skills 
 you can level up. Your agent will start out being just a little more capable than an ordinary person 
 with these skills, but as you upgrade them, you'll be tossing around trucks, unlocking sick cars, 
 popping people in the face from 100 yards away, jumping 30 feet, and creating explosions doing 
 damage to anything within a 20 foot radius, that kind of thing can get really entertaining. But 
 perhaps the best part about the way this system works is the fact that the more you use these skills 
 the better they get. For example, if I kill lots of people with grenades, my Explosives skill increases. 
 This is a refreshing change from games that have general experience points that you can then spend 
 on whatever the hell you want.
  While the freedom and powers system of Crackdown may be pretty much flawless, the core gameplay 
 is. The game has a fairly well done auto-targeting feature that will allow you to pinpoint target 
 the torso, head or limbs of you target to deal out different effects. For example, if you shoot 
 a guy in the arm, he'll drop his gun or headshots will instantly kill them. But the major problem 
 with this targeting system is that once you actually waste a guy, your lock-on won't snap off letting 
 you target another guy, it'll stick to the corpse and you'll even find yourself targeting it again. 
 In the heat of battle, that sort of thing is pretty unacceptable. When it comes to movement, Crackdown 
 is great except for one area. Jumping around and running will actually prove to be quite entertaining, 
 but driving, not so much. Driving is by far the worst part of Crackdown's gameplay as the handling 
 of the vehicles suck. The driving will feel very stiff and its hard to make a good turn.
  The co-op play in Crackdown is great simply because it offers more freedom than any other game 
 mode in any other game I've ever played before. You can compete in racing challenges, take out 
 the gang bosses, go on mindless rampages and even set up deathmatches with each other. Each of 
 these is very fun and adds a lot to the entertainment of a game that when played alone is only 
 entertaining in terms of the actual story mode. Expect to be playing more co-op than singleplayer 
 in this game.
  Then there's the other activities you can do after you beat the game. You can partake in on-foot 
 time trials that stress your Agility skill, collect hidden orbs and race against the clock in vehicular 
 time trials. Unfortunately none of these are engaging and you'll probably find yourself sticking 
 to eliminating gang bosses and playing co-op.
  
  The graphics in Crackdown are great. They're both an impressive technical showcase with big environments 
 with pretty much zero pop ins and no load times and good from an artistic standpoint with over 
 the top graphical effects (like the explosions) and the subtle use of cel-shading. Crackdown also 
 offers an amazing physics engine, but it lacks detailed models and textures.
  
  The sound in Crackdown is pretty good as well. The sound effects are amazing and there aren't a 
 lot of repeated sounds and there's a nice assortment of music (though mixed in terms of quality.) 
 But, there's not much dialogue and the writing of the dialogue is bad. The main example of this 
 being the narrator who CONSTANTLY talks and gives you a tutorial all throughout the game no matter 
 how far into it you are. This can get extremely annoying.
  
  Crackdown is a fun game while it lasts. Unfortunately defeating all the gang bosses only takes 
 about 5 hours and playing co-op and doing what you need to do to upgrade your 5 superhuman powers 
 will only add a couple hours to your experience. Then after that, there's pretty much zero replay 
 value, you can collect orbs or race or play time trials of the bosses if you really want, but it 
 seriously doesn't prove to be entertaining in any way.
  
  Crackdown will be a fun game (even if for a short time) if you can see past the fact that there 
 are flaws in the gameplay and the production values as well as the game's replay value. The problem 
 is, it's hard to see past these problems and ultimately, the game experience gets pretty marred 
 by them. But, there's actually one more thing that I think would justify this purchase for some. 
 That's the pretty-much-guaranteed invite to the Halo 3 Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix715
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  i am a HUGE fan of super abilities and killing things and Crackdown fits the bill so i decided 
 to give it a go and rent it. i played it for a good 6 hours straight and pretty much beat half 
 the game. the Graphics are PERFECT for this game a hint of cel shading is perfect. but the gameplay 
 is all too short NO cutscnese which stinks because with the graphics it has it should show them 
 off. fun gameplay. just running and jumping from building to building is amazing in itself. reminds 
 me of the days Spiderman 2. truthfully they say its a sandbox game but i dissagree pretty much 
 you can run around and kill game members and waht not but its not liek GTA where you can do whatever 
 you want and have thigns to do. in this game you will get bored of just running around and end 
 up killing the bosses. fun game rent before you buy it wait till price drops 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game that i got addicted to for a week till i got almost all acheivements but 
 i noticed the developers did a sloppy job. I saw a few buildings with no features at all it was 
 jus a blocky mess but you could still climb the side like as if there were windows there. Also 
 the sound isn't that great cause there isnt any sound at all unless you count the fighting sounds 
 and radio music. But other than that, gameplay is amazing, being able to climb tall buildings like 
 the agency tower and falling off is great fun and also being able to have upgradable cars and stats 
 and being able to get weapons at supply points makes this a good game. I would reccomend buying 
 this game anyways even though there are a few faults, it will provide some good weeks or months 
 of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  There's no doubt that this game is fantastic. Well for 2 days at least. By that I mean it gets 
 pretty boring once you've completed killing the gang bosses. The achievements are what keep you 
 interested because it is impossible to get the full 1000 points between killing the gang bosses. 
 Sure throwing cars and blowing everything to hell is fun, but the novelty wears off really quickly. 
 The original concept of being able to join another player's game over xbox live sounded fantastic, 
 but it really isn't. I was playing on it the other day and although i was only juming around the 
 city I still got annoyed when someone tried to join my game every 5 minutes. I can be good to play 
 with someone else on their game but if you've killed all the gang bosses it's pretty pointless 
 because the only way to get co-op achievements is to start the game from scratch and to do it with 
 a friend. Lets hope you have a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: I like the graphics in crackdown there really detailed and bright. I also like the fact 
 that there cell shaded but not too badly like wind waker. But I would have liked to see a little 
 more less pixilated on the bushs and trees. At night the lights of pacific city make the game vibrant 
 a debth that most games dont go for.
  
  Sounds: The sounds in this game are pretty good I like the part when civilins talk to you and say 
 stuff like what a freak and the mexican gang cuses at you. the explosions sounds are good but i 
 wish that they were louder.
  
  Gameplay: This is the strength of this game. For instance this game dosent have a deep storyline 
 so the gameplay takes that all the way the the max becase the consept of turning your agent in 
 to a full throatled super human is an awsome idea and its the funnest part and funnyest part just 
 throwing heavy stuff around is fun as hell. You can also jump and run fast and higher than 30 feet 
 its crazy
  
  Value: This game is worth picking up its fun just to mess around and level your agent up. Plus 
 it comes with a ready download for Halo 3 beta if you dident get into the rule of three or the 
 first invitaion. My favorite part of this game is pilling up cars exposives ruble and bodys geting 
 a friend to hop in and help me out at any time is always nice too the when your done you and our 
 friend blow the pile to the skis and its very satifiying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Crackdown is a very exciting game, i cant lie about that. You can never fail to have fun shooting 
 someone all the while jumping 50 feet in the air. There are tons of neat features in this game 
 to. The whole idea of transforming cars based on your skills is very neat. But there are only 2 
 exciting vehicles in the game anyways. The biggest problem with the game is the level design. The 
 whole idea is to take out 21 bosses starting with the under boss, general then going for the kingpin 
 of each gang. Although the idea is neat its poorly executed, because all the bosses are very similar 
 in how you kill them. There weren't many unique levels. The A. I isnt very smart either. They never 
 seem to notice you until you get right up close to them. And civilians will never get out of the 
 way of a car coming towards them.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics overall seem to be pretty average, at least for the xbox360. Although i was impressed 
 with the draw distance. If you go up to the highest point in the game you can see practically everywhere.
 
  
  Sound:
  Average again, nothing special here.
  
  Value:
  Bad, the game is extremely short beatable in less than 8 hours. The co-op is only worth doing if 
 you haven't yet beaten the game, and if you have theres practically no replay value at all.
  
  Rent, Buy, Wait, or Don't Bother?
  This is all based on whether you want the halo 3 beta 
 or not. If you do you have no chose but to buy. But if you just want it for the game, its a definite 
 rent.
  
  Crackdown is a fun ride, but the un unique level design and the shortness of the game truly brings 
 it down.
  
  P. S yes i bought this game for the Halo 3 beta.
  
  -G8summit- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is so addicting you won't be able to stop! Cell Shaded graphics really make you feel like 
 a comic hero. I can't really say anything bad about the game to tell the truth, although many will 
 put down the story, but personally I find the sandbox style with no story just lets the gameplay 
 take over as it does! In the end Crackdown is everything I could ever hope for in a sandbox game, 
 great graphics, great sound, amazing animation and the best action gameplay ever made. From what 
 I understand the game is made by one of the devs from the GTA team, and you can kind of see that 
 in the violent content of the game, but beyond that Crackdown is all about the gameplay which for 
 me puts it in a league of it's own! If you haven't bought it already then get out there and do 
 so!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldmenkickbutt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an open world sci-fi shooter with extended capabilities. The game allows a statistical 
 format chart which displays character skills. These skills increse when tasks are performed. At 
 peak, a character can posess super strength, super agility, well developed driving skills, dead 
 eye accurate fire arms, and an incredible explosives range.
  
  Basically, the game puts you in position of an agent who is leaning toward clening the city of 
 thugs, gangs, and weapons. There are three main gangs in control of Pacific City, Los Muertos, 
 The Volk, and Shai Gen. You start off the game in agency headquarters and select one of the three 
 agency vehicles and then begin your exploration of Pacific City.
  
  Each main gang is led by gang bosses. One of your sub-missions is to eliminate those gang bosses 
 in any means neccessary. To locate the bosses, you have to patrol the city with watchful eyes. 
 When you enter a bosses territory, the peace keepers or the police will send you a dossier report 
 with the bosses files, deyails, and personal information. Be aware, when a boss is detected it 
 isnt just a frollic up to him, shoot him with a rocket launcher, and its over. Each boss is heavily 
 protected by guards in their own unique villa or hideout. After all of the bosses are taken out, 
 dont relax yet. You still have to kill the kingpin. The three kingpins are the ones in complete 
 command of each gang. They are not easy prey!
  
  Well, this is basically how the game goes. It is really fun when you save good weapons into your 
 supply points. Supply points are restart points throughout the city. You can also use them as shortcuts. 
 The heavy artillery varies from the grenade launcher, the Grenadier, to the rocket launcher, The 
 HotHead, to the heatseeking rocket launcher, The FireFly.
  The automobiles revolve around the citizens driving along the streets. They provide you your main 
 supply of vehicles.
  
  In conclusion, Crackdown has become one of my all time favorite games and i strongly, strongly 
 reccomend  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksoup
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  If your after Coop then this is the game for you. You can run and jump around kicking people then 
 pick them up and throw them at someone then defeat an enemy gang then pick up a car and throw it 
 at someone then destroy another gang then pick up a truck and throw it at someone. Even though 
 its cell shaded the graphics shouldnt dissapoint and the explosions are magnificent.
  Even with all this there is just a bit missing from it such as the story andrange of things to 
 do.
  
  If you liked GTA this will be a good purchase, it has all the good freeroam with added superpowers 
 and the ability to kick your enemies 30 feet.
  
  This is just a very good game to sit down and play with a friend or on your own for a laugh. Also 
 with a decent leveling up system this makes for a most enjoyable gaming experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game was made with trying to do something different. Thats a good thing something different 
 then beating cops up yada yada ya junk. Giving super powers helps keep it alive.
  
  Good parts.
  1. Graphics are decent with their comicy style.
  2. Super powers
  3. Interesting 
 abilitys, cars and stuff to do with missions.
  4. Fun gameplay to do stuff in.
  5. Co-op.
  
  Arlight see the good things are its something new its online you can play with 
 friends. City is pretty large.
  
  The bad side is that well. Its far to quick and easy. Theres not much to do once you beat the game. 
 Once you win all you do it pretty much kill old same old gang bangers for more stats. Theres not 
 much replay value besides messing around with a friend in the city. Its all around a great well 
 done game id recommend you play you just need to know its not perfect. It gets old and not good 
 replay after your done. But its still pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  The first thing that strikes you about this extremely well animated game is the distinct ability 
 to literally free roam around the entire game, from the offset there is no definitve storyline, 
 just three islands with 6 crime lords and 1 Kingpin each on them, and you are told to simply to 
 go out and wipe them out.
  
  At the beginning of Crackdown, your Agent is pretty wet around the ears and can only really accomplish 
 a few feats that are not exactly impressive, but with each passing minute you journey around the 
 three large islands, killing criminals, scaling walls and buildings, picking up agility orbs, your 
 Agent becomes very strong, very fast.
  
  Your Agents strength is primarily based on five stats; Strength, which is levelled through simply 
 kicking the living daylights out of the various scum dotted over the city. Next is your Agility 
 which is increased by either collecting the agility orbs dotted around the city, or killing enemies 
 from a great height. You also have your driving, explosive and firearms skills which all improve 
 by using each skill successfully - the ultimate reward for maxing these skills out, is a superpowered, 
 high jumping, assasin accurate hyper Agent capable of taking on hordes of criminals and living 
 to be the one to brag about it.
  
  Crackdown is a simple and shallow game focusing on the visual, audio and destructive aspects a 
 gamer may want to follow. There is no storyline as stated, your left to kill each crime boss and 
 Kingpin as you see fit, and all you spend time doing is killing, squashing, driving over, blowing 
 up and or beating to death the hundreds of criminals set against you, there really is no brain 
 work involved at all, and the only real challenge comes from levelling your agent up enough to 
 take on more and more criminals. But this is all fun if your looking for a no brain game.
  
  The graphics are sharp, deep and extremely well animated, using full advantage of the cel shading 
 style so prevelant in a lot of action games now. The islands themselves are set up delightfully, 
 and given great care, the only noticeable thing is no matter how much damage you cause, the city 
 does not take a scratch, and you can pretty much get anywhere eventually. The cars are pretty pointless 
 but fun none the less. The sounds are well adapted and fit perfectly everytime. The online play 
 is annoying but simply makes the game playable by two folk, just make sure you partner up with 
 someone at the same level as you or they will leap ahead easily.
  
  One the whole Crackdown is much like this review, fast, punchy and in your face, its a game that 
 lacks depth but makes up for it with beauty and things that go boom!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Everything in the gaming industry is cloned from or of somthing else, definitly not this!!
  
  Its funny that all cop games are usualy rated low ,nobody wants to be one I presume but and 
 a big one you must be this one its fresh, fresh ,fresh
  
  all new desighn makes for a worthwile play, stunning visuals kick a## abilitys
  weapons you could 
 only love and at times it feels like spidey without the web
  
  this can only get better cant wait for crack down 2
  
  want somthing new buy this or miss out 
 its great wat else can I say woooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooo oooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooo oooooooooooo 
 ooooooooooooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Crackdown in itself is a great game. The only disadvantage i would say, is the replay value, and 
 the length of play. The game can basically be finished over the weekend.
  Aside from that, the game is awesome. You are put into play as a super strength cop, which has 
 been deployed by the government who recently discovered the power of cloning.
  The object of the game is to wipe the city clean of all the ganstas that are inhabiting every corner 
 of the city. And you do this with your massive array of weapons and you super human strength. The 
 game is like a combination of Spiderman meets Grand Theft Auto. The city doesn't seem to big, but 
 as you are able to jump about 30ft in the air, each individual building becomes your playground. 
 You are able to traverse the city by jumping from roof top to roof top, or by simply jumping in 
 your jacked up police car (or any car for that matter) and going off and fighting crime.
  As you progress through the game, you skills will advance as you use that skill, except agiltity 
 which you need to collect globes to advance. All in all, this is a very fun game... but i would 
 rent it before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Comicbook awesome-ness on par with with any Grant Theft Auto game or clone. This 360 sandbox game 
 is not to be missed. I've played Crackdown for hours and passed the game and then kept wanting 
 to play the game over again with my maxed out agent now but thats not possible. The game will not 
 let you create another profile nor start from the begining with your buffed out superhero like 
 superagent. Oh well, it was awesome blockbuster action while it lasted and I really enjoyed it. 
 Microsoft Game Studios Real Time Worlds put out one great and addiciting game and I want more. 
 I'll have to delete my profile and play all over again over Xbox LIVE with a friend I think. Either 
 way, this is the best Sanbox game on the Xbox 360 and immensely fun. I highly recommend it if you 
 like games that are fun. No, if you like games period. Do not rent it, I recommend buying it so 
 you can play it over and over and over again. Its that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  I bought this game purely for the Halo 3 beta invite as I am not that much of a fan of the GTA 
 style games. After spending the &pound;40 on it though I thought I had better at least have a go 
 so fired it up and jumped in.
  
  First impressions were not that good to be honest. I was not sure about the cartoon style graphics 
 and the city seemed to be just another sprawling metropolis, the same as all the other games of 
 this type.
  
  I stuck with it though and after an hour or so I was hooked. This is such a great game. Everything 
 is here, big guns, big fights, driving, exploring, tactics, explosions, collecting and a whole 
 lot more.
  
  Lets start with the basic style of gameplay. Essentially you run or drive around three large-ish 
 districts that make up the city as a whole. Whilst you are running about you decide what you want 
 to do. You can jump straight into the story and start taking out the mob bosses or maybe jump into 
 the collection stuff (where you are looking for collectables on the tops of buildings or hidden 
 away in remote places) .
  
  To get about you either run and jump or you get into a car (any car that is near you to be exact) 
 and I would say that it takes about 15 minutes to drive the whole perimeter of the city, so it's 
 quite a large place.
  
  As you play the game you build up your stats in certain traits like strength, agility, driving 
 and shooting. Each trait has 4 levels and there are plenty of opportunitys to max them out. In 
 fact I am on the last boss now in the game and have had my skills maxed out for at least 5 or 6 
 hours of gameplay now.
  
  Once all of the lesser bosses are taken down you go for the main player in that city area and take 
 him out. Once you have done this you move on to the next area.
  
  It's really simple gameplay, not too many controls but enough to give you great control over the 
 character. The sense of distance and height is really good in the game. One achievement gets you 
 to climb up the top of the agency building which is no easy feat in itself. Once at the top I looked 
 down and felt a little queasy lol!
  
  There are plenty of achievements to collect in the game. Most of them are for reaching certain 
 skill levels or clearing an area.
  
  The most impressive portion of the game however is the co-op play. You can essentially share the 
 game with a friend and the pair of you run about causing mayhem. It is awesome :)
  
  If there is one criticism then it has to be how the game needs to restart if you switch from single 
 player mode to co-op while you are playing. It takes way too long and if the connection fails then 
 you have to load the single player up all over again.
  
  That is but a small fault though, this is a great game and I would recommend that you all try it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wardenb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when poping in crackdown is the graphics, next gen cell shaded 
 is not my idea of next gen but after playing for a while it grows on you, cell shading suits the 
 game very well, because of the super hero feel, but once you have got over the cell shading, you 
 will notice the veiw distance is perfect, you can see the cars and people from 3 islands away, 
 being able to see all the game from the top of the peace keeper HQ is one of the most breathtaking 
 sceens in any videogame today.
  
  The game is defiantly worth a look at, however if your on a tight budget rent it, its a good play 
 on xbox live, and is queit boring on your own, lack of a story line and short gameplay let this 
 game down too much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyr3F0x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a good game. You will really like it if you are into large world games such as GTA, 
 Saints Row and such. Crackdown gives you a lot of choices but does have a pretty short storyline 
 The whole supply point idea was genius and the variety of guns is good as well. But the idea of 
 collecting 500 Agility Orbs is quite bizarre. It is cool how as you progress you character changes 
 and the cars you dive upgrade. The game play is great and graphics are good. The concept is fair 
 and so is the sound. The value is awesome and is worth playing and getting but they're certainly 
 are better games for the XBOX360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timdabrat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  7.8? 7.3? What the heck is up with some people? This new game from Realtime Worlds and Microsoft 
 Game Studios have created this addicting, fast- paced, futuristic sandbox game that mainly focuses 
 around the cleaning out of a crime-ridden city by any means possible. Generally this is by force. 
 Too much force. Like throwing a dump truck at a Person, too much. Yes the goal is to clean out 
 the 3 islands of crime by taking down the 21 gang leaders, either one at a time, or dangerously 
 removing the Main leader first and taking back the streets to justice. Well, This game has one 
 of the best saving systems I've seen yet, with saving whenever you complete a race, kill a leader, 
 or gain a level in one of the 4 fields of expertise. On the topic of the skills advancement, there 
 is agility (spiderman) , shooting (Rambo) , driving (Batmoblie-like car) , and fighting (Drunken Irish 
 People, yes as I myself am Irish, I can say that.)
  
  This game also has multiplayer, sure, it's only co-op over live or split screen, but it still is 
 fun. Also all the achievements are fun to try to, um, achieve... From simply killing certain bosses, 
 to jumping off the Agency tower, to blowing up 100 objects in under 60 seconds, these achievements 
 are mostly original, and Don't get my started on the hidden and agility orbs...
  
  Well this is all I have to say about this game, Its a definite own for fans of the True Crime series, 
 and all those who just want a great sandbox game. The only problem, is that the hunting down of 
 these crimelords is a simple task that will not take more than about 10 hours... but hey, if that 
 doesnt still get your vote, then how about halo 3 beta? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snrsmith23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The graphic style is supposed to have a comic book look to it, but really it's not all that noticeable. 
 The graphics are good none the less and overall I enjoyed the look. Plus, the explosions are absolutely 
 amazing looking.
  
  The gameplay is extremely fun jumping from rooftop to rooftop and trying to find all of th agility 
 orbs. But it can get a bit repetitive with all the gang fights. Co-op really adds a lot to this 
 game and it's uniqueness. Overall Crackdown is surprisingly a lot of fun and addicting and is worth 
 a try whether you like open-world games or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHOSTxDAWG
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is alot better than a thought it was going to be. It still buy this game without having 
 the Halo 3 beta. Its a great open world game that it could be compared alot to GTA. This is one 
 of my favorites because it lets you do alot of things that you don't see in games these days like 
 for example picking up the car door which is great and picking were you want to shoot at the person 
 or the police guy like I do. One of the funnest games out there to play and to have a good time. 
 This is great game to just have fun. Overall its a game that you buy not rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has come out with a few very good games over the last few months.... Crackdown is 
 my kind of game. Microsoft took a little Halo (Jumping ability) and added the free roam, shoot 
 everything GTA atmosphere and created a very fun to play game. You can hook up with your friend 
 in co-op mode and just do whatever you want in the game. There are certain areas that team work 
 is what gets you thru a section or boss. You can also goof around in the game by piling up as many 
 cars as you can have your buddy stand on top and blow up the pile. (and your buddy) You have to 
 do certain things to get your abilities up to Super Agent and once you are there you are the king 
 of your domain. There is a extra download that is suppose to be available in the near future to 
 add to the game play. The demo that came out before the game is close to the actual game, however 
 I think that playing the actual game is more fun. What I have noticed in the newsgroups and reviews 
 is that you either really like the game or it just does not fit your style. If you like the Free 
 Roam aspect, GTA series, Godfather, Scarface, etc. You will really get into Crackdown. If still 
 unsure go rent it and try it out before you let go of your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploder22
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Crackdown will either immediately impress or disappoint most people with its distinctive art style, 
 ove the top action and free roaming gameplay. With those three elements most people would wonder 
 how a game could fail, and Crackdown doesn't... to a degree. Crackdown boils down the open world 
 fomula to a single point, action. Discarding things like story and character development the game 
 focuses almost entirely on run and gun style gameplay and a love of making things explode. There 
 is a lot to like about Crackdown. With a larger than average world to explore, the ability to power 
 up your agent to superhuman levels, even morph your vehicles on the fly to drive better, last longer 
 and jump farther. Again poeple will say things like, That sounds awesome . But in the world of 
 Crackdown, these things come at a price, namely everything else. The world feels extremely barren 
 even though there are sometimes hundreds of civilian npc's and dozens of bad guys all on screen 
 at once. Mostly this is because the AI only exhibits the most basic of reactionary intelligence, 
 never even having the common sense to take cover or run as their health gets low. The graphics 
 themselves are a dual edged blade as well. On one hand they are very clean and sharp with vast 
 impressive draw distances that easily rival any other open world adventure (i. e. Oblivion, Saints 
 row, GTA) . At the same time they can feel a bit sterile as the comic book inspired look takes away 
 from some of the grit and dirt feel that a large dysfunctional cityscape should have. It is easy 
 to say that the co-op online nature of the game will be its saving grace for most players. The 
 games twenty-one bosses are remarkably easy to dispatch if you take them out in the order they 
 are assigned to you, and the games length boils down to ten or so hours of hunting down bosses 
 and the remainder trying to max out your skills. Once the dust settles and the final boss is dead 
 the only way to justify the purchase is to take it online with a friend or total stranger and complete 
 the gang rush modes where the game tracks how quickly you and another person can wipe out an entire 
 gang. If you are a completionist, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! There are over five-hundred of the agility 
 orbs to collect and three-hundred hidden orbs scattered throughout the sprawling metropolis some 
 tucked away in places so obscure and remote, you wont be able to find them even with the help of 
 a strategy guide. This is made worse as one of the achievements is given for finding all the orbs 
 in the game. I'll go on record to say it isn't worth the eventual heart attack this game will cause 
 those people as they scour the city for the one or two remaining orbs they've yet to find. In the 
 end you'll find that this is a pure open world experience. For better or worse, it's all dependent 
 on the player, some people will be satisfied by the games simplistic violence and over the top 
 explosions and carnage. However there will be those looking for an experience like Saints Row, 
 these people will be disappointed. The online play was actually done up well but unfortunately 
 this alone cannot compensate for its failings in other areas. I give it an eight out of ten because 
 what it does it does well, unfortunately those parts cannot carry the total package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secher_nbiw
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I would expect more from the creator of GTA. The first few hours were fun, building skills and 
 killing bangers, but then you realize that you can do NOTHING else in this game. 21 go-kill-this-guy 
 missions. a handful of weapons, boring driving. the only fun of it is jumping from roof to roof. 
 no side quests other than lame driving or agility tests. groups of gang members spawn in areas 
 you cleared minutes ago. if you stand too close to a ledge on a rooftop, you cant shoot, you just 
 stand there swinging your weapon. the city isnt that big, and the narrator regurgitates the same 
 lines over and again. no story to speak of, little plot or motivation, pathetic character creation 
 process (none) in this day and age i should have a little more control over what my avatar looks 
 like. if you buy this for halo beta, im sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a GTA style open ended game from developer Realtime Worlds. You play as a genetically 
 enhanced police officer and your mission is to remove the three gangs that reside in Pacific City.
 
  
  I guess I'll start off with the story of Crackdown, what little there is. As I said earlier you 
 are a police officer, your title in the game is Agent and you work for The Agency. You are to remove 
 the three gangs in Pacific City, the Los Muertos, The Volk, and the Shai-Gen. Each control a group 
 of islands that make up Pacific City. When you start the game you are treated to a short intro 
 cutscene to explain the background story and that's pretty much all of the story telling this game 
 has to offer. You are left to your own to take out the gangs as you see fit. As you are running 
 or driving through the city you will run into high level gang members. You will get a short on 
 screen briefing about the member and the location will be marked on your almost totally useless 
 map. The in game map for Crackdown is terrible, you can't zoom in or plot routes. I guess if you 
 have a 60 HDTV is might be a little useful but there is a fold out map that you get with the game 
 which is ok. Also, each gang member has a different specialty and when you defeat that member that 
 takes that ability away from the gang and makes it easier to beat the head of the gang you are 
 fighting.
  
  While you are taking out these gangs you will have five skills that you can level up. Agility, 
 Driving, Explosives, Strength, and Firearms. You level up Agility by collecting agility orbs and 
 killing gang members while jumping. This will make you run faster and jump higher. You level up 
 Driving by completing races or running over enemies. The driving in this game sucks, most of the 
 vehicles drive like crap until you max out your driving skill. And some of them still drive terrible 
 with the skill maxed out. You level up Explosives by killing enemies with explosives. This will 
 increase the blast damage and radius of your explosive attacks. You level up Strength by killing 
 enemies with melee attacks or throwing objects at them. This will give you more health, let you 
 pick up heavier objects and make your melee attacks stronger. And you level up Firearms by killing 
 enemies with guns. This will make you more accurate when using firearms. You can also find hidden 
 orbs that give points to all the skills. Some of the most fun I had in the game was collecting 
 the agilty orbs. I don't know why but it was a blast to jump from rooftop to rooftop collecting 
 orbs.
  
  Crackdown's graphics feature a very cool cell shaded look but the objects are textures. The city, 
 cars, and characters all look pretty good. The draw distance of the city is pretty far which helps 
 to see those agility orbs that are found on rooftops.
  
  Sound for the most part is ok, all of the background music is crap. You can turn it off but you 
 can turn down the volume of the music so you can't hear it. But everytime you get into a vehicle 
 a huge pop up will block your view on screen to tell you what lame song you are listining to. The 
 gunfire and explosions sound ok. Some of the cars sound good and some sound a little off. Most 
 of the voice work which is done by a member of The Agency who is a announcer I guess is done well, 
 but sometimes he says things that don't even relate to what your doing on screen.
  
  Overall Crackdown is a pretty good game and there is fun to be had. The game doesn't last long, 
 the story is weak, the driving is bad, and there are a few unpolished areas that hinder the gameplay 
 a little but if you enjoy GTA or Saints Row you will probably have some fun playing Crackdown. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DismasX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, it hasnt got the best graphics, it didnt have that much hype at launch (relatively 
 speaking) , the story can be described as weak at best, and yet here I am playing Crackdown instead 
 of Gears of War and Lost Planet both of which should be superior in every way!
  
  So the question is why? Why? WHY?... Answer - I really dont know but whatever this game has got, 
 its got it just right. I was hooked from the first video trailer I saw of the game, unlocking 
 achievements by leaping off tall buildings and jumping cars like a demonic stunt man. Freedom to 
 roam the city and leap tall buildings in a single bound perhaps?
  
  I just dont know  but I like it, I like it a lot.
  
  Im not for one minute saying this game 
 is perfect, there are lots of little niggles and frustrations which I feel could easily have been 
 removed in a more polished game. But it just adds to the charm, and the first time you leap from 
 the top of one skyscraper to the next whilst taking out 5 villains with a shoulder mounted rocket 
 launcher, youll be hooked too.
  
  What are you waiting for download the demo now, climb to the top of the nearest building and enjoy.
 
  
  Dis xxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennedy123456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  great online co-op a blast an brill game i like the amount of destruction you can cause and the 
 level up system gives it a twist i wish the missions were more varied but you won't worry about 
 that in co-op me and my mates were always busy having street races or throwing civies of the tops 
 of buildings my favourite aspect is the sort of comic book super hero one with super man like agents 
 and the king pins all have that feel to them like the shi gen kingpin there is always on of those 
 in comic book you know the old chinese
  guy who lives in skyscraper surrounded by guards but dies anyway well thats all i can say but all 
 in all a great game well done real time worlds 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubalu0
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been something great. Too much time was spent making it look pretty. Not enough 
 time on the story line. The graphics are gorgeous and gameplay smooth, but I prefer some story 
 and the multiplayer refuses to update both players even when you are both at the same point. This 
 game is fun but I should have waited for the bargain bin I guess. The car controls are horrible 
 unless you max out driving. Lifting cars and throwing them can make you feel uber, except you really 
 cant accurately throw anything. Lots of bullets flying everywhere. I like the GTA series where 
 there is a distinct story line going on, you do not have that here. The closest thing to a story 
 is what it says on the box. Waste of $$ at the current price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Crackdown, or called Riot Act in Japan has been a very popular game since its release was announced, 
 one of the reasons was that it carried the entrance to the infamous Halo 3 beta, but I dont think 
 anyone bought Crackdown solely for the purpose of playing the beta, cuz thats just plain idiotic. 
 Crackdown offers a new gaming experience, quite unique graphics, not to mention a lot of the achievements 
 are actually quite fun to get. Crackdown is like a mix of Judge Dredd, GTA, plus a splash of The 
 Matrix, you play as a super agent, biologically modified so that you can fall down from 200 feet 
 and still not sustain any serious injuries. Your role is to read and follow the narrators instructions, 
 which is to annihilate the 3 gangs that control Pacific City, Los Muertos, The Volk and Shai-Gen 
 Corporation. You start off as a small insignificant guy, only able to jump around 15 feet, not 
 very special, but as you develop your skills and abilities, you can evolve . Which means your appearance 
 will change to look more menacing and more buff.
  
  What I like most is the agents super powers, the jumping specifically, because whenever you make 
 a high jump, the perspective makes it look like you are flying, but not actually flying, cuz that 
 would ruin the game. i think the concept of the agent was inspired by The Hulk, being able to lift 
 heavy objects, jump long distances, make bad guys fly 50 feet with a single kick. Except that the 
 agent looks a lot cooler when doing those things. There are these things around the city called 
 agility orbs and hidden orbs, agility orbs are so commonly found on rooftops that it gives so much 
 temptation to grab them, and hidden orbs are obviously hidden, but they give you a boost in every 
 skill level. When the agent levels up, he is srrounded in this blue light, then releases himself 
 in a mini explosion that sends anyone flying in a 5 meter radius. When I see that happening, its 
 like the agent is constipated, it kinda goes like this:  
 
  
  Each gang has several generals that you have to beat to lower the kingpin's overall strength, the 
 generals aren't really difficult, as they are usually hiding in a secluded place, shielded away 
 from gunfire, occasionally with a few guards protecting the general. 2 grenades should finish the 
 guards off, the go and melee the general to death, cuz interestingly, kicking him in the shin makes 
 the general die faster than a bullet in the head. I would recommend using limpet charges on them, 
 think of plasma grenades in Halo, thats what they are.
  
  Your own Agency vehicles will transform as your driving skills increase, and it comes with pretty 
 neat add-ons, too. Plus, they look so much cooler when they transform, and the comic-like graphics 
 add to that as well. Achievements are quite fun to get, some of them you will get without even 
 noticing or focusing on it, some will take some time to get, but its fun doing them, unlike a lot 
 of games which require you to actually work to earn them. That's what I hate most, having to work 
 for something I want.
  
  Get Crackdown as soon as you can, cuz those beta invitations dont last long, cuz you do wanna say, 
 I was one of the first people to play Halo 3~!! That aside, Crackdown is amazing, play it and feel 
 your adrenaline being pumped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkDemyze
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: Extremely fun, even more so in co-op; big explosions; amazing draw distance; immersive 
 sound; orbs, lots and lots of orbs.
  
  The Bad: Tedious races; repetitive boss battles; clumsy AI; shallow story.
  -------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  First and foremost, this is not Grand Theft Auto. It almost depicts everything that Grand Theft 
 Auto is not. While the developers at Real Time Worlds don't want these comparisons to be made, 
 they would be fooling themselves if they didn't think it was going to happen. But in light of the 
 sandbox genre, Crackdown manages to separate itself from the crowd in more ways than one.
  
  When looking at the game, the first noticeable difference is of course the graphics. Unlike 
 many other games of the genre, Crackdown does not attempt to hail to realism. It has a very comic-esque 
 look to it that does the game play justice. Buildings and landscapes are big and beautiful with 
 a tremendous amount of effort put into the different textures giving the game a very unique look 
 and feel that is nothing of which any other game currently has to offer. The graphics make the 
 unreality seem more believable when jumping from rooftop to rooftop. Thanks to the incredible draw 
 distance, when standing atop some of the taller buildings in the game, you really get a sense of 
 dept and how high up you are which can make for some breath taking sights.
  
  Unfortunately, just because the game looks like a comic book, doesn't mean it's read like one. 
 The story is so low-profile it is almost non-existent. Basically the city is so over run with crime 
 that the police, named The Peacekeepers , don't even stand a chance. To combat this, The Agency 
 has created a line of super soldiers in order to rise up and fight against the growing delinquency. 
 You take the role of one of these agents and you are given a hit list of 3 king pins to take down. 
 Each with their own set of 6 lieutenants to kill. When you wipe out a lieutenant, it makes the 
 king pin a bit weaker increasing your chances of victory. Take out the recruiter, and there will 
 be less enemies; Take out the automotive specialist and there will be fewer cars guarding the area; 
 Take down the weapons specialist and instead of blasting you with snipers and rockets, the enemies 
 will only wield shotguns and pistols.
  
  While the game may seem difficult if you try to take the waves of random guards head on, you are 
 given the opportunity to sneak in and go right for the boss. On the other hand, by doing this you 
 miss a large portion of the game because a lot of the fun is found in the middle of the chaos once 
 all Hell has broken loose. In addition you can fight the bosses in any order you please. These 
 two things give you an unparalleled level of freedom to play the game in any way you see fit. Another 
 caveat though is that all the lieutenants and king pins are nothing more than a normal grunt with 
 4 or 5 bars of health and a big gun - They aren't any smarter, they aren't any faster, they don't 
 use any special tactics. The bosses run around and scream random obscenities just like every other 
 faceless pawn you smash through on your way to the Big Guy. 
  
  This leads to another issue that many games now seem to face - repetitive game play. Collect the 
 orbs, level up your agent, kill the bad guys. Lather, rinse, repeat. It may not take away from 
 the fun of the game, but in order to have new experiences you have to get creative. There are no 
 side missions other than a few races here or there, or jumping through stunt hoops, none of which 
 offer any real incentive to complete other than achievement factor.
  
  The controls on foot are mostly tight making leaping across the city in leaps and bounds satisfying 
 and exciting. But the lock-on aiming can be flaky at times. You might find yourself in the middle 
 of a huge battle being surrounded by 100+ goons who are all shooting to kill, and your agents decides 
 it would be nice to beat a dead horse like a kitten playing with a ball of yarn. It can be frustrating 
 at times and often leads to your untimely demise. But when it works it's nice to be able to quickly 
 aim at certain body parts with the flick of the analog stick.
  
  Driving on the other hand is a similar experience. The agency vehicles offer some compelling features 
 and handle nicely. - A supercar that drives under traffic, a SUV that will drive over traffic, 
 and a truck cab that plows right through traffic when it reaches a certain speed. Each of these 
 cars gain a special ability when youre driving skill is maxed. Alas, beside a few sports cars 
 (most being Los Muertos gang cars) , these are the only cars worth driving because the handling 
 of normal cars you find in traffic is almost unbearable.
  
  The weapons offered to do your slaying are quite plentiful but are mostly standard giving you a 
 few variations of a pistol, shotgun, machine gun, sniper rifle, grenade launcher, rocket launcher 
 and grenades. You will rarely run out of ammo because you as you reclaim Agency Supply Points around 
 the city, you can return to these points to refill your ammo at any time. Supply points will also 
 serve as your checkpoints around the city as well so when you die, you can return to any supply 
 point that you have unlocked. Although this game falls short in many areas, one attribute that 
 seems to excel in is the audio. Aside from the chaos and surrealistic super theme of the game, 
 one thing that makes the game more believable is the sound you hear. Sounds of explosions can be 
 heard thundering blocks away. Every car has a unique roar (or squeal) . Even the ambient footsteps, 
 telephone rings, bird chirps, and gusts of wind have been carefully crafted to make this world 
 sound as if it were a real place. The music may be worth a listen to but will most likely be overlooked 
 by most people thanks to the mp3 player style presentation as opposed to the radio style we have 
 seen in games past.
  
  So after you finish the game, is there anything left to do? Well, the achievements are mostly fun, 
 but some are annoying. They range from keeping a body in the air for 10 seconds to finding all 
 300 hidden orbs and as stated before, you have a few tedious side missions that many will find 
 not worth completing. The game is released with only 900 gamerscore available. The other 100 points 
 will be available through free downloadable content in the future. You can turn crimes on which 
 will make the gangs randomly appear around the city as they did during the game but The Peacekeepers 
 still control the boss territories. The time trial mode which is nothing more than a boss blitz 
 mode lets you select the boss you want to fight, and you then must try to kill them as quick as 
 possible. Other than that the game doesn't have much to offer unless you link up with a friend 
 over Xbox live and get creative.
  
  The big question is: Why are people buying this game? Is it because it secures them a place in 
 the Halo 3 beta. Or is it because this is a game worth playing that holds its own in the sandbox 
 genre of gaming? Is the Halo 3 beta a software seller or a nice add-on for the fans of the sandbox 
 game? Many will testify to the former and will find themselves buying the game without even playing 
 through or caring about Crackdown at all. Hopefully these people will at least give the game a 
 try, and they might find that the unfinished game they paid full price for actually has another 
 game bundled in for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good game. The gamplay is pretty fun but it sort of gets repative really 
 fast. The whole time you just go into a gang leader or other gang personal elemite his or her body 
 guards and kill that person. The gaphics have it's own type of twist which is sme what cartoony 
 and gives you break from the games that try to look realalistic. The upgrading in the game is pretty 
 fun but you don't need to use everthnig like i'm a level 4 star in everthing execpt explosion becasue 
 i don't use gerands. But if your that type of person that uses gernades it could really help. All 
 in all i give this game a 8.8 becasue of the repativeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweraw123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I believe this is a good game... the concept is good, the gameplay is great. graphics, though not 
 a 360 gem, are smooth. love the fact that its a sreaming world, so you can look behind you and 
 people will still be there. fun to just run around maxing out your characters. but, the game is 
 way too short. you could beat it in a day. and there are a couple things in the game that dont 
 make sense. like when i killed the Los Muertos gang boss, so all gang members in that area are 
 gone, but i still find places in other territories where there are random los muertos there to 
 greet me. really weird. other than the lengh though, i really dont have a complaint about the game. 
 driving does suck, but only when you start out. you have to actually drive to get you driving skill 
 good. but i recommend this game. its really fun coop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2325
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Great game! It could have been a little longer though. Definately a renter! The coolest part probobly 
 would have to be leveling up! I sugest that you have a friend that has it because the online story 
 mode is freaking fun! You piss off your partner by kicking him and then blow them up with a rocket 
 launcher! but tht is just what i do! Online you can play the entire story mode including all the 
 bosses. IF you ever get stuck, just grab a freind and kik that bosses ass! If you do get tgis game, 
 1st dont kill any gang bosses because there will be no more gangs and if no more gangs, you can't 
 level up! And trust me, you want to level up! I dont know what the funnest part of the game was, 
 but I shure did enjoy jumping off rooftops to get orbs and blow up civlians with my rocket launcher! 
 definately play this game! Get down with the crackdown! Two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  The game is really good.
  The first moment, its really hard to skill up, but if your skills are up, its really nice to play. 
 Your: driving skill, if you go up, ever easy agency car you drive in transforms to a faster and 
 better looking car. thats really cool. the game play's nice. but 3 skills you really need are, 
 running and jumping, shooting and muscle. and those are the hardest to get full. so a bad thing. 
 and the only bad thing! exept.. the online, because nobody wants to play online. they always say 
 no.
  
  The game is really fun and online rock's two..
  And the gamerpoints are really easy or hard to get. and that makes it challeging and breathtaking.
 
  
  BUYBUYBUY: D! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. When you level up to 100%, you can leap tall buildings, throw cars over 
 tall buildings, shoot missiles with HUGE explosions from tall buildings, and ramp your pimp transforming 
 cars over buildings. Oh yeah, thier are tones of gigantic tall buildings that you can climb to 
 the top of and leap into a free fall straight to the ground or water. Sounds fun right... well the 
 only part that sucks is when its all over. It feels like their should have ben a lot more to do 
 in such a big place. You can collect the 800 total orbs, but that gets boring after about 600 or 
 so. You can play online in co op with someone, but the game still ends to soon. This game has some 
 priceless moments. These moments will only make you want more. The shooting combat is great with 
 the lock on feature, however you dont always lock on to the person you want. The physical combat 
 has great moments as well, but I wish you had a bigger move list. This game can keep you going 
 for about 20 hours and then a sudden stop and your done. You can keep playing after you beat the 
 game, but thier is nothing to do but get the orbs you missed. Maybe some great download content 
 will be coming soon! (Oh yeah, on the day the game was released, you have downloadable content 
 waiting for you. 4 extra characters who are cooler than the originals.,,,,,,,, for free!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTrumpeter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this game, like most people, it was for the Halo 3 Beta. When I put in the game, 
 however, I realized I just made one of my best game purchases in awhile. The game is highly addictive 
 with leveling up, beating gangs, and finding orbs. It also has addicting achievements to obtain, 
 not too easy and not too hard. Some people say it's too short, but I believe all the achievement 
 freaks disagree. Plus, if you think it's too short, you also got the Beta =P. All in all, If you're 
 a fan of Halo or GTA, this is a must have game, and not just for the Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_bow_100
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This is a great concept that, sadly, has been executed to a very poor standard. There's no proper 
 storyline, a distinct lack of decent multiplayer and the whole cell shaded thing really doesn't 
 work on the 360. As far as gameplay goes, it consists mainly of jumping around for a while, killing 
 various gang members, searching for gang leaders, which by the way, are easy to find by looking 
 at the map and scouring the cities looking for orbs. That's right, annoying collectables are making 
 a comeback. Unfortunately. The jumping around is all good fun, especially once you have full agility, 
 but not for long since falling large distances damages your health immensely. This quickly makes 
 it annoying and tedious, more so if your trying to scale a tall building. Killing gang members 
 also gets very boring, very fast as they have so little life in them you may as well be killing 
 shop manequins. The advancement of your major skills is easy so there is no real sense of advancement 
 and after completing the game it leaves you with nothing to do, except maybe collect the rest of 
 the orbs and finish of the various road and rooftop races. However the difficulty of some of these 
 make them strictly for perfectionists. These things, I seem to recall, were also traits of the 
 sadly lacking 'Ultimate Spider-man' which is almost a carbon copy of this game.
  Moving on, the graphics are different, which is one thing i'll grant this game, but that doesn't 
 mean they work. With all the power in the shell of the 360 you would think they could generate 
 some thing better than this. Realtime Worlds wake up! We've seen it all before in the likes of 
 the previously mentioned 'Ultimate Spider-man', the truly beatiful 'Okami' and the entire 'Dragonball 
 Z Budakai ' series (which I am ashamed to admit I have played) . Proper graphics would have done 
 this game justice (if you'll excuse the pun) .
  As far as sound goes, the frankly rubbish soundtrack make me dread going on the title screen and 
 scarilly crap (am I allowed to say that, sorry to all those who are offended if im not if i'm not) 
 radio tracks give you nothing to drive to (not that you'd want to drive anywhere as roof hopping 
 is far more fun) .
  All of these factors coupled with no character creation (which this game blatantly needed... heck 
 it was practicly screaming for it, i mean it didn't even have character customisation just a few 
 skins and that was it!) , no flying vehicles (how fun would that be) , no four player multiplayer ( 
 it so could have had that) and absolutely no side missions ( it so should have had) leaves you 
 with a half arsed game that gives no value for money so to all those out there who are considering 
 purchasing this game don't. And if you really must for the love of god wait until its &pound;20... 
 max.
  Final Verdict: Another rental title thats only worth playing for the achievements but hey, there's 
 always Crackdown 2.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjodi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Even though the bosses are easily defeated and the story is fairly weak this game is great fun. 
 Once you have advanced your abilities it is a real treat to jump roof top to roof top and pick 
 up and throw anything you can get your hands on. Wreaking havoc with a friend in co-op is terrific 
 but ending your game-play to begin or end a session is a tremendous draw back, if Gears can have 
 seamless join and leave why can't crackdown? This game could have had 1000 different achievements 
 with the open ended game-play and huge city. The difficulty could have meant something too, as 
 an achievement for completing missions as well as to expand game-play. The city is empty once you 
 defeat the last boss so don't do it till you've done all the achievement you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyboosh13
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Very good, nothing special but due to the size of the destricts they look pretty good. 
 Special Effects are its real strong point.
  The cartoon style is pretty unique but will put off some people.
  
  Sound - Nice but nothing 
 compared to GTA. A little soulless but has potential.
  
  Gameplay - The Boss elimination (story mode) is actually pretty good. But because this is the MAIN 
 story it does feel rather dull and repetitive at times. Maybe if their was side missions and other 
 things to do but destruction and hunting orbs.
  
  Overall - Good game a def rent and possible buy if you love your sandbox games. Its not a GTA or 
 a Mario 64 but its a nice addition and their is potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: locke118
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  just filling the space a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumdeals
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Why didn't Crackdown have a really tough boss, coming from the makers of the incredible hulk, it 
 seemed like you would just locate a boss and fight them. Which it was, but they weren't very special, 
 every gang-member just carried a gun and shot at you, sometimes things exploded. There was no reason 
 to level up your driving ability, because other than boring, and easy time trial races, there were 
 no missions involving car chases. The game also missed out because it lacked a variety of attacks. 
 One Kick, and if you pulled the trigger to close to a gangmember, you strike them with the gun.
 
  However.. a game that came out years ago, on original xbox features tons of attacks that are endlessly 
 entertaining, including swinging street lights like baseball bats, smashing busses repeatedly (without 
 letting go) , and punching people into the ground, PLUS it had really fun boss battles, instead 
 of a regular gangmember with extra health. And on top of all that you could jump just as high as 
 a crackdown agent in incredible hulk.
  The biggest dissappointment came when i very easily managed to meet the final boss in crackdown, 
 and i accidentally killed him with one rocket.
  
  It is fun jumping off a building while your shooting a gang member in the face, but i would rather 
 play incredible hulk where i could jump off a building with a gigantic bus or hamburger and smash 
 it from 100 stories high into a more interesting target than a boring gangmember.
  
  The maker's of crackdown should aim to make the game a little more interesting with more attacks, 
 more destructable objects, tougher, or at least more interesting bosses than just a double HP gangmember, 
 and should also incorporate the need for driving skills. In my opinion a lot of the game was based 
 on 3D platforming, which was really really simple, maybe incorporating puzzles, moving platforms, 
 breakable platforms or some kind of challenge, I never found myself thinking How do I get up there? 
 I also thought the game was incredibly short for how thin the gameplay structure was with 3 identical 
 mission structures to take out each gang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game that most people bought for the Halo 3 Beta, while others bought it for it's 
 amazing multiplayer that they experienced from the demo. Well that demo was too short to figure 
 out anything and Beta stuff sucks. When you first play Crackdown it's fun. Then you easily beat 
 some bosses. You start to level up very fast. Then the game gets too easy. Now you'll run through 
 everything extremely fast and beat the game. Me and my friend beat the game in under an hour in 
 co-op. There are alot of things to do in Crackdown. Make explosions or make up games with your 
 friends. There are 500 agility orbs and 300 hidden orbs. Alot of the hidden orbs aren't very hidden, 
 but some of them are. They give experience to everything. Agility orbs are easy to get. Agility 
 orbs only give agility experience. The worst part about collecting either type of orb is when you 
 have 1 left and just can't find that last one.
  
  A. I. in this game really sucks. You'll be trying to raise your driving by running over gang members, 
 then the peacemakers try to help and you hit them and lose experience.
  
  Co-op is laggy most of the time and unless you are gonna play with a friend, a party is almost 
 impossible to get in to. People can join your single player game just like in GOW. In Co-op you 
 get to make your own games though. If it's not laggy, it can be fun. Helping each other get a hard 
 orb, or playing a simple game like rocket tag. You have 5 skills in this game:
  
  Driving - You raise by doing driving tricks or running over gang members. When you get to level 
 4, agency cars look better and each have their own special abilities.
  
  Firearms - You raise by shooting gang members. Level 4 makes it faster to kill people.
  
  Explosives 
 - You raise by using explosives. Level 4 also helps it to kill people faster.
  
  Agility - You raise by collecting agility orbs. This at level 4 makes you run faster and jump higher.
 
  
  Strength - You raise by punching, kicking, or throwing objects at enemy gang members. At level 
 4 you can pick up heavy things and have a higher defence.
  
  The achivements are easy to get, but some of them are messed up. The globe one you're only suppose 
 to kill 15 people to get it. My friend had to kill 30, but I only had to kill 3. I heard of others 
 too.
  
  All together this game sucks. I see very little reason to buy it. i just bought it because I found 
 some gift cards laying around and they had $100 on them. I have to say RENT this game. It is not 
 worth buying, but there was alot of hype and that makes people want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - It's a very open ended sandbox type of game and you super powers. The shooting is pretty 
 bad in the game where you have to lock on most of the time and bullets barley do any damage anyway. 
 The physics are pretty good but you'll get tired of kicking enemies around and all that. The co-op 
 is where the main fun of this game is to be had. Graphics - Cool cell-shaded graphics but the enviroments 
 all look too simular. Sound - lots of songs and an annoying announcer
  
  Value - there is online co-op but once you beat the game you can't do it again Bad Tilt - You can 
 just get the demo for free and the demo contains everything this game has to offer . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, the first time I played this game I wasn't too impressed. But after you get going 
 and start building up your abilities it becomes a different game. A lot of fun! Everything gets 
 bigger and badder. You go from being able to pull a car door off it's hinges and throw it, to being 
 able to lift the car and throw it. Just wait until you can jump 30 feet in the air while blowing 
 up a semi with a rocket launcher. It's a blast. (lame pun intended) As each ability gets higher, 
 the more crazy stuff you can do. And no other game has made me feel vertigo like Crackdown when 
 you're jumping around from skyscraper to skyscraper. There really isn't much of a story, but this 
 game isn't about story. It's about running around killing bad guys, and blowing things up in ridiculous 
 ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a pretty good game with a short story mode. The achievements of this game keep it's 
 replay value at a great level, because they are pretty hard to get, but fun to try and earn. The 
 creativeness of this game is shown very well. Climbing to the top of the largest tower in the game 
 for 10 achievement points is definitely a fun thing, even if it's for a small amount. Killing gangs 
 were easy, and getting your levels to their peaks are pretty easy also. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who wants the HALO beta, a good, fun, sandbox game, and a laughable experience getting 
 those creative achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  You know that game that comes with the Halo 3 Beta, right? That game would be Crackdown. This is 
 not a GTA clone. This is not a gimick (okay, maybe it is) and it is not a bad game. Not bad at 
 all. Now where should I start? Oh yes, the storyline... yeah there isn't much of that. Basically, 
 you are a cop on mega-steroids and you need to kill the gangstaz. To whipe out the gangstaz from 
 their homes, you must kill 7 bosses of each gang (there are 3 gangs) which makes 21 bosses in all. 
 That may seem like alot, but you can pin them down fast. When you start the game, your character 
 will be pretty whimpy looking. There's a cure for that. You will have skills in Agility, Driving, 
 Explosives, Strength and Firearms that want to be leveled. To level your agility, there are agility 
 orbs on buildings, billboards and even a clown, if you want to level strength, kick people (not 
 pedestrians, as much as you want to, try not to kill them) to level firearms, shoot gangstaz, for 
 driving, run over gangstaz, and for explosives, blow up gangstaz. There are 4 stages of each skill 
 and when you level a skill, you might notice a subtle difference in your character's appearance. 
 You will get addicted to leveling up. I litterally spent 14 straight hours on a Saturday night 
 without sleep with my friend doing co-op. It was so much fun finding ways to screw around with 
 pedestrians and launching yourself over jumps with the SUV, and the highlight of the night: Jumping 
 off the Agency Tower. Everything just seems to be better when you have a buddy to back you up with 
 the bosses. The game is awesome but short. Playing this will definately pass the time when you're 
 waiting for your presciousssss beta. Me? I'm just waiting for some Crackdown 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great visual style; intense and constant action throughout; unique skill system; brilliant 
 use of the Havok engine; a huge and varied world to explore; a great set of achievements.
  
  The Bad: The main story is incredibly shallow and short; poor car handling; a mediocre soundtrack; 
 a few graphical hitches here and there.
  
  
  Crackdown is one of the very few free-roaming 
 games that takes the sandbox formula and almost re-invents it entirely, fusing multiple types of 
 gameplay together to form a game of one of its kind. Simply put, Crackdown is one of most fun experiences 
 a sandbox game has had to offer in recent history.
  
  The one thing that might come surprising about Crackdown is how fast it drops you straight into 
 the game, you have your basic main menu that of course lets you decide what you want to do, but 
 the main mode, campaign mode, is really all there is from the get go. Crackdown lacks any real 
 in-depth story, all that is needed to know, is that the futuristic metropolis that is pacific city 
 is overrun by gangs, and its your job as a super-agent (yes, super-agent) to clear out those gangs, 
 and that just about sums it up, Crackdown is more of a freeform sandbox game than a huge story-driven 
 adventure and that only helps bring the game down, and as a result, leaves Crackdown feeling a 
 little shallow at parts, but all that really matters is the fun and intense action Crackdown has 
 to offer.
  
  You play as one of eight agents, but these arent your average agents, they have 5 key adaptive 
 skills that evolve over the course of the game, these skills are; Agility, Driving, Explosives, 
 Strength and Shooting. These 5 skills are pretty much the 5 main cores of action in Crackdown. 
 In pacific city there are 3 main gangs that rule over 3 unique territories, and by taking out the 
 21 unique gang bosses and wiping out a gang completely, you will gain skill points depending on 
 how you take down the enemy, for instance just shooting a guy will improve your shooting abilities, 
 and using explosives will improve you explosive abilities, its actually a really clever way of 
 advancing through the game in your own way and adds to the free-from play that Crackdown does so 
 well, as these skills improve you will see a dramatic change in your characters appearance: new 
 facial features, hair, a bigger build ect. and of course the parameters of that said skill such 
 as bigger explosions from explosives and precision targeting enabling you to aim better shots. 
 The skill system is really what separates Crackdown from the rest of the Free roaming games to 
 come out in recent history and instantly the one of the best features Crackdown has to offer.
 
  
  With the agility skill the world becomes more open then any other free-roaming game, its basic 
 benefit to you is the ability to jump great heights and run at super fast speeds, this enables 
 you to get from place to place really easily instead of having take long journeys and getting hopelessly 
 lost. There is a lot of verticality to the environment so climbing up to the top of a skyscraper 
 is not only fun, but it opens a whole new world of transportation, you can jump from building to 
 building like some sort of superhero and thats probably some of the most fun you will have playing 
 crackdown. Increasing your agility is a lot of fun too, there 500 agility orbs scattered around 
 the world and they are all situated at high places (of course) , in addition to those, there are 
 rooftop races which test your jumping abilities in a series of checkpoints, these races are a nice 
 thing to get sidetracked on but unfortunately, these are pretty much the only distractions from 
 the main game. There are some surprisingly high places to scale and climb though, and the games 
 impressive draw distance only makes climbing a building that more exciting.
  
  Of course there is another mode of transportation, but in all fairness youd be better off just 
 sticking to jumping, the car handling is pretty mediocre even when the driving skill is maxed out 
 the civilian cars handle like garbage, but the gang cars step it up a little, they tend to have 
 a little more power under hood and therefore feel more responsive, but in hindsight, the agency 
 cars at your disposal are what you should be using, as your driving skill increases by doing races 
 and mowing gang members down, your agency cars will take a dramatic transformation, similar to 
 your character changing appearance, whereas that is primarily aesthetic, these changes improve 
 the power and abilities of the cars accordingly, not only do these cars improve, but your overall 
 car handling is increased, even though the civilian cars are pretty much rendered useless to you 
 throughout the game. You will be stuck for choice however, Crackdown has an interesting variety 
 of vehicles, and while there arent any bikes or boats, you will find a variety of compacts, sedans, 
 SUVs and even armoured vehicles, and with your super strength these cars become instant weapons.
 
  
  The combat in general is great, the 3 main components that consist of the combat are using the 
 objects around the environment, shooting and using explosives. One of the impressive features is 
 the ability to pick up and throw practically every object you can find in the city, whether thats 
 a trashcan or a 2 ton truck is totally up to you and down to your strength skill, throwing these 
 objects at gang members will not only feel gratifyingly good, but it will also improve the skill, 
 and when that happens, youre able to throw things at a much larger scale and take more damage. 
 All of the objects deform and break really well: lids flying off trashcans, concrete tiles breaking 
 into loads of pieces ect. and all of the parts that do break apart can also be picked up and thrown, 
 and its all down to the impressive havok engine that creates a huge amount of possibilities, however 
 there are some technical issues with actually picking the objects up, if an object is tucked away 
 in a corner or is in an awkward spot, the command to pick things up will not always immediately 
 show up and end up leaving you venerable while desperately trying to grab an object. If using the 
 environment as a weapon was not enough for you, then there is always your super strong kicks at 
 your disposal, you can literally send objects flying at a tap of a button, so theres never a dull 
 moment to be had in Crackdown.
  
  The shooting element is just fine, but as with all the skills you start off pretty weak, and since 
 you are using a gun you would probably assume that thats all you ever probably need, guess again, 
 even with the strongest firearm skills, gang members do not go down easily unless you cap a solid 
 headshot, even when using precision targeting, enemies still take a while to die, but the neat 
 thing with the precision targeting, is the ability to shoot specific parts of the body or car, 
 so undermining a targets mobility whether its a car or a person, is easy. Crackdown has a good 
 set-up of weapons, youve got your SMGs, sniper rifles, handguns, your usual line up of weapons, 
 there isnt necessarily a huge amount, but its evident a lot of care was taken into the overall 
 design on some of the later firearms you will acquire, but for the most part, they all resemble 
 modern weaponry used today, and the Explosive weaponry is just as fun as the standard shooting, 
 similar to practically every other skill, using explosives to kill gang members is the way to improve 
 it, and once improved, theres never a chance of being bored because utter chaos awaits at the 
 end of one single grenade. With all these skills in hand, you would think that theres no way anyone 
 can stop you, but youd be wrong, Crackdown throws in enemy after enemy at you left, right and 
 centre, and theres no stopping the action at all, its damn right chaos from the get go, but its 
 undeniably fun, youll notice a ton of random events occurring, from gang wars to civilians defending 
 themselves, it just keeps going on and brings up the replay value to an insanely high amount.
 
  
  Most free-roaming games will always try to create a huge breathing, living world, that bold claim 
 can only be heightened even further with a developer name like Realtime Worlds, and the good 
 thing is, theyve done just that. The world has been designed beautifully, it may be a little smaller 
 than what you would come to expect from most next generation games but for what it lacks in width, 
 it makes up for in height, and there is no shortage of high places to go. There is a surreal variety 
 to the environment, one minute your in suburbia, the next, in a rocky countryside, what makes this 
 surreal is the distance between the two, its all very compact and is not initially perceived to 
 be there, but it is, and its great. The civilians are just as impressive as the world is, there 
 is a lot of them on screen at once, you do get the sense that the world is definitely breathing 
 and most certainly living, they will say some great stuff, trouble is its hard to hear them, the 
 game has a bad unbalance with sound effects, there is an option to make the quite noises louder, 
 but still, civilians sound far too quite, but only when they are talking at least, you can pretty 
 much hear their screams of terror all the time, which is always a welcome notion that something 
 bad is going on, but it would be nice to hear their comments a little more clearly.
  
  One voice that will never seem to be quiet is the disembodied voice that is the agency director, 
 at first he seems really appropriate for the style of the game, but eventually he will just get 
 on your nerves, his main goal is to show you the ropes and give you certain Intel, hell make a 
 few comments here and there and generally just try to help you out in certain situations, but when 
 you practically know everything, theres no reason for him to carry on, he will cut down on some 
 obvious comments but for the most part he really is unnecessary towards the end and makes tons 
 of mistakes based on your location among other things.
  
  Crackdown isnt the hardest game of all, while the later difficulty levels do get hectic, the main 
 incentive of the game isnt a total challenge, sure the later bosses do get harder, but you could 
 rush through the entire game fairly quickly without having too much trouble. Thankfully the enemy 
 AI is pretty good, if you get too close they will use the objects in the environment as weapons 
 giving you a taste of your own medicine, and they wont hesitate to use heavy weaponry at a distance 
 either, there are some rough spots though, they wont entirely notice you from some angles, but 
 rest assured, they will get more aggressive as time goes by.
  
  One of the big parts of Crackdown is blowing stuff up, and its only fitting that they look exceptionally 
 good, from black smoke pluming from a car explosion, to a burst of flaming bodies and debris flying 
 through the air, you wont be disappointed when something blows up. With the mix of cell shading 
 and textures, the graphics feel totally unique and add such a character to Crackdown, it has such 
 a great draw distance on the landscape its breathtaking, sadly as far as cars and certain other 
 objects are concerned , the draw distance isnt so good. thats not the only graphical blemish 
 Crackdown has, cars will disappear quickly if you look away for just a second, and sometime cars 
 just fail to show up at all and leave the driver floating in mid-air, also, when the physics are 
 pushed to the limits in an explosion for example, the framerate can dip and can get messy, but 
 other than that the game runs at a solid framerate throughout.
  
  With a great visual experience comes a great audio experience, the soundtrack for Crackdown is 
 surprisingly bad, there are a huge amount of tracks, sad thing is its a huge bunch of tracks from 
 artists you may have never heard of, you can look at that any way you want, but it is a disappointment 
 nonetheless, this doesnt mean the music itself is bad, it actually pretty good varied music. Apart 
 from the fact that the soundtrack in Crackdown is somewhat poor, the sound effects emitted from 
 gunfire and explosions is spot on perfect, the explosions are so loud youll have to prepare your 
 ears for it, overall the audio experience Crackdown has is really something special.
  
  Crackdown has a interesting set of achievements, they vary in difficulty but are all easily achieved 
 to some extent, some achievements dont even have any points tied in with them, they simply are 
 just another way of building your skills which is a first for an Xbox 360 game, the achievements 
 are really unique as the rest of the game is, body juggler is just a glimpse at the creativity 
 Realtime Worlds has put into the achievements.
  
  Crackdown is just one of those games you wont forget anytime soon, in fact, you will take a lot 
 of the things you can do in Crackdown for granted, when playing any other game of the same calibre 
 you will feel the need to jump 30 feet, use objects as weapons and generally cause as much mayhem 
 as possible, but you will find you cant, or not as well as you can here, and thats when it becomes 
 apparent, that Crackdown is truly a game of one of its kind. Crackdown is a must have for anyone 
 who likes the genre, but more specifically to anyone who has gotten bored of the free-roaming experience 
 previous games have had to offer.
  
  ~Death Burnout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalmesiah
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  So alot of people say People on bought Crackdown for the Halo 3 beta Well if you did go return 
 it for a full refund. Crackdown is a decent game worthy of 60 bucks. If you bought it just for 
 the Halo 3 beta, your an idiot. This game I think got alot of crap about not being a good game 
 worthy of 60 bucks. I gotta say the developers did an awesome job with this game. It has alot of 
 those HOLY ****!! moments that you would no about if you play any GTA games. What I mean is that 
 theres always some bug or glitch with the AI or something is messed up and a car is driving in 
 circles or a body is stuck in the ground or it could be a huge a huge explosion from piling explosive 
 materials up and shooting it with a rocket launcher. And oh ya..... RAGDOLL PHISICS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpio750
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Crackdown, the new (ish) game from real time worlds is probably so far the best game of 2007. I 
 got it on launch day and I'm still playing it a month later. To be honest I did pre-order it for 
 the Halo 3 Beta, because I hadn't got in yet and like everyone else who breathes i'm a huge fan 
 of Halo, but after playing the demo I thought it seemed pretty good. I still play it everyday and 
 I'm still loving it, I even got my agility orb achievement yesterday! I think everybody who played 
 it loves the agility orb sound, so hearing it 500 times was excellent. I love the graphics, I love 
 the whole cell shaded effects and the sort-of cartoony feel. But I'm not giving this game a 10 
 for one reason, when the new Halo 2 maps comes out I'm just gonna be playing on those and I probably 
 won't go back to Crackdown again. It's a good game but I'm not gonna play it forever (like i will 
 with Halo 3) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilDarkGon
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  By now if you haven't heard of Crackdown, you either haven't been paying attention or don't have 
 access to the internet. Since you're reading this review we've eliminated option #2. Crackdown 
 has received copious amounts of hype for several months, and until the demo hit Xbox live early 
 this year, we didn't know much other than that you'd play as a superpowered cop on a mission to 
 take down mob bosses and purge a city so deeply infested with crime it's unreasonable. And that's 
 about all we ended up with after the game hit shelves. As you may or may not already know, your 
 character's powers are divided into five categories - firearms, driving, strength, agility, and 
 explosives. You level up each of these categories by performing actions associated with them, and 
 in turn, your character grows stronger. A simple concept, and certainly nothing new, but one that 
 will keep you hooked on the game for at least the ten hour duration of the, story . If you can 
 call it one. I won't spoil it, but the game ends rather abruptly and gives you absolutely no reason 
 to keep playing. Unless you just really, REALLY like to throw cars. Which brings us to what is 
 probably the best part. Your agent (player character) goes from being an abnormally strong and fast 
 guy with a gun to a REALLY fast and strong guy with a gun. You'll be able to scale skyscrapers 
 with a few simple jumping maneuvers, lift a car over your head and hurl it several meters, drop 
 kick a dumpster and send it flying, and any other number of ridiculous acts of violence as your 
 agent levels up and becomes more powerful. This is fun, but feels tedious, especially when your 
 agent is at a higher level and leveling up takes longer. The game contains a few side-questy minigames 
 which you can complete in order to give your skills a boost, but they aren't required and you can 
 easily level up without them. They consist of road races, which are particularly frustrating as 
 your driving skill flatout sucks until you level it up, and rooftop races, which basically involving 
 jumping and running from one checkpoint to the next within a certain amount of time. The payoff 
 is worth it in both cases, but these challenges really aren't very much fun, and they feel dated. 
 Graphically the game is a treat - the whole thing uses cell shading, minus the continuous overshadowing 
 and thick black outline. The outline is still present, but it's thin and doesn't jump up in your 
 face like it does in a lot of games. The graphical style is really somewhere between cell shading 
 and regular 3D, so overall it has a fresh, original look to it. The sound is average. Explosions 
 are gratifying to watch and listen to, particularly when they're caused by your hand grenades or 
 rocket launcher (but aren't they always?) and the voice acting, however scant, is decent. The core 
 gameplay basically consists of killing gang members, leveling up, and taking down gang bosses to 
 clean up the city. This is fun for awhile, but like much of Crackdown, feels tedious and bothersome 
 after a time. You'll probably have more fun throwing cars and exploring the city than you will 
 with the main story. One way Crackdown could have been better would have been with destructible 
 environments. Oh sure, you can pick up and throw, smash, or blowup any vehicle, person, or object 
 you see, but the city streets and buildings are all but impervious to damage, which is disappointing, 
 as there are some really neat things you could do with your agents abilities and a destructible 
 environment. Another is the Melee attack. Your agent has one kick which he will use over, and over, 
 and over again. Well, scratch that. Two. One flying lunge kick which is used while running, and 
 a spinning roundhouse kick that is used while standing still. These attacks look completely identical 
 every time they are used, and cannot be used while in the air or falling from a great hight. Another 
 disappointment.
  
  Crackdown also suffers from, Twitchy character syndrome, in that as soon as you point your control 
 stick in a given direction, your agent automatically faces that direction, skipping any animation 
 in between the positionary shift that might have made for a little more realism. Yet again, this 
 causes the game to feel dated. Theres more that can be said about Crackdown, but it's been said 
 in other reviews and doesn't really need to be said again. Overall, Crackdown is worth playing, 
 but you may want to rent it before you shell out sixty dollars to add it to your collection. I 
 personally found myself satisfied playing it for one weekend, earning about five hundred achievement 
 points, and then leaving it in the drop slot at Blockbuster. With any luck we'll see a sequel before 
 too long, as Crackdown has a lot of potential, and it would be a shame to see it go untapped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has you playing the role of a super powered agent for The Agency. You are let loose in 
 the metropolitan city of Pacific City to rid the city of its 3 gangs that keep the city in perpetual 
 fear: Los Muertos, The Volk and the Shai-Gen Corporations. And that is about it for the story. 
 As you play, your character evolves with your use of the 5 major skills (Firearms, Explosives, 
 Strength, Agility and Driving) each with a level 0-4. As you evolve, you become more powerful in 
 that skill and your appearance changes with it. Los Muertos are the easiest gang of the 3 and is 
 the one you probably will go towards first. Then comes The Volk in 2nd, and the Shai-Gen in 3rd.
 
  
  The main reason to buy Crackdown is the feeling of being a super powered bad ass in a limitless 
 playground. When you reach level 4 agility, there is not a point in the entire city that is impossible 
 to reach. And that is where the game's graphics shine: the draw distance in this game is phenomenal. 
 You can see cars on the other side of the city if you are high enough to look over the sprawling 
 building located in Pacific City. The 3 gangs themselves don't pose much of a problem though unfortunately. Even 
 though there may be a few points where you guy before you can reach the boss, those moments are 
 rare and few. This also leads to the game being incredibly easy, and one could beat the game i 
 just 8 hours if they wanted to. But the best part about Crackdown is the co-op. Co-op in Crackdown 
 is the shining jewel that will make you glad you are spending $50 a year on Xbox Live Gold. Having 
 a friend run around with you on rampages across the entire city is the stuff of dreams.
  
  While the game does feature many great features, the game is nowhere near perfect. The announcer 
 gets quite frustrating, especially when he is wrong (Oftentimes, I am walking on the street and 
 he will say Impressive ascent, Agent ) . Also, the game is nowhere near as fun in single-player. 
 To truly enjoy it, you must play co-op or you will be playing just a fraction of the games potential. 
 Finally, the story. Or as I should say, the lack of story. I know that the entirely open ended 
 story is to make co-op more seamless, but there was a lot more that could have been done while 
 still making it a stream like experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derangedmnky420
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  you all have played grand theft auto and i know that it is not fun without cheats, well here is 
 a remake but it is pretty much including cheats itself, jumping 30 feet in the air, running 30 
 miles per hour, picking up cars, and taking out thousands of gang members, although there are some 
 slight problems, like the fact the graphicas are cell shaded, the online co op is glitchy, and 
 it is just a little to easy to kill, besides that though everything is pretty much great about 
 the game, some of you may want to rent it first though for you may not like it for it being cheap 
 or maybe you are just a gta hater, but it is still a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayesplumbing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The game was good. Perfect 10s only come around once in a while. I say the game was worth playing. 
 The whole super hero in the making made the game more and more interesting as you played it. The 
 game was a little short, but get GAMEFLY and you wont get MAD about it. If you dont want to wait 
 till Oct. to play the new GTA then I would recommend Crackdown as an entertaining short term substitute. 
 The GTA series had to start somewhere. How soon we forget the first GTA. This was a good game with 
 good intentions. I would say at least rent it might be more fun than you think. Thax!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all, before i start my review i just want to say, this kicks Saint's Row's Butt!. Anyway, 
 i have known about crackdown for a while, and the game itself has received a degree of anticipation, 
 which has been well met. You are a new genetically modified agent, working for a corporation named.. 
 erm... the agency. While this sounds kind of unoriginal it works well, and plus its logo is pretty 
 cool. Then you are out on the streets, its up to you to destroy the king pins from each gang, los 
 muertos, the volk and Shai Gen. This game is a bit like playing Jenga, you have to removed the 
 blocks, or generals from each gang before you go for the kingpin himself. You could if you wanted 
 to just go straight for the king pin but you would risk being ripped to pieces with gunfire. The 
 game shows some good cell shaded graphics which fit the theme of the game perfectly. The music 
 is also good, with differing tracks, such as a cheesy Mexican track for the los muertos areas of 
 the city. There is also a good number of weapons from both the agency and enemy gangs.
  Your Agent will have five skills, Agility, Strength, Explosives, Driving and Firearms. These will 
 actually have a great affect on how easy the game is so i suggest you level these up, especially 
 Agility. The Vehicles are good as well, and when your driving skill reaches full they become a 
 dream to handle, and the agency cars transform into really cool formations. The game also has cool 
 sound effects, such as gun fire and car engines. Now the best bit, Physics. Using the Havok physics 
 engine Crackdown shows some impressive breakable objects with nearly all items having an affect 
 on their surroundings. Also marks are made on buildings if they are shot at, or if a heavy agent 
 lands on them at high speed. The only flaw i can think of is that the game is kind of short, and 
 when you have killed all of the gang member theres not much else to do but around 30 short races, 
 orb collecting and Co-Op modes, which are still quite fun
  The Good: Great Physics, Vibrant Colours and a well detailed city, fun Online, Nice sound effect. 
 Good Achievements The Bad: The Game is a little short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's finally come out, been played, and ready to be reviewed! I've been looking forward to 
 writing a review for Crackdown for some time now. Here we go...
  
  GAMEPLAY -- for Crackdown is a lot of fun, and very easy to pick up. The control scheme is pretty 
 much the same as any other open-world shooter such as GTA and the like. On occasion some of the 
 cars can be difficult to control, but other than that it's a lot of fun. Having killed enough gang 
 members you can get a hit squad put out on you. THIS IS FUN. You'll be swarmed by gang members, 
 and nothing is as satisfying s blowing them all up at once with your Rocket Launcher. Yes... ROCKET 
 LAUNCHER. The 'skills' that are given to you to level up can be a vast amount of fun as well. With 
 AGILITY you can jump 25-30 in the air, making it a lot of fun to jump from tall building to tall 
 building. Your DRIVING skill, once maxed, makes it easier to control the vehicles found in this 
 game. Its also morphs your 'Agency Vehicles' and gives each of them their own special adjustment. 
 The Supercar has guns mounted on the side... The S. U. V. has the ability to jump, as well as climb 
 walls (if you know how ;) ... The Truck Cab is nearly indestructible and is given the ability to 
 go very fast. With STRENGTH you're able to pick up people, cars, trucks... etc... and throw them 
 at gang members or whoever you like. This game is loads of fun...
  
  GRAPHICS -- for Crackdown are somewhat impressive. I mean, this is a cell-shaded game, and doesn't 
 have the same look as something like Gears of War, however, it does look very polished. I think 
 that adding the cell-shading in this game was a clever way to make sure it didn't end up looking 
 like the GTA series where it looks okay, but a little bit grainy and sometimes boxy. It was pulled 
 of very well, though. The city looks very nice.
  
  SOUND -- is a different story. Now while the guns, launchers, cars and such sound just fine, the 
 music is terrible. It basically sounds like bad porno music. It's repetitive, annoying and tasteless. 
 Fortunately you're given the option to turn the music off so that you can listen to your own from 
 the Dashboard.
  
  VALUE -- is hard to decipher with this game, and mainly depends on your style of play. I've probably 
 put about 30 hours into the game so far. If you go through and just kill the bosses as soon as 
 you find them the game will last MAYBE a few hours. However, if you're smart you'll max your skills 
 and maybe get some achievements, do some foot and car races before going after the bosses. Or maybe 
 just do one or two bosses a day. Doing this will Dramatically increase the Value of this game. 
 The Multiplayer is really nice for co-op, but also offers a open-world for you to just shoot the 
 breeze in while chatting.
  
  I think it's a great game, and I look forward to the new content and future sequels.
  
  -JiNX 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatoes
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  so yeah. picked this up.... couple weeks ago. been keeping an eye on it for a while and i knew 
 i had to get it. and... at first i figured that it was just the demo but slower... but then i found 
 the rocket launcher and whooped some shi gen and it flipped it for me. ive completed it now... 
 to a point. im just going for Achievements now. most of all those acursed orbs!.... aaaaaah!... 
 .something like... .20.... 23 something. and 100+ blue orbs... in my eyes the biggest downfall 
 of the game. the fact that im still looking for these things well and truely after the main game.
 
  
  all that to one side for now though. leaping from roof top to roof top is one of the best aspects 
 of this game. along side picking up a truck and putting it back on the gangster who just steped 
 out of it. or even just getting in his car and reversing onto him.... or shooting all the tyres 
 in about 3 seconds watching him fly off the road.. and a well placed grenade... smack in the middle 
 of a hit squad made up of about 8 tightly packed cars and 30 or so drug dealers and hustlers.... 
 a sight to see.
  
  i really enjoyed being able to strong arm my way through the Los Muertos, punching through every 
 punk i could find then finally taking out the bosses. then totally busting into the king pins home 
 and taking each one out one at a time then finally lob a hand full of grenades into his little 
 bar taking him out.
  different method for the volk. nothing but explosives. jumping about then smack infront of whatever 
 boss i could find and blowing him to kingdom kong!
  the shigen were interesting....
  
  for the most part i found my self running through a shower of bullets without giving a glance straight 
 to the boss. taking them out as fast as possible and out of there. all of this did feel very... 
 empty yes. but still very enjoyable. driving wasnt at all the main feature of this game but never 
 the less the Agency cars are a great deal of fun when you have all 4 stars. the SUV... i think 
 is my preferred car.
  
  the characters are all pretty cool. i only played as the japanese guy for the most part. then he 
 got old... and wished i could have seen what all the others would have looked like as they developed. 
 either way i do like the option. the toggle crime mode would have been much better if you could 
 also toggle the bosses.... and basically play again. rather than just have a couple thousand odd 
 criminals suddenly come after me.
  i would also like an option to shut that man up... or atleast see what he looks like. im hoping 
 that some downloadable contend could spice this game up abit. it would be very cool to see a new 
 gang or something.
  
  pretty much its a game you could be done with just by renting it. but it is fun and if you're bored 
 then its always a good lark to go back on and cause a little mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generic_Dude
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The so-called sandbox genre is cluttered with titles aspiring to win the crown long held by the 
 Grand Theft Auto series. In lieu of proverbially taking up arms in this genre war, Realtime Worlds 
 has gone the conscientious objector route, developing a game so outrageously mediocre that it fails 
 to compete on any level.
  
  A skeleton of a game, Crackdown barely has any semblance of plot or context. The game is littered 
 with bugs and poor design choices and plagued by sloppy camera controls... they couldn't even finish 
 the achievement list, as this one shipped with only 900 points.
  
  The premise of the game is that you are a genetically-enhanced officer of the law, tasked with 
 eliminating the city of three gangs. You will be exploring the city using your ability to run quickly 
 and jump extremely high... an ability than can be enchanced by engaging in checkpoint races or 
 the mindless collection of 500 orbs that are dispersed throughout the map. You also have superhuman 
 strength which, after you use it enough, allows you to lift very heavy objects like cars or concrete 
 pipes. Other abilities include your proficiency with firearms, explosives and driving.
  
  The actual mechanics of these superhuman abilities are of varying quality... it is definitely satisfying 
 to jump to very high ledges and rooftops, but this satisfaction is completely eliminated by sloppy 
 camera controls that make it extraordinarily difficult to gauge a jump. The camera often zooms 
 and causes your character to disappear, rendering your exploration entirely luck-based. The firearms 
 operate as they do in any sub-par shooter, though Crackdown features a very nice aiming mechanic 
 that allows you to choose between hitting your foe in one of their arms or legs, in their torso 
 or in their head. Choosing where to aim changes the level of damage that your foes take, can disarm 
 them or knock them down. Depending on which area you target, it will take longer to get a good 
 bead on your prey. Even better, this function is applied to cars as well, making it near-effortless 
 to shoot out a car's tires, put a bullet in the gas tank or just fire at the driver. The driving 
 aspect of Crackdown doesn't fare so well... the cars handle excessively clumsily at early levels, 
 and still to only a slightly lesser degree when your driving level is maxed. At this point, your 
 three agency vehicles get special abilities... one gets mounted guns, another gains the ability 
 to jump and the last gains a boost ability that allows it to plow through whatever may get in your 
 way. Apart from the fact that only completists and masochists will seek to test their psychological 
 endurance to get to a 4-star driving rating, your agency vehicles only spawn in one area... so 
 if you end up boosting or jumping your way into a river, you will be going through an ordeal to 
 get a replacement.
  
  The three gangs you must eliminate are confined to three respective islands and consist of boss, 
 a handful of sub-bosses and countless respawning underlings. The bosses and sub-bosses are only 
 indistinguishable from the underlings insofar as there is an avatar featuring their face next to 
 the health bar that appears when targeted. This saps any sense of drama that may come from boss 
 battles... a lack of cut-scenes and barebones voice acting that involves characters repeatedly 
 saying the same two phrases are just nails in the proverbial coffin. Once you dispatch of the bosses 
 and sub-bosses, that's it. There's no more crime on the island, which leaves you free to complete 
 the mindless collection of orbs, finishing races and jumping through stunt markers. None of this, 
 however, is any fun. Crackdown's pathetic stab at replay value was to include the option to toggle 
 the appearance of gangs in the city and to include a co-op mode to complete the story so that you 
 don't have to suffer alone.
  
  Crackdown's graphics are its strongest suit, with a unique style that's evocative of a graphic 
 novel, which is definitely in keeping with the subject matter. Of particular note are the game's 
 explosions, which are some of the best yet and make a 4-star explosives rating a painless achievement 
 to snag. The game has numerous graphical glitches, including one very strange one where cars disappear 
 and the seated drivers float down the street. The aforementioned sloppy camera angle also rears 
 its ugly head rather often while climbing... and considering that climbing is a core game mechanic, 
 this is not good. Less of a glitch and more of a poor design choice, a large dialog box comes up 
 every minute or so while driving to tell you which track is playing on the radio... regardless 
 of whether or not you have the music turned all the way down.
  
  Crackdown's sound is less noteworthy... though the sound effects are done well enough, the voice 
 acting in the game is distractingly awful. The game features an announcer which will chime in every 
 few minutes with a short list of tips and observations that are generated completely at random. 
 While swimming, it would not be unusual to hear him express that you've made an impressive ascent 
 or that he can see his house from inside an oil rig. Enemies and pedestrians have an even shorter 
 array of expressions, with your enemies often saying little other than die or prepare to die . 
 The game's soundtrack features a puzzling collection of techno tracks and latin hip-hop that is 
 probably what is playing on car stereos in Hell. Luckily, the game's driving mechanics are so poorly 
 done, you'll never be inclined to hear it anyhow... but they put a volume slider in the options 
 menu just in case.
  
  Crackdown is a chore to play... what isn't broken and frustrating is mediocre and repetitive. If 
 you're not interested in the Halo 3 beta, you'd be better off just giving $60 to charity so that 
 some good may come of this turkey of a release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFever
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has gota be the second best game ive played for the xbox 360 it is awesome the graphics 
 are simply amazing they rock. if u want a free roamer with unlimited fun then buy this game it 
 is awesome the only thing i diddint like about what microsoft did with it is they revealed everything 
 you could do on the demo other than that this game is friggin awesome fun gameplay great looks 
 cool people to choose from hands down awesome i love it go buy it rite now definitly worth the 
 cash and if u got it in time u get an invite to the halo 3 beta. so u get a great game and an invite 
 to a great games demo. if u ever wanted a game were u could blow things to smitheriens and jump 
 high as hell than this is 4 u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgjunkey34n8
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  ok the game works as for the gameplay, but this game lacks in major areas. first off the story 
 is bad!!! no its really really bad!!! i mean if the story were any more dense it would be paris 
 hilton. there is no direction and the game seems to be a bit chaotic. driving is terrible, the 
 auto targeting system is a piece of mr. hankie, and did i mention the story is horrific, seriously 
 guys terrible. and about that targeting system, its not that bad but there are times when you have 
 quite a bit of enemies on screen and thats when you'll find trouble, and you'll also find my controller 
 embedded in sheet rock. this game is short about 10 hrs max for any real video game junkie which 
 is a let down. when i spend $499.99 for a console and $59.99 per game, i expected longer games 
 not polished bits of turd. but for some reason this game works, it just does. its not in any way 
 a must have (unless you want to be one of the first to play halo) but its a must rent due to the 
 fact that crackdown tried something new with sand box gameplay and made it work. its decent so 
 if you own all the great games and your looking for another this aint it cletis, but if your a 
 collector of decent games hey this little numbers for you.
  
  oh yeah it might be nice if i list some good things. jumping from building to building is fun, 
 exploring is ok for about an hour, the explosions are wicked awesome guy! and the game works because 
 its pretty fun but only for a week or two (depending on how many hours you put in a day) so with 
 all that said, yeah it works.
  
  video game junkie done, now go play you vile fiends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  It sucks the halo 3 beta overlooks this game since the end result is a really good game. They took 
 the concept of a super cop mixed it with a shooter/sand box genre and made a fantastic game.
  
  Gameplay  sand box game is the best way to describe it, but instead of being a gangster or 
 bad guy that most sand box games have youre the good guy. Building up your character is simple 
 and doesnt seem to drag on like other games do. You will actually enjoy leveling up character. 
 Your basics are driving, shooting, kicking in the game and thats it. Why would you want anything 
 else to kill mobsters and gangsters? Multiplayer  this game is great playing with a friend online. 
 I didnt try playing it split screen though. The game is easy enough, but playi8ng with another 
 person makes it eve easier.
  
  Overall  the game was made for a quick pick up since it wont take you long to beat the game. 
 Achievement points are easy to get as well IMO.
  
  I would buy it for any halo 3 beta player but anyone who likes sand box games this is a good one 
 to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Real quick Pros and Cons instead of those longwinded reviews:
  
  Pros
  
  1. Blowing stuff up is EXTREMELY satisfying and looks great. Remember to try throwing a grenade 
 into a group of enemy vehicles when a gang hit squad is coming after you.
  2. Draw distance is the farthest I've ever seen in a game, period. Getting to the Agency Tower 
 rooftop and looking around is amazing. You can still see people and cars moving around on the other 
 side of the city.
  3. Getting agility and hidden orbs is very addictive. You always want to get just one more.
  
 4. Jumping around (at Agility level 4) is extremely fun. It makes traveling that much easier, too, 
 when you don't have to go around buildings, you jump over them.
  5. Achievements are varied in style and difficulty. You will get a bunch just for beating the game, 
 but you will also need to put a lot of extra hours into getting them all.
  6. Halo 3 Beta is a nice added bonus. Hopefully you don't buy the game just for this.
  7. Co-op 
 is decent, and it gives the game a measurable amount of replay when you can play it again with 
 a friend.
  
  Cons
  
  1. Civilian AI borders on disgustingly bad. They often run out into the street while you're driving 
 for no reason (and if you hit them your Driving skill goes down) , or fall off of buildings without 
 warning.
  2. Melee is frustrating. You can run right up to an enemy and hit B to melee, only to let off this 
 wussy half-kick and miss completely. Also, turning and trying to melee is just as frustrating.
 
  3. Shooting near ledges is annoying, because if you get too close to the barrier it causes your 
 character to start meleeing the barrier instead of shooting over it like you want.
  4. Targeting needs massive tune-ups. Often you'll be right in front of something you want to target, 
 but when you hold the target button (LT) you will target something half a mile behind what you 
 wanted. Switching targets brings up the same problems.
  5. Driving needed to be tuned-up as well. Many of the areas you go through are so small and crowded 
 you will inevitably hit many other cars or pedestrians due to your car's high acceleration curve. 
 You can't just go 40 MPH, it's either under 20 or 130+.
  6. Lack of multiplayer (aside from co-op) doesn't give the game much else to do. A one-on-one or 
 team elimination should have been a given.
  7. Your contact with the Agency (the guy who is always updating you on your objectives) is annoying 
 and often chimes in with the wrong lines. Impressive ascent, Agent! when you're underground, or 
 Best view in the city, Agent! when you're in some sewers, or he'll give you advice on skill progression 
 when you're maxed out.
  8. While the draw distance is incredible, the overall graphics aren't the best on the 360. I would 
 have sacrificed some draw distance in order to get a little further away from cel-shading type 
 graphics. It's not a big deal to me, but worth mentioning.
  
  Basically, this game is a rental. It had a lot of potential that will hopefully be realized in 
 the next game Realtime Worlds makes. Just make sure you can get through it on co-op before you 
 give it back so that you can get all of the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainFrame
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Although there is no plot at any point during this game ( it would be nice to have a choice to 
 either combat crime or become a rogue criminal yourself ) the action is phenominal , explosions 
 are good , but the depth of attributes is a significant down side, maybe a glide ability or hyper 
 running , I certainly would recommend this game for any sandbox lovers there is no end to how much 
 movement an AI enemy can get when you apply a couple good explosions , I highly recommend fist 
 fighting on a crwded highway , I literally dropped one in my pants when I knocked an enemy into 
 a truck only to have him bounce right back over to me right into my roundhouse which launched my 
 opponent like a balco induced Barry Bonds home  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pilz-E_Uk
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  whats to say... on the plus side i think they pulled of the graphics off quite well was dreading 
 the cartoon effect but it looks pretty nice.
  
  to be honisted its not a good game at all, it wants to be GTA, but then again i dont like GTA, 
 the only reason i bought this game was for the stupidly high jumping and picking up cars, id probably 
 take it back if it wanst for the HALO beta it advertised. they probably knew it wasnt going to 
 sell enough, so they slapped in the halo beta, i garentee most gamers bought this game for the 
 beta, yeah maybe they didnt want it, but halo beta made the choice even easier. anyway ive moaned 
 enough.
  
  looks great, playing is ok its to easy though auto aim what the hells that about... no skill in 
 that on the pc aim bot is cheating?? the jumping is fun kill the badies with the cars and buses 
 is great fun... but thats it cars are ok to drive, often see the same cars not enough diffrenet 
 models. story line is crap to be honisted, no cut scenes i really like my cut scenes so if there 
 isnt any it needs to be a good game to keep me happy.
  
  if you havent already got this game, and you LOVE GTA, dont buy it it doesnt compare... i dont really 
 like GTA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeMama365
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 12, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Its a great looking game, with a short campaign, but how can you give a game like this over 8.0 
 rating without a multiplayer option. The coop is pretty cool, but I want to shoot at my friends 
 and blow them up like in Saint's Row. Without that multiplayer ability, this game is easily resellable 
 once you complete the campaign and get whatever achievement points you are after... as soon as the 
 Halo3 beta is finished.
  
  I will bet money that as soon as the Halo3 beta finishes up, that an onslaught of copies of this 
 game will flood ebay, EBGames, and other resale markets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  THE STORY
  
  In the near future the world is on the brink of anarchy. All of the worlds police forces combine 
 to form The Agency, but even that isnt enough to stop the emence amount of crime. Large and powerful 
 gangs of organized crime rule the city the agency is based at, and can barley control its base 
 borders. Using a scientists research, they make you an enhanced human with emence strength and 
 agility to combat these gangs and take back the city.
  
  ..... if your expecting anymore story, there isnt any. in fact, the story i just told you is a bit 
 streched out to make it look more than it is, the basic story is Gangs are bad, go kill! well, 
 thats all the motivation i need to do some damage, that and a heat seeking rocket launcher :D
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game puts you in the shoes in an un-named agent in a world full of anarchy. Your told that 
 the city is controlled by 3 gangs and that your mission is to kill all the heads that help control 
 them. there are 21 in all and dont take too long to kill. you can probably kill them all in about 
 2 sittings. But, each hang out in different settings and are gaurded with lots of man with guns, 
 grenades, and sometimes rockets. its really satisfying when you find their hideout and get past 
 all of their gaurds and take them out. But when you take them all out, you still feel like wanting 
 more. fortunatly after you beat the game you can go back and do it again if you want to.
  
  The game, as you might expect, plays like GTA. Get guns, shoot guys, blow cars up, blow other stuff 
 up, blow more stuff up, continue on. Although its basicly a GTA clone, its surprisingly a good 
 one. It takes the basic concept of opened world and explosions, and adds some cool new features.
 
  
  The major one is giving you super human abilities. Ever wished in GTA to scale a tall building 
 without a helicopter, or to thow a car at the police? Well in this game you can, and much much 
 more. you start off with basic strength and agility, but as you kick more people to death, shoot 
 them, blow them up, and jump on roof tops, your skills increas and your strength, agility, driving 
 skill, marksmanship, and explosives will rise. When all are maxed out you can jump 30 ft, throw 
 a bus, run faster than anyone alive, and cause yor agency cars to morph from a small convertable, 
 into the Batmobile (guns included!) This adds alot of great moments in the game as a bunch of gang 
 members are chasing you down in their cars and you just kick it off the road and shoot them down.
 
  
  It also has something GTA never had, coop. yes now you can take all the fun that youve had in GTA 
 and take it online with friends. you can help eachother with missions, or just go out and blowing 
 stuff up. unfortunatly there is no splitscreen option for the coop, just system link and live. 
 Though having to share the screen might make everthing pretty cramped, it would have still been 
 nice to play with friends that come over.
  
  There is also throughout the city many races for you to complete of foot or car. When completed 
 they give you experience in that area and when all are completed give you acheivement points. Their 
 a pretty nice change of pace after a night of gang killing. Theyre even more fun when you play 
 with friends as you can race eachother in each race.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics give a bit of comic art style that fits the game. it has a great physics engine with 
 ragdoll physics for the flying bodies you'll soon be making airborn. Each different area thats 
 controlled by the 3 different gangs reflect the buisness each gang does, like the Volks are in 
 industry and bring in illegal immigrats to work their factories for very low wages. their area 
 has lots of factories and building sites, and the Shei Gen are in buisness and do scientific experiments 
 and trading, and their area is very modern looking with very tall buildings.
  
  SOUND
  
  Their isnt much sound to speak of. when you get in a car a track of songs begins to play. the 
 songs are very techno and fit the game, but arent great, and unlike GTA, wont make you steal a 
 car just to listen to the music or radio stations. while outside roaming the streets, there isnt 
 any music to speak of and your enemys say things over and over again. Im tired of them saying time 
 to die!! 
  
  OVERALL
  
  The game is surprisingly good and adicting. after you gain your first level or 2 in a skill, it 
 will leave you wanting to raise it more, especially in driving, wanting to see what your agency 
 cars turn into next. the coop is very fun to play with friends online. Like when me and a friend 
 just drove on the freeway, he driving with me on top with a rocet launcher ;] a very fun night 
 indeed. with all the super human abilities at your disposal, jumping over rooftops with a car in 
 your hands gives you a very good fealing as you know you cant wait to find some enemys to drop 
 the car on. overall, it'll give any GTA fan on the 360 a nice buzz till IV comes out. For those 
 who wantto buy it for the beta, the game will keep you a bit busy while you wait for it to come 
 out. for those sceptical about it, rent it first or download the demo on the marketplace. if the 
 demo doesnt sell you, dont bother with it then, as the demo gives all aspects of the game in a 
 small dose and shows what the full game is if you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun for about a week, but it gets old fast. The graphics are nothing spectacular 
 by any means. The whole mechanics of auto-aiming and taking down the gang members with firearms 
 was kind of dull and repetitive. There is not much variety in defeating any gang members, including 
 the boss fights. All you have to do is run or jump past all the guards and shoot down the boss 
 with a few shots and you are done. On a positive note, it does offer a great variety in attaining 
 achievements. Running around town and collecting orbs, powering up your character, rooftop races, 
 etc was more fun then staying on track and defeating the game. If the xbox 360 never had achievements 
 I don't think this game would even be playable. You can also play coop online which is cool, and 
 you can choose from a handful of agents. As you level up, they change appearance as does your 3 
 vehicles you have access to. Overall, I bought this game for the Halo 3 beta and it better be a 
 really good beta for throwing my money away on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I really had high hopes for this game, only to be a bit disappointed at first, but after spending 
 a few hours with it, I found myself getting rather addicted to climbing buildings, looking for 
 agility orbs, blowing up cars, killing gang members, doing stunts in vehicles and just having a 
 free time blast. The game does start to get a bit on the repetitive side after a while though, 
 and that is it's only real drawback. I mean that in the sense that you will have fun with it for 
 awhile, but jumping from roof top to roof top, blowing things up and killing gang members get's 
 to be a little tedious and shallow after a while.
  
  This is the kind of game that you can have fun with for awhile, get sick of it,.... and then come 
 back to in a few days and start to enjoy it again.... but not quite as much. It is a really fun 
 game though, despite the overall freedom making it seem a bit shallow at times.
  
  The graphics are a unique spin on cell-shading, which really creates that whole comic book feel. 
 The game play is really straight forward, tight, and easy to pick up. This is a game that you can 
 relax and play for hours while just goofing off, but it WILL get tedious and shallow after awhile. 
 All in all, this is simply a fun and rather unique sandbox game that makes a great addition to 
 any 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentleslegend
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been more than it was. But they made that clear with the announcement of APB. 
 Its like playing the demo overs and overs and overs. Except that the enemies you have to fight 
 increase, and the more you have to jump, and the more amount of times you have to fight off the 
 guys at your supply points. If you played the GTA series, or Saints Row, and enjoyed the games 
 mainly because of the storylines, pass this game off. However if you enjoyed either of those games 
 for the free will of exploding any cars passing by, this will satisfy you - maybe. Because you 
 are a cop, and you have rules to follow, even during all the crazy sh*t thats going on, you have 
 to behave in a certain manner. No killing civilians, you can but you lose skill points in driving, 
 and then your own cops start going after you. No drive-bys, not sure if they thought that it might 
 not be good for cops to do, but they did think that putting guns on the car itself would do. That 
 comes much later when your driving skills are basically maxed.
  
  Then you have the infamous jumping skill, or agility... Its basically the only thing that makes 
 this game unique from the rest, being that you can jump roof to roof, window to window or wall 
 to wall. Its really nice to have something like superman in a GTA rip-off series.
  Theres no actual storyline, besides 'clean the streets you clone!'.
  Theres no main characters, 
 besides the bosses you kill who are really just like any other gang member except they have a hell-of-alot 
 more life then normal.
  
  Theres not much difference from the start to the end of the game, it is repetitive and much the 
 same through out. Unlike many games where you have the climax, and the twists, and the plot, this 
 game is missing all of that. All in all, i was let down after the second day of playing the game, 
 and that was while i was online with my friend. I never played solo, which is the same, just with 
 no partner, i would imagine its even more boring.
  
  The highlight of the game, jumping around and getting skill orbs on buildings, and looking down 
 on the streets as you open fire on everything.
  
  The negative highlight (s) of the game, is everything that was missing from the game. Customization 
 of character, of cars, or atleast the variety of cars in the game. The ability to tweak up your 
 supply points and have garages or mini games. Races that actually have a worth while track. Music, 
 real music anyways, that doesnt get annoying. Armor shop or something, an income or some type of 
 way to make exchanges for something, hairstyles, clothes, boots, or even how many cops you get 
 to have patroling an area. Call in back up, because theres always cops driving around, and yet 
 none help you kill the bosses or areas near supply points. There was just so much more this game 
 was capable of if they just worked on it. It truely was a let down, but only because it was MISSING 
 alot. Theres a difference between a game that used all its potential still sucked, and then a game 
 that was released to early.
  
  Look forward to the next game by Realtime Worlds. Long story short, it seems like Crackdown was 
 a small piece of APB , which is a massively multiplayer Crackdown genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a sandbox - a place to play. Don't give me this crap about the story being weak. The 
 story is there to give reason to play and play we do. I've not played a game, with the exception 
 of Crackdown, where the players were so intent on just that, playing.
  
  I can't tell you the times when events have transpired, either as a result of myself or co-op buddy 
 and/or the games AI/event engine which have caused side crunching laughter that has left both parties 
 breathless.
  
  7.8! What a bunch of tools. 7.8! You gave GOW a what? A 9.6? F GOW! I mean it. It was a pretty 
 game. A pretty and very repetitious game. A pretty and repetitious game which was plagued, online, 
 by the same **** who ruined H2 MP for good.
  
  Crackdown, my young tools, is a the kind of game which inspires players to play. It isn't the same 
 old FPS. It isn't a GTA knock-off like Saints Row. Crackdown is what all games should be. A unique 
 and full experience that leaves gamers wanting to do nothing more, than play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLegend24
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown a sandbox, third-person shooter similiar to Gta, but has a very different feel to it. 
 It has some rpg elements in which you various skills like Agility, Driving skills, Strength, Explosives, 
 and Firearms. All of these can be maxed by using these skills over and over except agility in which 
 you have to collect orbs, that are located through out the city. There really isn't a story to 
 this game except that you're a cop and you have to eliminate the various gangs through out the 
 city. The game isn't very long but all the side elements like races and orb collecting can lengthen 
 it significantly. In conclusion, Iwould recommend this game as a rental because it's just plain 
 fun, but short on the gameplay itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  A fun game but such a shame that more wasn't put into it, the storyline is basicly non-existent 
 and gameplay however fun is very repetitive, although this has received higher scores than Superman 
 Returns; I find both games to be very similar in nature, flying/jumping from building to building, 
 causing mindless destruction and completing clone quests one after the other, in fact at least 
 superman has some sort of story to it all. All in all there was enough here to keep me interested 
 over a weekend and if you have a friend with the game; you can also mess about with some co-op, 
 but even that feels just thrown in at the last second. If i am honest I mainly purchased this for 
 halo3 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasy_cheater
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo for Crackdown I thought that this would be a really good game, maybe even 
 worth buying. Instead for me I just ended up renting it and im glad I did. The game doesnt suck 
 its actually a lot of fun. Running around beating down gang members and leaping from building to 
 building was quiet fun.
  
  However thats not all the games about. The games about having you basically take out all the generals 
 and the leaders of the three rival gangs. Now for some reason one boss requires a strategy to beating 
 him but for the most part your just running and gunning down all the gang members in your way and 
 eventually taking out the general/leader. You go around the city to find the general/leaders hideout 
 clean up the area of criminal scum rinse and repeat till youve killed them all. Depending on your 
 players skills for kills you could get though this game pretty quickly. For me the achievements 
 were what kept me playing it. Doing this I manage to get every thing in a week. The music is all 
 right; youre on foot most of the time anyway. The graphics are a texture mixed cel shading type 
 deal, which gives it a good look. The sounds effects are good too.
  
  Unfortunately this game just felt like an extended demo. The opening, the general info, and the 
 ending could barley even be considered a cut scene. Its a fun game but im still waiting till the 
 king of sandbox games comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the full game is much better than the demo. So don't avoid this game just because 
 the demo sucked. In Crackdown, all you do is run around and kill people, and collecting orbs... 
 simple but very enjoyable. Basically the point is to take down some heavily guarded gang leaders, 
 and it is not all that easy. It isn't too hard, but it can get agrivating. The grapsic and sound 
 are hard to describe, well the graphics are. The graphics are like a cartoony sort of thing, it 
 isn't something that you should care about though. The sound is average, enough said. The game 
 overall is good and addictive, worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10- This game plays pretty much flawlessly with the exception that it is very hard 
 to control your vehicles when you dont have at least 1 star driving ability but once you level 
 up you can jump your car just using the suspension. The weapons are extremely easy to aim because 
 all you have to do is pull and hold the left trigger and you are automatically locked on to your 
 target so fire away. The jumping is by far the best part of the game I can spend hours just jumping 
 from building to building looking for Agility Orbs that I dont have yet. The Supply Point idea 
 is good but there are to few on the map it would have helped if there were about five more. But 
 overall the game plays smooth as butter. Graphics 8/10- The graphics are very cool I like the comic 
 book style but it might not appeal to everyone and if you put Gears of War in after you play this 
 you are going to be amazed at the difference and possibly feel a little dissapointed. Once you 
 get to the top of the agency tower and look down on the city you will just be amazed at the view 
 from up there. The explosions look good but arent anything special. The player models are good 
 as well but once again nothing special.
  
  Sound 7/10- Here is one of the games faults the announcer/narrator in the game is very stupid and 
 annoying ok for example he will say something like best view in the city agent or people rarely 
 reach this height when I am on the freaking street and not even at a high elevation or looking 
 at anything cool or amazing. And thats pretty much the only talking in the game besides when you 
 get new intel on a boss. I myself dont mind the soundtrack but some people might feel a bit disappointed 
 with it because there are no popular hits in it.
  
  Value 7/10- Good game but it is really short and there really isnt much more you can do once you 
 beat all the bosses except look for Hidden Orbs and Agility Orbs. The co-op is fun but only if 
 you are playing with someone on your friends list that can help you or just go gang beating or 
 pedestrian killing. And there are no other game modes online or offline for you to play.
  
  Reviewers Tilt 8/10- The game has a bad ending if you ask me and like I said the campaign is to 
 short and for all you story people back away because this game has no story whatsoever!
  
  Overall- 8.4
  
  I would recommend this game to any 360 owner but just wait until it goes down 
 to about 40 bucks so you dont waste your money on a short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  If you are truly a fan of the open sand box games that tend to hit or miss all to often, you'll 
 agree that its never wrong to want more. Crackdown does well hitting every marker that really counts 
 such as solid controls and decent objectives. After a few sit downs though, the explorer inside 
 you will feel pretty ripped off after reaching the highest tower. &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  The button scheme, pressure sensitive actions, awesome aiming system, and a well built playground 
 that easily allows one to take full advantage of all spoken perks is a big plus. There is not much 
 need to twist someones arm to enjoy such a game, yet once all the said perks ARE milked for what 
 they are worth your attention can wander. Co-op is major fun to team up with a friend and see how 
 they would use a semi truck as a weapon, but unless you actually use the headset you might as well 
 play alone. Besides the endless killing of street thugs and weak bosses, I really wish the game 
 had more variety in their missions besides driving mini games and hidden objects. &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  At first you might feel like the art style seems a little off or simple, but surely 
 enough you notice the amount of detail that goes into explosions and character physics and the 
 appreciation kind of sweeps over you. Some of the animations for the baddies are lame at times, 
 but never a real nuisance. If your the type that enjoys to explore every possible nook and cranny 
 and discover just how much love goes into level design, this game deserves much props. &nbsp;
 
  AUDIO
  I honestly really enjoy the sound effects. Maybe my speaker setup is too loud for my own good, 
 but the guns all have their own unique generic sounds and the interactions with the enviroments 
 are pretty accurate. Even better is when going thru the massive environment you can sometimes get 
 lucky enough to hear the glow of hidden orbs which increase skills, so never feel bad about keeping 
 the volume up. Unless your in the heart of a boss fight, the game actually keeps a peaceful tone 
 which is never bothersome thanks to a decent music selection which only comes on while in vehicles. 
 &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  As always achievements prevail in the best way possible, especially for a game like Crackdown. 
 Hidden Orbs that increase powers, mowing down troops of baddies in certain ways, performing numerous 
 tricks in vehicles, and did I mention mowing down LOTS of scum bags. Online could have been much 
 better but the thought that the peeps at Realtime Worlds at least tried is very respectable without 
 a doubt. Keep an eye out for digital billboards that display actual high scores and best race times 
 from Xbox Live, you might see my name on a few. &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  Crackdown is a fun game to play in every possible way, casually or until the disc cracks in half. 
 I personally love games such as this which are done best by the fellas at Rockstar. Instead of 
 claiming a victor in who does it best at this point remains to be seen until the next instalment 
 of GTA hits later this year. If anything, both games offer a play style that will suit the gamer 
 who desires to be either a character on the streets or someone cleaning up the streets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chasemandvd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Holy Crap right now this is the best game of 2007, it is soooooo much fun, and you can not put 
 the controller down. Yes it comes with the Halo 3 Beta that comes out in the spring, and yes that 
 is going to be bad agent, but do not just buy it for that reason. This game is so cool, the jumping 
 is the bomb it is so cool fighting the bad guys and collectig the orbs. Buy this game only **** 
 will hate. Cause this game will bow your mind away. Buy, Buy, Buy. If you hate, I hate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  The GTA forumla was running a little bit thin for me after the release of Vice city, so I had little 
 enthusiasm going into this purchase. The main reason why I even picked up this game was for the 
 beta invite, so wheter this game was worth the price wasn't really n issue. To my surprise, I ended 
 up picking up one of my favourite games on the 360.
  
  One of the main distinctions between this game and GTA is that it allows the player to do anything, 
 finish any goal, kill any boss, in any order you choose. This system, along with the power skills 
 your character advances with, produce a sustained feeling of enjoyment that lasted from the very 
 beginning to the very end. The graphics are superb... just superb. The draw-distance is impressive 
 to say the least. The physics are wonderfully crafted as are the amount of options you can take 
 while interacting with the environment. The game took me roughly 17 hours to pass, but that was 
 mainly due to the fact that I took so much time trying to find all those addicting agility orbs 
 and hidden orbs.
  
  Some people say that the announcer gets annoying after a while... and while I will say I think that 
 he could have learned a few more lines of dialogue, it didn't bother me that much. The only reall 
 dissipoint I found was that all you really have to do in the game is find certain markers on the 
 map and find and kill a group of thugs protecting one of the 21 bosses. That's it. Afterall, I 
 can't reccomend picking this game up enough. Not only does it allow you to participate in the Halo 
 3 beta, but it gives you an awesome game thats fun both online and off. Just trust the k-man and 
 pick it up, you won't be dissipointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nycteris
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has got to be the most enjoyable game Ive ever played that I simply cant love. Why 
 cant such a great game be enjoyable? Because its only 1/4 of a game.
  
  As you play Crackdown, you get the feeling that tons of time was spent building the framework of 
 the game. The fantastic level design. The unbelievably fun rooftop leaping abilities. The amazingly 
 rewarding RPG elements. (Except driving because who wants to drive when you can leap tall buildings 
 in a single bound? You ever see Superman drive?) But then, suddenly, you realize that theres nothing 
 more. That the game is just a longer version of the demo with almost nothing to add. It sort of 
 gives the whole game a tech demo feel.
  
  Well, after a week, the campaign (used loosely) is complete and a great many achievements have 
 been gotten. Ill still go back to grab a couple more achievements because the game-play is so 
 great, but I cant help but feel like if they had spent the time to truly craft a real game with 
 a story line, varied mission types, and a more seamless co-op mode, this would have been a magnificent 
 game.
  
  Oh well, Ill remember to watch out for Crackdown 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bounty-Mike463
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a 3rd personne action shooter/brawler from Microsoft Studios and Realtime worlds. 
 Buster1der smells  sss ssssssssssssssss 
 sssssssss ssssssssssssssssssss sssssssssssssssss sssssssssss ssssssss ssssssss ssssss ss sssssssss 
 sssssssssssssssssss sssssss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
 s s s s s sssssssssssssssss sssssssss sssssssssssssss sssssss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 1s 
 s s s s s1 s1 s1 s1 s1 s1 s1s 1 s1s1 1s1 1 s1 s1 s1 s1 s1 s1 s1 s11sss sssssssssssssssssssssss 
 sssssssssssss  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thew13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  It is not a 'great' game, but a a very good game, for some reason I just want to keep playing. 
 Just running around killing gang members is great and if that gets a little repetitive finding 
 those orbs will grab your attention till your ready to start shooting, kicking, punching, throwing, 
 tunning over or blowing up the bad guys again. One 'complaint' I have seen in reviews is that the 
 bosses and sub-bosses are too easy to kill. Well that is true once you actually reach them. But 
 they all very well guarded and aren't always that easy to get to. In a 'real-world' scenario I 
 don't think the financial minds and mechanics of the underworld gangs are the tough guys, so I 
 actually think the way the game works is the way it should be in that aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nackyer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I read a couple of reviews and almost everyone complaint about the game's storyline. I suggest 
 don't bother with that! Why do you first buy a game? To have fun! And for that crackdown is a must. 
 Maybe you won't believe in the story, but you won't be able to stop because kicking civilians cars 
 off a bridge is just to funny! If you don't like to kick them, you can also explode their tires 
 so they bump off a bridge and dive into the water!
  
  The main mission , which is to eliminate gang leaders isn't really really long, but the value is 
 still pretty good, cause you can still have a lot of fun with a friend on live.
  
  Here's the only bad point I have to say. I don't know why almost no one complaint in their review 
 about this, but it shocked me. There is NO split-screen coop in crackdown. Tho, on the box it says 
 there is 2 player coop/hard drive required... I hope it means : There will be an update so you 
 can play on the same console on the same screen later . If it's the case, crackdown will be a 10/10 
 game.
  
  Until the miracle happens, see ya on live :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightvamp5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  For some this game was nothing more than a Gateway into the Halo 3 beta. For those who bought this 
 game just for that, I really hope you opened the box and played this b/c it is phenomenal. Huge 
 explosions, super-human jumps, plenty of high powered weapons and fast cars all in the hands of 
 a incredibly strong super agent... of course that is going to be fun, especially when they do it 
 this well!
  
  The combat in Crackdown is like Grand Theft Auto (GTA) mixed with Judge Dread (I know it is a comic/movie, 
 but it is futuristic and has genetic super cops) . I can't stress how much the combat is like GTA, 
 though. However, it is much smoother and generally just more intense (mainly due to the massive 
 amounts of big explosions and lots more enemies) . There is a nice selection of weapons in the game, 
 but the real fun is in the explosives and the sheer joy out of picking up a Mac truck, throwing 
 into a mob of criminals, and watching that massive chunk of steel barrel over them.
  
  The game is open ended, but almost too much. You don't get any guidance as to where you should 
 go. They pretty much just drop you in the city and say, find and kill those mob thugs. Oh and you'll 
 get better at killing while you do it. Then, you wander around the city, find them, and then kill 
 them. That is it. No plot, no direction, no depth on any level. They didn't even attempt a story. 
 This game has nothing to grab you, except the combat (Luckily, they did that so well) . The multiplayer 
 is fun, but too easy of an experience. The game wasn't that hard in the first place and it gets 
 even easier when you've got a buddy as a sidearm.
  
  Overall, this game is more than a ticket into the Halo 3 beta. It is a high-quality game, which 
 may not have you talking about its legendary plot, but will have you raving about the latest way 
 you blew your enemies to bits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxcommixx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay in this game is very well done. You have these 5 skill levels (agility, 
 strength, shooting, explosives, driving) , and you get to level up in each of these levels. For 
 agility, the easiest way to level up would be by collecting the green orbs. These orbs are scattered 
 everywhere (500 total in the game) and are scattered among the 3 cities. The more of them you find, 
 the higher your skill level goes up. *TIP* (The higher the orbs, the more experience points.) Another 
 way to level up in agility, is to do the rooftop races (there are 12 in total) which are also scattered 
 among the 3 cities. For strength/shooting/explosives, all you really have to do is kill a lot of 
 people with each skill category. For driving however, there are multiple ways to earn experience 
 points. The easiest way is by running over gang members while driving in any car. The second way 
 is by doing various tricks (i. e. front flips, back flips, barrel rolls right/left) , but you should 
 probably wait until you have lvl 4 in driving before trying to do the tricks. Another way is by 
 locating these purple rings in the air, and then running threw them (you need to get some speed 
 first, and then use some sort of ramp in order to reach these rings) . After you obtain 4 stars 
 in each skill level, you will be rewarded with an achievement (yay!) , but you can still level up 
 even higher. Even though you are maxed out at lvl4 (meaning you cannot get lvl 5) , you are still 
 able to level up until you are completely maxed out. Being maxed out all the way, is when you have 
 4 stars in a certain skill level, and also have 99/100 experience points (and no, there is no way 
 you can get level 5 :P) . Once you are maxed out in every skill level, you will get the Master Agent 
 achievement. Ok, sorry for writing so much about the skill levels, but I thought you might want 
 to know how the game is played :P. Oh, and btw, when you start to get leveled up in each skill 
 level, you will become much much stronger, run/jump A LOT higher (30 ft is the max) , aim more precisely, 
 have a greater impact when using explosives, and have your car upgraded at each level (only agency 
 cars though) .
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in this game are what you would expect for a next gen game. And although 
 it's not nearly as good as Gears of War, they are still pretty impressive, and have a real nice 
 cartoony look to them, which I find fit this game quite well. The surroundings are not destructible, 
 but almost everything else is. There are cars, propane tanks, street lights, poles, etc. that can 
 be picked up/thrown/ or able to be blown to pieces. Now I got to tell you, this game has some of 
 THE best, and THE BIGGEST explosions I have ever seen in any game to date. Shoot a propane tank, 
 and watch it fly into 40 ft in the air. Throw a grenade at a random guy, and watch him fly into 
 20 ft in the air, while on fire at the same time. Use a heat seeking rocket launcher, fire at a 
 car/person, watch them fly into 30 ft in the air, and then keep firing to make them suspend in 
 the air for as long as you want! And the BEST thing to do, is to pile up a crap load of cars, throw 
 grenades/use rocker launcher, and see thing enormous cloud of fire disintegrate right before your 
 very eyes. :)
  
  SOUND: The sound is over all good. There isn't much music in the game, even in cars, and are nothing 
 compared to the GTA radio stations. Weapons sometimes sound a little air-softish, and the in-game 
 adviser tends to make no sense sometimes, and make random and blatant remarks/comments. VALUE: 
 I gave value a 9 because I can see myself getting lost in this game while collecting orbs, hidden 
 orbs, leveling up, playing online co-op, trying to earn all of the creative achievements, or just 
 exploring each city. And although this doesn't really matter to me, I guess knowing that you will 
 be able to participate in the Halo 3 beta makes you glad to know you will be replaying this game 
 in the near future. :)
  
  OVERALL: This game is a great game for anybody who likes RPG/shooter
  kind of games. This is 
 one of my favorite games for the 360 so far, and I can honestly say that this game was worth every 
 penny of my purchase. Thank you for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0dazubeN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Since there is no story besides you cleaning up some gangs I will go ahead and move on to the other 
 areas of the review.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where my classification comes in; Just plain fun The game is not deep or too 
 complicated or hard to understand. Since most gamers have played Grand Theft Auto most will get 
 the game instantly, most of the controlls are the same and there are no suprises there (and thats 
 a good thing... trust me) the greater thing is that it is just fun to play! The RPG elements work 
 greatly to the games engaging play that just won't let you go. You want to play the game just one 
 hour extra to get that last agility orb or do the last race and that works wonderfully. The missions 
 are fun to do even if they diversify objective wilse very little. Pacific City is my personal favorite 
 setting for a sandbox game mainly for the diverse areas and interesting places to visit.
  
  9/10
  
  GRAPHICS: The game has an interesting style in the graphics department. In the fashion 
 of Legend of Zelda WW the characters are cell shaded and really make you feel like you are IN a 
 comic book. But my biggest problem with the graphics is that while beautifull looking it does sometimes 
 look like the devs gave up half way with the graphics and then went for an easier comic style... usually 
 that is not the case. The areas are colorfull and are not similar at all and make you relate to 
 where you are by looking at a signature statue and building.
  
  8/10
  
  SOUND: Now, this subject is sound but all the same I must comment about the soundtrack. Unlike 
 Grand Theft Auto the soundtrack lacks horribly and is un rememberable. The best thing I can say 
 is that there are a lot of em and that they tell you which island you are on. Otherwise the sounds 
 are great as you can tell the shotgun from a sniper rifle from a pistol. 8/10
  
  VALUE: This game is at the length of around Saints Row's. The single player can be done at your 
 leasure and afterward you can have fun by playing after you beat it with crimes on or off and can 
 get achievements or just HAVE FUN. Then you can play it with your friends and beat it with them 
 for even more fun and even more experimentation with the game's great physic mechanics.
  
  **NOTE: SORRY FOR ANY SPELLING ERRORS** I am lazy ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Game play is not unique. The feel of the game is old school. You have Grand Theft Auto meets Superman 
 in the future. Besides collecting orbs and causing mayhem on the streets, that's about it. Co-op 
 play is nice but really we all know why we bought this game. Halo 3 Beta. Two games in one. Take 
 away the orbs and the co-op and Halo 3 beta and you have a quick bore fest. Definitely not worth 
 $60. You run around like Grand Theft Auto and kill bosses just like Grand Theft Auto. You drive 
 cars like Grand Theft Auto. No wonder the developer who made this game made . . . can you guess? 
 That's right, the original Grand Theft Auto series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shank7408
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, and I dont even have online capabilites.
  
  I love the fact that you can run around aimlessly and still finish the game. There is no order 
 you have to follow. SHOOT, KILL, PICK UP, THROW, DRIVE, SMASH. This the perfect game for older 
 people who are married with kids who want to take all their aggression out without harming a single 
 person. hahaha
  
  Very easy, cool weapons, and when you get to the point where you character is maxed out, you are 
 as powerful as they come. Move over super heroes, these agents are bad ass when they build up their 
 skills.
  
  For useless violence and fabulous gameplay! This is absolutely it. For those of you looking for 
 story and substance, go with the grand theft auto games. For those of you like me, who like to 
 plug and play..... Crackdown is worth every penny and more.
  
  9 out of 10
  
  JMM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is just one of those games where you just cannot wait for the sequel. Now that the basic 
 foundations are set we just need to wait for Realtime Worlds to pick-up Crackdown where they left 
 off and create a fantastic sequel. My reason for saying this is because the long awaited Crackdown 
 does everything right and everything wrong.
  
  In Crackdown you are a super agent working for the mysterious Agency ordered to clear up crime 
 for the streets of Pacific City. In order to wipe the streets clean, you must eliminate 21 progressively 
 harder gang bosses in each part of the city. There are 3 districts in total meaning 9 bosses per 
 district. This is a great start to an open ended sandbox game, but unfortunately that is it. Dissapointingly 
 there is no story to Crackdown at all, which is essentially the games downfall. If you are looking 
 for an action / sandbox game with a great story Crackdown is not it.
  
  Crackdown is as sandbox as games get, you get dropped of in the city with all areas open to kill 
 bosses as freely as you choose. To do this you will have to jump, shoot, drive, explode and smash 
 your way accross the city. The game uses a lock on system, where you press the Left trigger to 
 lock on and the Right trigger to shoot, from locking on you can aim at different parts of your 
 enemies of vehicles, which is a great idea. Like most games with a lock on there are some problems, 
 like you can stay locked onto a dead enemy for ages or you can sometimes aim at the wrong thing, 
 but these can be overlooked. You can also jump into Crackdown over xbox live Co-Op, it's is a lot 
 of fun and makes the boring boss missions slightly more fun.
  
  Crackdown may have it's downsides, but that does not drag the overall game down with it. In Crackdown 
 you wear an agency suit which allows you to have five major skills, Driving, Agility, Explosives, 
 Firearms and Strength. Each of these major skills allows you to really complete the 21 gang bosses 
 however you see fit. For example, you can ues agility to jump from building to building then gain 
 a height advantage over your enemies, alternatively you can throw objects with strength or blow 
 them to smitherines with explosives.
  
  Each of these major skills are upgragdable up to four stars. Once you have a four star character 
 it can sometime amaze you at what your fully grown character is capable of. You upgrade these skills 
 by literally doing them, for example throwing cars at bad guys will upgrade your strength, or shooting 
 guys will upgrade your firearms. The only skill which doesn't upgrade this way is agility, instead 
 you have to roam around rooftops and collect green orbs to increase the skill. Actually upgrading 
 the skills can be a bit of a drag at first, for example the cars handle horribly until you have 
 at least two stars, but after that upgrading becomes a lot of fun just to see what you are capable 
 of next. The upgrading of these skills makes for a really deep gameplay experience and makes messing 
 around a lot of fun, which is what your want in a sandbox game. There are also 300 hidden orbs 
 to collect and races to complete after the main campaign. The races are checkpoint races and are 
 either agility or driving, by doing these they will increase your skill in that specific area. 
 Some of the races are fun, but some are just painful, mainly because some checkpoints are up high 
 or down low so they are hard to find.
  
  The graphics in Crackdown are very impressive, including amazing draw distances impressive detail 
 and great superb looking explosions. Every building is unique and there are many possible ways 
 up to the top of the building. From the top of these buildings you can see for miles, which is 
 useful as you will exploring the streets of Pacific City quite a bit. The sound effects sound great, 
 with powerful machine guns and devastating explosions. Sound wise, the game can get quite annoying. 
 There is a large and varied soundtrack to the game, however the game changes tracks according to 
 which area you are in and this can get very annoying. To add to this the game also features a horrible, 
 horrible agency intel guy that talks to you throughout the entire game. he never stops talking, 
 he gives you the same intel all the time and most of the time is wrong. He once told me that I 
 could do a near by agility race to increase my agility even though I had completely filled the 
 bar.
  
  If you really like to dig deep into games, Crackdown has a lot to offer but if your a person who 
 is not interested in side missions or upgrading characters this might not be the game for you. 
 It has a great skill system and terrific gameplay, but falls flat on it's face when it comes to 
 depth and length. If Realtime Worlds they had spent longer on mission design and length the game 
 could have been far better, but that said Crackdown is still a great game and a must have if you 
 like sandbox open world style games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blongdong
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game, but I wish there were more enemies to fight after you completed the 
 game. Also for the Online Multiplayer there shouldn't be a limit of 2 agents going through the 
 missions, there should be more. Gears of War had that same problem, only letting 2 people go through 
 the missions when there is a total of 4 characters. Xbox 360 is a powerful machine and people paid 
 good money for NextGen Graphics and NextGen game play, the developing Companies half to go the 
 extra mile when making these games. We pay top dollar buying these games and we wait 2-3 yrs for 
 them to be release, just to play them and have a great experience with your friends. Not able to 
 have more than 2 players in a Online Multiplayer game going through the missions is a huge let 
 down. Step your game up Real-time Worlds, Bungie, Epic Games, Rockstar North, 2K Sports, Kush Games, 
 and to the rest of you developers out there............. Use the Xbox 360 power 
  
  You can do it ........ Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I got this game the 3rd day it came out and i dont like it very much. the graphics are not the 
 best ive seen and the game has a very poor story. really this game is just a grand theft auto shell 
 with everything stripped but the action. its fun in the beginning but later on it gets very boring 
 and ones you beat it (which is in 2 days) there nothing else to do and its a game you wont be playing 
 again
  
  The only reason this game has sold good is because it brings access to the halo 3 beta and honestly 
 if it wasnt becouse it has the beta i would return it
  
  i knew from the beginning this was not going to be a good game but im not disappointed since i 
 bought it for the halo 3 beta only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiger_01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is really awesome, the controls feel really good, i like the comic book like visuals 
 with all the cell-shading
  
  And before you play it for about 2 hours and think about taking it back... DON'T, the best part 
 of the game is the co-op... it's like what you dreamt about when you played GTA, and you said What 
 if you could invite your friend to come play, even if he lives a long ways away, and we could jump 
 around buildings, take out criminals, kill eachother... that would be great ! but Cracksown has 
 that
  
  If you have a tough time taking down a bad guy... message your friend, and he will be on his way... you 
 guys can jump in the SUV, and just cruise around if you'd like
  
  but... rent the game, if you have xbox live, this is a must buy... unless you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGen86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Although I was hesitant to buy this game at first due its mixed reviews, I'm very glad I did. While 
 the main storyline is not too engaging and can be completed quite quickly, it's Crackdown's other 
 features that make this game shine. Jumping from rooftop to rooftop while collecting agility orbs 
 has never been soo fun, and Crackdown's explosions are some of the best I've seen yet in a video 
 game. Leveling up your character and watching him evolve over time is quite addictive as well. 
 Allowing the gamers to be experimental and creative is why Crackdown is a must-buy for anyone looking 
 to have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt6233
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely short and is very very repetitive. Everything is the same and has almost 
 no story line. It is extremely pointless. It's addicting at first and sure it can be fun to pick 
 up cars and throw them but that will get boring after a couple. Most people writing the reviews 
 just say it's good because of the hype and because they see other people saying it's good, don't 
 believe it. Also the graphics are garbage, I realize it's supposed too look like a comic, but still. 
 Anyway long story short I wouldn't recommend spending 60 bucks plus tax on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torman71
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great and very fun game, but may not keep you busy too long because it is much too 
 easy to beat. Although the game is very easy to beat, it can still keep you busy for a while if 
 you just try and max out your stats completely. As your stats increase so do your abilities as 
 well as your appearance. For example as your strength increases you will be able to pick up larger 
 things and throw them farther distances. As your agility increases you can jump to greater heights 
 and run faster allowing you to climb to the top of huge buildings. There are also many other things 
 in store as your skills increase. There are also some great achievements in this game, some quite 
 easy and others quite challenging. In the end Crackdown is a great game with many fun things to 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a difficult game to review. The reason is very simple: On the one hand, the single player 
 is overly simple. There's pretty much only one thing to do: kill gang members over, and over, and 
 over again. So it's a bit hard. On the other hand, just screwing around in the world can be loads 
 of fun. Through cars around, searching for orbs, doing stunts, those things can be quite fun, especially 
 with another person. So while the single player is a bit of a bore after about 1 hour of play, 
 the other stuff to do in the world, the platformer elements (which the developers clearly wanted 
 the player to mess with: there's 800 orbs to collect!!!) , is actually quite fun.
  
  Gameplay: Oddly, a mixed bag. Gaining super powers is extremely fun. In fact, there's little point 
 to even driving in this game. It's much more fun to leap from building to building. But every single 
 mission in the game is completely the same: kill person x. The entire single player experience 
 is just repeating that mission over 21 times, which, well, is pretty shallow. The weapons are pretty 
 cool in the game, but there's not too many of them, and the aiming in the game is TOO good, which 
 makes the weapons' skill that your agent improve on rather irrelevant (you can lock on to enemies 
 through walls?!) But again, overall, the gameplay is pretty fun. There's nothing deeply flawed 
 in the mechanics, it's just that the missions, well, there is litterally no variety. It's one mission 
 repeated through the entire game.
  
  Some have mentioned a bit of depth in that depending on the order you elimnate gang members, you 
 can affect the gameplay. For example, taking out the arms dealer earlier on will make the enemies 
 later have less heavy weapons. While it was a good idea, it doesn't work for a very simple reason: 
 The AI is absolutely stupid. The enemies are so dumb and such bad shots, it doesn't make a difference 
 if they have handguns or fully automatics, just by running they'll miss you 80-95% of the time. 
 And it doesn't matter how many there are, you can enter a room with 20 enemies and just run, they'll 
 barely ever hit you at all unless you stand still, and even then they'll miss you most of the time. 
 The AI is that bad.
  
  Graphics: Pretty nice. It's cell shaded, which makes the draw distance insanely far, which is a 
 very nice change. Standing on some buildings at certain times in the game, you can literally see 
 the entire map, which is pretty impressive. Explosions are pretty nice too.
  
  Sound: Pretty good, nothing amazing, nothing bad either
  
  Story: Well, to say the story is 
 minimal is to overstate the content. There is practically no story at all. The story is this: there 
 are 3 gangs; kill them all. Yep, that's it. If you're looking for a sense of progress in this game, 
 there's none to be found. Which makes the missions feel a bit irrelevant and disconnected from 
 each other.
  
  Value: this is probably where my biggest complaint comes in. For the first 6 hours I really was 
 havning tons of fun. It was great stuff. But around hour 6, something happened. I was just playing 
 and thought to myself, this isn't fun at all any more I was loving the game so much at first, and 
 then BAM, the fun stopped abruptly. The reason is clear, the gameplay is rather shallow, the missions 
 are repetative (since there's really only one mission repeated 20 times in the game: kill!) . And 
 after you collect the 300th orb, it gets sort of boring. It's not clear to me this game is a great 
 value if you're looking for 20hours of gameplay. On the other hand, if you love screwing around 
 in a world with a friend online, this may just provide the most entertainment yet on the 360.
 
  
  I have no doubt that Crackdown 2 will be an amazing game. For now though, Crackdown appears to 
 be a sort of barebones game that has so much potential. And for that reason, it really is not a 
 GTA clone. It bares little resemblance to GTA 3 and beyond. GTA has much more variety and depth, 
 and little platformer mechanics. This game has no variety and is very much a platformer with guns. 
 Worth buying?: I honestly don't think so, not unless you are going to screw around in the world 
 with a friend for hours upon hours. But for me, it's the perfect rental!! It's fun, but I like 
 my games to last longer. But don't miss this game, it is good, it's just that the fun ends too 
 quickly because of the silly AI and lack of variety in the missions, and the fact that the single 
 player is very short. Quite frankly, if this game was in development for another year, it could 
 have been one of the best games on the 360. But as is, it's not a bad game; it has flaws, but it's 
 still pretty darn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcTrooper3827
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  That this game rocks. When I first seen it I liked it but than people were playing it and saying 
 it sucked and so forth, but I went and got it to check it out and I was not disappointed at all, 
 from the first time I started play till the 4 hours later from continues gameplay I was amazed. 
 The ability to just run around and take out gangs is fun, the real time gameplay is great and the 
 ability to improve your stats is great. This game is all around fun and I have been impressed. 
 Ummm what more can I say I am running on only a few hours sleep and really can't think straight 
 but thought I would write this review on this sweet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagusMaleficus
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by stating that I love sandbox games, like the Grand Theft Auto series. I LOVE them. 
 There's no greater feeling than knowing you can go anywhere you want, do whatever you want, whenever 
 you feel like it. I just plain hate feeling restricted to one set path. Crackdown is definitely 
 a sandbox action game, but it doesn't exactly rewrite the formula. Sure, there's a greater emphasis 
 on platforming throughout the city, trying to reach greater heights and longer distances. However, 
 after about two or three hours of the same thing - run, jump, kill goons and bosses, repeat - this 
 grows a bit stale. The repetition found in the action would have been much easier to take, had 
 there been more depth to the story. Sadly, there isn't really much of one at all. There's a bit 
 of narration from an Agency supervisor-type, but that's about it. Well, that, and the twist ending 
 - which I actually liked, but hated at the same time. I won't give the twist away, but suffice 
 it to say that it felt like too little story, too late...
  
  I wouldn't advise anyone to run out and buy this game - not even sandbox-game fans like myself. 
 That said, it's definitely worth a rental. Just don't expect this game to reinvent the wheel, and 
 you'll have a good (but short) time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zealot51
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  when i first read about this game i thought, a gta clone with no real story line i thought it would 
 completely suck. when the demo was available over live i wasnt really bothered but everyone i knew 
 was going on about jumping over buildings and roundhouse kicking people off them. so i thought 
 why not give it a try. so i downloaded it and wow it was a blast my super cop was bounding over 
 buildings in no time and i was kicking cars in groups of unsuspecting gang members, it was only 
 thirty minutes but it was enough for me to decide i would buy it. come release date it was mine 
 it was completely awesome. the more i played it the better it got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reakes25
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown.
  
  This game is a great game for all Grand Theft Auto Lovers and marvel lovers , this game reminds 
 you of being a Super Hero in Chaos like ; Super Man for his Power for picking up Cars &amp; Ect 
 , Spider Man with jumping from rooftop to rooftop. Then the driving skills of Batman And his batmoblie 
 .
  
  Crackdown is one of them games when it can go on for ever sooner or later u will get bored but 
 there is always things on there which makes u smile laugh and have a great time.
  You can go on rampages , Extreme Driving Skills , Amazing Free-Falling and Le Park-uor ( Free Running 
 ) .
  Give The Enemy Your hardest Hits and become the best today.... Crackdown =) .
  
  9/10
  Brilliant An Absolute Riot
  
  [Xbox 360 The offical Xbox Magazine]
  Says : Must Buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsfunkydotcom
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Its GTA, only over the top and more sandboxy. Thats the most accurate description I can give 
 of this game.
  
  And when I say that its more sandboxy than GTA, I really mean it. The game just throws you, a 
 genetically enhanced superagent, into the streets of Pacific City and gives you the opportunity 
 to roam freely. Pacific City is divided into three island, each with its own unique ambience and, 
 more importantly, gang. While these gangs are seperated into different difficulty levels you are 
 free to tackle them in any order you please.
  
  Each gang has several generals and a kingpin. By taking down the generals it will be easier to 
 take on the kingpin, but, as mentioned earlier, you can just go and kill the kingpin if you want.
 
  
  Youll move around the city by using your five skills: Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength and 
 Firearms. There are five different levels to each skill, zero through four stars. You gain levels 
 by using your skills. Getting orbs on top of buildings with your agility, plowing gangers with 
 your car, blowing up stuff with grenades and rockets, kicking the crap out of stuff and shooting 
 stuff. Once you get into the higher skill levels your powers get ridiculous, the most noticeable 
 being your agility. When youre able to jump over buildings youll gain a new appreciation for 
 the game.
  
  But your fun will be short-lived. Youll have reached your max skill-levels within 12 hours and 
 youll probably have completed the core game missions by then. Sure, there is the additional challenge 
 of going for the remaining achievements, but as much of a pointswhore I am, I cant say that it 
 has the same draw as trying to eradicate the gangs.
  
  But ultimately its a very rewarding experience and with some very interesting DLC on the horizon, 
 this ol horse might still have some life left in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  With the daddy of all sandbox games GTA coming to Xbox 360 later this year is there a place for 
 crack down, well I think so being playing crack down for some days now and it is really quite good.
 
  
  Crackdown has some really addictive gaming styles a big part of which is collecting 500 green 300 
 special orbs which increase your abilities so you can run and jump faster\further which means jumping 
 around roof tops in this world.
  
  In fact every time you kill someone by shooting a henchman your shooting skill will improve or 
 if you run over them your driving skill improves.
  
  There are five main abilities you need to improve
  
  Shooting = well shooting
  Strength = 
 pouching kicking throwing cars (yes throwing cars, trucks, armed cars etc)
  Agility = roof top races, collecting orbs even shooting from long range helps
  Driving = races, 
 running down henchmen, stunts
  Explosives = killing henchman by grenade, rocket etc
  
  Crackdown city is brilliant a fully leaving breathing city and cars you leave at the side of the 
 road are still there an hour later.
  
  With co-op as well online Crackdown is a must, and big bonus access to halo 3 demo!!!!
  
  But 
 even without halo 3 crackdown is a must buy this is the best sandbox game so much better then Just 
 Cause and saints Row (which both are good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pangobahn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you are a recreational gamer, and are satisfied with some quickly served gaming fun, then this 
 game will score a lot higher than a 7.8 for you. This game is a very well produced mix of earnest 
 &amp; faithful gaming in the true superhero / comic genre - but also self-aware enough to have 
 just that small amount of satire in the vein of RoboCop or the Terminator. This game doesn't take 
 itself so seriously, and neither should anyone who plays it.
  
  In terms of scope, the setting of the game feels really big, mainly because the tops of buildings 
 (and the sides of them) are playable areas, vs just backdrops and the level of detail in the back 
 alleys of the game is really quite amazing. Sure, the virtual square footage of pacific city might 
 be a little smaller than similar games, but this game is not really comparable to anything (yet) 
 because its the first next-gen style game in this genre. But, if this is even a glimpse of what 
 is yet to come... it's amazing.
  
  The controls are easy to use and intuitive, if only a little touchy. The character turns a wee 
 bit too fast left to right, making small adjustments more difficult than they should be.
  
  On the downside, the environments (or at least part of them) should be destructible. Having the 
 ability to toss cars and create huge explosions would be better if you could potentially bring 
 down a building. I imagine that is technically very difficult to build into a game like this though 
 - but if a building could be destroyed with an amazing pile of explosives or something, that would 
 extremely satisfying. Overall - this is more than the Halo 3 beta with Crackdown bonus - the game 
 is well worth buying and playing in co-op mode, which is guaranteed to be some of the most fun 
 you will have playing a game online with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very average sandbox game..... with that said, its still has some great action and 
 open world themes. Gameplay --- the gameplay is pretty fun. however, the skills that u have to unlock 
 take forever to due so.... driving sucks until you have a lot of skill in it. the best part is the 
 ability to throw cars and jump really high. the shooting is pretty fun, and there are a lot of 
 guns to choose from. the gameplay is average overall. co-op is pretty lame because there's no variety 
 in it..
  
  Graphics ----the graphics are really great.... thats probably the best part of the game in my opinion. 
 The huge open world is great and there's lot to see and do... and the world doesnt suffer from lag 
 that much. cars and probably everything have a great shiny look to them. the draw distances are 
 amazing.
  
  Sound ---the sound is the worst part of the game in my opinion. while its still good, the music 
 is pretty stupid and there isn't much to it. Custom soundtracks would have been a cool feature 
 like in saint's row.
  
  Value ----the game wont last you that long for an open world game, since the story is pretty short. 
 the co-op adds little value since it's pretty vague. the optional side quests are just kind of 
 there such as ur average races (w/out any opponents,,, its against the clock, which sucks) and kill 
 this in this amt. of time crap...
  
  Tilt -----Overall, this game is very average but still is a lot of fun. there's a huge world to 
 explore with graphics that are great. the action is fun for a while and the skills are great once 
 you max them out. the concept is a lot of fun, and if realtime studios/ Microsoft work to fix these 
 problems.... the next game will be great. there's a lot of potential from this game in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlaz152
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very fun experience. However, that fun doesn't last for long since the campaign 
 (barely) is to take out 21 bosses, and they're pretty much all the same. You can also level up 
 skills, like firearms, explosives, and driving. Leveling these skills up is a blast and it's crazy 
 fun when you max out all of you skills. After your done with all that (10-15 hrs) , unfortunately, 
 there isn't much else to do (except wait for the Halo 3 beta) . Crackdown is loads of fun to play, 
 but this package won't last you long before you put it away and not take it out until the halo 
 3 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Hmm... the graphics. In this game, its hard to say if either the graphics are good or just plain 
 borring. I have to agree to explosions, the character itself, some of the environement are pretty 
 well made, but then again some of the graphics are pretty lame and too cartoonish. For example, 
 when you compare a car to another, i have seen cars that have great lighting effects on them and 
 others were just plain cartoonish effects.
  
  Other then that, the character evolution is great. You have to increase 5 skills (firearm, explosion, 
 driving, agility and strenght) . Unfortunatly you dont see any changes in the skin of your character 
 with the 3 first skills i have mentionned earlier. But when you augment agility, your characters 
 skin changes depending on which initial skin you have chosen. For example, one the characters would 
 get a new stylish hair or new tatoos on his face... there's always a little design that is new with 
 each increase (4 stars max, so 4 different changes) . As well with strenght, your character becomes 
 bigger and stronger.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is unfortunatly something that can not get a big rating.
  
  The mob bosses are way to 
 easy, although getting to them might be challenging, but they are just way to easy. Shoot their 
 legs or put them on fire with explosions and your pretty much done.
  
  The rooftop races are pretty fun, just the fact that your a spiderman look-a-like makes the races 
 interresting, but they are definitly not difficult (although those on the Agency tower can be rough 
 if your not a lvl 4 agility) .
  
  The driving races are pretty lame. Although the agency cars are pretty fun to drive, the races 
 itself are just plain borring. Plus, on some places, I run into a car with the Agency Supercar, 
 now I have frequently ran into the same kind of car and they would just drive over me, but at some 
 moments, you just stop cold dead, no speed at all. This is a bug that is quite annoying. And yet, 
 like in the rooftop races, you have so much time to complete the race that you can drop by a drive 
 thru and grab yourself some fast food, but not too fast.
  
  Inspite all this, it is an open world and if you happen to play coop with a friend. It makes the 
 game much more enjoyable.
  
  Sound:
  
  Nothing really to complain about other then that stupid and annoying announcer. Sometimes, he's 
 so stupid. For example, im at the street level and he's going to say Wow, I can see my house from 
 here . Do I want to know? Or your shooting at bad guys on rooftops and hes going to say Watch out, 
 bandits up above! . I know, that why im shooting at them! He keeps repeating pointless stuff that 
 you just dont want to ear.
  
  ----------
  The game is still pretty fun inspite of what I said. It would be fun to see more challenges cause 
 the game is really short (story wise) . But just the fact that they have challenging Xbox Acheivements, 
 it makes the game much more interresting. This is definitly not a must buy game, but its ok. To 
 tell you the truth, I bought it for the Halo 3 beta, which im not supprised many people has done 
 the same thing as me!
  
  Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyyankeesjg25
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. Dont buy it for 60 dollars. Rent it first or borrow it. IT is the same thingover 
 and over and over again. You go and kill a guy and then u go and kill another guy, This game sucks. 
 The graphics are decent but the storyline and gameplay are like a playstaion compared to wat it 
 should have been, a PS2. Its just a terrible game. do not get it i am warning you! RENT RENT RENT. 
 If you like cheesy cop games who can jump 30 feet in the air than this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreyTable
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a beautiful game. Even in 480i Component Flat Screen 4:3, Crackdown is a beautiful 
 game. The problem with Crackdown is nothing. Sure, some ledges that should be grabbable aren't 
 which doesn't make sense is the only problem I've run into, and that's minor. The problem isn't 
 with Crackdown, the problem is that the nimrods on the Internet and schoolyards see a city that 
 has cars in it , cars that you can steal from people, and those idiots decide the game is somehow 
 broken, like it has parts missing. Or some stupid shit like that. Crackdown is two things in one 
 package. It's a 3-D platformer and a shooter (or schump, if you prefer) . When's the last time somebody 
 **** about Contra not having better missions? Hmm? Close to never? Really? Good. Crackdown is Contra 
 on Acid. Even without the looming Halo 3 beta,. I would still rate the game the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Crackdown takes everything thats great about guns, cars, and explosions and adds incredible Super 
 powers to the Mix. The obvious comparison that Crackdown is attracting is the GTA series, and that 
 is completely wrong. While Crackdown is an open world game, it takes a whole different direction 
 than the GTA series. While the GTA is very story based and offers many types of missions to complete, 
 Crackdown has 2: Shooting and Racing. There are two types of racing, one is a point to point vehicle 
 race mode and the other is a roof top to roof top race mode that has you jumping between buildings. 
 Crackdown also features An experience based super power system that adds a lot to the formula.
 
  
  Now that we got the Why this is not a GTA clone out of the way, on to the gameplay.
  
  Crackdown takes place in Pacific City, a city on the verge of total anarchy. You are a genetically 
 enhanced super soldier that works for the city's new ultra police department; The Agency. the Agency 
 has employed you to take out all the crime bosses in the 3 districts of the city. You have High 
 powered weaponry and you also have Super powers called abilities that level up as you use them.
 
  
  Your abilities are: Agility- As this levels up, you gain the ability to jump higher and higher, 
 eventually gaining the power to jump 30 feet into the air as your agility increases you also run 
 faster. the easiest way to level up agility is to collect lots of the 500 green agility orbs that 
 are scattered across the cities roof tops.
  
  Driving- your driving skill is increased by running down criminals with vehicles, and completing 
 road races.
  
  Strength- Strength allows you to lift objects and damage enemies with powerful melee attacks. this 
 skill is increased by using Melee attacks and throwing objects to take out criminals. increasing 
 your strength also levels up your recharging health system.
  
  Explosives- The higher your explosive rating, the bigger the explosions. Using Grenades and other 
 explosive weaponry increases your explosive rating.
  
  Firearms- Using the various guns in the game increases your damage and accuracy.
  
  During 
 the game you seek out and eliminate the various bosses in each district and then go after the king 
 pin. The game is set up in a completely open structure. you can take out any boss in any order 
 in any way you want. Often there are many ways of approaching each situation. Sometimes you will 
 have either a choice of going in all guns blazing or taking a back entrance with out alerting every 
 single guard, And there are lots of guards. When it comes to Crackdown, the bosses are not the 
 challenge, the numerous, re-spawning guards that populate their strongholds are. There are always 
 dozens and dozens of enemies that stand between you and their boss and they take their job very 
 seriously. Getting around the body guards is where the game gets its strategy.
  
  Pacific City is huge. There are 3 Island districts that are connected by the Agency headquarters 
 known as The Keep. The Keep is the tallest building in the city and offers a view like no other 
 in the game. Each district has unique architecture and different themed areas to explore.
  
  The city ambiance is also quite amazing. the world is filled with pedestrians and vehicles 
 that follow their own A. I. path. Stand in the way of a oncoming motorist and they will try desperately 
 to slow down or turn to avoid hitting you. sometimes they will avoid you and sometimes they will 
 plow right into you. This is equally true on the city's numerous freeways.
  
  Perhaps the most Impressive thing of all is that there is no in game load times in Crackdown, aside 
 from starting the game or re-spawning after a death. The entire game and all its areas stream right 
 away, the draw distance is amazing and Pop up is almost never noticeable.
  
  Aside from the main campaign, there are the racing missions, and also orb hunting. there are 300 
 hidden blue orbs to collect. these orbs actually give you experience points towards all 5 abilities 
 and you get an achievement for finding them all. There are also the 500 agility orbs that also 
 earn you an achievement upon collecting them all.
  
  The graphics in Crackdown are very well done. they feature a almost Cell-shaded look that fits 
 the style of gameplay very well. Pacific city is very well detailed and is an amazing sight.
  
  The sound in Crackdown is also very impressive. The city has layers and layers of ambient sounds 
 that make Pacific City sound like a real city should. The voice acting is fitfully over the top 
 and the soundtrack is filled with many songs you have probably never even heard of.
  
  Crackdown features a complete online co-op mode. The entire game can be played over XBOX live or 
 system link. While Crackdown may not have the depth or length of some games, Almost everything 
 that is there is so incredibly fun that it makes the experience feel like a complete package. There 
 are hours upon hours of explosive fun to be found in Pacific City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonathanL
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  The first few months of the year are always rough for games, as a few titles miss the holiday mark 
 to little fanfare and are followed by months with relatively barren release calendars. While 2007 
 is marginally better, as each system has something going for it, the major title for XBox 360, 
 Crackdown, doesn't really do much to bridge the gap between must-have play experiences that Microsoft 
 had hoped it would. Uninspired aesthetics, some sloppy design, and a general lack of innovation 
 relegate this title to second-class status.
  
  Crackdown almost immediately feels like more of an aggregate of other titles than an original game. 
 Borrowing elements from Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, Grand Theft Auto games, and Mercenaries, Crackdown 
 puts the player in the position of a super-agent with the goal of cleaning up a city made up of 
 three large islands that are under various gang control with extreme prejudice. To do so, players 
 must jump tall buildings, steal lots of cars, and blow up everything in between, revealing its 
 influences like a blueprint.
  
  The core experience of the game involves developing the player agent's five skills. Four are improved 
 almost exclusively through combat. Explosives, firearms, driving, and physical strength are all 
 improved largely through killing gang members using these methods. Shoot a thug from the Los Muertos 
 gang, and the player receives points towards levelling up their firearm skill. Blow up a Volk heavy 
 truck with a grenade, and the player receives experience for each kill rendered this way as well. 
 While this works fine for three of the mtethods, levelling up the driving skill isn't so easy. 
 While hostile non-player characters aren't terribly bright most of the time, they do an excellent 
 job (far better than neutral pedestrians) of getting out of the way of moving vehicles. Players 
 can also level their drivig skill through checkpoint races and stunts, but this skill specifically 
 seems put together in a rather slipshod manner.
  
  The fifth skill is the most perplexing of all, however. Agility determines the player's running 
 speed and ability to leap long distances and great heights. Since players won't be killing anyone 
 by jumping, however, this skill is levelled by finding green agility orbs , which are scattered 
 on rooftops all throughout the city. The higher up an orb is, generally, the more points towards 
 level it rewards. Players also receive a small agility bonus when killing from on high, but it 
 doesn't make a terrible amount of sense. Why doesn't simply climbing twenty-story buildings account 
 for anything? Jumping a hundred feet, from one rooftop to another? Leaping onto an overpass? Stepping 
 off the top of an oil rig and falling into the ocean below? The RPG aspects of Crackdown make it 
 interesting to progress, but they don't really make tons of sense. The game isn't trying to be 
 realistic by any means, but it could have been a bit more logical about it all.
  
  As Crackdown giveth, however, it can also taketh away. As an employee of The Agency, which is trying 
 to take back the city from these gangs and corporations, players are supposed to be bound to a 
 strict code of good. Players who kill civilians will lose up to a certain amount of experience, 
 and while it's not a very high amount of experience, relatively speaking, it is a bit of an annoyance. 
 A game that extolls progress and growth, only to dock said experience, for unavoidable casualties 
 seems to be at odds with itself.
  
  This is because, as mentioned, casualties are unavoidable. Taking out large groups of enemies at 
 times demands the use of heavy ordnance to survive, and civilians are bound to get caught up in 
 the violence. While this puts the police of the city on alert, they don't seem terribly concerned 
 with catching the player. Those used to the kamikaze officers from Grand Theft Auto will find that 
 the police in Crackdown are useless to thepopulace and the player (as backup) both, being good 
 only for their serviceable vehicles, which they give up without any issues, fine public servants 
 they are. In fact, they're just about the most laid-back police officers one will find in games.
 
  
  The same can't be said for the enemies. Aggressive and confrontational on sight, enemies are the 
 perfect bullet catchers, but can also be very frustrating. Due to the open-ended nature of Crackdown, 
 gunfire can be coming from anywhere, and there isn't anything in the way of directional advice, 
 leaving it up to the player to determine where a spiral streak of sniper fire came from. The lock-on 
 targeting lets the player cheat this somewhat, but it feels like a cop-out.
  
  The lock-on targeting as a whole leaves much to be desired. The camera uses the lock-on for reference 
 when activated, so when the player beats an enemy to death and runs over them, left trigger depressed, 
 the camera swings to right above the action, rendering the player blind. The targeting feature 
 also picks up on dead bodies, which can make single out a live target difficult in crowded situations. 
 That the usefulness of this important combat feature is directly inverse to its necessity is frustrating, 
 and conceivable could have been fixed without too much effort. The camera also limits the palyer's 
 view whe scaling buildings, whcih they will do exceedingly often. Players cannot see behind them 
 at all, meaning that jumping off of a wall to land on one opposite them is done completely blind 
 while trying to swing the camera around without altering the character's trajectory. A more useful 
 and steady camera would have been nice, especially consider the often cramped confines of the environments 
 in Crackdown, specifically in buildings and small alleyways.
  
  The main goal of Crackdown, at least in terms of plot progression (if it can be called that) is 
 to defeat each gang in totality, from the two lowest members to the four captains to the kingpin 
 of each gang himself. This involves infiltrating an enemy stronghold, killing countless grunt gang 
 members, and then defeating the boss. While this process is simple in theory, in execution it's 
 often a frustrating trial-and-error process that involves cruising around aimlessly until Agency 
 Intel informs the player of a nearby base. Once that location is pinned down, players access the 
 grounds of a given gang stronghold and meet their first level of resistance. The palayer must then 
 inflitrate the base in the most loud and explosive way possible, because no stealth exists in the 
 world of Crackdown. Players will generally find tehmselves offinga few foes before ducking behind 
 cover to regenerate their shield and health (which is like Halo's but ultimately more forgiving, 
 as even health regenerates) , all while carefully listening for the high-pitched sound of incoming 
 grenades.
  
  Grenades are perhaps Crackdown's biggest downfall. Enemies have them and aren't afraid to use them, a 
 nd players will find themselves juggled, knocked from dizzying heights, and ultimately defeated 
 by grenades time after time. Once hit by a grenade's blast radius, players are stunned, and, if 
 close enough, tossed into the air like a rag doll. The frustration builds enoguh when on the ground 
 and volley after volley steadily kills them, but when they've spent the last ten minutes breaking 
 into a very secure enemy facility, or getting to a building that requires very creative climbing, 
 only to be killed or blown off the top, it's not fun. It feels unfair and punishing. Crackdown's 
 biggest flaw, by far, is how how cheaply and quickly it willingly removes the player's progress. 
 It attempts to mitigate this with supply points that the player can capture and then employ for 
 city-hopping or preferable spawn points after death, but many of them are either in very secluded 
 spots that aren't easy to get to or are hostile until the island is taken back from the local gangs. 
 More often than not, players will find it more useful to spawn at the very start of the game, the 
 Agency island in the middle of the map, where they can get their own Agency super vehicle. These 
 are really teh only rides worth taking for an extended drive, since most civilian cars leave a 
 bit to be desired. The Agency cars also scale with teh palyer's driving skill, altering their performance 
 and appearance as the player progresses. It owuld have been ncie to be able to drive a boat, or 
 pilot a small helicopter, through the large city that Crackdown takes place in, but it's only cars 
 the player will step into. A shame, considering the vertical nature of the world.
  
  This is perhap's Crackdown's greatest strength. Instead of the typical type of sandbox world, Crackdown 
 eschews sprawling vistas and cityscapes with the concrete jungle of freeways, alleys, and skyscrapers, 
 even mixing in some more creative areas like oil rigs and quarries. The square mileage may not 
 feel terribly impressive, but the city exists in multiple layers. Getting around town is sometimes 
 faster when rooftop-jumping than driving even, and is responsible for most of what makes Crackdown 
 feel fun. The freedom and power of leaping a hundred feet from one building to another, with the 
 satisfying thud of striking concrete beneath one's feet, is an enjoyable experience.
  
  Crackdown's visuals are pretty solid, using cel-shaded aesthetics with such a soft touch one often 
 forgets they're even there. As a whole, however, they're fairly generic, and there exists no point 
 in which the detail is particularly impressive. The sunset and sunrise have to be seen to be believed, 
 but the actual world the player inhabits is fair at best, and bland at worst. The framerate is 
 generally pretty steady, but considering the average state of the visuals, that's no amazing feat. 
 There is a distinct lack of load times once the palyer enters the world, but this was already being 
 accomplished in other similar games last generation.
  
  The audio fares a bit better, with a huge original soundtrack of over 100 songs. It would have 
 been nice to implement custom stations, but the music provided isn't bad at all. It does occasionally 
 have issues, such as endless skipping if circumstances align, that can be resolved by exiting a 
 vehicle and entering again, but the music is largely a pleasurable experience. The game audio is 
 standard fare, with explosions, staccato bursts of bullet fire, and engine roars all par for the 
 course. The inhabitants of the city talk, too, but it's the same few comments over and over again, 
 and the civilian speech especially sounds half-hearted and dialed-in.
  
  Crackdown isn't a bad game, really, but considering the shoulders of giants it stands on, it should 
 really be better. The vertical aspect of the city is clever, and building-climbing is an interest 
 puzzle twist on the sandbox genre, but overall, Crackdown borrows from games without improving 
 on the original concepts. That no one else has raised the sandbox bar to outclass Crackdown on 
 current generation systems is a shame, but one has a feeling that this stopgap game will pale in 
 comparison to the next Grand Theft Auto game. Crackdown is a decent rental, but not much more (unless 
 one really wants inon the Halo 3 beta and didn't make it otherwise) . Annoying design choices and 
 camera issues plague the game, and a promising concept instead fails to live up to any of its forbears. 
 Crackdown just doesn't have the authority that a game in its position should, and it comes up short 
 of the greatness it should have taken handily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is another successful parody of the Grand Theft Auto game type, this time, from a cop's 
 point of view.
  
  The futuristic city you play in has gotten so bad that you start with a license to kill. Three 
 gangs have taken the three sections of the city over and it's your job to take the city back in 
 any way possible, ergo, license to kill.
  
  The catch is, you're playing as some kind of prototype cyborg cop, and as you gain experience in 
 different areas, your character improves to super-hero levels of greatness. Agility improvements 
 will allow you to run faster and even jump to the top of buildings. Strength improvements will 
 eventually let you pick up cars to throw at bad guys.
  
  It's a great concept with a good game set before you, but there are shortfalls. The two biggest 
 shortfalls are content and challenge. There wasn't enough content at all, the way the game was 
 made. I beat it in only three days. I think adding challenge may have helped out quite a bit.
 
  
  With super-duper strength, agility, etc., why not put together a few more puzzles here and there 
 to challenge you to actually think about it when using them? It's cool to have the strength to 
 pick up a large vehicle and throw it, but there isn't ever a necessity for that strength. It's 
 cool to jump ultra high, but there's only one game puzzle I found where you really needed the jump 
 hieght to reach a boss, and only one other that was required to get an achievement. I never saw 
 a need for the super speed or the super shooting. Super explosives are only needed for an achievement, 
 though it does help in certain circumstances, it's never really required otherwise. And super driving, 
 I never used because you don't have to. Super driving is achieved by, duh, driving. The only place 
 I can see where it would help is with the driving challenges for achievements, but there isn't 
 ever a high-speed chase or anything else that would require driving. Using the lowest level of 
 agility to climp a building by the window ledges and jumping from roof to roof seems to be the 
 best way to get anywhere. You need to do that anyway to get agility orbs to up the jumping ability 
 for the ONLY boss battle you'll need it for.
  
  I won't go into detail, but the ending was good, until the narration continued. You'll see. Then 
 when you've beaten all the gang bosses, the bad guys dissapear completely until you turn them back 
 on again at the menu. Even when you turn them back on though, all that's left is to explore the 
 boring city for hidden items to get achievement points. I'm not bored enough to search out the 
 500 hidden orbs, get the rest of the agility orbs (after you get the highest level, who cares about 
 the rest?) , or get the driving and jumping races (all against the clock) .
  
  This is a great game to rent or borrow, but unless you put it on the highest difficulty, it won't 
 keep your attention long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown fits neatly into the sub-genre of open world adventure game. It is made by the creator 
 of the original Grand Theft Auto games  David Jones  and his brand new company, Real Time Worlds. 
 In most ways, youll find Crackdown has many similarities to the designers roots; youll be spending 
 almost all of your time driving around and shooting enemies on foot in a huge, sprawling city. 
 However, by adding in superhuman elements to the gameplay, Crackdown is in some ways the most enjoyable 
 experience of its type. Problem is, theres just not enough variety built into that gameplay, and 
 its one-trick focus makes a good chunk of the open world feel wasted. In the end, though, Crackdowns 
 extreme take on non-linearity  combined with a solid presentation  make it worth a look.
  
  Oftentimes, open world games are notorious for being light on plot. And because Crackdown goes 
 to new lengths about the realm of possibility regarding how it plays, its plot becomes almost non-existent 
 in the process. The game casts you as an unnamed agent working for The Agency  some sort of new 
 age FBI-like conglomerate who is devoted to cleaning up the streets against gang activity. As you 
 walk around the city, youll stumble across bosses, generals, and eventually the kingpins of three 
 different gangs. After taking out all twenty-one of these figures in the fictional Pacific City, 
 the game ends.
  
  Thats really about all there is to Crackdown in terms of structure. You are free to tackle the 
 figures in any order you want, though youll need to locate them first, and taking out the lower 
 level figures will effect the resources and firepower of the higher ups, so it makes sense to strike 
 from the bottom up. Most of your adversaries take a whole lot of blows to go down for good and 
 are frequently surrounded by dozens of thugs that youll need to get through to take on the head 
 honchos.
  
  Luckily, you have a super-powered suit of armor on your side to help get the job done. With it, 
 youll be able to upgrade your agents basic skills to fantastical ends through the collection 
 of colored orbs, and this is what Crackdown does best. You have several statistics  shooting, 
 driving, strength, and so on  and youll automatically improve in these areas by exercising them. 
 So shooting a group of gang members will create blue shooting orbs that your agent will absorb. 
 Collecting enough of them will cause that stat to increase by way of a star level, which will greatly 
 improve that particular ability  for example, increasing your strength skill by kicking enemies 
 will eventually allow you to toss around cars and steel dumpsters like childrens toys.
  
  The only one that works a bit differently is the agility statistic, with which youll need to collect 
 agility orbs that have been placed around the city. This feels about as natural as the other stats 
 do, though, since youll need to do some heavy climbing to reach them. Your agent is able to jump 
 very high from the get-go, but it wont be too long before hes flying thirty feet in the air, 
 limbs flailing. Your agent also grabs onto window ledges and other such holds, allowing you easy 
 passage up around the rooftops of the city. Since you cant enter many buildings in Crackdown, 
 the addition of personality to the citys upper levels goes a long way to make up for that. It 
 wont be long until youre soaring through the air of the rooftops, shooting foes suspended in 
 the air, and continuing onward after hitting the ground without missing a beat. It all becomes 
 second nature quickly, and it is immensely satisfying to watch your comfort level with Crackdown 
 rise so organically.
  
  However, your comfort with the game may grow a little too quickly. To put it bluntly, Crackdown 
 never feels the least bit intimidating or difficult. For a game that is putting you  a sole Agent 
  against three huge, supposedly dangerous gangs, that poses a bit of a problem. You can only hold 
 two weapons at a time, but any weapons you bring back to supply points spread across the city 
 will be archived for you to pick up there at any time. Retreating to a supply point also completely 
 refills your ammo. So once you get your hands on say, a heat-seeking rocket launcher, the remainder 
 of the gang figures can become wiped out in short order. Your skills also seem to upgrade a little 
 too quickly, and the bosses require little in the way of planning or thought because of this. In 
 fact, it is often easier to simply charge past the lighter resistance and simply start spin-kicking 
 a boss until he or she dies, since melee attacks are often more potent than firepower and prevent 
 your enemies from striking back.
  
  Crackdown is short but sweet, clocking in and around eight hours of playing time. It would normally 
 seem silly to assign a completion time to such an open-ended game, but really, there isnt a whole 
 lot to be done in Crackdown safe for eliminating the gang figures. It is initially a lot of fun 
 to climb around the city, but once you max out your agility and are able to run fast and jump high, 
 the addictive quest for finding orbs loses its appeal. There are some foot and car races to participate 
 in, although these are against a clock and not any actual live opponents, so these arent very 
 fun. And since jumping around from building to building is so much fun, youll seldom see a use 
 for driving, anyway. Some additional contexts or set pieces for the boss encounters would have 
 gone a long way to make Crackdown a more substantial product, but as it stands, it ends up feeling 
 a touch light.
  
  Overall, though, the rhythm Crackdown settles into is ultimately a great one. As you begin delving 
 into the second and third gangs, resistance becomes extremely heavy. Killing a gangs bosses will 
 cause them to become aware of you and begin sending out hit squads that will descend on your position 
 en force. Although they dont pose much of a challenge at first, eventually you will find yourself 
 overwhelmed by sheer numbers. Just as things become more interesting in combat, a well-placed grenade 
 or rocket will cause your foes and their vehicles to shoot up into the air in a glorious blaze 
 of fire, and theyll all shower down back to the ground. The gunplay, while overly easy, almost 
 always has a spectacular finish. The final gangs encounters also ramp up the overall challenge 
 by forcing you to navigate more intricate complexes in order to reach the bosses themselves, which 
 adds a much-needed layer of depth to the proceedings.
  
  The games visuals are similarly built in layers. Most of Pacific Citys people, cars, and buildings 
 are constructed simply but cleanly. Most objects in the game are also cel-shaded, but they arent 
 colored flatly with shades of color; they still retain textures and have a great sheen and clarity 
 to them. More so than anything else, the games visuals are brought to life by the fantastic draw 
 distance. Even when youre atop a building thousands of feet in the air, you can still make out 
 cars gliding through the city streets, and people  insignificant specks  shuffling about. This 
 goes a long way toward making the city feel as huge as it really is. Topped off with some fantastic 
 explosion effects, Crackdown is one great-looking game, and it is really too bad that the occasional 
 bout of slowdown crops up at random intervals. The audio is solid but fairly unremarkable, with 
 explosions and gunfire sounding just as youd expect them to. Few of these sound as loud as they 
 probably should, however. Aside from the occasional quip from enemies, the only real voice acting 
 comes from a contact from within the Agency who keeps in touch with you over a radio. His 1950s 
 public service voiceover is charming, but much of his commentary seems ill prepared to capture 
 the urgency or serenity of a given situation. In a neat touch, a small speaker option is available 
 that will equalize the mix for a 2.1 speaker set up.
  
  Overall, Crackdown is a short but satisfying experience. There isnt much variety in your activities, 
 and it wont take you very long to eliminate the three gang threats and view the unsatisfying but 
 nonetheless interesting ending. However, the journey there is full of high-flying, action-packed 
 gunplay that has you careening from building to building through the air, and the fact that youre 
 constantly growing stronger makes the gameplay very satisfying. There is also plenty of creative 
 achievements (like juggling a corpse with explosives for 10 seconds) to keep you busy, if youre 
 into that sort of thing. Ultimately, Crackdown has the appeal of a summer blockbuster; it is short 
 and doesnt require much thought, but is a thrilling ride nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitboxdude25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought crackdown 6 days after release. and no i did not get it for the halo 3 beta. In fact I don't 
 get live gold anyways. It took me an hour to get the plastic off (tension started building) , and 
 when i finally started playing I quickly wondered why people are giving this game a bad rap.
  
  If you like spiderman 2 and gta, then go and give this game a try. its got the best of both 
 worlds, the violence of gta and the super powers of games such as spiderman and the hulk. its non 
 linear and doesnt get old even though it probably should (no side missions ala gta and its pretty 
 much shoot bad guy, then shoot more type-ish)
  
  the point is games are ment to be entertaining, and by god this one is.
  
  online-gets bland, nope, really 
 dont need to buy this one for the online. blowing stuff up with a buddy is fun and all, but it wears 
 off.
  gameplay-verry fun. jumping 30 feet in the air, throwing tanker trucks, and alot of those omg that 
 was so cool moments.
  graphics-very original, kinda refreshing to see some developers try a game this way, it may be 
 called cartoony but its more of a drawn in look ;)
  sound-could be better, hated the music tracks it had and the explosions were good, but whats up 
 with the cars? they sound like hot wheels wind up cars
  value-well, since the recent packs available in marketplace, the games value went up. there is more 
 vehicles, a harpoon gun that is entertaining as hell, and a new game mode called keys to the city 
 .its basicly a game mode where you can turn on and off cheats. it where i spend my time now that 
 ive finished the game :)
  tilt-i would say it deserves a 9. its fun, thats what i bought it for, not for a hardcore story 
 or serious graphic. i bought it to entertain, and trust me, it deliveres
  
  so if you have the money, give it a rent at least, check it out. if you dont, save your money. its going 
 to be a busy holiday season 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandert20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be able to jump from a high building, climb tall buildings or just stop a car without 
 taking a scratch? Well don't try it at home, because in real life you won't survive, but in Crackdown 
 with just a 3 star average in Agility and Strength you can. And that's the beauty of the game. 
 The limits in the game aren't formed by the rules of nature, but by the rules of entertainment!
 
  
  Since it's not the only sandbox game around, how can you make a game that is different from the 
 rest. Well, if we look at the competition and the successors, the original GTA created the top-down 
 movement freedom and the third installment of GTA created 3rd person freedom and the latest GTA 
 installment created freedom in 3 dimensions. The makers of Crackdown payed much attention to the 
 real limitations of all these GTA games. And they created the best form of freedom, entertainment. 
 Since the missions in GTA had a great variation, the 2D freedom was endless and the maps where 
 enormous. Crackdown created a type of freedom which even GTA games didn't have and that was to 
 really do what you want, climb the highest buildings and jump from rooftop to rooftop. Freedom... 
 yeah!!
  
  Freedom in all those other sandbox games went no further than simulation of what you can do in 
 real life. Though things in those games are mostly criminal and highly non-advisable, it didn't 
 part away from what you can do in real life and where's the real fun in that. Almost nobody dreams 
 of shooting or driving over pedestrians, but most people dream of flying or jumping from high altitudes 
 and surviving. Well, Crackdown created the freedom of entertainment and thus ways to express yourself 
 which you'll never be able to in real life and you only dream about. Rather than not conforming 
 to the rules of conduct and law, you can also not conform to rules of nature. And that is where 
 the real entertainment in this game comes from. Though you need a three star average in Agility 
 inside the game, the satisfactions of jumping from rooftop to rooftop never dies.
  
  The freedom of entertainment is this games strongest asset. So maybe the sorry is thin and the 
 action is repetitive, nothing can beat the freedom you have and feel when jumping from rooftop 
 to rooftop! You don't even play this game to kill all gang-bosses, you play the game to max out 
 your character and enjoy the freedom you feel when your jumping through the air. You can see the 
 game has been engineered for this reason and this reason only. And it will completely full-fill 
 your wishes in that aspect. Doing the impossible never felt more real.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChesterCheeto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  other then the high jumping spider-man like hops. the games is great. a time killer and full of 
 explosives. most thing i liked bout the game was that there is many different ways to kill a leader 
 bad guy. up to explosions and kicking them to sniping. but one thing i noticed the game lacked 
 was that there was very little to no customization with the charcters. only the faces change not 
 even the armor. other then that the game is great. the hardest part of the game i think was that 
 the hitman squad would come out and domainate ur health. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupNoodles
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  At first I was only going to buy Crackdown if i didn't get the Halo 3 beta by other means. But 
 then i played it. I was clear that this game did something different in an awesome way. I makes 
 being a good guy, great fun. Collecting ability orbs makes me jump for joy. Then only thing I don't 
 like is, the lack of missions. And how the gang totally disappears when you knock them out. This 
 game also sports graphics that are rarely seen. Thats a good thing, they would get old really fast, 
 but this game does it just right. Not weird cut out feeling, just a real good hey I'm in a comic 
 book feeling. The super abilities are really fun. They would be kinda lame if you could... i dont 
 know breath fire. But having strength and extra agility, really make the gameplay awesome. Crackdown 
 with some halo 3. Not the other way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newnab
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Despite my apprehension about acquiring this game (Mostly based off of the Gamespot review score) 
 I eventually decided I would purchase Crackdown. And... To sum it up for readers who don't want 
 to read the full review (Which I always do at the start of my reviews) , I'm very glad to have bought 
 it. It is an incredibly addictive game with an impressive world to explore and some great original 
 concepts, most of which are executed well.
  
  For those of you with a little more time on their hands, I'll be more detailed.
  
  So. Crackdown. 
 What's it all about? Basically (And I think we all know this by now...) , Crackdown is a twist on 
 the sandbox formula from popular games (Grand Theft Auto most notably) that places you in the shoes 
 of a genetically engineered Agent working for The Agency , a conglomerate of police forces from 
 across the world. You have incredible strength, agility, firearms skill, driving skill and explosive 
 skills, and these increase throughout the game as you venture out from the safety of The Keep (or 
 Agency Tower) to tackle gangs on the street and their notorious leaders.
  
  To put it bluntly, there is a thin story which is simply an excuse. An excuse to jump around a 
 city, kicking people, throwing cars and creating massive explosions. And that's quite alright by 
 me. The world you play in itself is divided into three main islands, each controlled by one of 
 the gangs. Each island has it's own architecture (Which you'll be climbing a lot) and each gang, 
 it's own weapons and vehicles (Though you probably wouldn't notice that) . You traverse these islands 
 at first, with intent to leveling up your skills. And there are many ways to do this. Some are 
 obvious... To level up your strength, you punch, kick, or throw things at your opponents. To level 
 up your firearms.... You'll shoot someone.... Explosives, you'll blow people up, you get it... 
 But some things are a little more complex, and there can be multiple ways of leveling. Agility, 
 for example, can be gained in any one of three ways. Firstly, and most obviously when you start 
 to explore, are the agility orbs. These are scattered around the place and require agile feats 
 to reach, in most cases. There are 500 to collect. You could also complete a rooftop race, or kill 
 someone from a high vantage point to gain agility. Driving, too, has several ways to level. You 
 can run over gang members, drive through special stunt rings, or perform tricks. All in all, the 
 leveling system seems to be well thought out, with you progressing at a suitable level if you just 
 play through the game, but with the option to intensively level if that's your sorta thing. I should 
 mention there are also hidden orbs which give you a boost in all your stats, and there are 300 
 of these to collect.
  
  And the islands are very fun to level up in. They're fantastically designed, and have their own 
 little quirks and key locales, that you'll quickly learn and know by heart. Another interesting 
 feature (Which I don't think some people have even realised is in there) is that some of the sign 
 boards that are typically advertising real world products such as Dodge cars, or in-game locales, 
 when looked at with your crosshair, will transform into a scrolling banner, telling you who is 
 highest ranked for a certain race, or telling you who's top of your friends leaderboard in a specific 
 race, etc. The city also benefits from a gorgeous cel-shaded graphical look, which I personally 
 adore.
  
  All the different gameplay elements work fairly well, with the kicking, explosions, and throwing 
 of large objects being satisfying, and the impossibly high jumps being fun and easy to pull off 
 in most cases. Furthermore, you're actively encouraged to make good use of these gameplay elements 
 by the achievements in the game. These are fantastically designed, in my opinion, and really further 
 the enjoyment of the game (The aim of any developer, when adding their achievements.)
  
  Obviously, the game is not without flaws. There is little to no real story, the announcer who follows 
 you and walks you through the game can be annoying and just... Well. Wrong. And the game can grow 
 to be frustrating at times. Co-op is a fantastic inclusion, but the way in which you join games 
 and leave them in Co-op is not smooth, and is a pain in the neck to deal with. Worst of all, the 
 bosses in the game are no fun to fight... At all. Despite the flaws, Crackdown is a solid, interesting, 
 and fun game with a lot to offer. The inclusion of the Halo 3 beta only sweetens the deal, and 
 for anyone who is on the fence about the game since Gamespot's score... I advise you to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought Crackdown after playing the pretty impressive demo that was released a while back. I was 
 expecting a world waiting for me to destroy with bionic strength and to leap over with insane jumping 
 skills. You can do most of this, but everything you can do in the full game is available to do 
 in the demo. I think this was a really bad idea for the game creators to make, as this leaves no 
 surprise for the gamer when they play the actual game. I think that if I hadn't played the demo 
 I would have enjoyed this game a bit more. So for the people who haven't played the demo, I recommend 
 a cheap purchase because not only do you get an enjoyable game, but a Halo 3 Beta to download later 
 on in the year. Crackdown has many good things going for it. The first is the super hero abilities 
 that your character has, such as immense strength, extreme agility and superb driving skills. All 
 of these are fun to improve upon and eventually max out. Collecting the agility orbs is as addictive 
 as anything, and will be what you'll spend most of the game doing. Jumping from place to place 
 and getting to extremley high altitudes is also great fun and climbing the agency tower is something 
 that just has to be experienced. There is a co-op mode included, however it is only playable over 
 xbox live. This is fine however, and gives you a whole new way to play the game. But now onto why 
 I found this game disappointing. First off, the graphics are average at best. The distance scale 
 is impressive, and some of the time the game looks a lot like a comic book. But most of the time 
 I was just unastounded and left wondering why all games cant look like Gears of War. Secondly, 
 the game is criminally short. 21 bosses to kill, all of which are quite easy, and a few races to 
 complete. There really isnt much to do in Crackdown, even with the challenge of maxing out your 
 characters skills. I honestly think you could see and do everything in this game in a day. Another 
 problem is the music. For a start you wont hear it much as most of the time you'll be jumping over 
 rooftops on foot, but when you do actually drive for once, you are given a very naff choice of 
 music to listen to. Control Machete? Awful. Thank God the 360 lets you play your own music from 
 the hard drive. The biggest problem with Crackdown is definetely its length and amount of content. 
 There really is not that much to do, not to justify spending 40 quid on it anyway. It does have 
 the Halo 3 beta, and downloadable content on the way, but I hope the sequel (if there is one) improves 
 upon this in a big way. The Good - Jumping about is great fun - Throwing cars is great fun - Driving 
 around is great fun
  
  The Bad - Now give us an interesting and immersive world to do it in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noob_king
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  In this game your a cope that has super powers to jump really high, have super strength, expert 
 in explosives ect. your job is to stop three large gangs on there islands any way you can.
  
  Whats great about this game is that it has co op witch makes this game so much fun to play 
 and kill the bosses with your friend togethre. what also fun is the jumping, you can jump building 
 to building at the hight of 40 feet when you max your agility. There some things I don't like about 
 this game one is that when you beat the game thats it there no one to fight, you could to some 
 jump or car races but thats about it. they could of put some more stuff in it but they didn't for 
 some reson witch I was surt of disapointed.
  
  In the end this is a fun game but I wound rent it before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pheonix8465
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Well the game is extremely fun.... i have spent hours just wondering (accidentally and on purpose) 
 and searching. I find that the only fault in this is the horrible story line, if they had spent 
 more time with that the game probably would have been a lot better. I found the idea unique but 
 the output of it was bad, if they spent time building the background. Over all everything else 
 was great.... also the jumping and vehicles are fun... i throughly enjoyed upgrading the vehicle 
 to look cooler and run better. The jumping has to be the best part of the game... its really fun 
 seeing how high u go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say that after paying the demo, I had no intention of getting this game at all. 
 My wife saw that it had the Halo 3 Beta on it assumed that I would want it for that reason alone 
 and gifted it to me.
  
  I am glad she did. I have been addicted to this game since I have got it., of the 48 hours I have 
 had it, both my cousin and I have easily spent over half of that time on it.
  
  It has addictive qualities likened to those found in my favourite RPG's, getting everything for 
 the sake of getting everything, shooter qualities, enough variety and gunfire to make me lean forward, 
 plus enough innovations to keep me coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowassasain
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  A decent game, and definately worth the money. It's a mixed version of San Andreas and Halo. It 
 has SA qualities because there is a free roam city with lots to do, and the more you do something, 
 the better you get at it. The thing it takes from Halo is the main design and feel of the game.
 
  
  It **** all over Saints Row, but that game was just worth the money, I only bought it because it 
 was a budget title.
  
  If you want a game that is good and won't frustrate you, buy it. But if you want a challenge, keep 
 looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say. Another game that hangs up about every five minutes... Is it maybe my console 
 as I dont see others stating this fact for Crackdown. I tend to think not since most games work 
 just fine in my system... Anyway:
  
  This is a fun and addictive game but is a little on the short side, this makes for an excellent 
 rental. Especialy since I cant see myself returning to play once I complete it, should of rented... 
 Doh! I havnt taken it online so I cant comment there just yet. Its got a decent and intuitive game 
 play with virtually no learning curve. One down side is that the enemy and particularly the Boss 
 fights are easy. Although I have never been a big fan of the standard fight hoards then take down 
 the boss model. Very overdone IMO. In all I dont see much AI going on. The general fun is just 
 in dominating a city. Any game that lets me run around shooting people has some value, right? This 
 game gives you the added ability to kick around a car with people in it until they (and the car) 
 expire. Nice!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing20
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  At first i wasn't sure what I was getting but then I realized it was well worth $60. Ok in a nutshell 
 you are a geneticaly enhanced law enforcement officer in Pacific city, there are 3 gangs and all 
 you have to do is take them off the streets of Pacific city. The game has not much of a story but 
 there is no need for one with all of the action you'll keep going even afeter you take out the 
 last boss. all though there was little story the ending leaves things open and may shock you so 
 I won't tell you what happens. multy player is kind of lacking for one thing you can only have 
 one friend over xboxlive there is no slpit screen. As of the time of realese the has already some 
 downloadable content sadly it's only a chartor pack better than nothing and it was free. Hopefully 
 in the future there maybe some episodic content or a squeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PossessedLemon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is basically a game about having fun. The story is not deep or interesting, there is 
 not really any plot. You are basically plunked into a city where three gangs fight against each 
 other, and the Agency. You are the result of a scientific outbreak made by one of the gangs, the 
 Shai-Gen. This game definitely is not for somebody who is in need of an intriguing plot. The three 
 gangs differ greatly, there are the Los Muertos, who are Mexican and take refuge in La Mugre, or 
 The Dirt, and then there is the Volk, who are eastern-European and run their operations in their 
 own island, The Den. Lastly, there are the Shai-Gen, basically Asian and are located in The Corridor, 
 the most advanced island with many high skyscrapers which hold rewards for agents who take the 
 difficult climb from windowsill to windowsill hundreds of feet from ground.
  
  There are five skills, Agility, which makes you jump higher and run faster, Strength, which lets 
 you pick up heavy objects and place more powerful punches, Explosives, which makes your bangs into 
 booms, Firearms, which makes it so your shots hurt more and you can aim faster and easier, and 
 lastly Driving, which aids in your top speed, acceleration, and turning abilities in vehicles, 
 and also gives you a special ability for each of the Agency vehicles.
  
  There are three Agency vehicles, the Agency Supercar, which looks like a sports car and goes under 
 cars as a wedge, and tosses them into the air above them, at four stars in Driving, you get two 
 machine guns located behind the doors. Next there is the Agency SUV, which goes over cars, and 
 is basically a stunt vehicle and bounces around a lot, and at four stars in Driving, if you hold 
 down B you can jump very high without ramps, and also, if you hold down B while at least two tires 
 are touching a wall, you can wall ride for a certain amount of time, which is extremely fun. Lastly, 
 there is the Agency Truck Cab, which can instantly blow up cars on impact if going fast enough. 
 As a special skill at four stars in Driving you can get a special nitro boost, which helps against 
 the slow acceleration and reversing of this vehicle.
  
  The environment in this game is impressive; you can lock onto basically anything of use and pick 
 up any loose object. See a gang car coming along? Lock on and shoot out their tires to spend them 
 in a spin into that pile of explosive barrels, and then detonate your limpet mines you set beforehand. 
 This game is basically what I would call a sort of toy box. You are given an immense amount of 
 things to have fun with and let loose upon the world. Need a bigger bomb for that gang leader you 
 are going against? Strap some limpet mines to an explosive barrel, pick it up and toss it at him! 
 Just hope that his henchmen dont shoot it before it leaves your hands! The area that this game 
 is set in is very well designed. There are no areas that are basically plain open space or same 
 old building after building, most places have names, some humorous, and some memorable, which help 
 you to remember a place long after you are gone.
  
  This game sports an impressive memory system, as the game keeps track of many, many stats, such 
 as how long you spent with objects, how many civilians you have killed, how many cars you have 
 commandeered and such, but sadly you cannot see these statistics. But, the game keeps track, and 
 when you have just spent half an hour playing basketball with a rubber duck, it will not disappear 
 as easily as that civilian you just ran by without looking at. Many times I have played around 
 with a car, stomping on it and kicking it around, when I get sidetracked, and half an hour later 
 I find myself passing by in a car, to see that spot, just how I left the car there. This is impressive, 
 as a lot of games just respawn anything that you turn your back to. The graphics in this game are 
 interesting, they are toned down a bit to make the draw distance extremely astounding, which any 
 agent who climbs the Agency Tower will notice immediately, as you can see all corners of Pacific 
 Citys three gang controlled island groups. Even though the graphics are toned down, the game still 
 looks very pretty, just not as pretty as some other games, which may have four or five characters 
 on-screen at once, while this game may have at the most one hundred. I personally think the explosion 
 graphics in this game are very beautiful, theres nothing like a huge bang with flaming wreckage 
 blasting out of an explosion, you truly must witness a gigantic explosion yourself, but when you 
 do, you may find yourself addicted to the fiery blast of a well-place cluster grenade. There are 
 a few things I have to nit-pick about though; this isnt exactly a graphics issue as much as a 
 sort of design flaw. When I am standing on a highway after making a great big pile of cars, I will 
 see vehicles coming toward me, but then right as they come close enough towards me, they disappear, 
 this is because I have too many vehicles in my perimeter, but it still bugs me.
  
  What this game really exceeds in though, is the co-op feature. As this game is mostly a playground, 
 it is ten times more fun with a friend, I myself am playing mostly co-op and having an extremely 
 fun time doing so, especially tricking my friend to look over a railing off a building hundreds 
 of feet high, turning his back to me and me kicking his flailing body down to the ground. If you 
 and your friend both like goofing around, youll get more than your share of time played in co-op.
 
  
  The achievements in this game are very fun, from killing gang members with a giant globe, to hijacking 
 gang members cars as they fire at you madly. There are achievements for getting all five hundred 
 agility orbs, a huge feat to face, only beaten by finding every single last hidden orb, which are 
 exactly as they say, hidden, as opposed to agility orbs being in plain sight. If you are into achievements, 
 you will have plenty of time spent here.
  
  Overall, I think that this is a great game, and it is truly worth my admiration and many hours 
 spent, and many hours to come. This game is sure to come with a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doaNimbus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. It has a good cell shaded look with some fun game play. The game is way 
 to short and it is much to easy.
  
  The graphics on the game are pretty good. It is cell shaded, so it gives it a cartoon look, kind 
 of like the game. The explosions are also impressive.
  
  The sound is good. The explosions are nice, and the gun sounds are very good. They have a couple 
 voice overs, but not too much variety.
  
  The game play is very good. It is an open world game where you can do almost what ever you want. 
 The obj. is to kill 23 bosses of 3 gangs around the city. A couple of low level bosses and then 
 one head boss. All the bosses are very easy to kill, just get your strength up and go kick them 
 a few times, and the guards almost cant do anything. The game is very short, and you can blow through 
 it in a few hours, the end is kind of suprising. To the left on your HUD you have your skills. 
 There is your points for that kill, once you have that all the way full you get a dot, 4 dots indicate 
 that that skill is full and you cannot upgrade it anymore. You have the skills of:
  
  Strength, which allows you to lift things, and maele people, upgraded it allows you to lift heaver 
 things and hit harder.
  Firearms, which upgrading allows you to have more accuracy with your weapons and more power in 
 each shot.
  Explosives, which upgraded, allows you to fire your rocket launchers/throw grenades faster, and 
 have a bigger explosion radius.
  Agility, which, upgraded, allows you to jump higher, and run faster.
  and Driving, which, upgraded, 
 allow you to handle vehicles better, and when you get into an agency vehicle, it upgrades, and 
 improves with your skills.
  
  Over all the game is very good but way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  All jokes aside Crackdown is a quality game and concept at its core. It doesn't hurt that the greatest 
 game of all time has a bundled Beta though. Its a good thing that once you conquer Pacific City 
 you can look forward to the Beta. The gameplay is fun and one of a kind. Jumping over buildings 
 like Spiderman never gets old, unless you spend hours upon hours for that last glowing green orb. 
 The achievements are imaginative and fun to experiment with and go after. If you are really driven 
 to find all of the power up orbs it can provide hours upon hours of gameplay. The game also has 
 its fair share of fairly obvious flaws. Strength advances which include the picking up of cars 
 is clunky and impracticle, by the time you have hoisted the 2 ton projectile of certain death you 
 are probably drained of all your health. Not to mention that the vehicle is hardly cvery deadly... by 
 the time it is launched the gangster has already dodged it or moved away. Even if you get him it 
 is a complete waste of time and effort, for one click of the B button is just as lethal and twice 
 as safe. Another flaw that makes the game seem rushed is its lack of power weapons and balance. 
 The rocket launchers are unstoppable and everything else is pretty much ineffective, wheres the 
 mini gun and the flamethrower? Also where is teh depth of vehicles and enemies. Overall the same 
 enemy with different eblems over their head is thrust at you the entire game, just in varying quanities. 
 And unlike GTA when your wanted level goes up new levels of enemies are not sent. Just hit squads, 
 which are in fact the same old enemies... just a mad rush of them. Why didn't the miliatary based 
 Volk gang have tanks? Where were the Chinese gang's motorcycle ninjas?... or Helicopters to make 
 life on the rooftops somewhat difficult? How bout some boats with machine gun turrets for Los Muertos.. they 
 smuggle drugs right? (The underground cove underneath the final boss in Los Muertos hinted at that) 
 Despite all its flaws Crackdown will provide hours of entertainment... and maybe some of these issues 
 will be addressed in teh Downloadable content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When a company attaches the ability to play one of their most eagerly-anticipated titles to a game, 
 it is common knowledge that the game the demo is attached to is not good.
  
  Crackdown sets that common knowledge on its head.
  
  Visually, the game's visual style works. 
 It isn't the most beautiful game on the market, but the comic book-like visuals work terrificly 
 with this world and your super-powered secret agent. The world is vibrant, alive, and huge. From 
 atop The Keep, you can see virtually all of Pacific City, and it is a large city. Slowdown is a 
 major rarity (happened to be two times in about 40 hours of play) and load times outside of the 
 initial load are non-existant.
  
  The game has decided to not just go with a large world in terms of square mileage but to also include 
 a VERY high world. The buildings get tall and the thrill of leaping three stories to catch a windowsill 
 and vault up another three stories will suck you in. The game play handles terrificly. I am not 
 thrilled with switching targets, but everything else is awesome. There is no lack of weapons and 
 the three different gangs tend to have different weapon types, which is always good. The car handling 
 is nightmarish early on, but the better you get at driving (improvement occurs, at least for me, 
 mainly by running over enemies) the controls of the vehicles become better. The agency vehicles 
 always seem to handle better than normal cars, but that is to be expected I suppose. The game's 
 hook, though, is that your character is not human. He is a biomedically engineered superhuman. 
 You can eventually toss around cars, have explosives cause massive explosions, aim incredibly well, 
 and jump higher while running faster than any man can. It's like they took the exhiliration of 
 the Spider-Man movie games and placed them here.
  
  Difficulty is a bit of an issue as the game is not brutally difficult. If you take the gangs down 
 in the order recommened, the final boss is almost a cakewalk. And, the more of the lower leaders 
 of a gang you kill, the fewer the number of members you see around the section (which is a nice 
 touch) .
  
  The game is laden with things to do. There are a total of 800 orbs to find, plus numerous rooftop 
 races and several street races. The rooftop races are an absolute blast to play. You have a voice 
 imploring you to do different things, but you can tune him out. The soundtrack of music in the 
 cars, though, is not terribly good --- but they do try and have the music fit the gang that you're 
 dealing with (Los Muertos, for example, tend to have Latin-flavored music) .
  
  The ending of the game, true, is quite bad and there is the occasional quibble, but it does not 
 detract from how outstanding the title is. The achievements also are well done and give you a reason 
 to try things you might not have tried otherwise.
  
  You have to play this game. Few games are more enjoyable and this is better than the Godfather 
 (which I liked a lot) , Saints Row (which I also liked) , and Just Cause (which I didn't like that 
 much) . Until GTA IV hits, this is the open world game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great game that has an open world. To make that open world better you can jump thirty 
 feet. The game is in a way, GTA+Super powers. The basic storyline of this game is three gangs are 
 taking over a city, and you are a super agent trying to stop them. The gangs are, Los Muertos, 
 The Volk, and The Shai-Gen. It's not too hard to beat the first two. Shai-Gen is pretty hard on 
 the first bundle of times. You adjust as you level up.
  
  Another part of the game, leveling, is probably the best leveling system that a sandbox game could 
 have, especially when you can get stronger and faster. The skills are, Agility, Driving, Strength, 
 Firearm, and Explosives.
  Driving probably takes more skill than anything else.
  
  The graphics in this game are similar to a comic book, except it's 360's style of comics, which 
 is 3D goodness. It looks great jumping 30 feet into the air- Comic book style of course.
  
  The sound in this game matches up to the events you are doing, whenever some orchestra music pops 
 up, you grip that controller a little tighter and get into the game a little bit more.
  
  Now, this game isn't necessarily worth the $60 dollars- For now. When Halo 3 beta finally comes, 
 the game will probably have more value, because, well it's Halo 3. The Halo 3 Beta will be released 
 this spring.
  
  Crackdown is a just plain awesome game, but unfortunately you'll beat the game right when it feels 
 your at the peak of your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: housy2008
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a great rental game for 5 nights. I personally beat the game in 3 days. It's greats 
 fun while it lasts. The only thing holding this game back from getting a 9.0 or above is how horribly 
 short it is. I would wait until it gets down to $30-$40 to buy it. Overall its a great game to 
 a hopefully great series. If they do indeed make another Crackdown, I would like to see a bigger 
 range of weapons, vehicles, gangs, and taller buildings to jump around on. Hopefully it is alot 
 longer, maybe between 10-20 hours long. If you are bored with all of the other games you have, 
 definately buy this game, if not, it's a must rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrathofchardo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i bought this game not for the Halo 3 Beta and I am a little disappointed. It is an extremely 
 short game and the story sure as crap doesn't make you want to keep playing. You will keep playing 
 this game because you will either be working for achievements (like me) or because you wanna boost 
 your guy to maximum skill levels. Yeah its a cool twist on an already over used genre of the whole 
 sand box thing, but this has some things other games don't. It is really fun to just run around 
 and jump from building to building and look around seeing crap and wondering how the hell am i 
 gonna get up that. It makes for a much better experience. The ending blows and the story sucks 
 even harder if you want a game to just waste some time on this is it not for people looking for 
 a wonderful game to sink their teeth into. Also the whole co-op thing would be one ofthe coolest 
 things ever if it actually worked. What i mean by this is the game gets so laggy after a couple 
 of minutes of playing with one of your friends over live that it just isn't worth playing with 
 a friend at all especialy cause you won't see em half of the time anyways. This is one you should 
 buy when it drops to around 30 bones not before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vamroc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a solid title and worth buying for a system that has up held a high measure of quality 
 very few Microsoft products manage to achieve. Considering all the games that are out right now 
 only about seven or eight are bad. The rest are very good or Stunning in the case of Gears Of War 
 and Oblivion. While not at that level Crackdown does make it a joy to destroy and the commercial 
 is funny as hell. The game it self will in all likely hood be over looked by many who will buy 
 just for the beta key. Just like Zone Of The Enders Crackdown stands on its own without the Gimmick 
 when you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clubside
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  First of all, I wanted to rate the game a 9.1 but I forgot you have to use the sliders to give 
 it a score. I really like the art style and sound, there are some problems with pop-in and GTA 
 remembering code (as in you turn around and poof things are different) . The co-op is a blast but 
 the way it is handled, as in the host has to exit from what they are doing rather than the other 
 player just jumping in and choosing a start point, is annoying. Overall I'm not going to write 
 a conventional review because the joy I get from this game isn't in terms of conventional gameplay.
 
  
  After beating the game I am drawn in for hours at a time, get random requests from people for co-op 
 and I don't see it stopping any time soon. With the game's bosses down some are complaining the 
 game is too short , too easy or some variation. Taken in the modern context of game design that 
 may be true, but going back to the dawn of videogaming Crackdown's charms are in line with many 
 classic games: simple fun.
  
  Space Invaders, the first real videogame hit consisted of wave after wave of enemies coming at 
 you, getting more challenging as the wave reaches its zenith. After a wave is cleared, what came 
 next? Another one. And another. Why did anyone keep playing, it was just the same thing over and 
 over? Well, it was fun. In the same context I find my love for Crackdown.
  
  I want to shoot overwhelming odds of baddies. I want to get creative in their disposal, from shooting 
 to kicking to crushing them under a car. I want to do nothing more than work my itchy gaming trigger 
 finger. Crackdown gives me that from its beginning to well past modern traditional missions or 
 story . I revel in the lack of story, it would just get in the way of killing.
  
  Jumping from rooftop to rooftop, scaling heights to rain down rockets on the hapless bad guys gleefully 
 saying Time to die , firing up one of the agency vehicles to gun down, jump or crush enemies, luring 
 them into odd situations to see their burning corpses fly through the air, this is simply the beginning. 
 I don't see the end, by myself or with a friend, or a stranger who becomes a friend as you have 
 fun together.
  
  Space Invaders and other classic shooters were nothing more than that, shooters, and I was happy 
 with that as were millions of others. Crackdown is just a new twist on the same model: pure killing 
 joy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreadphantom
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm one of the many thousands that decided to get crackdown for the beta testing Halo 3 oppertunity, 
 go figure. The crackdown gameplay is very easy, quick to learn, and the controls are a cakewalk 
 with not real problems at all other than some points in the game the controls lag just a little. 
 The premise that your a super clone agent fighting crime in a futeristic world has really no back 
 story at all. Start off by looking around the city for trouble and shoot away. Don't forget that 
 the narrative gets old quick, and the bosses that you'll fight are only as hard as jumping into 
 their back yard, or on the top of their tower to take them out with a couple of rockets. Yes, you 
 can go through the front door, but really, opptertunity knocks with a level four star agility meter 
 and you'll be done with the game in 4-6 hours easily. So what's left? Spend the rest of the time 
 powering up and getting achievements if you are a achievement whore. There's rumors that further 
 achievements will be added later on as I can surmise that most of us will have all the achievements 
 within the first two weeks. Not a hard game at all, and co op allows you to get done with the game 
 even faster with a co op achievement. Other than that spend your time becomiing a super clone that 
 can pickup semi's and obtain rights for the biggest power ups for your agency vehicle. In my eyes 
 this is really just a rental if your not into the whole Halo 3 beta option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorblade-616
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has some great features but lacks a strong storyline, it seems all you have to do is 
 find some guys &amp; kill thm not much to it &amp; its a little disappointing. However the game 
 is fairly addictive kicking guys off buildings, lifting cars &amp; throwing them at gang members, 
 Blowing up a crowd of ppl seems to be the funnest part of this game. The areas of ths city are 
 huge so you hav a lot to explore. On reflection this game could have used a more deeper storyline 
 but it is a fun game neither the less so i recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Crackdown: the disc that comes with the halo 3 beta . Cynical decision to sell more units of a 
 title many thought would fail? Or clever ploy to divert attention to an excellent game that may 
 have otherwise been missed by many? Whatever your thoughts on Microsoft's decision to include the 
 beta in the initial run, to ignore Crackdown on that basis would be to miss out on one of the more 
 unique gaming experiences in this or any other year. If you own it, put the disc in, try it.
  
  With GTA luminary Dave Jones at the helm of developer Realtime Worlds, it comes as no surprise 
 that Crackdown focusses on a sandbox-style third person shooter approach. Every section of the 
 cell-shaded sci-fi city can be traversed from the start, and linearity apparently doesnt exist 
 in the Realtime Worlds mindset. The amount of freedom is a little daunting at first, and with a 
 sparse amount of story to pull you through, it really is up to you as to how you approach the game. 
 Want to tackle the hardest sub-bosses in the game as the first thing you do? Go right ahead. Feel 
 the need to pile 50 explosive barrels onto a city street and launch your friend into space? No 
 problem!
  
  Its the sort of claim that many publishers put on a game box, 'true freedom in an open-world environment'. 
 Crackdown has one crucial difference, it delivers from the very first moment you set foot in the 
 agency tower, with no articial barriers to segment the world. The basic premise of the narrative 
 entails you taking control of an 'agent' looking to clean up crime in three distinct areas of your 
 city, held under the grip of various crime groups loosely based on the usual south american, russian 
 and chinese stereotypes. In all truth the plot is second fiddle to the mechanics of the world, 
 and is largely superfluous to the experience.
  
  Motivation to comply with the games loose structure comes in the form of the agent upgrade system. 
 This basically entails a loose RPG-style progression for your character in five key areas: Agility, 
 Driving, Explosives, Firearms and Strength. As you progress your agent will level up in these areas 
 according your own play style. For example, shoot enough people from afar and your firearms skill 
 will increase, allowing you to aim quickly at the various body parts or petrol tanks on offer. 
 Alternatively if you spend your time jumping around the rooftops collecting agility orbs eventually 
 you will be able to leap higher and climb further than before, enabling you to scale to some terrific 
 heights.
  
  Indeed the sense of height in Crackdown is spectacular. The game encourages you to take to the 
 rooftops and traverse up the side of massive buildings at every opportunity, with hardly a drop 
 in framerate throughout. Once your agent has a four star agility rating the game becomes almost 
 as much a platformer as a shooter, and making your way to the top of the agency building or Wang 
 tower is a joy in itself. The sense of verticality in the level design is fairly unique, and many 
 shortcuts have been built into the environment for those willing to search. Exploring the exterior 
 of a boss hideout for a secret entrance can become fascinating in itself. Ledges that are seemingly 
 always just out of reach can usually be conquered with a bit of planning and the courage to attempt 
 a jump at 200ft off the ground. It's a long way down.
  
  Achievements are well judged, with most pitched at around 10-20 points. None of them are particularly 
 difficult and there will always be something within reach to aim for in any play session.
  
  The ambiant audio design is excellent, with each segment of the city having its own aural personality 
 and distinct seperation in acoustics. Gunfire and car engine sounds are meaty and satisfying and 
 if you have a 5.1 setup with a decent subwoofer the explosions will satisfy like few games can. 
 However in-game music is largely absent apart from the tunes blasting out of the various car stereos, 
 with none of it particularly memorable. Certainly no GTA-style licensed sountrack and radio banter 
 to be found here. Whether or not this detracts from the atmosphere is a largely subjective matter.
 
  
  Online play is unfortunately lacking any modes apart from co-op with one other person. This mode 
 in itself however is excellent fun, and using and abusing the physics engine with a pal can yield 
 some amusing results. You cant help but feel the games misses out on the ability to play with more 
 than one person though. Running around the streets with a group of friends would be an excellent 
 addition and I hope one that gets some serious consideration if a next installment is on the cards.
 
  
  The main issue with Crackdown arises oddly enough from its biggest strength. The lack of structure 
 is refreshing however you cant help feeling that the game can lack direction and atmosphere as 
 a result. Without any character exposition to tie the player in, ultimately it can come across 
 as a shallow experience. You simply wont care about any of the characters or why you are determined 
 to kill them, as these details aren't explained in any depth or to any degree of involvement.
 
  
  This situation isn't helped by the lack of side-missions or alternative goals for the player to 
 partake in. Structured modes are limited to boss missions, car races and on-foot rooftop races, 
 all of which can be beaten in one or two play sessions. Whilst the environment itself is the biggest 
 star, it wouldn't have hurt to include some more game modes and side activities for those that 
 need motivation to pick up the pad besides just experimenting with player abilities and physics.
 
  
  Overall though its hard to criticise the game in this manner as the play mechanics are strong enough 
 to carry the experience and make it memorable and immense fun, especially with another human player 
 as company throughout. Its good to see a development team focus entirely on fun play mechanics 
 and an open environment, and simply letting the player make their own entertainment. Whether or 
 not this would have been enough to carry the game financially without the inclusion of the Halo 
 beta is worthy of debate, and I guess is a question we'll never have the answer to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXGIxxJesusXx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  This game has many ups and downs. one up is that it has fantastic explosions and it also is just 
 so much f un ranking up. the only bad thing is unless you put the gang on really hard it is sort 
 of easy... but that isnt really a problem is it? another thhing that is not so good is the actual 
 graphics... if i were reading this review i would be looking for my keys to go drive to the game 
 store to buy crackdown................... ITS THAT GOOD&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aracno1D
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the presentation. The first few minutes of gameplay won't really put you into the 
 action. You are like some guy thrown away in a cage and asked to kill parasites. After a few pinmarks, 
 you will start getting into the action. Then you will learn your role, your powers and the weakness 
 of the game: the amount of time you'll be playing it. Even so, the graphics are pretty acceptable 
 for the kind of game, the sound is awesome and the effects havok/animated are astonishing and you 
 might easily get attracted.
  
  The Review
  
  As said above, I didn't liked the way you were thrown away in this 3-islands world, but still got 
 into it pretty quickly. Then my first point of interest was the wall climbing system and the uses 
 of Havok. I loved throwing stuff away and jumping from roof to roof (I went at 4-stars Agility 
 in about 1-2 hours) . Then I made an online game and started playing with a friend. We didn't yet 
 known that the storyline was about to last only 2 nights and the mastery of all of our skills twice 
 as much. We actually had fun jumping around with SCVs and **** like that, but it was nothing really 
 new to us. The gameplay is easy to master. You wont be a real agent unless you understood how to 
 control your big guy (should take about 10 minutes) . You will grind things with cars, climb wall, 
 jump on people, blow heads away and make your way throuh the Agency (The ''secret'' building right 
 in the middle of the map) . The online mode is both great and sloppy. Great as you can keeps your 
 stats while playing in your mate's game. You can also help him achieve his own things while also 
 get rewarded by stats and upgrades. Sloppy as it lacks of goals and doesn't provide you enough 
 to play for weeks and days withouth getting boared. In the end, the little game really puts you 
 into a new world, but not full of suprises and adventures as this kind of game would usually do. 
 I HIGHLY recommand this game as a renting title, but not as a must buy game unless it's like a 
 20 bucks platinum hit or something similar. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conroy316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  When you first start playing Crackdown, you are a lowly agent that works for 'The Agency'. As you 
 progress through the game you come across many action-packed battles, races, and many other moments 
 that are very fun. This doesn't last too long. Your lowly agent becomes something of a super-human. 
 He jumps 30 feet into the air, can lift objects weighing in at over 10 tons and throw them about 
 200 feet. It is truly fun to leap across skyscrapers as you look at the streets below. But then 
 the game ends. You fight 18 gang bosses and 3 Kingpins. If you rush through it, you could beat 
 the game in a good 10 hours. That is much too short for a game of this type. But with that said, 
 it is very fun just to mess around and join a friend over Xbox-live. I think if you have a 360 
 and Xbox-live, you should definitely check this game out. P. S. The Halo 3 Beta will come out to 
 those only with the game and with Xbox-Live so consider that if you are having a tough decision. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migz7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan GTA-type games just cause I tend to lose interest for whatever reason. But Crackdown 
 is different. First of all it's a lot of fun jumping from building to building. Heck, it's addicting! 
 And since you will mostly be on your feet as you comb the streets you will be having a great time 
 doing so. It just doesn't get boring seeing if you can reach this roof or that building, etc. And 
 oh yeah, the rest of the game is just as fun. Blowing up stuff is very satisfying. Seeing your 
 character (and cars) level up is also fun. I'm still amazed at how accurate they can get these 
 buildings spaced apart so that you have to hit the perfect jump. The level design is spot on. Well 
 as you can see I really like this game. As for shortcomings well, the game is short . But honestly, 
 i prefer short games. I mean, I hardly ever finish games that go on forever cause they can never 
 hold my interest. So I have to say that Crackdown is right on the money in the length department 
 for people that have other things to do besides playing video games (no offense to people that 
 like long video games) . The driving part of Crackdown is somewhat of a moral issue. At first you 
 don't want to run over innocent people. But once you realize that it really doesn't matter you 
 will put the pedal to the medal and have fun with it. I just wished they'd removed the pedestrians 
 from the streets during the races. Kind of defeats the purpose of you being a super cop if you're 
 going to mow down innocent people. Well anyway, other than that I really can't find anything else 
 I dislike. So I give it the thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is somewhat of a conundrum. A game that was first blown off as nothing but an easy way 
 to get in on the Halo 3 beta has exploded into a wildly popular free-roam, sandbox game drawing 
 inevitable comparisons to Grand Theft Auto and the other GTA spin-off for the Xbox 360, Saints 
 Row. Amidst which, it's been able to hold its own ground quite successfully. It's also an extremely 
 fun way to do absolutely nothing - as long as you enjoy doing nothing in particular. But once you 
 start actually completing missions and progressing though the story, it becomes quickly apparent 
 that the game is very shallow and you'll find yourself with little else to do but run down pedestrians 
 once all the gangsters are wiped out.
  
  The basic premise of Crackdown is that you're a cop in a city that's been overwhelmed by violent 
 gangs. Your job is to clean up the city. It's a pretty simple concept. Something akin to True Crime 
 actually. Run around, commandeer cars (remember, you're a cop so it's not hi-jacking) , and take 
 down the bad guys. What sets Crackdown apart is that you're not some run of the mill cop, but you 
 already knew that of course. Instead you've been biogenetically enhanced using questionable techniques 
 to make you something of a superhuman. In the end you'll be jumping several stories high, picking 
 up and throwing small cars at your enemies, shooting with greater accuracy, generating bigger explosions, 
 driving faster, and surviving falls of a few hundred feet.
  
  Crackdown is built on the sandbox free-roam formula that made games like Grand Theft Auto so popular. 
 You'll leave the Agency Headquarters in the center of the city and walk into a war-zone free to 
 do almost whatever you like - as long as it's outside, and involves cars, jumping from rooftop 
 to rooftop, or killing lots of people - gangs or otherwise. Really that's about it. There is really 
 no depth to Crackdown. What's amazing is that it's easy to spend an hour or two scaling the sides 
 of massive skyscrapers, blowing up Russian troop transports, throwing cars at groups of gang members, 
 performing impossible aerial stunts in cars, sniping people from several hundred feet up, shooting 
 the tires out of cars whizzing by on the freeway and watch them careen wildly out of control. As 
 long as you get a kick out of causing chaos and destruction, you'll have a good time.
  
  On the flip side of all this random, do nothing, destruction, is that there actually is a story 
 here (though very loose and non-linear) with actual objectives and missions. In short, you're supposed 
 to locate and kill gang leaders. Take down the lower bosses first and you'll weaken the more difficult 
 Kingpin's defenses. Each mission is straight forward and not subject to any time restrictions. 
 Just walk (or jump, or drive) into a boss location and take down the boss any way you can. Once 
 they're out of the way, that area will become significantly quieter and nearly devoid of gang activity. 
 Clear out all the bosses and eventually the Kingpin of a district (there are three districts) and 
 you'll reclaim that part of the city making it a peaceful oasis for the citizens of Pacific City.
 
  
  If you haven't guessed it already, the very thing that you're supposed to do in Crackdown, is the 
 very thing that removes the funest elements of the game. Clearing out a district means eliminating 
 all Agency sanctioned chaos that was so fun before. Without bad guys to blow-up you're left with 
 everyday citizens. And although the Agency gives you a little leeway for people that get killed 
 in the crossfire, it won't take much before your fellow cops have had enough of your reckless behavior 
 and turn on you. Killing innocents also has a negative effect on your skill progression. Kill too 
 many people and you'll start losing points.
  
  No big deal though, right? Just don't save your progression. Cause chaos. Lose skill points. Reload. 
 Repeat.
  
  No, sorry, it doesn't work that way. Crackdown employs an auto-save that saves when you collect 
 a hidden orb, knock-off a gang leader, enter a supply point, or die; and no way to turn it off. 
 And there's the real conundrum. With games like GTA or Saints Row, or even Oblivion and Fable, 
 you were free to do as you pleased without impeding your character's progress. Crackdown believes 
 that no matter what, there should be consequences for your actions.
  
  As long as you're causing havoc that involves killing gangsters, as well as the occasional civilian 
 or fellow officer, your point progression will balance out. So long as a gang exists in a territory 
 you can be free to run amok. Say sayounara to a gang and you say good-bye to chaos.
  
  Crackdown handles pretty well, though it's not free from quirks. Picking up items and entering 
 vehicles is generally easy but it's not uncommon for your character to be in the wrong place and 
 not have the option available. Aiming is aided by a target lock by holding down the left trigger. 
 While locked on, you're also presented with some options for precision shooting (head, arms, torso, 
 legs) , though it's rarely necessary. However, it is fun to shoot the gun out of someone's hand 
 then run up and punch them for strength points early on. Jumping and scaling buildings is simple 
 and intuitive. You even have the old skool ability of changing your direction in mid-air.
  
  I've heard complaints about how that cars handle but frankly I've never had a issue with it. 
 There's a pretty good variety of cars and each handles and performs differently so it's really 
 a matter of finding a car you like. My preference has always been for the Agency SUV. Built like 
 a brick with good speed and will drive over anything. Especially gang members, and cars, and mountains 
 - yeah, like I said, anything.
  
  Crackdown's multi-player is also a blast, but doesn't add any more depth or modes to the game. 
 It essentially just turns it into a co-op with two super agents running around the same city causing 
 mass hysteria. It is fairly well implemented in that if you can adjust your co-op settings for 
 who's allowed to join any game in progress. So if you're playing solo and one of your friends happens 
 to pop online and see you playing, they're free to join you as long as you say it OK.
  
  Graphically, Crackdown's comic, cell-shading treatment works pretty well. Some elements seem overlooked 
 though. It would have been nice if more of the environment got the same attention to detail. Sometimes 
 it's easy to feel like you have this beautifully cell-shaded character stuck in the middle of an 
 incomplete warehouse. That aside, the environments work. They may not look like much in the screen 
 grabs, but they're definitely suitable and better than those screens make it look.
  
  As for the audio, overall it's a winner. While you're driving you'll be rockin&amp;#8217; out to 
 some great music that reflects the type of district you're in (although you can change it to whatever 
 you like) . Sound effects are all solid as should be expected these days. About the only other sounds 
 you'll get is the voice in your head from your friend and intel man at the Agency. A voice reminiscent 
 of the original Mission Impossible TV show ( Good morning, Mr. Hunt. ) which matches the feel of 
 the game perfectly. Unfortunately it can be a bit buggy at times and simply say the wrong thing 
 (i. e. That was quite an ascent, Agent , while standing on a road) .
  
  All in all, it'll be interesting to see how Crackdown survives this post release euphoria. Does 
 it have enough value to stay strong over the long haul? Those that play straight through in a matter 
 of a couple days will tell you no. Those that like to kill an hour by blowing **** up will tell, 
 hell yeah. In the end what you're left with is GTA without all the mini games and story based missions. 
 Except you can jump REALLY far - and yet, in some way, that makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippo69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  No matter what, this game will always be good for you because of the many things you can do in 
 it. If you don't like driving, then you can increase your agility and jump to you destination. 
 And if you do want to drive, then increase your driving skill and you can have one of the most 
 powerful cars in the game, a supercar that has guns and goes under cars at fast speed, an suv that 
 is offroad and has aerial abilities, or a truck cab that smashes through cars with an unlimited 
 supply of nitro. And when you want to fight an enemy, you can using explosives, guns, or your own 
 bare hands, just increase the skill and you can master this game. When you get tired of this game 
 then go online and co-op with another player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samjcb
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  i do like this game dont get me wrong but it can get quite boring after a while.
  if you like games with a storyline like me then this is not the game for you all it is, is kill 
 gang members then the kingpin. over over again.
  Nice touch with the jumping system and not bein kept to the ground.
  The graphics are nise with 
 no skipping great AI. Still they could of made it better with a storyline to suck you in to the 
 game. AI is good were you can pick up bodys and throw them around and picking up cars and throwing 
 them at the gangmembers thats jus to classy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3adHunt3r-2010
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game was a very good game in the beggining, fighting bosses, collecting orbs, getting stats 
 up, unlocking acheivments. But after youve maxed your stats out and collected most of the orbs 
 and beat the game and all the achievments, then what? i mean all that takes what 2 days? Then the 
 bordom starts, besides that this game is fun as long as you take it slow unlike me, i conquered 
 really quick and now i usually just do car tricks and climb buildings.
  
  But don't let that stop you, make friends on co-op, wait for the halo 3 beta to come out and go 
 away then, but only then trade it in to a gamestop for a good 30$ store credit =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this short and sweet.
  
  Crackdown is a great game that is a whole heck of a lot of fun. The gameplay is great. Shooting 
 guys in the head, chest, arms, and legs all end with different effects and they add some depth 
 to the gunplay. When your armor is low, just leap up to a building, take some cover, and start 
 throwing whatever you find off the balocny, be it bricks, a wheel barrow, some pipes, etc.
  
  Graphically, this game looks wonderful. It doesn't try to emulate real life, but it has an 
 engine that gives it a comic-book appeal. It works well for what you can do in the game. The sound 
 isn't anything super special, but it works. Good explosions, decent gun sounds, and random chatter 
 make it interesting. Nothing too special here, though.
  
  The value. Some complain it is too short, and quite frankly, it is. It's not a very long game at 
 all. However, I've heard of expansions for the game that may be free (or at low cost) to help fill 
 the game. Right now, it's a good enough value with the gameplay, online co-op, and Halo 3 beta 
 to fit the price.
  
  My take: I don't like the GTA games much, but I really enjoyed Crackdown. I started playing and 
 got hooked on leveling my skills, jumping around the city, and shooting guys in the head.
  
  I say it's a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandlynx9
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Crackdown. Infamously coupled with the Halo 3 multiplayer Beta, there have been many doubts about 
 the quality of this title. Well I proudly believe that you can find many hours of enjoyability 
 and excitement in Crackdown. The premise of Crackdown is rather simple when it comes down to it. 
 You are a genetically enhanced supercop with many inhuman abilities at your disposal. You'll jump 
 from rooftop to rooftop effortlessly, cars will morph around you, you'll be able to crush foes 
 with a variety of objects using super strength, you're an explosives expert, and your marksmanship 
 is unmatched. The story in Crackdown is admittedly a bit lacking. With such a simple premise, a 
 group of 21 bosses, 7 in each gang, compromise the main focus of the game. These bosses have various 
 functions within their gangs and as a supercop it is your responsibility to bring the bad boys 
 (and girls) down. As you do this your stats increase as in five areas and your abilities will grow 
 and expand as you play. The gameplay in Crackdown has been described by some as repetitive. I can 
 see the validity of such statements. The bosses and enemies are not very varied and virtually all 
 of the missions involve making a hit on one boss or another. However, this formula never seems 
 to get old. There are many ways to approach different bosses and a variety of weapons to work with. 
 At one moment you may be flying from rooftop to rooftop, launching grenades at enemies on an adjacent 
 hotel balcony. The next you might have to hide for cover from an enemy sniper, only to jump off 
 the building and take him out with a rocket launcher in mid air. When you hit the ground an enemy 
 gang car pulls up and out hops two gang members armed with shotguns. You run for the nearby street 
 lamp and pull it out of the ground to launch it at the street thugs. And its all in a days work. 
 The combinations and abilities allow for awesome action sequences that are never quite twice the 
 same for me. Its almost like watching your agent in an action packed movie. The graphics of the 
 game are top notch. They are smooth and resemble a cell-shading technique, but it never feels over 
 the top. Some of the explosions are particularly a feast for the eyes. I think that some of the 
 voices of the gang members and the main boss voice that commands the agent can get rather tiresome, 
 and most of the music is rather forgettable. All in all, Crackdown seems like a great package that 
 I would easily recommend to anyone. Its easy to get into, easy to enjoy, and will definitely provide 
 you with plenty of hours of intense action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting. Although it is a little short with its story, and lacks in the depth 
 department. Basically here are the bad guys kill them. Thats not a bad thing, many great game have 
 stated that way. Look at Centipede and Pac-man. And the achievements will keep you playing long 
 past the game's ending. Not to mention the Halo 3 Beta you will get when it comes out this spring! 
 All in all if you are a fan of explosions, super powers, and sand box games this is the game for 
 you. Because it is way better than Grad Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Okay, let's be straigh here. I bought this game mainly for the Halo 3 Invitiation, thinking that 
 this would be a fun game to tide me over, but nothing I would buy without the Halo Beta. Was a 
 I wrong? Yes. Now this game isn't Genre-Defining or anything, but it sure is fun. What makes up 
 most of the game is you, a future agent, trying to take down 21 Warlords. Now, most of this is 
 pretty similar and repetitive, with tons of minions shooting at you, you shooting at them, and 
 you killing them. The game is a little too easy, and a little too short. The thing that made me 
 keep coming back is just messing around. It's very fun just jumping around (your character has 
 like, a 25 story vertical) . I would recommend this game to anyone who likes sandbox games, and 
 who is looking to have some fun. Plus, you'll get to play Halo 3 before all of your friends, and 
 really, that's what counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  At first, this game was only a must for the Halo 3 beta. I then saw a trailer for the co-op portion 
 of this game. I was stunned at what you could do. Such a massive city that streams beautifully, 
 this means that there is no jolting or lag and you can see right across the city and none of the 
 buildings will just vanish into nothingness. It truly is beautifully crafted. Gameplay is pretty 
 good. I admit that it can become a little repetitive but that doesn't make the game any less of 
 a man. Once all of your stats are up, your off. Explosions are f*cking massive, you can jump 30ft 
 in the air, you can control cars with precision, even make the SUV jump. There is a wide variety 
 of weapons to choose from. You will be able to play this game for hours without losing any of the 
 fun. What adds to the great replayabilty is the orbs. These things will be a pain in the ass but 
 a great deal of fun goes into getting them. Enjoy this game if you are yet to do so. If you have 
 done so, continue to do so. Yes, this is worth putting down GoW to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwbassboy87
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  If you are patient, wait for Crackdown to be available used for $20. If you are not patient, feel 
 free to borrow this game from a friend. You would beat this game before you inserted the DVD into 
 your disk tray. The bosses are not exactly fun, it just a run and gun with no strategy to go along 
 with. The game cheats you of 100 gamerscore points, leaving the player with an available 900 points 
 to achieve. The achievements are almost as easy as the game. The only boost in playing time you 
 get after the 21 bosses are the races and orbs. The typical person would not spend their whole 
 entire Saturday running around looking that last agility orb for an insignificant 50 point achievement. 
 The multiplayer part of the game may be the weakest link. To fight all 21 bosses, one player must 
 have 21 bosses to kill. This means one player starts zero star ratings, and the other player starts 
 with what they've earned. When the bosses are all terminated, there is absolutely no point for 
 co-op. The players can only step on each other's toes and there is nothing really cooperative about 
 any of the activities. All in all, with stunning graphics, one REALLY REALLY fun gameplay mechanic 
 in big jumping, and unique agency cars, don't get crackdown unless you're borrowing it, renting 
 it, or getting it for a present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartanx23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  This game strikes with a bang! Your skills are increasing agent , are one of the many very cool 
 qoutes from our Halo like narator. With every jump, race, kick, blast, and shot your skills accend 
 to new heights. Taking these bosses down with ever increasing security will take an agent who has 
 exceled to super human strengths. Your goal is to bring them to there knees. Make sure you increase 
 your skills as quickly as possible, and get a good look at as much of the city as you can, before 
 taking on these bosses. You'll be glad that you did, because the heavy fire power, and cooler Agency 
 Vehicles will react better. The multiple levels of difficulty make it a breeze to get into, and 
 very challenging when you're asking for it. The city they control is designed beautifully. Realtime 
 Worlds did an awesome job crafting a hugh metropolus, with which to utilize your growing skill 
 set. Jumping from rooftop to rooftop is every bit as fun as it sounds, especially when your locking 
 on and raining fury down onto your opponents. The weapon is up to you, as you choose between multiple 
 rocket launchers, grenades, and assault rifles. The controls make good use of the various weapons 
 you'll encounter, mostly because they are easy to use, and feel tight. Select your assault rifle 
 for example, and you have the option of taking out your enemy with a head, leg, body, or arm shot, 
 which will proceed to disarm them. Cars will react much the same way, and since everybody drives 
 around with a full tank of gas, feel free to aim for that tank. If you feel like obliterating a 
 whole group, then throw a few well placed rockets! Since locking on to your targets is a snap, 
 you can effectively rocket juggle various objects in the air. But why keep all the fun to yourself. 
 Co-op takes this whole experience, and launches it into the stratosphere. I can not praise this 
 game enough. It has a cool boss battle mode, which is great with a friend. Just get this game, 
 and you'll be thankfull you did! I can see my house from here . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammerofalan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great but falls short of being a great game. I found my self wanting a lot more. 
 Here are some examples. When the agent runs to jump from one building to the next and if there 
 is a one to two foot ledge on side of the building that you are jumping from you will lose some 
 forward momentum and fall short of the building you were trying to jump to. Or if there is a one 
 1 to 2 foot obstacle in front of the agent wile he is running he will not run over it you have 
 to jump (what was Microsoft thinking) . Another short fall of this game is the hand to hand combat 
 system it one of the agents major skills (strength) and it consist of jump kick, kick objects or 
 person on the ground, stomp, and a gun but, (that some times happens when you are to close to a 
 Railing when you are trying to shoot) I think the system should have been a lot better. I also 
 think that a wall jump ability and the ability to hang and slide on wires would have been a really 
 good addition to the game. As it is the game looks great but leaves me believing that it should 
 have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  My brother bought Crackdown for me the day before last.
  I had liked the demo enough.
  So. Here I am. With the full version.
  
  And? Well. It's great.
  
  It took time to get 
 used to the fact that you don't grow levels in your skills as fast as you do in the demo, so you 
 shouldn't expect to jump into the game and be leaping tall buildings in a single bound and throwing 
 trucks at people five minutes in.
  
  Still, it doesn't take THAT long to level - so before you've even taken out the first kingpin, 
 assuming you don't do it right away - you'll likely have leveled plenty.
  
  And thats a good thing too.
  Though it's advisable to take out the kingpins lieutenants before 
 you go for him, you CAN go straight to em - provided you know where to find em anyway.
  
  It's a pretty open-ended game and hand holding is limited. Your pretty much plopped into the game 
 and aside from a couple message boxes telling you to grab a vehicle and go for the first supply 
 point, it's.. Yeah. Just real open.
  
  The announcer guy will grate on you though.
  And sometimes he'll say irrelevant things.
  Like - thats quite an ascension there, agent! - And 
 you only jumped a few feet off the ground.
  
  Also, the music.. Ehhh... Well, it's not really my thing. Too technoish.
  But that mightn't bother 
 you, it just grates on me.
  Custom soundtracks would've been nice.
  
  Of course I could just play music over it through the 360's music player, but it's not the same 
 as just hopping in a car and hearing your own music blaring instead of that hogwash.
  
  The graphics. I like the graphics.
  I'm sure there'll be plenty of people taking time of Gears 
 of War or something like that who'll think it's trash - it mightn't be realistic but it's heavily 
 stylized and it looks great in my opinion.
  Like a comic book or some such.
  
  I'm not going to be able to partake in co-op until we move, sadly.
  Tried it briefly and it was 
 too laggy.
  We can't get DSL here. We're on ISDN 128kb connection.
  Not good enough.
  
  But still, if what I've heard from others is accurate it's one of - if not the best thing about 
 the game. I mean, how many other games of an open ended nature allow you to play with a friend?
 
  
  I know I would've liked to have torn up the city with another player in Saints Row - or stuff around 
 in GTA: San Andreas with someone else, whether stuffing around means blowing stuff up or kickin' 
 back in a bar and playing some pool - it'd be nice to experience something like this with a friend 
 - or foe.
  
  Anyway, Crackdown gets the thumbs up from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenchie14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game but it's not worth the buy. I would definitely recommend renting this game 
 but honestly, don't buy it.
  
  Pros:
  -Great looking city from a distance
  -Agility/Jumping system makes ALL rooftops accessible
  -Great gameplay
  -Final bosses are very 
 challenging
  -Innovative boss system
  -850 collectible orbs
  -Great stat building system
  -HUGE city
  -A great rental
  
  Cons:
  -Everything has a 
 thick outline so that when viewed up close, look really cartoonish
  -Not a large variety of guns only about 12 weapons
  -The game can be beaten in about three days
 
  -Online co op has no real purpose
  -Driving sucks so much you'd rather travel by foot
  -No motorcycle vehicle
  -A disappointing buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Right now, any big release for the 360 is a welcome one. Similarily, any pretty good game for the 
 360 is a welcome one. If you're like me, you've played all the best games and a lot of the pretty 
 good games. You find yourself debating whether or not to rent Rock Star's table tennis because 
 your looking for something new. You then come to your senses and realize you almost rented a table 
 tennis video game (in 2007) - no offense to the game, maybe it's great. I haven't played it and, 
 like I said, I've debated renting it.
  
  Anyway, here comes a big release - Crackdown. And, it's.... alright. Sandwhich technique:
  The 
 good: Fun, shoot em' up game. Cool, comic book graphics. Ability to level your character up (always 
 love action games with RPG type level-ups) .
  
  The bad: Zero, and I mean, zero strategy involved - you go in heavy and hard, and that's about 
 it. Guns blazing, cars going 100, kicking, screaming, and arse-whopping. Other than that, nothing. 
 No 'duck and cover,' no strategy. Games like this get old for me fast. Also, this is a 100% GTA 
 rip-off. Anyone who says differently is retarded. It's GTA (minus the little strategy involved 
 in GTA) . I'd give this game about a good 10 hours before you're pretty bored with it. This game 
 is really fun but loses it's appeal after a bit because there is pretty much no story and no strategy.
 
  
  The good (again (hense, sandwich technique) ) : it's pretty fun and it's a new 360 game that took 
 some effort to make. Definately worth a rental but you'll probably lose interest pretty quick. 
 The music is pretty good (GTA style radio that plays when you hop in cars) .
  
  Directions: Rent it, kill people, have fun, return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtymar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto. 3 words that have change the landscape of open-world gaming or sandbox games 
 forever. And since then, we have been given many a game that has tried its twist on their formula. 
 Usually to dismal results. I'll admit, that I thought Crackdown may follow the same footing, especially 
 when paired with the upcoming Halo 3 beta test.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  Crackdown for the Xbox 360 introduces unique ideas into a now aging game style and creates something 
 new for anyone to enjoy. Part Grand Theft Auto, part Hulk Ultimate Destruction, Crackdown doesn't 
 stop its frantic, fun, and addictive flavor from start to finish.
  
  You start as a member of the Agency. A futuristic police force given the responsibility of cleaning 
 up Pacific City from 3 major gangs. A nice different take from all the other sandbox games, as 
 for once, you're the good guy (those who have beat the game know what's up) . You start as a mild 
 mannered genetic freak capable of simple high jumps, decent power, and some weapons skill, and 
 a plain car. But its these abilities that you will increase throughout the game that will enhance 
 gameplay. Soon, you'll be jumping skyscrapers, jumping vehicles over football field long distances, 
 shooting missles for lethal damage, and lifting trucks as weapons. While developing these skills 
 does take time, but it adds a nice addictive factor to get those skills better to see how much 
 more of Pacific City you can explore. As for the game itself, cleaning up the city will have you 
 hunting the 21 major gang leaders spread all over the game's massive 3 islands. Pacific City is 
 highly detailed from the interactive crowds, vocal gang members, and miles and miles of buildings 
 to climb. As your agility progresses, as does your jumping ability which will have you climbing 
 the highest buildings. These heights can be dizzying to anyone afraid of heights. Be prepared to 
 look away on those big jumps gone wrong. Jumping around the city feels almost superhero like, and 
 definately takes the stage as you're jumping from rooftop to rooftop taking out gangs as you soar. 
 This surely makes the driving skill worthless as there are more bonuses to be earned as you patrol 
 on foot.
  
  In your travels, you can capture safehouses to store gang weapons for use later, and act as teleportation/savepoints 
 ot use later. The lilst of weapons themselves is short, and later in the game you'll find yourself 
 sticking to the same 2 weapons throughout the game. Making the different weapons more distinictive 
 would be nice, but doesnt harm the game at all.
  
  You are directed most of the time by the narrative Agency honcho, letting you know who to take 
 out next, and giving you hints on what to do with your abilities. This can be annoying at times, 
 especially since there is no real music for the game unless you're in a vehicle which has some 
 generic tunes.
  
  The action is very pick up and play. Control isnt hard to figure out, and gets more intuitive as 
 skills increase. Less time trying to figure out how to do something as opposed to wondering if 
 your abilities will let you.
  
  Beating the game does not take long as building skills isnt fully necessary to defeat every gang 
 member. Should the game ever get tough (which can happen at times) , you can always add a friend 
 from XBox Live at any time. Double the carnage makes for a fun time. OH WAIT! And you get the Halo 
 3 Beta too! Which wasn't available upon launch of the game. That said, Crackdown is a very good 
 game on its own that doesn't need a high profile beta to sell itself. If you ever wanted to deal 
 justice in a fun and explosive way, pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: -Comes with the Halo 3 beta if you preordered it -Large city for you to explore -Can 
 scale large buildings -Using and leveling up your abilities is a lot of fun -Three agency cars 
 upgrade when your driving skill does -Fun to just jump around the city -Co-op mode adds something 
 that everyone has been wanting in a game like this for a while -Tons of fast paced action -Can 
 pick from different agents to be that seem to age the more you upgrade their skills -Makes cell 
 shaded graphics kind of work -Has extra races, both on foot or in car that you can do to help upgrade 
 your driving or agility skills -You can hear the music playing outside of your car
  
  The Bad: -Story mode is extremely short -After you beat the game there is absolutely nothing to 
 do -Driving is kind of pointless -The story in the actual story mode is bad -Not a lot of weapons 
 to choose from -Hard to escape a large scale gang fight -Sound track is small and doesn't have 
 very good music
  -Gangs are extremely stereotypical for their races 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbring1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The details in the sound really put you in the game. For example, the cars with the music playing. 
 Pay attention to the cars with windows down or covertibles versus the ones with windows up. Notice 
 the wind as you scale a skyscraper. The game can be as short as maybe 2 or 3 hours if you ignore 
 the races and powering up aspect of the game. But the fun is in the stunts, collecting, and powering 
 up. The story doesn't need to be more detailed than it is. It's pretty straight forward as it is. 
 You are an experimental police officer. The city has gone to crap because of gangs and you are 
 there to clean it up. I've spent over 20 hours on this game already. I never liked the GTA games 
 but I am totally hooked on Crackdown. I won't compare this game to GTA. The things that make the 
 2 similar are the open world feel and ........ that's about it. I feel complete freedom in crackdown, 
 as if I could really go anywhere. You don't have that feel in GTA games. Besides, there's only 
 so much THUGGIN I can do before I get sick to my stomach. I'd much rather be the super hero cleaning 
 up the streets. I never thought I'd want to hop around collecting green orbs but it's so fun. And 
 mass explosions will make you cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  Elements of the gameplay are a pure joy: rooftop leaping, explosions, weapons targeting, grenade 
 launchers, and interactive objects. Other parts of the gameplay feel half finished or rushed, such 
 as: road races, rooftop races and mission variety. However, on the whole, Crackdown is just simple, 
 unadulterated fun, where you can do what you like, when you like, how you like.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics are inspired by the look and style of graphic novels with partial 
 cell shading and comic book characters. The draw distance from the tops of the building is impressive, 
 the character and vehicle models work well (especially the levelling up changes) and the framerate 
 is pretty consistent. The spawning and drawing of objects is less impressive with a short draw 
 distance and inconsistencies.
  
  Sound 7/10
  Crackdown has a weak soundtrack and some problems with the narrator talking about situations you 
 are not in: for example,. Best view in the city agent, when you are in the swimming in the sea! 
 However, the explosions and other sound effects are great with huge bass and plenty of depth.
 
  
  Value 7/10
  The nature of the open gameplay means you will still be playing even after completing the story 
 (in about 10-20 hours) . The achievements are very well designed, encouraging replay whilst being 
 realistic and fun in obtaining. The co-op is a bit of a let down as stats and tasks completed in 
 co-op are not carried over to the non-host. If you join a game, you must do so selflessly to help 
 the host player only.
  
  Tilt 9/10
  I found this game to be such complete fun. Yes, there are some annoying and half finished features 
 in Crackdown, but the basic concept, gameplay and experience is such a pure joy that youll find 
 yourself loosing hours messing about in the open sandbox world. I have invested more that 20 hours, 
 even after completing the story after about 10. Crackdown draws you in and doesnt let go. Please 
 note that I am a fan of graphic novels (especially Frank Miller) , so I love the style and substance 
 of Crackdown. If you dont like the genre then deduct 2 marks.
  
  Overall 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5ilver5hadow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has many great aspects that make it fun to play, easy to pick up and hard to complete, 
 which are most of the criteria of the best games around.
  
  At a glance crackdown may seem like one of those superhero games like spiderman, but it is so much 
 more; the details of the cities are so intricate and the idea of upgrading different abilities 
 in different ways because of your special suit is a new and refreshing idea and a good change from 
 just happening becasue you are a super hero. The abilities are well thought out and are increasingly 
 hard to upgrade with their being 4 levels and then the maximum level which takes a long time to 
 get them to. Some abilities are a bit easier than others to upgrade such as agility but i feel 
 it is just right becasue having good agility is essential for progressing alot in the game. On 
 that point the agility orbs are well placed and finding them gives you a sense of achievement, 
 especially with the hidden orbs.
  
  The driving is pretty good for a game that doesn't use it particularly much at all and i loved 
 the way the agency vehicles adapt to your driving skill and improve in performance and looks as 
 you're driving level upgrades.
  
  The guns and shooting effects are pretty good, they could be better but it is good which helps 
 as you need your guns alot during the missions. The explosions are fantastic and once you've fully 
 upgraded explosives the effects are amazing and are quite addictive and you find yourself deliberately 
 blowing up innocent civilians just because you want to see something blow up and there aren't any 
 gangs around. However the lock on system can get a bit annoying as you have to use it every other 
 minute and it does take quite a long time to properly lock on, especially with headshots. Also 
 i feel they could have expanded the weapon base because as soon as you have the heavy machine gun, 
 the cluster grenade and the homing launcher, thats all you carry around and they do get a bit boring.
 
  
  The missions are extremely samey, where it gets to the point that you just get as close as you 
 can and pummel the boss with the homing launcher. The last couple of bosses are a bit challenging 
 because it takes such a long time to get to them but only takes a maximum of a couple of hours.
 
  
  The whole game length is pretty poor because defeating the bosses does not take long at all, the 
 only thing that might take a bit of time is upgrading the stats to the maximum, but once you've 
 defeated the bosses theres not much point anyway except to get the achievement.
  
  Great game for short bursts of fun and also an added bonus was that most of us got the halo 3 beta 
 test with it. Good game but don't expect the game to last longer than a couple of weeks of moderate 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is a very fun game to play but just doesn't have enough to do to make it long lasting. 
 For me, it is purely a rental because once you max your guy out (which can be done quickly) running 
 around and killing people will get old pretty fast... If they had some more gameplay modes or some 
 real multiplayer modes that would be awesome! Even four player co-op would be great.
  
  Graphics: I really liked the comic book look and the graphics were solid. It also runs silky smooth 
 which makes it look even better.
  
  Gameplay: Very Very Very solid gameplay. Game is very fun but just doesn't have enough to do to 
 make it long lasting. This is one of the few times that gameplay doesn't make up for the lack of 
 things to do...
  
  Audio: Sounds are spot on. The game has great environment noises and even the music is enjoyable.
 
  
  Overall this game is fun but it honestly doesn't have enough to do. It's a 12 hour story (give 
 or take) and you can pretty much level yourself up fully in that time especially if you are playing 
 with a buddy. So once you do that... what more can you do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwr1982
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  You play an agent to stop crime (think GTA but playing cops) with super powers that you can level 
 up and become stronger, faster, harder! U have to battle through 3 different islands and must kill 
 all gang land boss's, the weapons and cars are great fun plus you can scale any building. If you 
 get a bit tired of crime fighting there are side missions like stunt driving, roof jumping etc. 
 The controls are simply and the game is easy to get into BUT this will not take long to complete 
 but is very good fun to play while it lasts with some easy acheviments to add to your gamer rep 
 - check it out first might be worth a rent ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppedAtBirth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I at first wasn't interested in this game. Saw the previews but didn't even care to download the 
 demo. Even thou I have always loved GTA and similar games. Finally downloaded the demo a few days 
 before release and was amazed how much I loved the game. Must have played the demo 20 times in 
 a matter of days before the release. But the game is not perfect.
  
  First of this game must be played on the hardest setting; otherwise you will beat the game in less 
 then 5 hours. Playing on the hardest setting really just makes you pay more attention to incoming 
 fire; on easy/medium difficulty you can take tons of damage and survive with ease. On Hard alot 
 of the enemy have a good chance at taking you out in a few shots if you are not staying alert and 
 moving.
  
  The Graphics are great, it looks a little cartoony/comic book style, but you a cop that can just 
 20+ feet in the air and pick up cars, it's like a comic book action hero. The action is fun, and 
 after many hours of play I just don't want it to end. Issues:
  
  Music: I don't know how decided that 90% of the music in the game is Hispanic based but it ruins 
 the music feature of the game. Most of it I cant understand since I don't speak Spanish and the 
 songs I do understand don't fit the game.
  
  The announcer: you have a guy giving you tutorials/info every few minutes about bosses, abilities, 
 etc... There are numerous problems with him. One, he tell you the same info over, and over. His 
 comments about you taking damage, dying, etc... Are annoying. The other issues are he is sometime 
 slow. Example: You die, after you are resurrected and getting back into the game, he suddenly warns 
 you your about to die... Um a little late for the info... Turning the voice volume down remove 
 the voice in your head. But he will still tell you about new bosses when you discover them.
  
  Bugs: Within 5 minutes after playing to full version of the game my character fell thru the 
 building I was standing on and ended up under water stuck. I couldn't see my character of move. 
 I was able to shot/throw grenades and decided to commit suicide. After throwing a few grenades 
 it knocked me free. It happened again a few hours later, was on tall building climbing my way to 
 top and fell into the building. Was the suck up in mid air, again couldn't move, unfortunately 
 my grenades kill me this time. Still getting stuck in the game is a problem but in 10+ hours of 
 play has only happened twice. Besides killing the bosses in the game you have alot races you can 
 do, car and on foot/roof top races. I only did one in the demo and figured I probably wouldn't 
 do them in the real game. But after a few car and foot races they are fun to see how you can improve 
 you time as you agility and driving skills go up. There are also other races in the game although 
 I have only seen one. It a race to the top of a building and back down, touching points along the 
 way. Was hard but very fun, tried is over and over. One thing that has also started being important 
 to me is achievement points. I like getting them and like games that have achievable goals, from 
 looking at the achievements crackdown has, 80-90% of them should be doable within normal game play, 
 other are look to be more difficult or near impossible to pull off. Haven't tried the co-op side 
 of this game, no friends so hard to play co-op. :)
  
  Overall: Turn off music, announcer, turn on your own music and have fun killing gang members and 
 finding 100's of hidden agility and orbs while exploring and jumping around a huge open city. Great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I think many/most people didn't get the game (or I didn't, it can be either way) .
  Crackdown is a conceptual sandbox game. It's really a showcase of an outstanding achievement in 
 ludic art.
  The artistic approach the developers did, is in fact a bold move. In an area filled with stereotyped 
 consumers that usually aren't into inovation in any other aspect than gameplay, Crackdown delievers 
 a city and its inhabitants that could be part of a Vertigo comic book, rather than a Marvel one. 
 This analogy possibly just hits a nich of people, but it's actually to that audience that Crackdown 
 should please. And we can see by now that this is true, by looking to players reviews - many people 
 don't dig artistic approaches to a formula they know. For instance, this should illustrate what 
 I'm trying to say:
  Gamespot gave the game a 7.8, and as we all know Gamespot (GS) although an extremelly good, polished 
 and trustable site, it's a mainstream one with all the idiosyncracities associated. On the other 
 hand Eurogamer (and they're known for some PS bias) gave the game a 9 and couldn't praise it more. 
 Eurogamer's approach on video-gaming is not meant to please a wider audience as GS, they're pleased 
 with different stuff.
  I won't go into details about the game. Everyone knows by now what it's substance, what differs 
 is... everything else.
  All in all I'm very pleased this happed to the video-games, and to 360 is particular.
  A classy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Lets start off by pointing out the Obvious. The games story is shallow, and has NO structure. When 
 you start a new game a few comic book type clips run and a (very annoying) narrator starts by welcoming 
 you to the Agency. You are a soldier created specifically for taking on the gangs that have over 
 run the nations capital (fictional) Pacific city.
  
  You were created from a Human modification technology that one of the gangs used for there soldiers. 
 The agency is basically the last line of defense against 3 gangs that have overrun the city.... and 
 thats your story and all you will hear until the rather drab ending sequence, which I wont give 
 away.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Its got a great semi-cell shaded look. Its not full cell shading due to the textures and mapping 
 used for the characters and environments, It may not be ultra realistic but thats the point. Your 
 like a toned down Super-hero, so the comic book look goes exceptionally well with this game.
  
  Lighting and shadow effects are great. There doesn't seem to be any muddy or dirty textures 
 anywhere. Anti-aliasing is good. Water effects are nice. the look of the water is great but the 
 water breaking against the shore could have been done better but nothing that takes any visual 
 splendor away. Explosions are beautiful especially when your explosive skills are at there peak, 
 and the fire effects are also very nicely done.
  
  It has a look that you will either love or hate, the same way people love or hate the free-roam 
 genre. Some say its cartoony, and I can agree to an extent, but in NO WAY is this game kiddy whatsoever. 
 Its rated M for mature for a reason. Its more of an Adult cartoon look. Whatever it is, it has 
 style.
  
  GAMEPLAY: An area where the game shines is gameplay. The controls are very easy to pick up, and 
 make good use of all the buttons. Your super powers are the meat of the game. The 3 gangs can be 
 tough, and building your stats up before attempting the missions is definitely fun and a good idea 
 to boot.
  
  You can do missions any way you please. Each general and King pin has a mansion or building they 
 are hold up in, and there are dozens of ways to go about it. There are secret passages, rooftop 
 entrances, or you can meet them head on.... my favorite! While the AI can be dumb some times, the 
 2 tougher gangs, the Volk and Shai-Gen are actually fairly smart and will flush you out of cover, 
 overwhelm you in sheer numbers and kill you by any means possible. The AI is good at picking up 
 there comrades weapons when they run out of ammo and hijacking civilian cars to give chase. Also 
 Civilians will pick up weapons also and fight along side of you at times when gang hit squads get 
 thick. Weapons are also varied and definitely fun to use. They all have different strengths and 
 fire rates..... of course grenade and rocket launchers rule! Heavy machine guns and shotguns get 
 the job done to though.
  
  There are 2 types of side missions. Roof top racing and road racing.... they should be self explanatory. 
 Rooftop races have you running and jumping through checkpoints around the rooftops and street to 
 gain agility points. Road races have you race a car of your choice through checkpoints to gain 
 driving points. While these are the only TRUE side quests. They are fun and very addictive to try 
 and beat your own high score to gain more experience points.
  
  The free-roam in general is just plain FUN! In what other games do you get to explore the depth 
 of skyscrapers and HUGE hotels on the water front? PLUS hidden orbs and agility orbs are placed 
 EVERY WHERE! Giving you incentive to explore every beautiful nook and cranny. Sure stealing cars, 
 shooting criminals, mowing down innocents, killing cops and exploring have been don before, but 
 not to this magnitude. The city while not HUGE horizontally, its HUGE vertically. I spend HOURS 
 on end just jumping from skyscraper to skyscraper. Lets just say its a good type of shallow.
  
  SOUND: Guns, Explosions, car radios, vehicles... Everything is great. Cant complain.
  
  
 VALUE: Number 1 value of this game..... Co-Op! Via system link or online you can play Co-Op. And 
 you can fully explore and do everything you can do in the single player. Exploring, Killing kingpins, 
 its all there to share with a buddy.
  
  And if your character is maxed out on abilities, that carries over when you join a match some one 
 is hosting and vice versa. If you go into a game and you have all the agility orbs and they don't. 
 it will only show orbs for them and not you, meaning you cant steal anything from there game. And 
 if you are both noobs, it will have double of everything, so there is no orb stealing to get achievements.
 
  
  Single player holds a lot of value to. Sure you can beat it in 10 hours straight through, but if 
 you try to find all the orbs, completely level up, do all of the foot races and roof top races, 
 try to get all the achievements, plus still kill all the gang bangers the hours of fun will add 
 up! This doesn't include time put in to just killing everything in sight and exploring for the 
 fun of it.
  
  CONS: GRAPHICALLY there are no cons, its great for what it is. GAMEPLAY wise there are a few hitches. 
 Going into the buildings and more indoor missions would have been a nice touch.
  
  18 generals and 3 kingpins might seem like a lot but not so. Could have used a few more gang leaders 
 to kill. For me I didn't want to completely beat the game thinking I would have nothing to kill 
 or do besides finding orbs, and while once you beat the game you can turn enemies off and on its 
 just not the same. Still fun but for those wanting something to do besides just kill people might 
 be turned away..... fortunately I'm no one of them LOL.
  
  MORE SIDE MISSIONS!..... is that clear enough, and 4 agents online would have been better.
  
 
  SOUND... none
  
  VALUE.... up to 4 agents online would have uped the value, but games cant be perfect.
  
  This 
 game is awesome and even if your not into sandbox games I recommend at least renting it.
  
  ***On a side note, I know online should be in the gameplay section, but unless its an MMO, online 
 is more of a lasting , replay value type of thing, so unless the online is a IMPORTANT part of 
 the game, its just an extra that adds to the value thats why in my reviews online is always in 
 the value section..... and I'm not discussing the Halo 3 beta it played no part in me buying the 
 game*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkorn17
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought crackdown about a week after it came out for numerous reasons, I loved the demo and of 
 course the Halo 3 beta inv. The next day I had already beat the game and gotten over 500 gamerscore 
 points, in my opinion there was really no challenge for me, but on the other hand it was on the 
 easiest difficulty, my suggestion would be to start the game on the medium difficulty. Otherwise 
 free roaming and blowing stuff up with a friend is about a fun as it gets. I'm not a big graphics 
 fan but I loved the change in graphic styles as opposed to a gears type game. Defiantly has some 
 good replay value too, the achievements are prob my favorites next to Gears. Worth the halo 3 beta, 
 not worth the 60 you have to fork over for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicedude82
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  A great addictive game....., though a more engrossing plot would have really involved the player 
 in the game. Still its a lot of fun to play, better than most of the other games out there for 
 sure.
  Combining Mario styled fun, with a GTA kind of world has surely helped make it a quality game. 
 You will not only love exploring the city but doing it while jumping from one building to the other 
 is something real special.
  It would have been a real terrific game if the developers had made an effort to have some conncection 
 to the world around the character. This is one of the reasons, you feel very alone in this huge 
 map and it gets even more depressing when you listen to the trash music which can be heard from 
 cars. Good thing there is no need to drive for any duration of the game, other than for the sake 
 of acheivments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown has been looked at from many different angles. From my angle, I had no idea what to think 
 of it. To me, it looked like it was gonna turn out to be garbage. But boy oh boy did they fool 
 me. Many people only bought this game due to the fact that it came with a Halo 3 beta. Sure, sounds 
 accurate; however, I doubt alot of people expected the game to come out so well. Not only does 
 this game take the sandbox genre and totally change it, but it makes itself completely original. 
 Many people thought it would turn out to be yet another GTA ripoff but with cartoony graphics. 
 But they're wrong. First off, the only real comparison to GTA here is the fact you can jack anybody's 
 car. During the game your character will evolve to the point where he will be leaping 35 ft in 
 the air and hurling massive rigs across the pacific. Doesn't sound cool to you? Well how bout the 
 fact that the action you recieve on a normal mission is about how much action you will get only 
 on a 5 star rating in GTA. The game is just so intense, and addicting, to the point where you really 
 don't want to stop... seriously. And Crackdown definately has some of, if not, the best use of achievement 
 points. The game released 2/20/07 and by 2/26/07 I already accumulated 710 achievement points. 
 Crackdown does something that alot of games fail to accomplish, which is make the points fun and 
 addicting to get. Sometimes you'll notice achievement points actually feel like a chore rather 
 than having actual fun. But Crackdown gets it right and makes every achievement worth getting. 
 Of course the game does have its flaws; such as the length of the game. If only the game was longer 
 it would have scored a 10 for sure in my book. Its not really all THAT bad cause once you finish 
 the game you can turn the crimes on and off so you can finish leveling your attirbutes. And as 
 far as attributes go, you have agility (jumping, running speed) , driving (with agency vehicles 
 they will transfrom more and more with the higher level you are) , explosives (how much damage your 
 grenades and rocket launchers cause) , strength (gain more, lift more... lots more) and firearms 
 (how accurate your guns are) . And trust me, each one of these are a blast to level up. And sure 
 there may not be a real storyline here, but hell, thats not what the game is about; its bout blowing 
 s*** up. And the graphics aren't bad at all, they look like a living comic book. This game is a 
 definate must, not for the Halo 3 beta at all. Hell thats more like a bonus, cause this game stands 
 on its own and is worth the 60$, even if it didnt come with the Halo 3 beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabomb790
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying I've played this for 12 hours at least and still haven't beat it. 
 Now a lot of the people who've already beat and played the game are saying, that's ridiculous. 
 I've beaten it in less than six . Okay, and your point? lol. See you have different types of gamers: 
 There are ones who rush through quick, there are those who take their time [wanting to find and 
 do everything] , then there are the one's who play games to find faults. I'm sure the many players 
 who reviewed this game came from either, or, of these gaming kinds so please don't take their word 
 as gold. Gamespot is simply too critical and are fault finders. But that's just my opinion. This 
 game is an amazing piece of product. I've dedicated @ least 12 hours to this game and right now 
 I'm at Shai-Gen territory, intending on beating the Generals, and then wipe out the kingpin. The 
 game is as fun, long, or hard as you make it. This is why they call this game open and free. If 
 you're person who likes structure and wants a great story then I beg you to not get this game. 
 It's okay. Everyone's different. However, if you're a gamer who's open-minded, not going into this 
 game with a pre-concept, and just want something fun you can play for hours by yourself (or with 
 a friend) , then by all means BUY IT... NOW! lol
  
  As you already know, there are five skills: Agility, Strength, Firearms, Driving, and Explosives. 
 All of these are fun to level up and takes time. The bosses are easy to hard based on which gang 
 you face and what level you're at when you face them. For instance, if you face Shai-gen, a gang 
 that is brutal, not so friendly, while adding killer skills in explosives, and your at one star 
 with explosives, 2 stars with strength, 4 with driving, 2 in firearms, and 3 in agility,. then 
 your chances of beating them will not be sogreat. The people who zipp who these bosses more than 
 likely have their agent leveled up to it's peak with the most powerful weapons (auto-locked rocket 
 launcher) , then yeah, they'll be a breeze. See it's all a matter of how you play it.
  
  Plus there are a ton of agility and hidden orbs lying around in obscure places and on rooftops. 
 It's a blast jumping from building to building like Morpheus in The Matrix when he was teaching 
 Neo how to leap. In addition, your able to increase your skills in strength. This allows you to 
 hit objects and people harder as well as throwing them a great distance. The more you level up 
 each skill the greater the agent is. Trust me, you'll feel absolutely invincible once you leveled 
 everything to the max. You can't but to feel like a superhero after you gained the ability to jump 
 very high and land cracking the ground underneath your feet. When you land from a jump and crack 
 the floor after escaping from dozens of enemies, you'll understand exactly what I mean. Also you 
 could cause random fun damage with your friends (in Co-op) by piling up cars and exploding them, 
 or by doing foot races to see which agent is the most athletic. There are endless possibilities 
 you can do if you just think. A lot of people don't want to think and that is why there so depended 
 on a mission structure to guide them. The dossier popping up when you're close to boss, dropping 
 you the info, is fine and the Narrator who talks (a lot) while you play is such an interesting 
 dynamic. It makes you feel like an agent. And if you don't want to hear him you're able to turn 
 his voice off in the options. Check it... this is game is basically about you being a genetically 
 powerful agent who is created to be superior than the ordinary cop to take out gang members littered 
 all throughout the city. You're not a gang member, and this is not a story. If you buy this game 
 looking for that then no doubt will you be disappointed. Thinking like this is like going to looking 
 for a girl to marry. If you go to a club then expect to leave with someone who loves going to clubs. 
 Don't expect a wife. So trust me and buy this game if you're open to it.
  
  Oh and by the way... I give the sound a 9 because there are so many sound effects they put in the 
 game that it's crazy. Try throwing an explosive canister around and hear the sound. Or try throwing 
 a car around and notice how impressive the sound of its physics sounds as close as the real thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Do you think the gang wars were the most exciting aspect of GTA: San Andreas? Ditto the stronghold 
 takeover missions in Saint's Row? Do you find a story and mission structure detrimental to your 
 gaming pleasure?
  
  If you answered yes to any of these questions, Crackdown might just be right up your alley.
  
 
  Open ended to a fault, all Crackdown does is throw assassination assignment after assassination 
 assignment at you, with little to no gameplay or enemy variation. Sure, it's temporarily fun jumping, 
 driving and shooting your way through the very handsomely modeled city, leveling up one's skills, 
 and it's undeniably fun to throw cars at one's adversaries, or leaping off of a 20 story building, 
 shooting people in the face as one falls.
  
  However, as fun as any of these activities might seem for a short while, all too soon it becomes 
 apparent just how lacking in depth Crackdown really is. In fact, it's the most mindlessly repetitive 
 gameplay I've encountered in a sandbox game since EA Tiburon's abysmal Superman Returns. If you 
 think that's a needlessly harsh comparison, consider the similarities between the two games: Both 
 feature ludicrously overpowered protagonists taking out wave after wave of identical enemies, only 
 to level up and unlock more such encounters. Repeat ad nauseum until, a mercifully short ten hours 
 later, the games simply end without much of a conclusion.
  
  If this manner of game content appeals to you, or you simply want to play the Halo 3 multiplayer 
 demo, by all means spend your sixty hard-earned dollars on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Ok so I rented this one even though the player reviews had it as an outstanding game. I just was 
 a bit wary due to the reviews from the pros and I must say I am glad I rented it. On first look 
 I could not believe the game got such poor reviews (they still had it as a good game just not outstanding) 
 I was quickly grabbing up agility orbs and was bouncing around from roof top to rooftop enjoying 
 the game. I quickly, almost too quickly, got rid of the first game and was just running around 
 cleaning up, making sure to not leave any orbs laying around.
  
  I then moved on to the next area and suddenly realized that the game is already starting to get 
 old. Now when I see a good game I will generally keep playing it but to be honest I dont see a 
 lot of replay value here. Also the multiplayer leaves a lot to be desired. Making you exit the 
 map, reload with the other player and then when he/she drops taking you back to the menu and forces 
 you to reload again. You would think that it could be a lot more seamless than this. All in all 
 I would say this is a great game to rent for the weekend but I would not rush out and buy it for 
 your collection until you have completed the story at least once and then decide if it is worth 
 buying to play it a second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooseminion
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This fast paced shooter will have you glued to you TV screen for hours at a time. Its one of the 
 first games in a long time that I found my self addicted to. You should definately give this game 
 a try. The only flaws in the game would have to be that its a little too short. There is also a 
 lack of mission structure throughout the game. But, its definately one of the rare games that I 
 didnt regret paying $60 for. So you should definately check this game out its one of the best that 
 i have played all year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ringraul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is a very well designed game with something for every play style. Each boss has multiple ways 
 to dispose of them. For someone who likes the cell shaded style of this game, I think the graphics 
 are amazing. The draw distance in simply incredible. Sound is one of the best aspects of this title. 
 While playing in coop, when your partner is on the other side of the island and blows something 
 up, the sound thunders. Value is probably the weakest point. There just are not enough bosses. 
 That being said this is a great game and worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason15t
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I love this game. The physics are great to be able to jump from building to building is awesome 
 and I love the fact that you can upgrade your Firearms, Explosives, Agility, Driving, and Strength 
 skills to such an extent that you're like Robocop. The Coop is also fun. With your friends you 
 can either kill each other or go to oppisite ends of the map and clear the gangs out by yourself 
 or get toether and cause double the mayhem. The explosions are great too. There are a couple of 
 problems. It's definately not a perfect 10 out of 10 but it's not a 7.8 out of 10 either. For one 
 thing jumping onto a really tall building and then accidentally turning a little bit will make 
 you fall almost to the bottom of the building and majorly hurt yourself. The fact that all you 
 do is kill all the 21 bosses does get repeatative and sometimes dull. If you love games like GTA 
 or Saint's Row, then you should definately check this game out. I personally like it more than 
 those games but that's me. Plus the first shipment's Halo 3 Beta Invitation is like icing on the 
 cake. I'm so glad I bought this game.
  Sincerely, The Capcom Lover
  
  (This's how I always end my review for a game, even though this game was not made by Capcom) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  First off if your thinking of buying this game for the Halo beta and not for Crackdown itself then..... kick 
 rocks cause this game is a seller on its own account and needs nothing bonus to be a great game. 
 So then,.... on with my review. Crazy, intense, manic, addictively solid game!!!!!! With that said 
 If youve ever played a game you knew was really good and knew that If they ever decided to create 
 the sequel you would buy it right then with no question????........ Well this is one of those games. 
 Crackdown is a freaking great break from the entire first person shooter, the lukewarm action genre, 
 and the under populated RPG section of the 360. Its a well thought-out combination of the three 
 and done very well let me say. With the new exception of the instant classic Lost Planet , third 
 person shooters have been getting a bad rap. I love over the shoulder camera views of the action 
 and the frenzied jumping and such. The action is instantaneous and never dies down. Im a hardcore 
 gamer so I started on Psychotic from the start cause if a game isnt a challenge then its a waist 
 of time in my book. The driving is fun and rewarding when you level up the agent cars (but only 
 3?? whats up wit that? Where the agent Jet or agent boat ?) I could have even seen some sort of 
 futuristic hovering jet boat combination even. The fighting is crazy but I think they could have 
 bumped up his combo list and such. (But it didnt detract from the fun at all) The jumping is easily 
 the most fun method of travel but when I had my car level (4) I would rather mob in the agency 
 super car then run around. I think the shooting &amp; targeting element could have had better control 
 on the manual sight. The lock on dose the trick but in order to get more points you must do it 
 your self. I havent completed the entire game but have killed a majority of the bosses. My over 
 all impression of the game is awesome. Benn a long time since a game like this even peeked my interest. 
 I like the gritty comic book look also. Solid game I recommend for anyone who likes action rpgs 
 with insane bio-enhanced super cops with r. p. g.'s then this is the game for you. If youre looking 
 for the halo beta, just wait till the real one comes out cause this is whats cracking right now!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stewdaddy5000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up Crackdown, I couldn't put it down. I figured that the massive world of Crackdown 
 would hold me over until GTA IV comes out later this year. And Crackdown is, after all, from the 
 creator of the GTA series. Five days later, however, I was left feeling very disappointed.
  
  The city in Crackdown is huge. It is divided into three islands, each inhabited by a gang that 
 consists of six generals and a kingpin. Playing the role of a genetically enhanced law enforcer, 
 it is your job to search out these gang members and take them down.
  
  The agency you work for provides you with access to three different vehicles: a car, an SUV, and 
 a semi. Aside from these vehicles you are free to commandeer anything you like from the streets 
 of Pacific City, just as you can in GTA. Unfortunately all you can operate are automobiles. There 
 are no motorcycles, boats, helicopters or planes available.
  
  The weapons in the game range from hand grenades, pistols, automatics and rocket launchers. There 
 is nothing really spectacular here. Your character can carry two firearms and grenades at once. 
 Once I discovered the rocket launcher about a third of the way through the game, it was pretty 
 much all I used. The rocket launcher takes out many enemies at once, making it very easy to clear 
 levels. You are able to pick up weapons from enemies you killed and bring them back to one of several 
 supply points which are scattered around the city. Once you bring a weapon back to the supply point 
 it becomes part of your inventory. You can use supply points to swap weapons or warp around the 
 city to other supply points.
  
  The enemies in the game are scattered around the city, and it is up to you to find them. I found 
 this to be very frustrating. You pretty much have to just run around the city until you get close 
 enough to an enemy location for it to register on your map. This can be very annoying and take 
 some time.
  
  The game is set up so each time you take out a general, the security around the kingpin gets a 
 little lighter. By the time you defeat the six generals the kingpin is no challenge at all. If 
 it weren't for the achievement points there wouldn't be any satisfaction in clearing an island. 
 Furthermore, once you remove a gang, that island has no criminals at all from then on. When you 
 finish the game, you're left to roam around a giant city with nothing to do but collect orbs and 
 participate in races.
  
  There are 300 hidden orbs and 500 agility orbs that are scattered around the city. I spent many 
 hours seeking out these items, and after finding about 100 hidden and 400 agility orbs it occurred 
 to me that this really sucks. Who wants to play a next-gen scavenger hunt?
  
  The only other thing to help flush out the game are the races. There are foot races that require 
 you to hit checkpoints across rooftops in order to gain agility points, and there are also car 
 races which help you increase your driving skills. There are a total of 27 races, and I only finished 
 a couple of them. I found these races to be pretty boring.
  
  The graphics in Crackdown may not have been anything special, but they were unique. I liked the 
 comic book feel of the game. Everything looks like it was outlined with a felt-tip pen.
  
  The camera angles often got in the way of the game play. By the time your agility skill increases 
 to the max level, you jump so high that it becomes difficult seeing exactly where you are going 
 to land. Also, sometimes the camera angle becomes awkward while you are trying to navigate a tight 
 ledge. Since so much of the game takes place on high rooftops, it can be very time consuming when 
 you miss a jump and fall all the way back down to the ground. This is particularly an issue when 
 you are trying to scale the agency tower (there is an achievement for this) .
  
  There are three difficulty levels: Tough, Ruthless, and Psychotic. I played through on the Ruthless 
 setting, and found this game way too easy to beat.
  
  Overall, Crackdown was just ok. I was certainly expecting a lot more from such a massive world, 
 but ultimately there really isn't very much to do in this game. It only took about six hours to 
 complete the gang missions, and the bulk of the game is races and collecting orbs. Crackdown makes 
 for a good rental, but that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpavlas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  For me, Crackdown was a title that just sort of showed up out of no where. I wasnt even aware it 
 was in development until maybe a few days before its release, and that was only because I heard 
 about it on a pod cast. As such, I didnt have any high expectations for a game that received little, 
 to no, marketing buzz before its release.
  
  Boy was I wrong. Now, this may be because I had little to no expectations in the first place, but 
 I have already logged over 20 hours playing this game and I am still having a lot of fun! There 
 is something neat about being able to soar through the sky and blast rockets at all the people 
 below, before graciously crashing into the ground and leaving a big crunch mark on the ground where 
 you landed. The super powers in this game make this so much more then just another GTA clone, and 
 add a whole different game play style from any other game I have played.
  
  At first, Crackdown pretty much plays like any other GTA style game. You are given a vast open 
 world to explore and you are able to explore the world in several different ways. Whether it be 
 through a vehicle, jumping, climbing, swimming, or just running around. This all changes pretty 
 quickly though once you start collecting the various different experience orbs you get for picking 
 up random pick ups placed all over the world, completing missions, or just killing bad guys.
  
  Once you level up one of the 5 different skills you have, you in effect get more proficient 
 at that skill. The 5 different skills are driving, firearms, agility, strength, and explosives. 
 Out of all of them I really only want to talk about agility, because for me, this is the best part 
 of the game.
  
  When you start you can only jump moderatly higher then an average human. But, by level 4, you will 
 be soaring to heights that add a whole new level of game play. You will find yourself skipping 
 the cars, and other means of transportation, to instead use the map like a free runners dream. 
 Bouncing from roof top to roof top and destroying the enemy as you fly by. Its incredibly exhilarating 
 and its the one thing that seems to allow Crackdown to break the molds of all the other GTA style 
 games of the past.
  
  When it comes to complaints about the game I only have two. First off, it boggles my mind why an 
 option was not included to allow you to adjust the turning rate of the camera. The default camera 
 setting feels sluggish, and seems to only work against you in those times when you are trying to 
 jump past something and turn around and shoot at it, or select a different target. I find it hard 
 to not complain about this every 5 minutes while I am playing.
  
  The second item that confuses me is the boss AI. The AI of most of the guys running around seems 
 to be better then what I have ever experienced in this style of game. This being the case I really 
 had high expectations for how the boss mobs would react. What I didnt expect was for the boss mobs 
 to refuse to leave their place of refuge, even after all their body guards are killed, and allow 
 you to simply run up to them and kick them to death. The bosses have yet to represent any sort 
 of challenge for me, even at the hardest difficulty. Fortuantely the henchman that protect the 
 boss create the challenge for getting into the different bases.
  
  All in all I would reccomend this game to anyone that enjoys sandbox type games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautifully cell shaded visuals, superpowered cops, very addictive gameplay, solid co-op 
 mode, effective use of achievement points.
  
  The Bad: No side missions, tons of glitches, can't refight bosses on your own profile, very short 
 game.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Pacific City is a town that needs to be cleaned, and you are the first super agent who's perfect 
 for the job. In Crackdown, the open world game from Microsoft Game Studios and Real Time Worlds, 
 you play as a supercop for The Agency, who's job it is to take out three rival gangs and clean 
 up Pacific City once and for all. Crackdown is basically a GTA clone with cell-shaded graphics 
 and a twist: you have superpowers and you are a good guy. You can jump over skyscrapers, lift cars 
 and chuck them at enemies, wield powerful weaponry of destruction and drive some pretty powerful 
 vehicles. The result is a very addictive gameplay experience that is uber short and leaves you 
 wanting so much more.
  
  Right from the get-go, all players want to start picking up cars and jumping over buildings. These 
 cannot be achieved right away, because your skills must be leveled up in order for you to become 
 more powerful. To gain jumping skills, you must find agility orbs lying around Pacific City. These 
 are usually found on rooftops and there are 500 of them in all. There are also hidden orbs, that 
 will boost all skills by a small percentage. There are 300 of these and they are a bit harder to 
 find because they are hidden. Go figure... To level up your strength, you simply need to kill gang 
 members and gang bosses using thrown objects or going Chuck Norris and roundhouse kicking them 
 to kingdom come. You also level up shooting by, um, shooting, explosives by shooting rocket launchers 
 and throwing grenades and driving by driving vehicles and runing over gang members. The game really 
 doesn't have any kind of storyline, except that you are a super agent sent to clean up Pacific 
 City by taking out gang leaders and their flunkies. There is a twist ending, that I won't spoil, 
 but it doesn't fit that well with the game's lack of story. Basically, you wander around, kill 
 gang members, kill bosses. That's all there is to it, but it is so much fun. Just being able to 
 jump on top of skyscrapers or lift a car and chuck it at a group of gang members is fun, and it 
 keeps the game from getting old. Unfortunately, the bosses can all be beaten in 6-8 hours, so you 
 had better enjoy killing plain old gang members or else you will get bored fast.
  
  One factor that gives the game a bit more longevity is the use of achievement points. Some achievements 
 are super easy to get, others require you to do certain tasks such as kill 15 gang members with 
 a giant globe or complete two frontflips in a vehicle during a single jump. There are also some 
 ones that will take you a while such as finding all orbs and completing all races. These aren't 
 that hard, but might take some time to complete.
  
  The other factor is the online co-op mode. It allows a gamer to join your single player game at 
 anytime, by requesting to join your game. The good news is that gamers who already beat the bosses 
 can fight them again in a friend's city. The bad news is that when one player quits, the game ends 
 and you have to start a new one. One other major issue is the amount of glitches in this game. 
 During my playthrough, I ramed my co-op partner into a wall, couldn't respawn when I died on top 
 of a supply point and stole a friend's achievement because of a glitch. That last one was good, 
 but besides that, the amount of glitches is massive and should hopefully be patched soon.
  
  The visuals of Crackdown are a stunning combination of next gen futuristic cityscape with cell 
 shading to make one of the best looking games on the 360. The explosions are awesome and the sound 
 effects and voice acting is also very well done. It looks better than it actually plays, but it 
 still plays quite well.
  
  Overall, if you can forgive the glitches and the lack of side missions and just enjoy the core 
 gameplay of Crackdown, you will have a blast. It is far from perfect, but it sure is fun.
  
  Gameplay: GTA with superpowers is a lot of fun, but it's a very short ride.
  
  Graphics: 
 Use of cell shading is amazingly good, making Crackdown one of the best looking games on the 360.
 
  
  Sound: Excellent sound effects add to the game substantially.
  
  Value: It's very short, but it does come with the Halo 3 beta, so that makes it worth $60 right?
 
  
  Final Thoughts: That's quite an impressive assent, agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a decent game. Fun to play but way too short. It would be better if it was longer, 
 but it's still good. It is sort of addictive at the beginning, but easy to lose interest in. If 
 they doubled the games length then it would be a lot better. Easy to learn how to play and easy 
 to get into. Bosses are generally easy and the skill advancement is good. Races and driving are 
 fun. Co-op is fun to play and lengthens the game. Hopefully they can release a download lengthening 
 the campaign. All-in-all, it is a good game and is a game that everyone should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegasdiplomat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun for one player, but it also scores high marks for its entertaining co-op 
 play. With a super-powered friend at your side, you can team up and tackle gangs together, or as 
 Joe and I experienced, blow each other away for hours on end. Nothing says friendship like a car 
 to the face. Crackdown isnt a slouch in the Achievement department, either. In fact, Ill go as 
 far to reward this game with the best list of Achievements since Dead Rising. Juggling corpses, 
 vehicular acrobatics, and rampaging are factored in. My favorite is to shoot and kill five gang 
 members in a single jump while airborne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  You are a Super Agent. Super Agents have the power to lift up cars, jump from building to building 
 and can respawn from the depths of death. Your job is to fight off crime and to clean the city of 
 evil. So that alone pretty much tells you the story sucks. But Crackdown is all about taking advantage 
 of some awesome powers and putting them to use, maybe with a friend!
  
  Crackdown feels a lot like a modded GTA game. And that can be both good and bad. You have five major 
 skills in the game which are  and of course firearms. You can level 
 each of those skills up about four different times. And leveling up is a lot of fun and is very 
 rewarding. Jumping from tower to tower is cool and the massive destruction you do with a Rocket 
 Launcher is cool to. But when you upgrade you will get faster and faster. And it gets to the point 
 were it can sometimes feel like you cant control your own speed!
  
  Missions in Crackdown are very boring and simple. You will fly right through them. Its a good thing 
 there is a coop mode. Because the story and single player missions don't even come close to being 
 as fun or deep as Rockstar's San Andreas.
  
  The graphics are nice. The cel shading gives me a headache every now and then. But the shading fits 
 the game well, and makes it look unique. The explosions are a site to behold and the character skins 
 look neat. The frame rate is smooth offline and can be terrible online. The Co-op can be very glitchy, things 
 will come and leave when they please making it hard to complete some missions.
  
  There are a lot of different things to keep you coming back to Crackdown. The coop is a lot of fun, the 
 achievements are fun to unlock and overall the game is just pure enjoyment. Making it an easy choice 
 to keep in your 360.
  
  Sound is something that needs to be fine tuned in Crackdown. The guide who helps you out with different 
 missions and while free roaming is annoying and says some really stupid stuff. Such as That Agent, is 
 the best view in the city! when your really in an underground sewer. The games soundtrack is lame 
 but is not to bad. But the sound effects however are spot on.
  
  Anyone who buys Crackdown just for the Halo 3 beta is stupid. Because Crackdown is a very fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuckinbigfuts
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Except it is way too short. I finished it in about 7 hours, and it is not very 
 hard at all, i only died a few times on the medium difficulty. The hunt for orbs is very addicting 
 though. Needs more weapons, but blowing stuff up is a sh*t load of fun. The camera is also annoying 
 at times and the lock on system is a little stubborn but at least it lets people shoot free hand. 
 Overall, once fully leveled up, there is no longer anything to do but mess around. This game needs 
 side missions, it has none. Overall fun gameplay, but very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a really good game that those with Xbox Live will enjoy a great deal. However, those 
 without Xbox Live Gold will be left with a feeling of emptiness. read on:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Nothing wrong with this. Crackdown is all types of fun. From driving to 
 shooting to jumping, you can't really go wrong with crackdown. Everything, at first, seems to have 
 problems, but you soon learn why: you have to level up your skills. Driving because amazing, shooting 
 becomes more accurate, and the list goes on. There was nothing wrong with gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Its good graphics, but not the best. The comic book style graphics do give 
 this game justice, but I have found the some will think it looks really ugly. Of course, this all 
 depends on taste. I for one found the graphics to be pretty good for a game of caliber. Just that 
 when you see things like Gears of War in motion, this really is in a losing battle.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The low key of the game, the sound and music of the game is really boring. The 
 main theme isn't really any good, and the songs on the radio are very bad. The agency guy that 
 talks to you in the game is so stupid. He says lines that make no sense, like What a view, agent... finest 
 in the city when I'm underground! The guy also says every line like he's robin from batman. I almost 
 think he's gonna say Holy sneakers, Batman! all the time before his lines. awful
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  Well, The game main mission isn't long, clocking in at 8-10 hours long. Once 
 thats done, you can collect the 500 agility orbs, and then the 300 Hidden orbs, which adds about 
 20 hours of gameplay. Then there is the races, which add about 5 hours. the leveling up, which is 
 another 10.... so about 40 hours of gameplay, if you do all of that. For a GTA sized world, thats 
 actually bad. To make matters worse, most of it really isn't fun if you don't have someone to do 
 it with, which can only be done with another Xbox 360 and another copy of Crackdown (system link 
 or Xbox Live Gold) . Still, those without will get some kick out of the game in a rent, but nothing 
 beyond that.
  
  Tilt: 6/10
  
  The story of this game is horrid, but I never really care about the story in these sized worlds. 
 I more care about what I'm allowed to do in the game, which is limited in this case. Sure, I'm 
 having a blast in it now, but after I got all the orbs and finished the missions, its pretty much 
 done. I will reserve some thought for the final part of the game (100 achievement points are missing 
 because they are adding something later on via XBL) . Also, the ending of the game was unexpected, 
 but lame if you ask me.
  
  Overall: 7.7/10.0
  
  Crackdown is a good game, but some may never see it if they don't have XBL, or they just bought 
 for Halo 3 beta. Also, Crackdown isn't for everyone, since most will find the story too gruesome (meaning 
 so bad) that they won't be interested in playing it for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windozer_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  One of the better sandbox games on the market. I am not a big fan of this genre but this game really 
 pulls it off. The orbs hunts as I call them become almost obsessive after an hour or so. Also, 
 the ability to chose when you want to do and when you want to do it is executed perfectly. Too 
 often games are linear and keep you on a narrow path and if they let you veer off this its hard 
 to get back on. I think the use of messages and dossier is very unobtrusive and is more advise 
 than a pain. Great game.... RealTime Worlds!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STiRacer01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  describe this game. While most are quoting short play times, to be able to get to full abilities, 
 it is going to require a lot more time than most think.
  
  You start of just a run of the mill super agent, with the choice of a super car, or 4x4 monster 
 truck... shortly after exiting the agency, you are immediately thrown into action.. Through out 
 the game obtain energy orbs that slowly increase your abilities. Its a pretty enjoyable experience 
 once you get to full abilities. I would say that if the game is too short for ya, spend some time 
 collective all the orbs before going after all the bad guys... the difference in time is amazing, 
 and I guarantee you'll be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  crackdown is a gta clone. this is true, but it does things so much better.... in many ways. of course 
 it's got that fine 360 polish to it, so it's very easy on the eyes. it does the free-roaming so 
 well that right out of the starting gate you can take on a boss if you know how. that's a sandbox 
 game, a real one for ya.
  
  now, the lock-on system sucks. once you manage to lock on to the right person... it's great. zeroing 
 in for headshots with a handgun is very satisfying... it's the getting to that point that they buggered 
 up. the driving also feels very sloppy. you're often times spending all your time behind the wheel 
 fixing the overcorrections in steering. the characters are also very generic, but referred to as 
 ''agent'' the entire time pry just emphasizes that to me. no real plot to speak of, but what did 
 you expect... honestly.
  
  that's enough of the bad. the action is frenetic, the city is complex, and you always feel like 
 there's something to do.
  
  that said it may not be a horrible idea to rent crackdown first and see if you get addicted to 
 it before u buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of Sandox style games. I never got into GTA. Saints Row only held my interest 
 through the demo. But for some reason, I can't get enough of Crackdown. Is it because I'm a super-powered 
 agent built for destruction? Maybe. Whatever it is, this game is fun, and I can't stop playing.
 
  
  Crackdown is about as open world as an open world game can be. You really have no real objectives 
 or missions here other than to kill bad guys and their bosses and see how their deaths effect the 
 overall operations of the gangs in the city. In its purest form, Crackdown doesn't seem like much. 
 And in reality, there really isn't a lot to it. But the game is built play how we want to play 
 it. And I believe that that is what makes it special.
  
  The graphics won't jump out at you that much. The city itself is large and looks good, but don't 
 expect any Gears of War quality graphics here. Instead, there is a graphic novel style (see cel 
 shading) to the game that doesn't do anything really new but does get the job done. The models 
 and environments are clean and done well. Good enough. But those are some pretty explosions.......
 
  
  Sound doesn't play a huge role in this game. The in game music that plays while driving a car is 
 highly forgettable compared to tracks you hear in other games of this type. However, you'll hardly 
 spend that much time in a car unless you are doing a race or just want to get somewhere quickly. 
 Most of your time will be spent jumping from rooftop to rooftop. And this case, all you really 
 hear are some of your expected city noises (cars, pointless chatter) and the occasional gunfire 
 and explosions caused by you and your enemies. So, the sound of the game won't win any awards, 
 but you won't loose any sleep over its quality.
  
  The actual game itself can be a hit or miss depending on who you are. Depending on how you play, 
 the game will be really short or really long. Those who want to just rush through and kill the 
 gang bosses will probably be dissapointed with the game. For those that actually take the time 
 to really level up your agent and methodically bring the city to justice, then you'll find yourself 
 on good chunk of gameplay time to mess around with. Sure, you don't have to grab every orb or do 
 every race. But why not do it anyway? You bought the game, so milk it. Plus, with online co-op, 
 you and a friend can bust caps together and you even have the freedom to create your own gamplay 
 ideas while your at it. And let's not forget about obtaining achievements. We all know we need 
 those. Crackdown is a franchise that's off to a solid start. Its a little rough as it is, but there 
 is downloadable content planned and the possibilities there definitely pique my interest. But for 
 what its worth, Microsoft has another hit first party title in its pocket. Halo 3 beta aside, this 
 is definitely a game that fans of action titles should look into.
  
  Buy: if you played the demo over and over and over.....
  
  Rent: if you breeze through games 
 of this type and are looking for deep story elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strap_happy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  I had heard mixed reviews of crackdown and wasnt overley impressed with the demo that i played 
 on xbox live. After playing it a few times however i saw the potential that was there and so i 
 bought it. You start off with very basic abilities but very quickly you level up and are soon jumping 
 over buildings and drop kicking cars into bad guys. This game is just mindlessly enjoyable. it 
 will take you 15mins to pick up. I will say that it is a little slow starting only because you 
 need to get your powers built up but apart from that, this game is fab. It looks very nice, the 
 sound is great and most importantley it is satisfying to play. Theres nothing like picking up a 
 truck throwing it at 10 bad guys and watching them get crushed and then pulling out your rocket 
 launcher to pick off the remaining few. Great game and a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Its Short, fun, a whole lot to see, its great to mess a round with i. e like that Grand theft Autos 
 series (Where you couldnt be bothered with the missions and you just wanted to see how far you 
 could fun from the state police and Army)
  
  Graphics are amazing, Cartoon like, no real loading times as such, continues though out. Nice Explosions,, 
 Good Rag doll effects etc. The Multi-Player could be better online, No death match or modes you 
 fight with like other games. Just a Co-op mode, No co-op offline which is a little upsetting, but 
 its a good game in single mode, driving, shooting, missions and mess around in the city, collecting, 
 other secret missions; making jump and climb or race around in a time limit, same sort of things 
 you would do GTA.
  
  The Announcer is a funny, helps you through the game.
  The Game shouldn't be missed.
  
  Fun and Quick, and a bonus to be able to play Halo 3 beta 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi213
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Crack down.... Is a awsome game if you like exploring games and have Xbox Live. Its basically pointless 
 otherwise. If you do have xbox live then you can make new games yourself like tag and Dead Body 
 Dirby my favorite me and my friend made. One guy climbs the tower then jumps down and trys to land 
 on the other player NOT EASY. You can make your own rampage give the City that gave you HELL, Hell 
 right back. Crackdown is one of those games you just have to be incredibly commited to play. The 
 achievements are not that hard to get they just LOTS of sub achievements. Just find a friend willing 
 to screw around and have fun.. and if you have none send me a freind request I just cleared some 
 space my tag is iNFAMUS sPARTAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demkh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Ok big thing about the game, there is basically no story. So if your a big fan of seeing all the 
 cut-scenes and reading the backstory... you should leave now. The magic of this game is not in the 
 story but rather in the freedom and fun you can have. Also don't buy it just for the beta. O before 
 I forget another big problem some people will have with the game is the graphics. The graphics 
 are not realistic at all. When you first see the game you probably will be dissapointed with the 
 graphics. The 360 can definately produce better graphics than this. The explosions are an exception 
 to the graphics. They look pretty good. Now if your not a graphics maniac, then you shouldn't really 
 care. If you are a graphics maniac then you probably won't even notice the graphics after all the 
 fun you are having. Another thing with the graphics, if you like the look of a very futuristic 
 cartoon, then you will love the look of the game. It is pretty artistic. It all depends on the 
 type of gamer you are. For sound i didn't really notice anything significant. The weapons sounded 
 pretty good. The only songs you're going to actually hear is the ones you hear in the vehicles. 
 i didn't hear anything i liked maybe you will. Also the songs seem to be region oriented so if 
 your the Los Muertos area be prepared for the regeatton (sp?) . Now for the most important part, 
 the gameplay. The selling point of the game are the upgradeable skills. They are broken down into 
 a few categories such as driving, shooting, explosions, strength, and agility. You have to kill 
 enemies and do activities to upgrade your skills. This is great because it takes a long time to 
 upgrade some skills so it adds length to the game. Besides that the only other thing to do is kill 
 21 bosses. This can range from easy to frustating depending on the difficulty mode. Another good 
 thing about the game is co-op. At any time a person can jump in and help you fight a boss or anything 
 else you want to do. Also get used to killing your partner for any multiplayer fights because that's 
 the only multiplayer mode. Co-op is also fun for other reasons i'll let you find out on your own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oshaun123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is one of the latest game for the XBOX 360 that defies the rules of gaming. It sets you 
 down in a city that is devided into three sections. Los Muertos, The Volk, and Shai Gen. Difficulty 
 of this game can vary but the basic setting is a challenge to even some of the most seasoned players. 
 Coop is a great way to play this game. Even though it doesnt seem to have any online multiplayer 
 of any kind which would have been perfect for this game. Anyway this game is good for what it is 
 and slightly better. This game is good and well worth a try, plus on some of the copies you also 
 get included a invite to the beta test of Halo 3. Anyone who has seen this game and knows what 
 it is all about then they will enjoy this game. Others will like it because of whats inside. I 
 recommend this game to anyone who wants to do something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahuna9995
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I went into Crackdown with particularly low expectations. You know one of those games you purchase 
 because there have been no releases recently which grab you but you want something new to play. 
 It was with that frame of mind I approached Crackdown. Yes I had downloaded the demo and hadn't 
 thought much of it but I could always trade it back in a few days and get something else. Well 
 what can I say above that really...? I was soooo pleasantly surprised.
  
  Now don't get me wrong I'm not saying because of my low expectations this game is fantastic. I'm 
 saying this game is a lot of fun plain and simple. Granted it's not going to keep you occupied 
 for more that about 10 - 15 hours max!! If that but it will certainly keep you entertained for 
 the majority of it.
  
  I love the simple context behind the even simpler story. City overrun by nasty criminals. Too many 
 of said criminals to bother arresting... so... just shoot on sight to save time. Ummm too many 
 criminals for the normal police to deal with so we shall enlist the use of a genetically engineered 
 superman who has the personality mix of Master Chief, The Incredible Hulk and Judge Dredd. Ok story 
 and context in place lets go play.
  
  The real boon for Crackdown is the genetic evolution of your character. Shoot more people become 
 a better shot. Drive through hoops become a better driver. Beat more people up start lifting trucks. 
 Simple and easy to remember. When your skills start to reach about 1/2 way you literally become 
 a force of nature. The fact of the matter remains that the city does become your play area and 
 I mean that in a very literal term. You can explore up as much as you can across and it's this 
 vertical thinking that adds so much to the experience. Once you have obtained enough athletic ability 
 orbs your character will be running faster and jumping higher allowing you access to previously 
 unreachable areas and giving you new choices as to how you attack your various enemies. Also the 
 layout and scale of the actual city are such that there has been more than one occasion when jumping 
 from a few hundred feet up to reach another building across the street I got more than a passing 
 sensation of vertigo. This all adds to the buzz of the free roaming environment and the go anywhere 
 style youre encouraged to take.
  
  The control of your character is simple and quick to respond. Sometimes a little too quick. On 
 more than one occasion I have found myself free falling from a great height because my character 
 ran when I wanted him to walk. Aside from a somewhat over sensitive movement stick, the rest of 
 the controls are simple, well mapped and responsive allowing you to take charge as only a genetically 
 modified cop could. The basic combat mechanic of the game becomes second nature after a few minuets 
 of play but I can help feeling a few components could have been added just to smooth it off. For 
 example a zoom able scope view would have been nice, after all when you can climb several hundred 
 feet onto high ground why be limited to just visual range combat and I do sorely wish the developers 
 had created a few more animations for the hand-to-hand combat, a few punches and kicks would have 
 added the icing on the cake.
  
  Visually the game is impressive in scale if not necessarily in detail. Cell-Shading does allow 
 the engine to have more characters on screen and have a further vanishing point for detail as it 
 is a less intensive process and it does offer the game a semi unique look as cell-shading has only 
 been used in a handful of games. That being said your main character is well detailed and suitably 
 well animated. The look of the game is sadly going to fall into a love or hate category one which 
 I'm pleased to say I love as I've been a fan of cell-shaded games since Jet Set Radio on the Dreamcast.
 
  
  The game has a reasonably varied soundtrack though not much to my general taste although there 
 are a few tracks that I did find myself moshing along to. The audio from the characters in the 
 street can get a little grating as it's mostly the same sayings just in different voices. Some 
 subtle affects include the inclusion of wind noise the further up you go accompanied by the gradual 
 silence of the streets below a simple but effective touch.
  
  My biggest issues with this game come from the driving aspect. Until you increase your driving 
 ability to it max the various vehicles in the game don't respond in any fashion that you would 
 hope them to. Namely being slow and difficult to handle. This as a whole added a level of frustration 
 to the game that pretty much caused me to abandon vehicle use for all but the longest journeys.
 
  
  Also the multiplayer aspect of the game is anything but seamless. I'm sure the problems could all 
 be solved in a patch but that rather neatly brings me onto probably the most disappointing aspect 
 of the game... duration. This game can simply be completed in the space of a couple of days without 
 losing any sleep. It is very short and for that matter alone I know a lot of people have been sorely 
 disappointed. I perhaps through the use of rose-tinted spectacles can overlook the brevity of the 
 games main story because I enjoy jumping around the city but that after time wears thin and sadly 
 I do believe in the space of a few weeks to a month we will see many copies of Crackdown in the 
 pre-owned sections of our favourite game retailers.
  
  Overall a highly enjoyable game, soiled by a few poor control mechanics, a very broken multiplayer 
 experience and a short life span but above all that a highly enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  OK, Crackdown has little to no story, the gameplay can be a little repetative and the graphics 
 are not up to Gears of War but what this game does have is FUN and lots of it.
  
  Lets start with the graphics, at first sight you think not that great but look closer, they are 
 quite detailed and don't get fooled by the cartoon like look of the bold outline there is texture 
 mapping going on to.
  
  Find a gang leader, kill him and as many of the gang members as it take to get near him, repeat 
 for each gang boss. This might sound boring but it isn't the variation in weapons and gang tactics 
 add the interest especially when combined with the different locations etc.
  
  The skills, all I am going to say is don't forget to skill up on the car. You will be having so 
 much fun jumping and running around the roof tops you may easily forget that there is the option 
 to use a car LOL I did.
  
  I have owned a pretty wide selection of 360 games but none has given me the pleasure that this 
 game has it is just totally fun, Fun, FUN
  
  One other thing I hate demos, they normally are pre the polish of the finished game and only suceed 
 in putting me of a full version purchase, Crackdown's demo actually made me want to invest in the 
 full version and I am very happy that I did. The only down side is the total lack of sleep through 
 excesive play that is starting to tell n me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  The good: Big map, Great explosions, Skill Building is fun and well laid out, Good choice of weapons, 
 Good choice of Cars, Agent and cars morphing to your skills - looks awesome, popping tyres beneath 
 moving cars is hilarious and Graphics look pretty cool.
  
  The bad: To short, not alot to do when you have complete the campaign (collecting orbs and doing 
 races is all you have left to do) , complete lack of story, 2 players max on co-op (what the hell? 
 - should be 4) , driving is pretty bad at low skill, unable to arrest bad guys, voice over guy is 
 highly annoying and probabilities are highly inaccurate.
  
  Crackdown is basically about you controlling an agent who needs to clean up the city. There are 
 3 islands, all of which are decent sizes and wouldn't be close of the size of GTA: San Andreas, 
 making the map a great place to explore. Each Island has 7 bosses, 1 of which is a king pin where 
 you need to kill the lower bosses to makes your probability increase. This is a good system but 
 unfortunately, these 7 bosses can be beaten very quickly and the harder bosses just take 1 or 2 
 more turns to defeat, nothing hugely challenging. The explosions on this game look great, when 
 you max out your skill they become some of the best ive seen and are greatly satisfying to see 
 enemies being blown 100 feet in the air .
  
  The skill building is greatly laid out, it takes a perfect amount of time to build the skill up 
 and what you do effects how fast/slow your skill increases. For example, if you shoot a guy at 
 point blank range with a shot gun, you will gain a little shooting skill, where as if you shoot 
 a guy with an M4 from a distance, you gain alot more skill and a little agility.
  
  There is a wide choice of weapons on this game at your disposal, from the pistol to heat seeking 
 missiles. You get them by killing bad guys and taking them back to your captured supply points 
 so you can start with them after you die. there's even a good choice in grenades from the awesome 
 cluster grenades to the common frag grenade.
  
  What surprised me about this game is the amount of different cars in the game, there's a good choice, 
 from Missile carriers to limos, its great, but it is missing boats and choppers which is a shame. 
 You have 3 agent cars to choose from; the supercar, the SUV, and the truck. All of these morph 
 to suit your driving skill and when you reach level 4, each car gains special abilities such as 
 the supercar shooting a powerful machine gun, the SUV being able to jump, and the Truck having 
 a boost ability. Although there is only 3 (and other cars don't morph) this just seems god enough. 
 One more thing to add is that popping tyres beneath moving cars is hilarious, you watch them skid 
 out of control and in alot of cases flip over, great stuff.
  
  Finally what the game has going for it is the graphics, the drawing distance is great and the general 
 graphics them selves look very impressive. Although they are cartoony they are very well pulled 
 off.
  
  The absolute worst thing about this game is the length, it is painfully short and can be easily 
 completed in 1 weekend. This is why i recommend renting it instead of buying it. After you have 
 beat all the bosses you can turn the crime off and on, this basically means if you want gangs on 
 or not. This doesn't really matter unless you have skills to build up or want to earn yourself 
 a few achievements. There is very little to actually do after you've beat them, you can collect 
 orbs, build your skills or get achievements (and there isnt many) - one achievement that is fun 
 however is the global impact achievement, where you steal this globe and kill 15 guys with it, 
 good times.
  
  There is no story at all in this game, your character isn't developed and the bosses are briefly 
 described, didnt bother me to much but anyone looking for a game with great story, well lets put 
 it this way, this game wont be winning any best directed Oscars any time soon.
  
  Another disappointing thing about this game is that there is only 2 players max online which is 
 pretty cr. ap to say the least. Sure if your one of these guys with only one friend on your friend 
 list then this will be a dream come true (you get them all to yourself, yay for you) but for any 
 other guy with a few friends this is bad, the game would be alot more fun with 4 instead of 2.
 
  
  The fact that you cant arrest bad guys might sound like no big deal, but trust me, when all you 
 have to do is kill them then its highly boring. A good idea would have been to put WANTED guys 
 around the city, and you had to capture them alive (like mercenaries) and if you do, you get money 
 to upgrade weapons or something, but sadly your stuck with just killing any enemy you see - barf.
 
  
  The voice over guy is very annoying on this game and starts to repeat himself very quickly, the 
 sayings are so bad that you could be on the road and he will say wow agent, what an impressive 
 assent or i can see my house from here , sure if i was on top of a building this would make sense, 
 but just cos i jumped a few times it thinks im on one... dumb voice over guy.
  
  Finally this game cannot do Maths. For example, on the 3rd island you have to beat a boss called 
 miss timbole, i had a 36% chance of success and beat her the first time i tired, then another boss 
 called wang (the kingpin) i had a 54% chance of success and had to try at least 5 times to beat 
 his sorry as. s. Another example is when i went against the king pin on the first island, i hadn't 
 defeated any other bosses and my skills were low, and it gave me a 0% chance of success, now in 
 my mind, when somebody says 0% chance of success it means you cannot succeed, but i did, on my 
 second try - how does that work, maybe its proof of god, who knows?
  
  So in conclusion this game is good whilst it lasts, but is way to short so only needs renting. 
 Could have been one of the best games available but missed things that would have made it great 
 (like money and being able to purchase things) . Whilst you are playing through the campaign, i 
 give it 8/10, after the campaign i give it 4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dQuarters
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  I really recommend this game to those with a penchant for destruction and freedom to run around 
 (and destroy things) . Some people like to call this a GTA rip off. And it's inarguably inspired 
 by what GTA III achieved. But it's a completely different experience when you play it. And people 
 should learn to lay off comparing every sand-box title to GTA. It's a great system so what's wrong 
 with deriving inspiration from it? Especially when it's the same dude who did GTA III anyway.
 
  
  Pick your agent, grab a car and head out into Pacific City and do whatever you like. Inevitably 
 you're going to shoot a lot of gang members. You're certainly going to climb up to the rooftop 
 and grab agility orbs (which drastically boost your already impressive run/jump ability) . Kill 
 some gang lords and take their weapons. Stash weapons in supply point for future access. Then go 
 blow some crap up! Or better yet, grab a buddy online and blow crap up together.
  
  I've heard some reviewers whine about the game needing to quit and refresh when going on/offline 
 with a buddy. What? I didn't hear people say anything like that about Gears. Crackdown's loading 
 times are shockingly good (and once you're in any further load is very brief and by choice) . It's 
 way better implemented here (effort-wise) than in GoW co-op. I don't get the beef there.
  
  Some complain about the lack of depth and story in Crackdown. And their complaints are well founded. 
 But you should have known that when you bought the game, unless you just run around buying games 
 with pretty boxes, or ones that say HALO 3 BETA on them.
  My contention to the complaint is that it's still really engrossing if you think about it. You're 
 a genetically enhanced clone in the near future taking down gang lords *SPOILER ALERT* ... ... 
 :| ... for a corrupt organization.
  That point made, I still can't deny the story is shallow and lacking. But I couldn't care less 
 since it's hours of fun just exploring the cities rooftops via HUGE leaps, and plugging any gangtas 
 that get in my path or are dumb enough to shoot me in the back with anything less than a homing 
 rocket.
  
  Upon purchase you recieve 4 new (and free) character skins. There will certainly be more to come 
 via download, though I hope it comes in these forms:
  - Agency Vehicles (motorcycle or speedboat anyone?)
  - New Areas with New Gangs
  - New Weapons 
 (not just guns)
  - A female upgradable agent set
  
  This game could certainly stand more substance, but the experience is one of rock-solid gameplay 
 with hours and hours of rediculous action. They got the template near perfect ... If they can expand 
 it (as I think they will) then those of us who bought this game on it's own merits will be in for 
 much more to come.
  
  In short, this game isn't for everyone. But if you like expertly excecuted, physics-based chaos 
 in a large and colourful shmorgesboard with little to no structure, get this game. If you want 
 something a little deeper and guided based on ripped-off hollywood movie scenes, then save your 
 money and wait for GTA IV.
  
  Crackdown's for me, and it's fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game made by the Actual Father of Grand Theft Auto,
  all Though this is a Free Roaming game, it hardly has anything to do with GTA exept Driving
  
 
  Gameplay:
  This game has quite interesting gameplay, you play as some Super awesome Police Cop or an Agent 
 and you work for the Agency and you're supposed to wipe out 3 gangs that rule out Pacific City. 
 The game has no story, your just wiping out gangs. During the game you gain Skills such as:
  Agility
  Driving
  Explosives
  Strength
  and
  Firearms
  Its a very interesting system, 
 and essentially makes the game fun, since once your core skills are upgraded, You can Jump Across 
 Buildings
  Pick up trucks
  aim Way better
  etc.
  Though the Driving Sucks untill you upgrade it.
  
  Graphics:
  This game has some nice graphics, 
 It has this Living comic bookish look, with characters that look almost cell shaded, though their 
 all textured. Some cars look kinda Low texture though, otherwise this is a great looking game.
 
  
  Sound:
  The Weapons and cars sound great, though there's this annoying ass Announcer who keeps on repeating 
 tutorials like AGENT THE GREEN MARKERS ON YOUR HUD INDICATE ROOFTOP RACES!!!! Like 50 times, and 
 he never Shuts the hell up, so thats probably not too good.
  
  Value:
  Crackdown is a little on the Short Side, Though Collecting Agility orbs and finishing Races may 
 bring up some replay value. Although Races get extremely lame after a while.
  
  Overall Crackdown is a great game, the should be rented.
  Unless you want to play the Halo 3 
 Beta , as is my case.
  
  But if you want the BETA now... you're probably out of luck
  so Rent it First 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown got a lot of hype before its release, but when the reviews came out, it was considered 
 a huge flop. I HIGHLY disagree. This game is one of the most innovative and fun games on the 360.
 
  
  The main point of Crackdown, is that you are a genetically enhanced cop who needs to rid the city 
 of 3 different gangs. The story doesn't go too deep, but the gameplay makes up for it. Jumping 
 on buildings, throwing cars, and kicking gang members never gets boring. The entire leveling up 
 system is absolutely flawless, and it forces you to use all of your skills, instead of just one. 
 Once all the skills are maxed out, you honestly feel like Agent Smith, from the Matrix.
  
  The comic-book style graphics are also HIGHLY underrated. Truth is, this is the best looking cell-shaded 
 game that I have ever seen. The city looks perfect, and the draw distance is incredibly far.
  
  While the story is shallow, the fun and incredibly addicting gameplay makes up for it. This 
 game, in my opinion, has lived up to all of the hype, and it would still be worth it without the 
 Halo 3 Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is going to get far too much attention for containing the Halo 3 Beta, but it really 
 is not too bad. The targetting system is so much better than Grand Theft Auto, and the amount of 
 destruction you can create is simply mindblowing. The only reason that I have ever bought GTA games 
 is simply just to run around and see what I can do. In all honesty, the only GTA game I have ever 
 completed is Vice City because of the engaging story. Crackdown is better fun than Grand Theft 
 Auto and the story still is not important. Honestly, when your skills are at their peak, you feel 
 like a superhero.
  
  The achievements are superb and the homing rocket launcher is one of the best weapons in the last 
 several games I've played. Also, hunting for orbs is really, really addictive... finding all 800 
 is quite the challenge.
  
  Gameplay- simply superb.
  Graphics- different than average, reminds me of a comic book.
  Sound- very good. nothing extraordinary, 
 but solid.
  Value- low. low, low, low. I finished this game in 1 weekend and got a good portion of the achievements.
 
  Tiit- good times after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a new title for the Xbox 360 that tries to imitate the Grand Theft Auto series. Like 
 many other games that have tried to imitate the formula in the past half decade, Crackdown actually 
 does a surprisingly good job at it, save for a few major flaws. Crackdown is a fun game nonetheless, 
 but a few flaws hamper the game somewhat.
  
  The storyline is extremely paper-thin. The main character is an bio-genetically enhanced agent 
 working for the agency, an organization formed together from all the police related organizations 
 around the world to combat the increasing threat of crime. The main objective is to weaken each 
 kingpin by killing of all the generals, and then kill the kingpin himself. Very very very bland 
 and vague.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  Crackdown looks pretty good. The game is rendered mostly in a cel-shade but there are touches of 
 realism in the game. While not the best and most detailed, the character models do have a decent 
 amount of detail to them, particularly the agent. The car models look great, the city looks great, 
 and everything has a good amount of detail overall. The lighting is pretty good, and the explosions 
 look great. The unimpressive features about the game are the guns, and the bullets they fire, which 
 look pretty unimpressive. The minor details on the agent are not all that impressive and most of 
 the character models look like crap. Overall, the graphics do look good and give the game a good 
 feel.
  
  Sound- 7/10
  Theres not really much to say about the sound. The sound is okay for the most part, but some parts 
 just flat out suck. The acting is good enough to be understood, but certainly not Hollywood quality. 
 The agency cars do sound the best although all the cars sound pretty good. The explosive weapons 
 and explosions however, sound the best. They were every well done and put together and are the 
 best part of the sound. The crap parts however are the guns. They do not sound anything like real 
 weapons and sound bad on the whole. Thats pretty much it on the sound. The sound is good for the 
 most part, but not all that it could have been.
  
  Gameplay- 7/10
  The gameplay in Crackdown feels unfinished. All there is in the game is running around from point 
 to point, killing the generals and eventually the kingpin and leveling up the core skills. All 
 the skills are leveled up through usage except for the agility skill, which can be leveled up by 
 collecting the orbs scattered throughout the city. There are sub-orbs placed above each orb to 
 tell what level they are. The more sub-orbs, the more that the skill is leveled up leveled up. 
 As for the rest, all it involves is killing the bad guys. Little orbs pop out of the enemies that 
 are killed and magically hone in on the player as the agent absorbs them. When the agent levels 
 up, he gains better knowledge and usage of that particularly skill. The character also seems to 
 age as the skills are leveled up, and the agency cars seem to transform as the driving skill is 
 leveled up. There are stunts and driving races to increase the driving skill, and the same goes 
 for agility. There are also hidden orbs throughout the city which give a little of every skill. 
 There are also supply points, which allow players to travel around the city much quicker and more 
 efficiently. The supply points also allow the storage of captured enemy weapons, which can help 
 build up a very powerful arsenal.
  
  Crackdown is an open-ended world with many bad guys to kill, and lots and lots of orbs to find. 
 At first, the game is a lot of fun. This comes into play especially when players deliver a wide 
 variety of guns to the supply points. Eventually, players can choose from a simple pistol, to a 
 multi-rocket launcher.
  
  However, there are a lot of bad points too. The AI is somewhat dimwitted but not so much that they 
 cant fire their guns, and they love to do so. Every bad guy in the game is armed to the teeth, 
 and when the agent is mere inches away from death, there seems to be no end to the swarms of bad 
 guys. As for the co-op mode, its the same exact procedure, except with two players. Thats really 
 all there is to the multiplayer, and the time trials dont keep players busy for long.
  
  In the end, Crackdown feels unfinished. There were ideas of a very cool game in there, but the 
 game itself feels rushed. Ultimately, Crackdown will be remembered for the Halo 3 beat, rather 
 than its own accomplishments as a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSorrows
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Im sure some people bought Crackdown just for the Halo 3 Beta codes, but the actual game is superb, 
 and shouldnt be missed. Crackdown is a third person shooter sandbox game. Now before you say Grand 
 Theft Auto rip-off, Crackdown is not one of many GTA clones. It has many things that set it apart 
 from GTA, but Ill get to those later. Crackdown takes place in Pacific City, which is in complete 
 chaos. Why? Three of the worlds most ruthless gangs are wreaking havoc in the city: Los Muertos, 
 The Volk, and the Shai-Gen Corporation. Police agents from all over the world have combined forces 
 and formed the Agency, but even then the Agency is no match for the three gangs. You are Pacific 
 Citys last hope: A superhuman agent whose powers are extraordinary.
  
  Crackdown basically throws you into Pacific City and says Have fun. You can eliminate the gangs 
 in any order you like, but its probably easier to start off with Los Muertos. When you start playing, 
 you might think its a GTA rip-off, but like I said, its not. Sure, its an open-world sandbox 
 game where you can hi-jack vehicles and run over random, innocent civilians, but your superhuman 
 skills set Crackdown apart from GTA. In Crackdown, you have five different skills: Agility, which 
 makes you run faster and jump higher, Driving, which gives you the power to morph Agency cars into 
 the Batmobile (overall, driving helps perform stunts better and lets you drive cars faster) , Explosives, 
 which makes your grenade explosions deadlier and wider, Strength, which increases your damage done 
 with melee attacks and determines how far you can kick someone, and Firearms, which increases your 
 accuracy and damage done with firearms. You can level up each of your different skills by using 
 them. For example, if you kick someone off a building and kill them, your strength scores the upgrade. 
 If you run over a gang member in a car, your driving skill increases. You can also increase more 
 then one skill on an enemy. For example, if you shoot a person in the legs and knock him down, 
 then set him on fire with a grenade, and finally you kick him to death, your Firearms, Strength, 
 and Explosive skills will all increase. It is essential to increase all these skills if you want 
 to take down the three gangs. You can increase your Agility skill by collecting Agility orbs scattered 
 all over the city, killing people from a really high distance, and running rooftop races. You can 
 increase your Driving skill by winning road races, running over people, getting your car through 
 stunt markers, and getting hang time. I pointed these skills out, because its not easy to level 
 them up. Oh, and another thing. When I say, go run over someone, or, kick someone to death, 
 Im referring to gang members, not innocent civilians. If you kill innocent civilians, not only 
 will your skills decrease, but your in-game guide will yell at you. And believe me, he gets REALLY 
 annoying. Agency Supply Points are another factor that will help you defeat the three gangs. Basically, 
 Agency Supply Points are respawn points scattered around the city, and you can store gang weapons 
 at them for future use. So, if you kill a gang member and take his SMG to a Supply Point, then 
 you can use it whenever you want without having to take it from another gang member. But dont 
 expect to be able to get to Supply Points easily. Most of them are in hard to reach areas and/or 
 being guarded by gang members. So the single player campaign is all good and fun, but why play 
 it alone? You can play the campaign over Xbox Live or system link with a friend. This is probably 
 the coolest feature of the game, and its just really fun to play the campaign with a friend. The 
 only thing that disappointed me in Crackdown was that the graphics werent terrible, but they were 
 weird, and driving seemed useless until the Driving skill was maxed out. Another thing why did 
 the developers have to name the Shai-Gen Corporations Kingpin Wang? That set up so many bad jokes 
 But seriously, theres a lot of fun to have in Crackdown, and it shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe the score this game got, I completely disagree with that.. this game should not 
 have gotten a score any lower than a 8.5.... I have about 30 hours on this game, Ive beaten in 
 and gotten just about all the achievements, this is one of the most unique games Ive ever played, 
 its like GTA with super abilities, this game has fast pace gameplay, excellent sound and just all 
 around better than most open world games, Is just amazing and this is a game that is literally 
 hard to put down, I had so so much trouble to stop playing it since the day that is was released.. 
 the demo was sweet, but then getting a completing the game is just SOO much better than a small 
 30 min demo, I would HIGHLY recommend purchasing this game for anyone that wants a game that will 
 keep you busy for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a sandbox game, and it was created by one of the minds that brought us Grand Theft 
 Auto. With that in mind, comparisons to Grand Theft Auto are inevitable. However, such a comparison 
 is not fair to either of them. Crackdown puts you in the shoes of a Supercop. You are basically 
 a superhero on the rise. As you play, your powers grow until you are a one man army. I say the 
 game is simple, because its easy to kill gang members, and unless the odds are severely against 
 you (Ala 20 or more to just you) you will have little trouble dispatching waves of gang members, 
 as you are not only super-human, but your health and shields regenerate. This is not a bad thing 
 though, as you really do get a sense of heroism, scaling buildings, destroying gang hide-outs, 
 and throwing cars for hundreds of feet. Collecting agility orbs from rooftops is addicting, as 
 is leveling your Agent up. Its a tad short, but never-the-less, it is great fun, and the leveling 
 up and sheer joy of hopping rooftop to rooftop gives the game longevity. A great purchase, especially 
 with the Halo 3 beta packed in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destructiontalk
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown for the xbox 360 is most addicting game I have played to date. Released Feb 20th 2007. 
 Alot of people thought that Microsoft was going to make a crappy game put a halo multiplayer beta 
 invite with the game to make alot profit and promote halo 3 well THEY MADE A KICKASS GAME. The 
 story is kinda basic there is 3 diffrent islands each with there own gang that roam that island 
 your job is get rid of all the gang members and there gang leaders thats all you have to do no 
 side missions nothing like that. Your basically a supercop kinda robocop Everything you do is for 
 a purposed the more agility coins that you collect the better you get at jumping. The faster you 
 drive and run over gang members the better you get a driveing. The graphics are kinda toonish look 
 but there still pretty damn good and next gen the physics in this game are top nocth. Cars are 
 like supercars the city futuristic. The only thing that you can't do is go into bulidings I hav'nt 
 really got to explore the whole city yet bu so far all the buildings are closed. The weapons work 
 well and explosions are stunning. THE GAME IS SO FUN THAT YOU WILL GET ADDICTED Liike I will play 
 for few hours a then feel bored of the game and play another game or wacth tv, life etc within a 
 hour or so I wanna play again. I really dont have anything bad to say about this game its just 
 another great exclusive for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouse0624
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  HIGHLY ADDICTING
  
  CONS:
  Other than some slight targeting issues and lack of overall story the game is actually very fun.... When 
 youre next to a building ledge it melees the wall instead of shooting your target and when you 
 are close to multiple targets it never quite targets the one that is farthest from you.........
 
  
  
  PROS:
  The fact that it lacks the GTA problem of failing missions is pretty awesome it doesnt force you 
 to do the story in any particular order is frickin sweet.....
  You can take on any boss at any time....... the gun sounds are really good and the explosions are 
 AMAZING...... the COOP is done rather well and its really fun playing with a partner jumping around 
 the map or just killing each other for good fun is always a plus.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bern20
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  If you expect GTA style game story, this is not the game for you. This game is faster and crazier 
 than GTA. The game has its flaws. There is a lot of glitchyness to it. The good thing is that you 
 can get right into the action. If you want to take on the main bossess you can, but you might not 
 be as successful because your lack of abilities. You need to grow your character to become even 
 more superhuman. One thing I don't like it the fact that there is a guy that talks during the game 
 that repeats the same things over and over it kind of gets annoying. The city is not that big, 
 but you can go up on buildings and stuff. Overall it is a good game, not the best in the series 
 but it is sort of unique in some ways. It lacks a story and has no real point to it but to grow 
 your character to the max potential to become SUPER SUPER HUMAN. I also like to mention that the 
 achievements in this game are addicting to get. One thing that makes this thing attractive is that 
 it comes (or came) with the Halo 3 beta invite which makes it worth looking into. Do not expect 
 much from this game except some meager missions and more time of ur life to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Take a story that would reduce a writer to tears of disappointment, superhuman abilities, and lots 
 of guns and you have crackdown. The story really isn't much: three gangs, shoot up their leaders, 
 you are a superhuman cop with amazing powers that constantly evolve, it disappoints me that there 
 is little or no plot but there are perks, first off exploration is great , you can scale huge skyscrapers 
 and fire upon your enemies with rocket launchers, you can reach skill levels to the point where 
 you can pick up cars and toss them on your enemies and even have certain cars evolve into fantastic 
 tools to aid in your battles. What really destroys the game is the lack of content, the new game 
 feeling wears off way too quickly and in about an hour or two you will have experienced the things 
 the game has to offer, if the developers had gone just a little farther, just to perfect the storyline 
 and add more content, but if you strip away everything but the game play the game will reward those 
 who play it, this game is mostly worth playing to say that you did and I absolutely do not recommend 
 buying it, it's good, but not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbyCan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Well, I really was (in the beginning) only going to get the game for the Halo 3 Beta because i've 
 been a huge halo player ever since Halo: CE, but it ended up being a really good game. I was actually 
 pretty scared because i didnt know how good it would be.
  Even though i really just loved the game, that's just me and you should probably rent the game 
 before you go out and spend $60 on it, unless (like me) you love Halo that much.
  
  Storymode: the bosses are pretty repetitive and easy to kill. And if you love a game with a good 
 story and not free roam do NOT get this game. There is just about no story, but, i love free roam 
 games (like GTA) so i was pleased. One of my favorite things is the fact that the when you get stars 
 in driving the agency cars change, for example, the supercar gets Guns, SUV get hydraulics, and 
 cab gets Naus. So that pretty fun to play around with.
  
  But all around the game is decent unless you don't like GTA, but the beta really and enthusiasm 
 to anyone who loves Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is different from other games in its genre because you have the freedom to do whatever 
 you want. The only problem is that their are almost no side missions. Gameplay 9/10 The reason 
 why the gameplay is so great is because its like GTA meets Superheros in a way because you have 
 super-human abillities and levels are also a very fun and addicting feature of this game.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The graphics in this game are different it kind of has a cell shaded cartoon 
 feel to it. The game looks great considering the enviorments are so large and massive. The frame 
 rate is solid and rarely takes a dip.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  The game has a great sound track and the announcer is good. The only problem i've had is that some 
 times you can be underground and the announcer will say things like Great view, agent or Finest 
 view in the city which is kind of weird.
  
  Value 8/10
  
  The game is fairly short and there aren't a lot of side missons to do in this game but the achievements 
 are decently hard and will be very hard to find all 500 agility orbs and 300 secret orbs. Also 
 this game comes with a Halo 3 beta invitation which just adds to the value of getting this game.
 
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  From playing the demo almost a month ago this game has exceeded my expecations by a lot and i have 
 enjoyed it. I recomend this game to anyone that loves sand box genre games.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  
  Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  In crackdown you play a cloneable law enforcement officer trying to gain control over a city from 
 gangs and thugs in a state of marshall law.
  
  Thats where the story ends.
  
  You have to kill some bosses in each of the three boroughs of the city. Collect orbs to upgrade 
 your character, so you can jump higher to access some critical supply points that are on rooftops 
 unreachable early on, pretty rediculous concept if you ask me, you cant go inside and just take 
 an elevator or the stairs you have to climb and jump on the outside of the building to get to the 
 roof. The three areas are contolled by 1 the mexican gangs, 2, chinese gangs, 3 a government hired 
 fascist weapons company loaded with super soldiers. Kill all the bosses, get the orbs, thats it, 
 shoot, jump period. Side races are thrown in but thats the only other thing you can do.
  
  graphics- great, long draw distance, good use of cellshading, lots of activity.
  
  sound- cars 
 sound good, guns realistically crack, more realistic sounding gunfire than simulations like R6 
 vegas. soundtrack is terrible though.
  
  control-simple tight controls, driving is touchy though and the targeting system needs work
  
 
  replay-5 hours to beat the game nothing to do after that
  
  rent only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 14, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  GREAT GREAT GREAT..... WElll ur an agent from the agency and you have to take out 3 gam\ngs.. Nut 
 wait.. theres more! You have superpowers like,,,,,, Leap tall buildings, lift trucks, sho0t like 
 a pro, blow the Globe of the world and change a piece of crap car into the batmobile........ I 
 have to give this a low mark for how SHORT IT IS.. Also the New downloadable content restarted 
 my game Via playing live: D..... other than that.. a must buy... It also contains the Halo 3 beta.. 
 Hows that for a cherry on top :D: D: D Oh one last piece of advice before you buy this  
 Ok Dont Do races to gain Driving experience... Run down people in a high gang controlled terretory..... 
 Youll know what im talking about once you play  
 - black soulz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't to sure what to think when I went to the store and bought this game. I thought I might 
 have made a mistake and should of just waiting to rent it. But I was wrong. This game is pretty 
 freakin cool. The appearance to this game has a bit of a cartoony feel to it, but nevertheless, 
 that dosen't take away from it one bit. This game is kinda like a spiderman, mixed with the hulk, 
 mixed with GTA. The orb idea is pretty neat, and adds a new element to gaming (the orbs are things 
 you collect by either finding them out in the open or doing challenges, they ultimately make you 
 strong, faster, able to jump higher and shoot better) . The idea behind the game is your typical 
 mission type boss fighting game. The game can become a bit repetitive, however, when your abilities 
 become 3-4 stars, the explosions are pretty cool. This game has a kinda new feel to it, yet then 
 again it doesnt, however, it is still a must play for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PearlDrummer5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  great game very addictive and a ton of non stop action. this game is awsome!! this game is worth 
 every penny. The enviroments are very well put together and the gameplay is so much fun! its even 
 more fun when you have a partner to do it with you. the bosses are fun to beat too. even though 
 the game is pretty short you have to take your time to collect all the orbs and get your skills 
 the there max. this game is like GTA+ St Rows+ SuperPowers = Crackdown everyone should get this 
 game!! and remember agent skills for kills agent, skills for skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman_13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  this is an over all good game . but if you want to go on a rampage killing civillains your skill 
 points will go down yes its a bumer. your a pure good guy its not gta even though they made it 
 its nothing like it trust me. its a comic drawing kind of game so watch out. so if you like comic 
 book kind of games buy it if not it s not for you. so if you like this game good its a good game 
 other people might not care for comic book kind of games. its not so bad of a comic book game so 
 dont read this and not buy it my advice to you is rent it it will help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gespho
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Its like playing the demo overs and overs and overs. Except that the enemies you have to fight 
 increase, and the more you have to jump, and the more amount of times you have to fight off the 
 guys at your supply points. If you played the GTA series, or Saints Row, and enjoyed the games 
 mainly because of the storylines, pass this game off. However if you enjoyed either of those games 
 for the free will of exploding any cars passing by, this will satisfy you - maybe. Because you 
 are a cop, and you have rules to follow, even during all the crazy sh*t thats going on, you have 
 to behave in a certain manner. No killing civilians, you can but you lose skill points in driving, 
 and then your own cops start going after you. No drive-bys, not sure if they thought that it might 
 not be good for cops to do, but they did think that putting guns on the car itself would do. That 
 comes much later when your driving skills are basically maxed.
  
  Then you have the infamous jumping skill, or agility... Its basically the only thing that makes 
 this game unique from the rest, being that you can jump roof to roof, window to window or wall 
 to wall. Its really nice to have something like superman in a GTA rip-off series.
  Theres no actual storyline, besides 'clean the streets you clone!'.
  Theres no main characters, 
 besides the bosses you kill who are really just like any other gang member except they have a hell-of-alot 
 more life then normal.
  
  Theres not much difference from the start to the end of the game, it is repetitive and much the 
 same through out. Unlike many games where you have the climax, and the twists, and the plot, this 
 game is missing all of that. All in all, i was let down after the second day of playing the game, 
 and that was while i was online with my friend. I never played solo, which is the same, just with 
 no partner, i would imagine its even more boring.
  
  The highlight of the game, jumping around and getting skill orbs on buildings, and looking down 
 on the streets as you open fire on everything.
  
  The negative highlight (s) of the game, is everything that was missing from the game. Customization 
 of character, of cars, or atleast the variety of cars in the game. The ability to tweak up your 
 supply points and have garages or mini games. Races that actually have a worth while track. Music, 
 real music anyways, that doesnt get annoying. Armor shop or something, an income or some type of 
 way to make exchanges for something, hairstyles, clothes, boots, or even how many cops you get 
 to have patroling an area. Call in back up, because theres always cops driving around, and yet 
 none help you kill the bosses or areas near supply points. There was just so much more this game 
 was capable of if they just worked on it. It truely was a let down, but only because it was MISSING 
 alot. Theres a difference between a game that used all its potential still sucked, and then a game 
 that was released to early.
  
  Look forward to the next game by Realtime Worlds. Long story short, it seems like Crackdown was 
 a small piece of APB , which is a massively multiplayer Crackdown genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  frist off the supercop strength high jumps and playing on the good side is a breath of fresh air 
 to this type of game. i was tired of playing the bad guy like grandtheft. and going through the 
 game buliding up your super cop to new hights is diffrent. to me the graphics are so so its the 
 weak point to the game. the controlls to me could of been worked on some as well. its not perfect. 
 should of spent more time on the game and money. we could of had a gold award game here like gears 
 of war. it is fun. to me rent the game from gamefly then buy it. i wish you could go inside bulidings 
 as well. true you can roam around outside. but i like it all inside as well any store bar are whatever 
 you want. i will buy the game like i said its fun and thats what is all about fun. its to bad we 
 dont have the same time put in and money as gears of war game this game could of been hot hot thanks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirmetreus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Where to start?
  
  Crackdown is an open world/sandbox type of game. You run, kick and punch your way around the city, 
 cleaning the streets. Of course, you don't HAVE to clean the streets. You can drive off ramps, 
 go for a swim, or do anything.
  
  Lets start with the character. Agents are super humans, genetically enhanced so that they can clean 
 up the streets. As such, you get a bunch of powers to go with you
  - Agility: How high you jump and fast you run. Increased by picking up orbs. Ever wanted to do 
 a Matrix jump? Get four stars in this and you will! - Driving: How well you control cars. Agency 
 vehicles in particular are fun to drive, due to all the special skills you get. Nothing is more 
 fun than using the agency truck on the highway.
  - Explosives: How big your explosions from explosives are. Its slow, but by the end of the game 
 youll have maxed it faster than anything else.
  - Strength: How much health you have, how hard you hit, how much you carry. Punching cars off a 
 cliff or throwing a globe at people (an actual achievement!) is just awesome.
  - Firearms: Guns. How accurate they are, and thats about it. There really isn't anything special 
 about this skill.
  Now we have covered the basics, lets explain the system - for every kill or orb, you get little 
 orbs that float around a few seconds then fly straight to you and increase your skill number - 
 at every 100, you'll go up a star. After 4 stars, you'll start maxing out the meter and get -- 
 where the number was. However, all the final bonuses are at 4 stars, and this is simply for an 
 achievement. The skills all improve at different rates, with some being considerably faster at 
 points that others. For example, rocket launchers will make your explosives go sky high - leaving 
 your firearms to trail behind. At any rate, thats how they work.
  
  You'll liberate islands held by gangs by killing their bosses then respective kingpins. These 
 get harder as the game goes on, so its not a cakewalk. Try and beat the game in a few hours, and 
 you'll get smashed because your skills are so low.
  
  However, once your built up a bit and you know how to work the game, you'll fly through it, leaving 
 you with a slight disappointment that its over so fast (and even faster when you do time attack!) .
 
  
  However, cleaning the streets is not all you can do. While blasting crime is appealing, its not 
 for everyone. Or, perhaps, you may have already done it.
  Take the races for example. Completing these gives you a great sense of satisfaction, and an achievement 
 once theyre all done. Their great fun, and you can even race against your best mate in co-op, 
 in a racing style +/- ahead/behind system when you hit checkpoints.
  
  Then, theres the car stunts! This is good stuff too - its amazing fun to be able to fly high and 
 pull off barrel rolls and flips. Shame its limited to the SUV, since almost no other car gets enough 
 height.
  
  But perhaps the greatest part of crackdown is the achievements. While some are a little too easy, 
 most of them are challenging and large, but accomplish-able, unlike some other games. For example, 
 the rampage achievement - its split into many sub-achievements you need to complete to gain the 
 achievement, each of which involve blowing this up and shooting that out in 60 seconds. All of 
 them involve lots of explosions - making the achievement fun, while challenging to do all these 
 tasks to gain it.
  
  Although not all of the achievements are great. Perhaps the worst to try and complete are the orb 
 ones - thats right, hunt down all the orbs in the game. Thats all 800 - given you will have picked 
 up at least 400 to max your agility out, the other 100 become harder and harder to find. Theres 
 no sort of tracking device or anything to help you find the last few, so this could be a long time 
 coming if youre a completest.
  
  The Co-op mode is a good feature. Being able to play with a friend is really basic nowadays, and 
 some games seem to miss it a lot. Theres nothing more fun than taking on a kingpin without killing 
 the generals, especially on Psychotic Difficulty.
  
  Overall:
  Its about time we had another GTA, and having it reversed with RPG super human elements makes 
 it even better. You'll be blasting gang members for a long time - but not long enough. It suffers 
 from a considerably short, unbuilt story. However, Ignoring this, crackdown is a brilliant game. 
 The elements all fit together perfectly to create something new.
  
  My opinion? Buy it. Its not like you can go wrong. It's just a shame that Microsoft stuffed the 
 Halo 3 beta in there to dilute the attention from a perfectly acceptable and respectable game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Hmm. How to explain the complexity that is Crackdown. This is quite obviously a sandbox game made 
 by realtime worlds. It's like GTA in the sences of: Go anywhere do anything, kill innocent people 
 if you want, but the fuzz will follow, and you jump from rooftop to rooftop. Wait, thats only Crackdown. 
 You are a super-cop, with much greater abilities than a regular human. The more you kill someone 
 in a surtain way, get agility orbs, or get hidden orbs, your stats will increse. Once you get up 
 to 100 on one, you level up. And you go up to 4 Stars in each. Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength 
 and Firearms. Obviously, if you've read any review, seen any review or basically have seen anything 
 about this game, you get the basics. So lets cut to the chase here. This game really is the best 
 game to come out yet in this year. I mean, whats it up against? Lost Planet? Come on. This game 
 is really, quite fun. If you get tired of killing bosses, go get some agility orbs, if your tired 
 of that, go kill some gang members, if your tired of that, well, you just dont like shooting stuff. 
 There are 3 Main Islands in Pacific City. Although I would say there are 4, there are 3. Each Island 
 is controlled by a different gang. The game tells you to take down the Los Muertos first, then 
 The Volk, then the Shen-Gai. The Muertos being easiest with The Volk tougher, and the Shen hard. 
 The Los Muertos basically have 2 Islands. The Co-Op is awesome. Anyone can come into your game 
 at any time if you permit it. You can allow: Anyone, Just friends, or no one at all. Its all up 
 to you. Although, most of the time no one joins your match, even if you say its alright. Its great 
 to play with friends, but losing each other was just.. too easy. One second your side by side, the 
 next, you see a gang car 100 feet away, but so does he. Only in the opposite direction. Its quite 
 easy to loose each other, but it is a more effective way to beat the game. Quite honestly, this 
 game may get old quick. You may think this, but I have not yet found it to be that way. Even if 
 you beat the game, and get all the orbs (ALL 800. Yeah, I doubt it) , then theres still way to have 
 fun. Go grab a rocket launcher. Have some fun. Screw with the Agency. I have noticed some glitches, 
 such as people in mid air in Cars but then again, I didnt know they made invisible cars yet. Actually, 
 who would want an invisable car? Anyway, great game. If your just in this for the Halo 3 beta, 
 get it now, and have some fun with it. It's really fun. If you complain about having to get this 
 just for the beta, be happy you dont need to buy Fusion Frenzy 2 for it. Exactly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alayeesquire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I have tracked Crackdown for a number of months, played the demo, and finally got my hands on a 
 rental copy and all I can say is that it is an enjoyable ride as long as it lasts. This game like 
 all other open-world, or sandbox, games has been compared to and against the Grand Theft Auto games 
 and understandably so. GTA is, at this moment, the Gold Standard for the genre and continues to 
 be one of the top-selling and most popular games out there. While Crackdown does share the same 
 open world concept, it is no GTA. Not to take alway anything from Crackdown but GTA is, in my eyes, 
 in a different league, so that ends the GTA comparisons.
  
  Crackdown at its heart is a extremely enjoyable sandbox action game that is allows the player the 
 freedom of using vertical travel (e. g. climbing buildings, fences) in additional to traditional 
 travel methods used in sandbox games to progress or complete tasks. While this may not sound like 
 much, the extra (and sometimes only) option of being able to go up over a barrier adds a whole 
 new dimension to completing a mission. This is where Crackdown truly shines. As you level up your 
 Agent's five traits (agility, strength, firearms, explosives, driving) , you can tackle previously 
 difficult tasks in an entirely different way. For example, at the beginning of the game your undeveloped 
 Agent will be forced to take a ground level entrance (e. g. front, side, back, or secret water pathway) 
 to complete the first few missions. That is if you don't feel like exploring and finding the agility 
 orbs that make you jump higher and run faster. However, over time, you will run across a number 
 of these agility orbs and notice that your Agent can reach higher rooftops and that he can hurdle 
 rather high fences in one or two jumps. Unlike the agility trait, the other traits (strength, firearms, 
 explosives, driving) level up as you perform certain their respective actions a la Oblivion or 
 GTA: San Andreas. So as you punch a few gang members a la Mercenaries, you will notice slight changes 
 in your Agent's physical appearance and abilities. Crackdown is designed so that you travel around 
 the city until you stumble upon a gang leader's hideout or until Peacekeepers (the police) give 
 you intel on that particular leader. After receiving the dossier, you go to the location, kill 
 a number of goons, and lastly kill the leader. That is pretty much it minus the exploring and taking 
 part of the 2 race types (on foot or in car) the game offers. There are 21 leaders in all, so if 
 you are just trying to complete the game it will take you no more than 6 hours. I did a lot of 
 exploring and orb hunting and still completed the game with a number of Achievements in under 8 
 hours. However, after completing the game you do have the option of continuing to orb hunt and 
 complete Achievements, and you have the option to turn crime on or off translation dealing random 
 gang members or not. There is no story or side missions or hysterical radio station DJs, just beat 
 the 21 bosses, numerous races in car or on foot, and orb hunt and you are done.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Negatives - While fun, platforming can be difficult at times due to the camera angles 
 and the lack of cycling through targets (while locked on) can get frustrating with the last few 
 bosses. Positives - You really get the feeling that you are jumping up, to, and between multi-story 
 buildings, driving is good when you actually drive, and it's a sandbox game you can do what you 
 want!
  
  Graphics: 9
  When I played the demo, I thought the graphics were too cartoon-like but they look surprisingly 
 good in the released game. You can see the grain and imperfections in rocks and cement and the 
 water looks really realistic. The city looks like one with a lot of crime and the buildings and 
 streets have a more realistic, worn look. A game does not have to have photo-realistic graphics 
 to have good graphics, it just has to accomplish what it is trying to do correctly for a high score 
 from me.
  
  Sound: 8
  Explosions and car crashes sound good but the world itself is too quiet. Pedestrians talk but I 
 just expect more from a game set in a busy city.
  
  Value: 9
  I gave this an eight because Crackdown is a fun game that adds a new dimension to open world games 
 that I hope other developers will incorporate into future games. At least when I seen it on sale, 
 it was $50 versus the typical $60 for 360 titles and it has the Halo 3 beta option (if you care 
 about that) . The co-op option is what really brings this score up because it is extremely fun to 
 play with someone via Live. What I do NOT like about co-op is that if you are playing solo and 
 someone wants to join you, you get booted out of your current game and are forced to restart the 
 session at the Agency hideout. This is a real pain when you are in the middle of climbing a skyscraper 
 or are in a gang boss fight. I have had to turn down numerous player requests (when I didn't want 
 to) because I did not want to restart my game and lose my progress at that point. Tilt: 8
  It is fun but too short for me. There are also too few things to do in the game to make me want 
 to play the game at a later date. I have already maxed out 3 of the 5 traits, found most of the 
 orbs, and completed most of the races, so there is very little to do besides orb hunt and complete 
 the remaining Achievements. The only thing I could see that would make me continue to play Crackdown 
 is the co-op. I have had some of the most fun while playing with other gamers in this game when 
 we started the session together.
  
  If you like a game that has the open world of GTA, mission structure of Mercenaries, option to 
 travel vertically like Spiderman 2, and co-op play, you should definitely pick this game up. If 
 you play solo and like games that have a high replay value or a huge variety of missions, side 
 missions, or hunts, rent it first. Either way it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StromileSwiftee
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Was it worth the wait? The question asked by those yet to try Crackdown. Simply put, the hype was 
 definitely high, but wouldn't classify it as disappointing. Crackdown could have been called Parkour, 
 or Free Running as known in extreme sports circles, running and jumping from wall to wall or 
 building to building in the world of Crackdown. There is where most of the fun is to be found. 
 In your agents attempt to take down the three gangs of Pacific City, you can build up five different 
 abilities agility, driving, weaponry, explosives and strength. As you take down gang members using 
 weapons and grenades you gain orbs that go to the corresponding abilities leveling up like a RPG. 
 Completing racing trails under the time limit given and running over gang members gives you driving 
 orbs. While strength orbs are basically gained by spin kicking your enemies. The fun comes while 
 trying to obtain agility orbs, which are usually located amongst the building tops and tall structures. 
 Starting out your jumping skills are that of an average athlete, but once you start collecting 
 agility orbs you cant stop. Taking out criminals became secondary as agility orb collecting became 
 the number one priority and the most fun. Once you began leveling up and experiencing that roller 
 coaster feeling of jumping from one rooftop down to the next is amazing! I just happened to find 
 myself taking out the occasional bad guy while roof hopping.
  
  The gangs themselves are structured with a boss, several lieutenants and underlings. Taking out 
 each member under the boss reduces the overall strength of the gang as each one specializes in 
 an activity, such as weaponry, vehicles and overall membership. As you take down each one, you 
 can feel the air being slowly let out of the balloon.
  
  But of course there are definite areas that could be improved. Driving isnt that fun, mainly because 
 citizen AI is terrible. The citizens of Pacific City make zero attempt to move out of your way 
 when driving with sirens blazing. Even if you gently tap them with your bumper they splat and 
 die; this lowers your approval rating, kill too many citizens and Enforcers (your fellow officers) 
 are sent to take you out. Speaking of your fellow officers, they arent much help either. In the 
 mist of a gun battle they either got slain or just decided to cut out, when I looked around for 
 help no one was left oh well, Im sure police back up is overrated anyway. Graphically, the shade 
 cel technique is played out on next-gen systems. It was clever for PS and Dreamcast, OK for PS2 
 and XBox but now its time to leave it alone. Gamers expect more in the graphics department, even 
 though Pacific City itself is nice to admire.
  
  In summary, Crackdown is worth the purchase if youre into exploring, shooting and evolving. Think 
 early Tomb Raider in an urban setting. There are plenty of places to go, bad guys to see and jumping 
 to be done. For those weary of the gaming score try a rental to see what you think. All in all 
 theres plenty of room for improvement in a sequel and can push up its gaming score but thats 
 probably a year or two away. But the current version of Crackdown is still fun and definitely worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Its been called the free game that comes with the purchase of the Halo 3 demo. Its been said 
 that its just another Grand Theft Auto rip off. Its too short, unfinished, and ugly. Some of 
 these have some truth to them, others are just words spoken by people that dont like this game. 
 The game happens to be Crackdown, the futuristic super hero sandbox game.
  
  Well I should probably start with this question: Is Crackdown unfinished? Maybe. On the initial 
 difficulty, the game only lasts roughly 6-8 hours with very little story, only two types of races 
 and a bunch of collectable orbs. I admit that I liked this game but parts of it do feel empty. 
 The insides of some buildings are fully designed, yet there are no ways of getting in them. Some 
 skills have numerous ways of improving them while others have just one and there are just a few 
 other ideas that seem trimmed down. Part of me wants to think that some developers do this for 
 the ability to improve the sequel but thats just a little conspiracy theory in my head.
  
  As for being a Grand Theft Auto clone. That one is mostly false. The game plays much like Mercenaries, 
 just swap the catalogue with super powers and you have about the same content.
  
  The graphics give the game a comic book feel which suits the game perfectly. Another compliment 
 I have to give out to this game is the design of the futuristic city. Crackdown simply sports the 
 best looking and well designed futuristic city Ive ever seen in a game. The cel shaded effect 
 of the game does the typical trade off; quantity over quality. Im not saying that the characters 
 and building are ugly, its just that they dont have that much detail on them. Fortunately that 
 means a great draw distance and much more going on at the same time. Explosions abound and are 
 terrific, scattering debris and most of the time bodies that are blessed with the Havok physics 
 engine. Ive only witnessed the games stutter while online, that could be due to lag so I really 
 wont hit the graphics department on that.
  
  The audio department is a little shabby, not because of the sound effects but because the lack 
 of dialogue and the quality of the original music. The music is just plain skippable as none of 
 it is good enough to stand out. There is chatter among the pedestrians, gang members and bosses, 
 and that is well done but thats about all youll hear spoken besides the, sometimes annoying, 
 agency announcer. The plot of the game is very thin. Youre a cop, there are three gangs with seven 
 bosses each, go kill them. Dossiers are transmitted so you when you either lose your way or happen 
 upon an area where a gang boss is. Each dossier contains a little background information on that 
 boss and some tactics on how you should approach the situation. The ending seemed a little awkward, 
 but the reason I think so would be a spoiler. Lets just say that it does a sorry attempt at being 
 clever.
  
  Gameplay is where this game truly shines or falls apart depending on which side of the fence youre 
 standing on. There are 5 skills that you increase to become a better crime killing machine; agility, 
 strength, driving, firearms and explosives. More than half of them have numerous ways to increase 
 them. With firearms and explosives, youre just stuck with killing people with weapons. With strength, 
 you can either hurl objects, melee attack or kick objects into the baddies. Agility has orbs and 
 roof top races and driving has races, stunts and you can always run over your foes. The game does 
 a great job of making you feel like youre progressing in the game as each level with offer new 
 surprises and also a change in the look of your character.
  
  The last complaint Ill address is the one that says the game only lasts 6-8 hours. This is true 
 if you ignore all the achievements, get bored of co-op and have the game set at the default setting. 
 A quick raising of the difficulty and the game becomes much different. No longer will you feel 
 like this unstoppable super tank as the gang members will quickly shred you with their automatic 
 fire. Its not until this humbling experience will you start reading the dossiers to get hints 
 at hot to approach taking down the bosses and play with a little more strategy. Achievements add 
 even more time to that and then toss in a fun co-op experience and youre looking at adding about 
 100% or more to the original time.
  
  My complaints would have to be the fact that I wish they did more with the game. Giving the bosses 
 some sort of personality, making some side objectives on how to beat them ( In defense of the game, 
 this did happen for a few bosses. There are a couple where you have to do some things to get access 
 to the bosses ) . Would have helped add more personality to the game. Speaking of personality, the 
 word never feels like a true living city. Theres next to no interaction with the hundreds of people 
 roaming around besides the occasional fender bender or gang member rampage. Seeing people that 
 did more than walk or run would have been nice, and seeing more gang on gang fights would have 
 made the world seem more authentic. Anyhow, with the amount of sales this game is likely to receive 
 due impart or not to the Halo 3 beta invitation, I dont see why a Crackdown 2 wouldnt be in the 
 works. Its a solid first game but leaves a lot of room for improvements and fleshing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown where do i start oh yes this game was very fun and vibrant in a way. The graphics were 
 okay i guess better than any other cell shaded game i have ever played but it looked to cartoonish. The 
 gameplay wasn't that interesting but what kept me going was reaching to the top of the agency tower (The 
 Biggest Building in the game) and the other things in the gameplay i liked was the skill buliding. I 
 have to say that the demo was better in the skill acceleration because you upgrade more faster 
 than ever.. meanwhile in the full version it takes forever it took me 3 days to get to level 3 egility 
 come on............ Anyways the game was great but the only reason i got into this game was for 
 the upgrades. i have to give this a 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: multaman415
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I think this game has many goods and bads. I think when most people got the game they wanted the 
 Halo 3 Beta than Crackdown. The goods of this game is that it has some fun parts to the game and 
 that you have freedom to do a lot of things in this game. Plus, it comes with Halo 3 Beta. The 
 bad things are that the game starts to get boring once u get all the power-ups. Plus, this game 
 In the end this game has its ups and downs, so i give it a 8.9. I hope u get the game for the actual 
 game and not Halo 3 Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atagger1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Downloaded this game off Xbox Live. Really hooked... The vertical ownability and sci-fi super hero 
 development of your character brings new life to open universe style games. Wish there were motorcycles 
 and flying vehicles. For some reason i get addicted to just exploring and collecting the agility 
 orbs and trying to get my character to get ill attributes. The GTA model was so stale for so long. 
 Finally someone got it right by adding the super hero element and the vertical climbing. The car 
 physics could be better in my opinion. Overall, great graphics and soundtrack. Lots of detail in 
 the game. Totally awesome you can stand outside a person's care and hear the music they bangin' 
 inside.
  
  It's pretty damn amazing you can play the game and have others join in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? There's so many things in the game to talk about that there is no room to start. Let's 
 break this down into the simple categories of Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, and value (were gonna leave 
 out tilt this time) :
  
  oGraphics: I animation type graphics makes it look like nohing you've ever seen before! From cars 
 blowing up one after another to watching an enemies blood fly after kicking him it looks great. They 
 could've looked better for certain points ,but I'm satisfied enough with the looks now.
  
  oSound: The sounds don't really set a part in Crackdown. There's screaming, explosions, and cars 
 engines even sirens ,but the only time there's actual soundtrack type music is in the car! There 
 could at least be a little beat for when running from place to place!
  
  oValue: The game value is at 9 for a good reason.
  1. Because it's a great game ,but then again 
 there are many adventure-explore or in most cases free-roaming titles like this.
  2. It's an easy way to get into the Halo 3 Beta.
  3. The game turned out better than anyone thought 
 it would! The game has some many more features for you to explore that I'm not even gonna rate 
 the Gameplay section. Here's a quick example: Gang Bosses to fight, cars to hijack, old ladies 
 to run over, guns to be shot, and powers to be upgraded! That's is ,basically, why I give Crackdown 
 for the next-gen powerhouse Xbox 360, 8.9 old ladies carrying groceries and getting ran over by 
 me out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jconca03
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  well.. its alot similar to GTA with a mix of high jumping climbing buildings and throwing stuff.. 
 all though the main game really doesnt have much of a story.. making your guy better kept me from 
 putting the controller down.. its not a bad game. but couldve been made alot better. the main point 
 of the game is basically just to kill gang leaders which is why it gets repetitive. but i love 
 the whole climbing buildings and jumping thing.. reminds me of spiderman 2 for ps2. i havent really 
 gotten a control on the whole throwing things but ill get around to it.. but if it was my choice 
 i'd rent it first then decide if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acalightsp33d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  To start off just wanted to clear something up in gamespots review they put on the bad points that 
 the driving is lame till you max out the level rating on it well aint that the idea what would 
 be the point if it were great straight away...
  
  Im not going to go into great detail on this review as theres no need to really.
  
  Ok first 
 off about the game is the main story 3 islands 3 main bosses per island take out the small bosses 
 first then take the big boss out on the island once per island thats main game done and thats not 
 the end once you done that get you skills maxed out i really do recommend the driving one for sure 
 the agent cars look amazing when you do that.
  Theres plenty of stuff to do after that like finding all 500 agility icons and driving etc and 
 also a co-op thats really fun and the jumping up buildings is really cool saves being at ground 
 level all the time just remember it hurts if you fall lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotfiredude123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Pretty good game going on with this, plus you get to play Halo 3 BETA so tip top there!
  Think.... Vice City but with the ability to increase your stats, you are able to get to tall buildings 
 with agility, get better cars with driving, throw things stupidly far with strength, blow up 20 
 enemies at once with explosives and take people down with one shot with shooting.
  
  However this game can get a little tiresome playing by yourself, so when an invitation to play 
 co-op is recieved, it's a welcome relief.
  The games eventual tiresome nature is due to the fact that because of the lack of story line, you 
 just find yourself romaing around the city and repeating the same things to keep you interested 
 in the game over and over again. For example, throwing dead people on top of buildings.
  
  The graphics in the game are simply superb with a mix of cel shading but with added textures. This 
 as a result keeps the game constantly aesthetically pleasing and gives a comic book feel almost, 
 but in a good way.
  
  Finally, the sound on the game is a mixed blessing. The tracks behind the gaming are subtle and 
 interesting, enough to leave the game from sounding empty. However the voice over which often appears 
 on at the most bizarre of times is often inaccurate.
  Par exemple, when i was happening to take down a boss member, the strange agency man happened to 
 give me some friendly advice in the form of complimenting my driving skills.
  
  All in all, the game is fun, easy to play but with some little problems. Howver this still leaves 
 the game at a worthwhile buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdodds
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is truly a great game but overlooked by many as it came with the Halo 3 BETA, anyone 
 who buys it to purely play the beta is just wrong. The game has been well thought out and very 
 open ended. You can weaken any part of the 3 gangs at any point, you can go straight over and weaken 
 the gangs weapons, their vehicles. All General killings will have an effect on the gang.
  
  The only real problem with this game is once a gang is defeated that's it, nothing else happens 
 on that part of the city. Which may be a good thing meaning you can do the races without been shot 
 at constantly. Buy this game, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Well. This is Crackdown.
  
  The Good:
  
  The main gameplay is good and something advanced, the graphics are good and sharp, it sounds great 
 and there are tons of tracks to listen to, Co-op is a plus. Halo 3 beta is a nice bonus to justify 
 the $60 price tag.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Theres absolutely no plot, its short, bosses put very little challenge and are extremely easy to 
 take down, there are too many music tracks (105 in all) as you can only listen to them in a vehicle 
 or in the pause menu (two things which you will do rarely while playing) , the announcer is annoying 
 (good thing theres a volume control for him) , there are missing option features that are obvious 
 to have in any game, you will have a hard time find strangers to play with (unless you have a friend 
 to play with) . Shooting skills require too much time to develope over others and are unnesessary 
 as you have extremely easy access to much more powerful weapons, and there are few minor glitches 
 that accure (but nothing alarming) . The game offers very little more than what is in the demo.
 
  
  The tilt:
  
  After playing and beating the game for the first time in the first day of purchase and then beating 
 it once more in less than 45 minutes (by myself, no cheats, and no glithes) , theres little to no 
 good reasons to recommend this game to other gamers. The game is good, but not great. There isn't 
 much to the game to make a must buy. Co-op is a nice addition to the gameplay, but the game is 
 the same either way. This game just isn't worth a $60 purchase, but with the Halo 3 inside the 
 game itself, it helps put your wallet at ease, but this only aplies to those who are interested 
 and only for a limited time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ralfyrules
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  crack down is a interesting blend. the way i described it to my friend was grand theft auto, and 
 spider man rolled up into one orgasm. with a pinch of twisted metal. now that being said i played 
 the demo over and over and over again. i really really dug the demo it was solid game play fast 
 paced Yatta Yatta Yatta, but... i bought the game. and discover that the fast passed-ness that 
 i felt in the demo was gone it took 10 times longer to level your skills in the actual game then 
 in the demo witch was just down right annoying. i mean i literally spent all of one night getting 
 up one skill. i think that is the most boring part of the game. i found that the boss fight were 
 incredibly easy i beat the hardest boss in the game about half way threw and spent the rest of 
 the time pretty much just cleaning up the rest of the gang bosses so that was pretty much boring. 
 now this game review sounds really really down on the game i think. but i think it was because 
 i was already jaded by the demo. its really fun and addiction at first. but i found that it got 
 tiring about 10-15 hours in. (unlike games like halo that i have literally thousands of hours on)
 
  
  my conclusion on the game is that if ur not to pumped about the halo 3 beta just go download the 
 demo and play it till you get bored and you will have the same experience cuz it really doesn't 
 change a whole lot excepted for a few cool weapons (mainly the tracking rocket launchers) which 
 is cool but in my opinion does not make the monumental leap to grate gotta buy game. but...
  
  if you are pumped about halo 3 beta (like me) i would defiantly buy it i mean figure the game 
 is worth 30... i would pay 30 bucks to play the halo 3 beta. would you? and it at least makes a 
 good time-kill for the in between halo 3 beta. haha. =P. so that's why i rated it an 8 because... 
 for me the halo 3 beta is totally worth it.
  
  -Dylan Mills 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiteRaid
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game without the intentions of letting the Halo 3 BETA get in my head. I enjoyed 
 this game journeying around increasing my ability levels and killing bosses. What disturbed me 
 though was how fast you can earn these powers. I was a level 4 in strength in a good 1-2 hours 
 and at least a level 2 in everything else at that time. I had no idea whatsoever about what order 
 I should have done things. So here I am stacked, level 3 in agility pretty much jumping from building 
 to building, it was time to take on the bosses... Perhaps my biggest complaint here has to do with 
 the bosses. They are all pretty much the same except for how much health they have. It's as if, 
 the only challenge is getting to the boss and the reward is kicking the bosses ass... maybe I expected 
 too much? Am I suppose to be looking at this game in another way? Perhaps it was time to up the 
 difficulty... yep, finished again but yes, this time, it was way more time consuming and required 
 bit more strategy in terms of how to get to that head boss. But afterwards, you don't even get 
 an achievement for it so there really isn't much except for bragging rights... that you can't even 
 prove unless your friend was there. I know everything i've said thus far seems to be a turnoff 
 for future buyers of the game, but this game is just not worth the 60 bucks. Once the game is beaten, 
 you have the ability to turn on crime, but that's all there is to it. You can do the time trials 
 or go play co-op, it's just not offering enough to justify the 60 dollar price tag. Still though, 
 let's get to the goods of the game, the graphics are perfect and gives that comic feel that really 
 fits in. The controls are smooth and can be mastered in a good 10 minutes. The sounds of the cars, 
 the guns, everything is great, if only everything lasted longer, this game would be THAT much more 
 appreciated. The entire experience makes you want so much more because of how great the gameplay 
 is. This game is creative, very addictive, but of course, with one of the co-creators of GTA, that 
 is, David Jones, working on this game, you couldn't expect less... as i've said a million times 
 though, I just wish there was more. Overall, this game has massive potential. From start to finish, 
 this game had me hooked. But once the game was done and there wasn't much to do except go collect 
 the rest of the orbs and the few races I had to do, it leaves me curious as to what I would do 
 a few days after this game just came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sperr54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that graphically, this game is great. It has the ability make all the items and characters 
 look good while, not losing too much to the overall geometry. It has a nice amount of game play 
 if you play it on psychotic, where after los muertos, it becomes increasingly difficult if you 
 have not worked on your skills before moving on to the next gang. For the sound, it has a great 
 ability to deal with noise, providing far away gun fire to sound almost as ambient noise. The overall 
 gun fire is standard for any game in the shooter category, which makes it hard for me to mark down 
 on this because the sounds have become so standard. The only true qualm I have for the game are 
 the camera angles, it can become quite cumbersome when trying to jump and move around buildings. 
 I have to say that I was almost expecting a GTA type game, but came away with a new view. It will 
 play a little like it, but you will strive to move up the skill level, while being able to play 
 with a friend on co-op mode. Its main hindrance is the length of game play as well as the camera 
 angles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Free game with Halo 3 beta? Not quite...
  GTA clone? No...
  Very cool freeroam game with superpowers? Yes, oh my yes.... Crackdown isn't a ''gta clone'', though 
 they share the same basic freeroam game style, they are two different games. Crackdown is a sci-fi 
 shooting game with some platforming elements and a cool game style that adds replay value. It's 
 like Grand Theft Auto and Spiderman 2 combined, but with badass genetically enchanced super agents 
 trained to leap tall buildings in a single bound. It's simple pleasure, who dosen't love driving 
 recklessly, watching bodies fly from the top of skyscrapers and just plain blowing s**t up?
  
  Granted, the storyline is lacking, the missions are linear, and besides the races and the orb 
 collecting, there isn't much to do. But we aren't so evolved, so high class, that we can't enjoy 
 blowing up stuff to look tough.
  
  My only complaint is the lack of depth, there are very few story missions and there are only about 
 twenty-one bosses in the game. But if you are as hell-bent on getting every last agility orb, every 
 last hidden orb, and most of the achievements as I am, you'll have a game to keep you busy until 
 Halo 3 comes out.
  
  Speaking of Halo 3, this game rocks by default for having the Halo 3 beta on the first release 
 copies of the game, which is good for us Halo fans that weren't one of the ones picked in the first 
 two programs. Charlie's Golden Ticket anyone?
  
  I give Crackdown an 8.9 out of 10.0 and call it Ambitious because even though GTA is a well established 
 franchise, Crackdown may just be a worthy competitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreDREb13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a game that really is unnapreciated. The Halo 3 Beta seemed like it was the only thing 
 going for it. Well Halo fans, take that disc and use it for the next couple of months. This game 
 should be able to tide you over for a LONG time.
  
  The graphics, though cartoonish, are still very creative. The realism of the graphics might not 
 be there, but it doesn't mean it's not as fun. The style of the graphics make the gameplay even 
 MORE fun.
  
  The gameplay is the best part of the game. Running around the city and jumping 30 feet in the air 
 has never been more fun. Driving, shooting, etc. It's all there, and it's all fun. It seems very 
 natural to reload, throw grenades, switch weapons, drive, and other stuff. Gameplay is the best 
 part of the game.
  
  The sound delivers like it should. All weapons have their own individual sound. All cars have their 
 own engines and screeches. Often times it gets annoying listening to gang members saying DIE! or 
 TIME TO MEET YOUR DOOM! or something such as that. Otherwise it's still all good. Sometimes the 
 Spectator will repeat things that you've already heard time and time again. Still, the sound delivers 
 as well.
  
  All in all this game has really changed how I look at these GTA type games. Most of them are never 
 great, but this one seemed to make it feel like it's own new series. It's what it was all along 
 but most of those games make you feel like they're rip-off's of GTA. Crackdown is a great game 
 to come free with the Halo 3 Beta. Even if they don't have the beta in it, I recommend buying this 
 game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  NEXT GENERATION: This is by far the most fun I've had with any sand-box, free roam style game ever. 
 GTA was boring to me, and Saint's Row was cool for expanding on the GTA formula, but this, this 
 is truly in it's own league. From building hopping to lifting buses above your head, this game 
 makes you feel all-powerful in so many ways.
  
  THE GOOD: The Graphics are actually really, really cool. Explosions look incredible, yes, but it's 
 not just that. The art style involved in the graphics, from the cross-breeding of normal CG and 
 cel-shaded CG is very cool. The sheer size of everything in this game is probably its highest point. 
 Not only are each of the three gang districts multiple islands, but the time you'll spend just 
 on the first island when you begin playing is just awe inspiring. It's not just the acres of land 
 either, it's the fifty to two-hundred story building that you can climb to the top of, basically 
 squaring the amount of area in this massive game. Gameplay is solid too, leaving you to shoot in 
 third-person, or using the games lock-on feature to take enemies out accurately from arms to torso 
 to legs to head.
  
  THE BAD: While the game is very huge, once you complete the main point of the game, killing off 
 all the gangs and their generals, you feel as if the game were over. The lack of supporting content 
 is really just too bad, because this is one hell of a fun game. The game really isn't that hard, 
 and after fighting the first to gangs, the steep change in difficulty into the last gang is a bit 
 stunning at first, but you grow into even more of a killing machine quick and finish them with 
 no problem. The point of vehicles is almost never addressed, making that aspect of the game feel 
 empty and useless.
  
  REVIEW: I've played GTA. I've played Saints Row. While both are essentially the same game, the 
 only other sand-box I played that I liked was Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, which I also liked. If 
 you've played both GTA and Hulk, you'll know exactly whats going on in Crackdown. The amazing abilities 
 you have are very reminiscent of the Hulk game, while the city environment and gangs feel just 
 like GTA. All in all, this is one fun and exciting game, so long as you play it for fun. If you're 
 one of those gamers who gets a game, rushes through the story as fast as possible, then finds other 
 things to do in the game, you might just want to rent this. The story is short, and takes roughly 
 12 hours to beat. While that sounds like a while, it can be knocked out even faster if all your 
 doing is killing gang generals left and right instead of exploring. The gameplay is actually really 
 good and easy to pick up and play, while becoming really talented at certain tasks takes time and 
 effort. The whole over the top feel of the game really accents its graphical style. Aside from 
 the graphics, the fact that you can stand on a tall building and see everything as far as the eye 
 can see is also truely incredible, especially since there's no fog blocking anything. The shear 
 amount of people in the streets is also impressive, but they lack... substance. Civilians in GTA 
 or Saints Row are very expressive and really fun to listen to, but he most you'll get out of Crackdown 
 is the occasional thumbs up and a short comment like We love you! Vehicles in the game are also 
 lacking, and you'll be seeing the same seven or eight cars the whole time, just in different colors, 
 then again, this games wasn't made to be driven in. I really wanted to love this game. It had so 
 much potential, but in the end, it becomes an overly simple experience with a high amount of fun 
 to blow the whole thing up bigger than it really was. Some more missions, that's all we ask. Give 
 us something to do other than kill random gang bangers. Hopefully the downloadable content announced 
 will add more life to the game, otherwise it's simply an addition to the GTA sand-box style collection.
 
  
  ***SCORE***
  If you bought the special Halo 3 Beta Invitation version of Crackdown, the Value attribute score 
 is increased to a 10, making the overall score an
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myrmidon_x
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I've noticed a lot of negative feelings towards this game. People see that it comes with the Halo 
 3 beta and assume that it must be unable to sell on it's own. Let me clarify a point right now- 
 It 's not.
  
  Gameplay- This game plays very well. It has very few framerate drops even when displaying hundreds 
 of NPCs on screen at once. The weapons are unique and fun to use, as are the wide variety of cars. 
 The gangs aren't particularly creative but they do provide a very enjoyable challenge. If you are 
 willing to give this game a chance, you will find yourself glued to it for hours.
  
  Graphics- Alright, this is no GOW, but to be fair it's not trying to be. The graphics in this game 
 are meant to appear more artistic and, for lack of a better word, cartoonish. It still pulls off 
 the effect marvelously. The environments look stunning in this game, particularly looking down 
 from the top of the Agency Building.
  
  Sound- Nothing noteworthy about the sound really. There are no flaws with it either.
  
  Value- 
 This is shorter than a game should be. It's about the same length as Gears depending on what difficulty 
 you play with. Please play on the hardest difficulty before you criticize the game's length! Online 
 co-op, time trials, and races all help to draw out this game's length, making well worth the money 
 in the end.
  
  Tilt- I can see myself playing this with friends online for a long time to come.
  
  If you're 
 just buying this game for the Halo 3 beta, you may be surprised to learn how much you end up enjoying 
 it. If you let this game pass you by, you're truly missing out. If you're just unsure, go ahead 
 and rent it. That's my 2 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertoast_GT
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  An amazing take on the free roaming action shooter/driving genre, That's Crackdown for the Xbox 
 360. In Crackdown, you'll play an Agent from... The Agency..... ok, well that does sound pretty 
 vague and redundant... Well anyway, The nation's capital, Pacific city, is overrun with crime and 
 three gangs, Los Muertos (The Dead) , Volk (The Wolf) , and the Shai Gen, wage war on the streets 
 throughout the city. All policing have failed to stop the gangs. and You as the Agent are a volunteer 
 guinea pig for a project to build a powerfull agent, with the strength of a steroid induced olympic 
 champion, The weapon skills of Dick Chaney, and the speed of a...... well, actually, he isn't that 
 fast... Anyway It's a little slow to start things up, you can't really lift alot or jump that high 
 and what not, but once you progress your skills, you'll be flying across town Hulk style, Jumping 
 from rooftopto rooftop, throwing cars, blowing stuff up, and just living it up.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  The graphics in crackdown are unbeatable for this genre. The draw distance 
 is perfect. If you find a tall enough building, or The Keep (the Agency tower) You can see every 
 nook and cranny of Pacific city. The environment looks great and the framerate is high, and stays 
 high, Unless Havok (The physics engine in the game) is overworking the CPU, say during an explosion 
 with alot of of movable objects.
  
  Audio: 8
  
  The Audio in Crackdown is very well done, though you won't nitice it with a little mono speaker 
 tv... The explosions are deep and loud as thunder, The car sound FX are better than any in it's 
 genre. The sould is great, but ths Music?... not so much.... It's mostly Hispanic, and none of 
 it is real, licenced music. And the games announcer is just plain annoying He constantly tells 
 you things you already know, or gives false information. If you buy Crackdown, do yourself a favor 
 and turn the voice and music down to zero... Don't worry, you still hear everything, the only thing 
 you don't hear is the announcer, and in-car radio.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Crackdown is an awesome gameplay expiriance, One thing that I personally like better than GTA or 
 Saint's Row (though I love both of them too...) is how you play. You don't have to follow a story, 
 or do a mission a certain way. Your not forced into annoying time limits, Your not forced into 
 impossible races, or having to give people rides to fifty places within two seconds... That stuff 
 always drove me crazy... In crackdown, you take these gangs out how YOU want to. You can take the 
 safe route like me, and take out all of the gang generals and then the leader, or you can take 
 the hard route and head strait for the head honcho. And the edition of co-op through the entire 
 campain is awesome. But that leads to a problem or two... I was informed by intervies, TV, friends 
 and such that co-op was seamless. You could be playing, and someone would request to join, and 
 they'd simply be in there with you. But instead, you have to stop what you are doing, and RELOAD 
 your game in co-op mode. and when that player leaves, you have to stop again, and restart the game 
 entirely... That's pretty annoying. and even after the patch was released to address co-op lag, 
 If your friend has a slow internet connection YOU pay for it... That's right, the host of the game 
 gets lag because of a friend's bad connection... Iv'e noticed this because One freind joined with 
 a Fiber optic connection and no lag was present. Another friend joined with Sattelite internet... 
 It was barely playable. I gave Gamelpey a 9 instead of a 10 for these reasons. Don't let that stop 
 you from buying Crackdown, It is still an amazing game. Even with the issues Co-op is an overdue 
 addition to this genre... Ever since GTA 3, wev'e all wanted it...
  
  If you get a copy with the sacred marking of Halo 3 on the fron't, you also have a little extra 
 chunk of gaming heaven. Sometime this spring, you will have acces to the Halo 3 Beta program. My 
 sources say it will be some time in April. You will need your Crackdown disc to play it. and the 
 Program won't be running forever. Once the beta time has expired, you won't be able to play the 
 beta anymore. Iv'e heard alot of people have been buying this just for the Beta... It's not worth 
 spending 60 smackers over... I hope that all of you who bought this just for the beta will actually 
 play this game and see how great it really is...
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  
  9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  after a hearty review i think i have misjudged this game. its really actually fun. isn't as polished 
 as the gta series but it has its moments... the explosions and the aiming features really add to 
 the uniqueness of the game. there are times when you can blow something up and while its in the 
 air, or you're in the air, you are still able to load it with bullets. as far as the game mechanics 
 the vehicles controll real well and the difficulty rises with each boss member that you happen 
 to eliminate. following boss rank makes it a bit easier but not by much. its recomended that you 
 eliminate them by rank order than to skip through and kill the head man before his generals. a 
 real escape from everything else... good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcvt
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When I downloaded Crackdown when its demo was released, I couldn't get enough. Now that I have 
 it, and played it a couple of hours, it has me wanting more things to do. It still is a blast to 
 play the game. The thing that has many of us liking it is that it forces us to explore the environment 
 searching for those green and blue orbs. I have it on the psycho level. I did this for one reason 
 only. In many games that has one sole purpose things get lame after awhile so to prevent bordom 
 I typically set it on max setting. The thing I don't like is that the max settings has thousands 
 of gang members. I think the number should have been something more resonable. Instead of a large 
 quantity I would have prefered more tougher opponents to eliminate. I know that the developers 
 where pressed for time. The game release date kept getting pushed back. Wasn't the game supposed 
 to come out last year?
  
  If there is a Crackdown 2 maybe Real Time Worlds should have these type of missions to make the 
 game more appealing:
  
  1) Have the agent protect protected witnesses on there way to court.
  2) Intercept drug shipments.
 
  3) Retrieve gang members that have escaped from prision
  4) Find and arrest judges that secretly work for gangs.
  5) Eliminate dirty cops and businessmen
 
  6) Find and destroy drug houses
  7) Have him find missing persons, gangs do kidnap people.
  8) Stop gang wars.
  
  The lame 
 announcer could be the one to deliver these to the agent. At least it would. His main quest still 
 could be to eliminate the gang lords, but it would have been nice to give him something to do from 
 time to time.
  
  The agent needs more of a human touch. He seemed too artifical. I think the reason many of us like 
 games such as Halo and Splinter is that the character talk and have a personality. The Agents don't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The story is complete crap, almost making the game feel like a MMO and the the game's overall structure 
 is kinda off but there is so many good things about this game that make it outshine a lot of other 
 sand-box, games out there. One of the best aspects of this game is the fact that it's not restricted 
 to only the streets. Besides Hulk Ultimate Destruction and the Spiderman games, Crackdown takes 
 that revolutionary step towards the ultimate urban playscape. I love the fact that I can scale 
 buildings and then jump across and pick off the opposition before they even have the chance to 
 react. The graphics are appropiate to the games overall sotry line and build. It's set up for a 
 super hero/comic setting so the heavy outline of the characters, textures, and city set up is acceptable 
 (think XII) . Oh a HDTV, this game is gorgeous. The soundtrack stinks in my opinion but thanks to 
 the 360 dashboard, you can listen to your own music. Another win for 360 against the PS3! You could 
 probably finish it in about 10-15 hours depending on how determined you are towards leveling your 
 skills. Skills are set up in 5 different categories, athletics, driving, explosives, strength, 
 and marksman. The more you use that ability, the more it goes up (think Oblivion) . Eventually, 
 you'll want to level everything up but for the most part you can build a charater to your play 
 style which is nice as well. The game is split up into 3 different gangs that you must eliminate. 
 Once you take out the leader and kill off all the generals, you'll never see that particular gang 
 again. It's kinda like Saint's Row but at least in that game you had the cops to play with. You 
 can go rouge and kill civilians but then your skills start to decrease so it's not really advised 
 to go crazy. Once you beat the game, an option will become available at the main menu that will 
 allow you to turn gang activity back on. You get a variety of weapons that you choose from and 
 once you take them to a supply point located throughout the city, you can always go back and get 
 that weapon. It's a great game to set your own personal goals and it makes the game a lot longer. 
 I easily spent an hour trying to topple the highest building in the game. Overall, I think it's 
 a great game to add to your 360 library. I didn't even touch base on the co-op but I imagine wasting 
 gangs with a friend would be just as good. I hope this review helps in your decision to get this 
 awesome game.-CT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is made by Real Time Worlds, which is a development house started by the man who created 
 GTA. This is the first game released from them and surprise, the basic design is very similar to 
 that of GTA. The open-world genre has been really taking off lately, and what makes Crackdown stand 
 out is its absolutely fantastic, vertical environment and, of course, the inclusion of coop play. 
 Let's see how the game turned out.
  
  The game starts off with a movie that sets the scene for all that has gone wrong in Pacific City 
 and how you, a genetically altered superagent, is the answer to it's problems. The story from their 
 is sparse and doesn't get much better by the time you're through. The bosses are all unique, interesting 
 and colorful in design, but the same can't be said when you face them in combat, with only the 
 size of their healthbar distinguishing them from a common street thug. I had heard RTW was having 
 some initial trouble with their AI, and had to license third party technology to solve the problem, 
 so that may account for why they didn't want to undertake the task of programming for superhuman 
 bad guys. Still, the game quickly becomes repetitive with only one type of enemy, and so it just 
 feels like a missed oppurtunity. Their is a second type of enemy in the game, but their impact 
 is very minimal.
  
  Where the game shines though is in the map design, as it is an absolute joy to explore. The platforming 
 element in this game is first rate, and those orbs are very addicting. The RPG aspect of leveling 
 up works very well, if not a bit slow in the full version. The problem with the game is that leveling 
 up to four stars in the game takes A LOT of orbs and work, so playing through the game a second 
 time isn't something most people are going to want to do. The game also does the action very well. 
 The gunplay and explosions are fun and interesting, and allow for some very satisfying gameplay. 
 Alot of this is due to the technical brilliance of Crackdown. The game open-world design has never 
 been so seamless, the draw distances never greater, and it is all held together by a silky smooth 
 framerate. It's ironic that this game was criticized for it's graphics, and it ends up being such 
 a strength in the end. Going to the top of the agency tower for one provides a breathtaking vista. 
 This is one of the top titles graphically for the 360.
  
  The other technology, like physics and sound, are also done very well. The game puts the 360's 
 upgraded memory to good use, and so there is always a good amount characters and objects on screen. 
 The sound for the guns and other effects is also done very well, but the custom music is a weakness.
 
  
  Replay value is where the game hurts though. It's like the developers designed a great map for 
 characters to interact with and explore, and then just decided that we would find our own things 
 to do with it. This just feels like another huge missed opportunity. I mean, imagine some of the 
 creative missions they could have implemented had the developers chosen to do so. Something involving 
 rival genetically advanced criminals would certaintly have been nice. Even some standard find and 
 retreive, escort, chase, or go destroy this type missions would have been fun. Creating a multiplayer 
 focused game, especially one that that is hinged on coop, needs to be backed by a strong single 
 player game. So Crackdown just feels like an unfinished game. What the game does right, it does 
 really right, but there is also a lot of missed opportunity. They built an absolutely fantastic 
 map for people to play around in, but then just decided that people would figure out on their own 
 what to do with it. Couple that with the underwhelming story and bosses, and you end up with a 
 good, solid core experience that could've been a great one if they had added some depth. That's 
 why I recommend you rent before you buy, as the experience is over far too soon for those not in 
 love with the coop, and not as replayable as I'd initially hoped. However, the still high score 
 I give the game is a testament to just how enjoyable the core gaming experiene is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandlerr_360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let's start by saying that Crackdown is definitely not a story driven game. You are 
 dropped into a city infested with crime, drugs, and some crazy mutated human beings... but fortunately 
 for you, you have some super human powers to crackdown on crime. There are three gangs occupying 
 three separate parts of the city, which is titled Pacific City . There are the Los Muertos, Volk, 
 and Shai-Gen. Each gang has gang members to beat up on roaming around the streets, and gang leaders 
 that you must take out one by one. When each gang leader is dealt with appropriately, you will 
 move on to fight the gang kingpin.
  
  Basically, after you beat the main story and kill off all of the gangs, all there really is to 
 do is find agility orbs. But that is where Co-Op multiplayer comes in. There are hours upon hours 
 of fun to be had in Co-Op, simply just messing around. Whether it is blowing up massive piles of 
 cars, trying to climb buildings, racing, or round-house kicking each other in the face, Co-Op is 
 simply brilliant in this game. And truly, that is where the real fun comes in... just messing around. 
 Even though Co-Op over Xbox Live sure is great, I can't help but wish that the developers could 
 have added some Splitscreen Co-Op in the game. Also, for the people who are privileged enough to 
 own digital video camera's or capture card's, there is definitely a ton of opportunity in this 
 game for some great and funny gameplay videos. When all is said and done, Crackdown is not visually 
 astounding, or does it really have a amazing epic story, but it sure is fun. Is it worth the $60.00 
 price tag? Well, yes it is, and when you factor in the Halo 3 Beta invitation (if you are lucky 
 enough to get one) than it is worth even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guru-Nator
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  You've probably heard how short this game is, and how it could do with a story. Those criticisms 
 are accurate, but the game is still great fun to play.
  
  Has there ever been a game like Crackdown before? A game that let's you jump 20 metres into the 
 air, blast your way through hundreds of gangsters with a rocket launcher and a machine gun, climb 
 through a city that has been built as well vertically as it is at ground level, and then do all 
 of that with a friend in co-op (or just fight each other!) ? Not that I can remember. As shallow 
 as it is, it's just far too fun for any open-worlded-genre fan to pass by. If you're not sure, 
 then it's definitely worth a rent to help you decide.
  
  Now that you're heard it's good points, you should know about the bad. As mentioned before, the 
 game is short. 21 Crime Lords may sound like a lot, but you could blast through them in 8 hours 
 if you played non-stop, doing nothing but taking them out. But if you took your time and levelled 
 up all of your skills, collected all of the orbs and spent some time killing other players in co-op, 
 then the game will last much longer.
  
  One more thing is the graphics; they look superb. Not superb as in realistic, like in Gears of 
 War or Half-Life 2, they just look great with the game. You'll notice cel shading, which gives 
 a slightly cartoony look without giving any cartoony feel. That's not to say it looks like a comic 
 book, everything is properly textured and shaded in a way that adds to the feel of the game and 
 looks great.
  
  I've now said everything there is to be said, and I would highly recommend this game to any fan 
 of open-world or shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunnystarz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Excellent Modified formula of GTA w/ that xtreme use of gravity, and physique, nothing 
 bad about the gameplay, if u like that high violence in games, well, this is one of those, it's 
 not very bloody though (like GOW) u wont see any limbs flying off. Graphic: Some ppl will love 
 it or hate it, I hate it, it's like zelda wind waker, but with much more red coloring for blood
 
  
  Sound: nothing really amazing about the sd track
  
  Value: The core of the game is not amazing, but numbers of things for u to do is endless
  
 
  Overall, it's more of an evolution of this type of genre than a revolution, I kinda expect more 
 from original's founder of GTA, but it's still very fun nonthless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is great it some ways, incredibly frustrating in others. Jumping is fun, 
 I've played this game for hours &amp; jumping around, collecting orbs hasent gotten old, it's mindlessly 
 entertaining. Shooting isent bad, but your pretty much forced to use the auto aim, the free aim 
 is pretty dang usless. The guns are good &amp; bad, most of the machine guns arent even worth a 
 single try, mainley because there mostly the same, but there are some that stick out, theres a 
 gernade launcher, a rocket launcher &amp; a lock on rocket launcher, all of which basically have 
 the same explosive outcome but are all uniquly fired, theres actually a decentley large aresenal 
 but you'll pretty much be using one of the previous mentioned anyways. Hand-to-hand combat is ok, 
 if you've played gta before it's the exact same thing except with super powers, plus you can do 
 a jump kick. Throwing stuff around is pretty fun for the most part, but unless your enemies are 
 all lined up well it's not very effective. Ok this is by far my least favorite: Driving, I hate 
 it, I worked on lv up my skill in it today &amp; it was a dreadful experiance, main reasons I don't 
 like are because it's hard to handle, unlike games like gta were you can race down the street &amp; 
 hit the break in turn on a dime, instead you have to slow down before taking the turn -- I understand 
 this is more realistic, but in a game with super heros, with super powers &amp; in the future, 
 I don't see why they took the more fun route, they did with nearley everything else. 8/10
  
  Graphics: Personally I don't see nothing to special about the graphics, the outline stuff looks 
 neat, but nothing in the game has made me go wow, physics are pretty good, but still nothing we 
 havent seen before. 7/10
  
  Sound: Sound isent good, the gun &amp; explosion sounds are fine, but the voice work lacks, there 
 is pretty much only one voice actor you need to pay attention to, &amp; hes wrong lots of the time, 
 idk how many times he's said look at the view up here or I can see my house from here while I was 
 at sea level or inside a building... Another thing I dislike is the gangs script, most of what 
 they say is cliche, &amp; not very interesting, at least in GTA or Saints Row when someone isulted 
 me it might be funny or something... 7/10
  
  Value: Well, there really isent too much to do in the game, I was interested in the single player, 
 then it just ended, &amp; then I almost instantly lost interest, I'm probebly going to go achivment 
 hunting sometime though, but the only time I'll probebly ever really play it again is if I get 
 some to co-op with online... I'll give a few more details, all you can do in the game is hunt crime 
 bosses, do rooftop races (against clock) , car races (against clock) , hidden orb hunting &amp; agility 
 orb hunting, also there isent much in building depth, mostley all you do is climb buildings, like 
 1 in 30 buildings you can go into, &amp; well, non of them have interested me yet... 7/10
  
  Tilt: I liked this game, even though in a technical sense it's probebly one of the worst games 
 I've played on the 360, let alone bought, it's still enjoyable. But to be honest the game has no 
 soul, nothing in it I'll really remember about, it's a good bit of fun, but nothing special that'll 
 have some impact on the way I view gaming... 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor86
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I am finicky with my game selection. One of the most important features in a game for me is the 
 story. Here, we have Crackdown. Crackdown is a game that is very light on story, but high in explosions. 
 But, the action in this game is such a fun, visceral experience that lacking a story isn't such 
 a big deal. I am judging this game as free-roaming beat-em up. Your goal is simple; kill bad guys 
 in any way that you see fit ,and collect orbs. It is better that this game has virtually no story 
 than to have a bad story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned_Noob
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  In the game crackdown you play as a cop and you go around killing gangs and the bosses (their are 
 21 of them) . Their are 3 gangs each on every island. The map is pretty big and their are a few ways 
 to get around, running, driving, jumping from building to building and thats about it. Their are skills 
 that you level up in like firearms, agility, driving etc. And the higher your skills the more you 
 can do. Also jumping from building to building is pretty cool. And throwing people off of the building 
 (Lol) In conclusion i think crackdown is very addicting... like crack... i gues thats why they call 
 it crackdown but i think it is totaly worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelsonminator
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game the good side of Grand Theft Auto and Saints Row, but it needs a few of its flaws removed 
 and add a lot more of side missions, more agency equipment, a bigger and longer skill meter, more 
 logic gameplay ( EX. there are a lot of enemy weapons warehouses but non of them are heavily guarded) 
 it needs stealth tactics and attacks (thats another tool to have fun and agility to enhance) and 
 the characters appearence should change as his abilities grow so it will give the players an extra 
 confirmation that the character is evolving ( It looks really cool everytime he reaches 100% on 
 the skill meeter) . it needs an optional interactive score , that players can turn on/off as they 
 like that wont replace the vehicle radio music and be released for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I paid little attention to Crackdown till the demo came out. Everything I read about the game, 
 always included a comparison to the GTA series. I really dislike the GTA series and did not care 
 for Saint Row one bit. Even the Godfather (of which I own) did not do anything for me. If this 
 game was in the same genre, then I was going to ignore it. I downloaded the demo anyways because 
 I download all the demos. After 30 minutes of the demo, I was hooked.
  
  Personally I found that Crackdown does not play like GTA or any other sandbox game that it has 
 been compared to. I really like the fact that your skills level as you use them, this allows you 
 to play your style of game. I am more of a hand-to-hand type of guy, and I am rewarded in this 
 game by having a character that totaly kick butt. My shooting skills are not great, but this OK 
 as my bombing skills are maxed. I will play again once completed, using shooting skills. About 
 the only skill you have to max is agility as it is required to get to some harder to reach location 
 (although I am sure there are alternate routes I have not found yet.
  
  The graphics is Crackdown are amazing. The cell shading gives it this great comic book feel, but 
 I can tell you. playing on an HD projector and 106 screen, that when running from rooftop to rooftop, 
 the graphics will blow you away (as will the bad guys) .
  
  Crackdown is not perfect. I found the game a little short, but replay factor will offset that fact. 
 If you do not want to purchase Crackdown, then rent it, or borrow it from a friend, but either 
 way, do not miss playing this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorj
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Pacific City, home to three major gangs, Los Muertos, Volk, and Shai-Gen. Los Muertos is easiest, 
 Volk is medium, and Shai-Gen are a little bit harder than the Volk. This game isn't based about 
 traversing the city horizontally, but also vertically. You enter the Agency SUV and sail through 
 the air, landing onto a building and driving up it's walls using it's suction ability. When you 
 reach the roof, you're only 3 stories high, and a skyscraper is right in front of you, with the 
 Shai-Gen Kingpin, Wang, on the roof. With you're superhuman abilities, you're able to get to the 
 top of many skyscrapers, getting up there by jumping 30 feet at a time. When you reach the rooftop, 
 you throw just one grenade, taking out almost all of the thugs guarding Wang. You quickly take 
 the rest out with you're fists. Wang tries to get away but you get off a quick headshot from over 
 50 feet away. This is the world of Crackdown. A game with awesome graphics, some pretty amazing 
 features, but a lack of replay value. The leveling system has 5 skills; Agility, Strength, Explosives, 
 Driving, and Firearms. Each has their own ways of leveling up and their own distinct features that 
 make you a force to be reckoned with. Before I start my review, I would just like to make my point 
 about the replay value in this game. When you beat all of the gangs and max your'e skills, there 
 is almost nothing to do except turn on Random Crimes and beat up people. For me, I was all like, 
 That's cool, I'm gonna go kill some foolish Los Muertos! So I went to kill some helpless Los Muertos 
 and got bored. Went to Volk and beat 'em up. Boring. Shai-Gen, fun for almost fifteen minutes but 
 then, you get bored and there is nothing to do. What do you do know? Hopefully, you keep it until 
 the Halo 3 Beta and then return it. But, if you rented it, that was a very good decision. I didn't 
 buy it, but I rented it on GameFly. I can tell that after only 17 hours of recieving it in the 
 mail, I am bored out of my mind. So, for people who bought it, you should be ashamed and go kill 
 yourself. No, only kidding, but if you bought it, you should return it if you are not interested 
 in the Halo 3 Beta and if you are going to buy it, make sure you spend the extra five dollars on 
 warranty and return it once you beat it. I'm glad I didn't buy it. That is my opinion on the purchasing 
 on Crackdown. OK, so I'm done with that, now about the leveling system. When you enter the world 
 of Crackdown, you are a puny, weak superhuman. OK, not that weak and puny but not at all as good 
 as you get when you level up all of you're skills to level 4. We'll start with agility. When you 
 start off at level one, you jump at the highest, 10 feet. Very, very pathetic. So, when you upgrade 
 you're athletics to level 2, you can jump 15 feet into the air above. When you level up to level 
 2, there is a major difference in the feeling of jumping. At level 3, you jump up to 20 feet above 
 the streets. Level 4, 25 feet. Level 5, 30 feet and you can run faster than the best track runner 
 in the real world. Level 5 is the highest level but you can still gain agility points, but just 
 not level up, that also goes as all of the other skills. Step into the driver's seat of an Agency 
 car from The Keep's garage and you'll reveal an awesome feature in this game: the morphing cars. 
 As you level up you're skills in cars, you handle cars better and the Agency cars evolve into monsterous 
 machines. At level 1, you're cars are very sloppy at driving and dont look so cool. When you level 
 up once, the cars get a teeny little bit better at handling and start to look a lot cooler. At 
 level 2, same thing. At level 3, also same thing. Level 4, same. Level 5, you get as good as you 
 can get with driving. You're handling is perfect. You can turn around corners perfectly and can 
 control most cars in the air. As in controlling cars in the air, with it, you can do backflips, 
 frontflips, and barrel rolls. You also get Driving points for doing tricks and doing long jumps. 
 Most cas on the street are OK to drive but I would recommend the Agency cars. Out of the Agency 
 cars, I would recommend the Agency SUV. The SUV looks like a huge monster truck. At level 5, it 
 can jump and stick onto walls (with the SUV, when you stick to walls, it was originally a glitch 
 and when Realtime Worlds found out about it, they made it a feature. Pretty awesome right?!) . With 
 the Supercar, it looks like the BatMobile and shoots machine guns out of the sides of the cars, 
 destroying everything in it's wake. As with the Truck Cab, I can't explain the look, but it looks 
 like a big Mac Truck with a long 'nose'. It's special ability is boost. It can launch the Truck 
 Cab up to 200 mph. With that speed, it literally goes through cars. So, there are three types of 
 Agency cars; one that goes under cars and objects, one that goes through, and one that goes over. 
 Strength. Same with everything else. You slowly get more powerful, buff, can lift heavier stuff. 
 When you reach level 2, you can lift objects that just weigh over 1 ton. At level 3, you can lift 
 objects weighing about 2 tons. Level 4, 3 tons. At every increase of levels, you get more and more 
 buff. At level 5, you can lift objects weighing just about 4 tons and every punch, kick, and jab 
 you throw at gang members are usually a one-hit kill. There's basically nothing to talk about strength 
 because all you do is get more buff and lift heavier stuff and throw harder punches and kicks. 
 Explosives is by far my favorite skill to level. My adrenaline gets pumped when I'm blowing stuff 
 up with my grenade-launcher and heat-seeking rocket launcher combo with my shrapnel grenades. As 
 you level up you're explosive skill, the explosive radius increases each time and reaches up to 
 about 50 feet. When you reach level 5, it'll probably be you're favorite skill, as it is mine. 
 The explosions also sound and look cool. My least favorite skill: firearms. The reason this is 
 my least favorite skill is because it levels so slowly. When you kill someone, even on level 1, 
 you don't even gain one point. It angers me how slowly as I am not very patient. But, when you 
 get firearms to level 5, you almost instantly lock on to someone's head who is about 100 feet away 
 and a one-hit-wonder shot awaits. So, yeah, every level you get better and better at locking onto 
 objects. I would give Crackdown an 8.9 but my ratings about the attributes beg to differ. Overall, 
 it's a fantastic game, but with no replay value what so ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a cool run and gun type of game. It is an open world that allows you go where ever 
 you want and practically cause chaos in the name of the law. You get to waste gangs and some pesty 
 civilians that always seems to get in the way of your enforcement. My only problem with the game 
 is that it is too short. Once your character Hulks Out , the game becomes pretty much a breeze. 
 But I dont really mind because me like blowing things up!! Boom! I only thing I wish they included 
 in the game was a multiplayer deathmatch. I think it would had been cool to go at it with other 
 players with the city being our playground of destruction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakaweb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game to play. The next gen graphics along with the abilities of the main characters 
 are cool. Yes it is derived from the GTA legacy but it is still interesting and has original game 
 play. The three dimensional world is very cool, climbing and jumping up building is well done. 
 It is not very difficult to play and accomplish goals but this is ok for me. I don't always want 
 to sweat and get frustrated playing video games. Sometimes just exploring and interacting with 
 the envriontment as I progress is what I like. Definitely a must have fun game for the collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Crackdown Is a Great Open World Game For The 360. It has that Grand Theft Auto feel but this time 
 your the Cop Which is wicked Fun. The Basic Objective is to Help a crime Infested city and Restore 
 peace and order. The Agency you work for is called The Agency ( I am Not Kidding) You can also 
 earn atribbute Points for Agility, Jumping and Health. You can also play this game on XBOX live 
 Were you can complete Missions toghether which boosts Productivity. The One down of this game is 
 your chiefs voice going off all the time Like, You will be in a basement and he will say nice view 
 Huh . And he will be incorrect most of the time. But In overall Perspective Crackdown Is a Very 
 Fun Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great Large City To Explore, Cool Abilities and Vehicles, Great Gameplay, Lots of Explosions, Just 
 Plain Fun.
  
  The Bad: Story is Lacking, Civilians Get In Your way When Driving, Side Challenges are Not Exactly 
 Fun, Game's Kinda Easy.
  
  Crackdown is a great new addition to the Xbox 360 lineup and great game altogether.
  
  Gameplay: 
 You get to explore a large city all the while taking the three gangs that have broken the city 
 and taken it over. Playing as a super powered agent that gets stronger, faster, able to jump incredibly 
 high, and drive awesome cars that transform make the game great. The whole jumping across rooftops 
 in the city is a lot more fun then driving.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics fit the game very well. The whole city is very cool and entices to explore 
 it, from the highest buildings to the interiors of others. The graphics are superb.
  
  Sound: Some nice sounds, especially explosions. However, the narrator can get annoying after a 
 while.
  
  Crackdown is a great game and should appeal to a lot of gamers. It' s very addictive to play and 
 keeps you going. You should definitely pick this one up. It also has the Halo 3 Multiplayer Beta 
 Invitation (Only pre-orders and specially marked packages) which will occur sometime in the spring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatebugers
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  When I first played the demo, I was excited for this game. I started to think about all the times 
 I've went on the boards saying Crackdown, why all the hype? and then second guessing it. I thought 
 that maybe it would live up to the supposed hype. Now usually, I wait at least a week before writing 
 a review, but for Crackdown, it wasn't necessary. Why? Well because the game gets old after 3 hours.
 
  The game is set in a NYC type of city (where the city is actually several islands) called Pacific 
 City, and somewhere down the line, gangs took over the entire town. You come in as part of the 
 agency, an elite policing force dedicated to Cracking down (get it?) on Pacific City. There is 
 one catch, you are The Incredible Hulk with a better wardrobe.
  This is where the game has its main strength, because not only are you a superhuman, but you evelvoe 
 as you play. The more you do of one thing, the better you get at it (i. e. stronger, drive better) . 
 For the most part, you have to kill enemies in each fashion to level up, which is true for all 
 of them except for agility. For agility to level up, (which gives you a higher jump, faster running 
 speed, and more health) you need to collect orbs around the city, of which there are 500 of them. 
 However, you can level down if you do too much of a bad thing, like running over innocent people 
 or dying. But usually, the losses are so negligable you probably wouldn't notice unless some one 
 told you.
  While there isn't much to do in the city besides kill gang members, there is a real beauty to climbing 
 huge towers and jumping 50 feet in the air to reach another one. The vertical depthe of the game 
 made each city exponentially bigger. For example, imagine one of the areas in GTA: San Andreas and 
 cut it in thirds, then put the two thirds on top of the first one, and that's basically how the 
 city is arranged.
  The city has three areas, each with their own gang. Altough they may be different with their set 
 weapons, they all follow the same patter of how to gid rid of them. You first have to get rid of 
 the generals, each with their own job inside the gang, in order to lessen the ammount of troops 
 to go after the kingpin.
  While this seems like something to give this game a lot of structure, it makes it horribly repetitive. 
 No boss ever truly feels different from the other, since all you do is mow down 20-30 guys and 
 then fight the boss. Also, the bosses never are a challenge, because the only thing that makes 
 them different from the normal gang members is that he has 6 health bars instead of one.
  Also, you have to capture supply points along the way in order to get full ammo and to enable teleportation 
 between the different points.
  The weapon sit isn't too spectacular either, because once you get the rocket launcher, it's over. 
 All you need to do is retreat to a supply point and you'll be fully stocked, so you almost are 
 playing a game with unlimited ammo.
  The Co-op is pretty much useless, because there's never a challenge one can't do on their own. 
 However, there is a lot of fun to be had. For instance, challenge a friend to basketball with a 
 cop car!
  There's some great ideas for this game, but that's it. It seems like they didn't feel like making 
 a good game to build from those ideas, so they stretched their initial ideas thin in order to make 
 a package for the Halo 3 beta. If you like destruction with no structure, maybe buy it, but you'll 
 regret it once you get through half (maybe all) of it in one sitting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderjack
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I stand amazed. This game has done what no other game has done for me since Morrowind: It has made 
 me stop playing Grand Theft Auto.
  Now, you have to understand; I am a massive Grand Theft Auto nut. I have played endless hours cleansing 
 the streets of the Ballas, knifing random cops, and kicking prostitutes curbside just to watch 
 them bleed. So when I heard that there was a game that would force me to play on the side of the 
 good guys, with cel shaded graphics and some ripped off Incredible Hulk abilities, I laughed so 
 hard that it hurt. I joked around with friends, made fun of the Mr. T esque protagonist, and promised 
 Carl Johnson in a bizarre late night ceremony that he would never leave my disc drive.
  Well sorry CJ, old buddy; I lied to you.
  
  I picked up Crackdown with hopes that it might 
 be halfway decent and maybe keep me occupied until the Halo 3 beta started. The lukewarm reviews 
 that had been coming out for it really were not inspiring any faith (7.8 Im looking at you) , and 
 the whole cop concept just plain bored me. My opinions changed about 60 seconds after I started 
 playing. As my Agency super car raced down the Keeps exit tunnel at 130+ Mph speeds, I felt the 
 hard place in my heart for this game begin to loosen up. And then, 20 minutes later, as I ruthlessly 
 beat gangsters and platformed up the sides of skyscrapers to collect agility orbs, the back of 
 my mind began to say: Hey you cant do this in GTA! And by the time I had played an hour, and was 
 jumping from building to building like a monkey on crack, and hurling dumpsters into Mexican punks, 
 only one phrase was running through my head: This game is f***ing awesome! Simply put, Crackdown 
 beat all of my expectations to a bloody pulp and then threw a burning Semi Truck on them. This 
 game takes the sandbox genre and kicks right in the family jewels with a steel toed boot, including 
 the much hailed (deservedly) GTA series.
  I am dead serious; I dont think I can play GTA again. This game asks the question: How can you 
 go back? After having so much fun with a game that starts you at the top as the most Badass person 
 in the city, how could you go back to being an underdog working your way up? After leaping from 
 building to building and soaring over walls, how could you go back to just running around and driving? 
 After throwing trucks at gangsters and brutally kicking them fifty yards away, how could you go 
 back to just popping fools with a nine? The answer for me is simple: I cant go back. I wont go 
 back. After being freed from the chains that held me, why would I bind myself once more?
  This game has everything I want in an open world game: Awesome destruction, unbelievable graphics, 
 wicked vehicles, crazy weapons, insane powers, fun and innovative multiplayer, the list goes on 
 and on. Dont listen to the Naysayers; if you guys really want deep and meaningful dialogue go 
 read Atlas Shrugged; this is a video game. And to me this is one of the first games to actually 
 be a game in a long time. It gets back to what video games used to be all about: FUN. Do you like 
 fun? Are you tired of the torturous affairs of pretentious dialogue and emotion that many developers 
 have put their focus on? Yeah, me too. You can have fun with this game in a matter of seconds. 
 How long did it really take you in GTA: SA?
  
  The bottom line is this: Crackdown delivers. It takes everything that makes gaming fun and packs 
 into one disc. Like the first part of its name, this game is one addicting experience. The only 
 complaints I can lodge against this otherwise perfect title is that I think the soundtrack needed 
 some tweaking and the big bosses should have been made tougher in order to extend the games length, 
 which is already very substantial.
  And please note: these are minor issues and did nothing to stop this game from being the most fun 
 Ive had in a long time.
  
  If you have a 360, go buy Crackdown. If you dont have a 360 buy one. If you dont have the money 
 then steal from your Grandma. Just do what ever you have to, and get this game! As for my old buddy 
 CJ? Im done with him; we dont even call each other anymore.
  
  I have a new friend, and my friend's name is Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrb2217
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game is a fun and interesting take on the open world GTA style games. Not only does it have 
 a horizontal map but you have the ability to go vertical. This is were it differs from other GTA 
 style games. It's entertaining and the super cop aspect works well and is pretty fun. This game 
 should take the average gamer about 30 minutes to learn without looking at the instruction booklet. 
 The online is pretty fun and it is nice to see a co-op that allows you to play online through the 
 story mode. That is a nice change. Now for the bad, this game could have been so much more. The 
 story line is pretty weak and way too short. There could have been more to it. I think the public 
 has come to expect good music from GTA style games and this game is lacking on that. I'm sure some 
 people will like the music selection, but for me it just wasn't very good. The driving is not quite 
 as good as GTA, but you can enhace that through upgrades in the game, I just might not have enough 
 upgrades to make the driving very good. Overall a good game, I would have given it a 10 if it had 
 more storyline to it and better music but because of that I can't. Worth checking out, if not just 
 for the Halo 3 Beta, but like I said, it could have been more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gihrenzabi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  I'd be lying if I said that my initial interest in Crackdown didn't come from the fact that the 
 Halo 3 Beta key was included. That said, I tried my best to judge the game on its own merits when 
 I downloaded the demo. Paying $60 for access to a Beta which may only last a few weeks puts the 
 capital S in Sucker.
  
  Crackdown's graphics are good, but I don't know if I would truly call them next-gen. Gears of War 
 has really raised the bar in terms of what we have come to expect from the next-gen consoles, so 
 without that Wow! factor it's hard to give a high graphics score to a game nowadays.
  
  The Crackdown graphics won't blow you away by any means, but nor should you find any problems with 
 them. The draw distance is very good, and as you'll be getting onto some very high vantage points 
 it is nice to be able to see the city spread out below you.
  
  Sound is a mixed bag. I am thoroughly unimpressed with the music selections. You only hear them 
 while driving, but honestly I feel like you could do without them at all. The GTA games, most noticeably 
 Vice City, have set a hard standard for other games to follow when it comes to your driving music. 
 I almost feel as though the designers' time might have been better-spent elsewhere than trying 
 to toss in some music in what feels like an afterthought.
  
  The ambient noise of the 'bangers and weapons fire are excellent, however. It's quite amusing to 
 hear your enemies yelling out after you begin your assault, followed by deafening assault weapons 
 fire and then the relative quiet of the background city noise and perhaps some flames crackling.
 
  
  Anyone who has spent a significant amount of time playing GTA III and its two sequels is going 
 to take to Crackdown's driving and shooting mechanics extremely quickly. There's nothing innovative 
 about either of them, but nor does there need to be. The ability to throw grenades without switching 
 weapons a la GTA is nice, but you also only get two weapons and ammo restrictions that certainly 
 can hamstring you in a serious assault on an enemy gang General's position.
  
  I've actually had more fun collecting Agility orbs than shooting bangers so far. The clean up the 
 streets gameplay has been very accurately described as What it is like to have five stars in GTA 
 III all the time. Been there, done that. Crackdown just amps up the level of destruction and the 
 carnage. You can get away with raining rockets down on a busy intersection from a rooftop without 
 getting so much heat pulled down on you by the authorities that you're pretty much assured of getting 
 killed. As a result, however, it can get boring. There's a general element of lack of risk to the 
 combat.
  
  It's the agility and strength of your Agent which is what is most innovative about the game, so 
 perhaps this is why I've found these aspects Crackdown more engrossing so far. You really have 
 to learn how to run and jump well to collect all the Agility orbs, and some of the moves you can 
 make come off as pretty amazing. This is where Crackdown diverges from its GTA roots and sets itself 
 apart as its own entity.
  
  I've only played co-op from the demo, for a good reason: if I invite someone else to play my game 
 with me, whatever changes we enact to my version of the city (i. e. killing a gang General) are 
 reportedly going to be saved to my game, such that I no longer get the chance to take on that General 
 solo. I don't know that I like that idea very much. You can't have multiple save files, otherwise 
 I would have one game for Solo play and one game for Co-Op play, which would solve the problem 
 nicely. Why this wasn't done by the developers is beyond me, as it would up the replay value of 
 the game tremendously.
  
  Crackdown IS a fun game, though on the default difficulty level it isn't that challenging. To get 
 the most out of the gameplay you really need to ratchet up the difficulty to at least the middle 
 setting, and that's when you have to start getting tactical in your combat choices. Do you *really* 
 want to run right into that gang General's stronghold and go right for the kill, or do you want 
 to strategically whittle down your opposition from the outside in? Equip a sniper rifle and take 
 them down methodically from cover or gun them down with a SAW machine gun while you jump around 
 like a madman to throw off the enemy's aim?
  
  Even with the difficulty set to its highest level of Psychotic, once you've wiped out all three 
 gangs the game is apparently reduced to collecting Agility orbs and running races, both of which 
 I can imagine are going to get pretty stale. I've run around cities and driven in car races in 
 the GTA world for quite a while, now - while Crackdown may demand that I scale skyscrapers to get 
 to some of those hidden packages and the road races might be a little more outrageous, I'm still 
 doing something I've already done before.
  
  So, to me, the true value of Crackdown *does* come down to the Halo 3 Beta key. If you're a Halo 
 3 fan, then Crackdown will give you a good amount of fun with the super bonus of getting one of 
 the first looks (with tens of thousands of other people) at the most anticipated title for the 
 XBox 360 to date. I find myself wondering, however; if Crackdown *didn't* come with the Halo 3 
 Beta key, would I have bought this game, or been just as happy renting it for a couple of weeks 
 and then turning it back in having made the Achievements I felt like achieving and beaten all the 
 main content in the game?
  
  I think I would lean towards the rental, which explains why Microsoft decided to bundle the Halo 
 3 Beta key with this particular title: to get gamers like me to make the purchase. A wise business 
 move, but also one that should make gamers a little wary.
  
  Crackdown isn't a bad game by any means, but at $60 a pop main content length and replay value 
 become more important than ever, and this is where I feel the game is really lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWar2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  It has come!! Crackdown is one of the sandbox games like GTA BUT not a clone since it is entirely 
 different. you start out as a bionic cop ready to save pacific city but your skill level is extremely 
 weak and you must raise it up in order to become the bad ass cop that you can become.
  
  with powers way beyond a regular human you must stop three high rise gangs controlling the areas. 
 The game is set up so you must kill the kingpin inorder for the gang to be wiped out but if you 
 take out the mini bosses before the kingpin ( strongly recommended) you have a better chance since 
 each mini boss is a major key to the kingpin.
  
  the graphics are incredible and the explosions are amazing. But the story is too short with no 
 real story at all. The online is great but if you have beaten the game and join someone how has 
 just started it is really boring for both since you will be stuck in the areas that the host has 
 only unlocked so make sure your partner is at the same level.
  
  overall this game is great but a few things could of made it even better. most likely a story, 
 and online. So go get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puckhead778
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game wasn't held anywhere high on my list. I just bought it for the beta. I have to 
 say that it did surprise me though. At first, this game flat out sucks. You start out getting a 
 really fast car and then you get out to fight. Expecting to jump really high, you hit A and you 
 get the average NBA player jump. Not too much for a city-jumping game. Once you get your skills 
 up is when this game gets a lot better. The whole see if I can get to the top of the Agency building 
 challenge is addicting (and the jump down into the water is enjoyable too!) . About the graphics, 
 they are alright. The cartoony look kind of turns me off a bit, but graphics aren't everything 
 (ex: Table Tennis: great graphics, great five minutes of fun) . This game pretty much reminds me 
 of a scaled down version of Saint's Row with the occasional Halo 2 Superbounce added in. I still 
 haven't beaten the game, but so far it's fun. The achievements aren't too hard either. In my opinion, 
 renting this game is a smart idea, unless you are just getting it for the beta. Overall, I give 
 this game a 7 1/2 out of 10. Sorry Crackdown, but you've been cracked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball2494
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The reason why is cause you have no breaks to walk around the city its just shooting shooting and 
 more shooting . All action but way to much . Let me put it this way the only reason why its like 
 gta is because its like cops chasing you but instead there are gangs chasing you none stop! And 
 im almost finished with the game. I basically bought the game for the halo 3 beta. Thats why people 
 should get it. So its worth it. heres a repeat of what i said The reason why is cause you have 
 no breaks to walk around the city its just shooting shooting and more shooting . All action but 
 way to much . Let me put it this way the only reason why its like gta is because its like cops 
 chasing you but instead there are gangs chasing you none stop! And im almost finished with the 
 game. I basically bought the game for the halo 3 beta. Thats why people should get it. So its worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Picture yourself playing Vice City except Tommy can hop all those houses and throw the cars he 
 jacks. Thats basically what Crackdown is.
  In this game you play as a genetically enhanced super-cop who was created to fight the organized 
 crime in Pacific City. This game is very open-ended You have to find the lairs of the crime bosses 
 in the city and defeat them. A letdown in the game is that the game does not really get you into 
 the story. Everytime you are near a bosse's lair a short clip appears and explains the backstory.
 
  Crackdown gets most of its fuel from offering you a huge open world to explore. Once you get your 
 abilities up it just gets more fun exploring
  For example, once you collect enough agility orbs you can hop from builiding to building and for 
 some reason, considering its a video game, it is very exhilirating doing so.
  You can also increase your explosive, driving, shooting, and fighting skills. Another fun thing 
 to do in this game is getting you strength really high and kick enemies' cars over or throwing 
 them at gang members.
  The game generally looks good but some may find it too cartoonish as it looks a lot like the drawings 
 you would find in a comic book.
  The sound is fairly normal with nothing too too special.
  In the end Crackdown should appeal to most gamers including those who only bought it for the Halo 
 3 Mutliplayer invite. It is quite fun to play once your stats are up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been keeping track of this game for a long time hearing a lot about how great it is going 
 to be. Then it came out and I noticed gamespot rated it a 7.8 about 10 days before it released. 
 At that moment I wasn't planning on buying it until I noticed it came with halo 3 beta access.
 
  
  I bought the game and played through the campaign which took me about 8 hours or so to beat. The 
 campaign basically had no storyline other than to kill particular characters that were in a particular 
 area surrounded by a horde of guards. These particular characters did not have any special attributes 
 or anything, they just has 4x more health than your normal enemy.
  
  This game is very repetitive, the handling of the vehicles are bad even once your driving skill 
 is maxed out, the aiming of the guns isn't well done.
  
  The only positives is the intense combat and large explosions. Jumping really high and picking 
 up trucks and tossing them 200 feet.
  
  Borrow this game from your friend or rent it, you wont want to play it again once you beat the 
 campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everon22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for some games to burn some time this month, so I went and rented Crackdown. After 
 completing the game and messing around in co-op, I can say that Crackdown is fun, but not really 
 satisfying. If your looking for a mission based game like GTA, forget it. Your goals in crackdown 
 are limited to: Get orbs, get upgraded, kill bosses. (Ah, the endless cycle of violence) . As a 
 superhero in training, your powers progress with every kill and completion of your mission - taking 
 down bosses of each crime syndicate. Not much variety in terms of gameplay given to you by the 
 developers. I'm happy that they're using targeting similar to the Godfarther as opposed to the 
 GTA targeting. Its a combination of lock-on and free form targeting to target body parts. But in 
 earnest targeting specific body limbs is pretty useless as the AI and regenerative health make 
 the game less intuitive. Driving and Agility conflict in many ways. I tended to use agility more 
 since I hate driving the cars.
  
  Realtime Worlds leaves it to you to find your own excitement. Trying to make larger and bigger 
 explosions, or attempting a recreation of an evil knieivel stunt involving satchel charges, a loading 
 rig and really big ring.
  
  As entertaining as these things can be and as creative you can get with your friends in co-op. 
 Its appealing to an extent before I get tired of seeing one explosion after another. I feel kind 
 of cheated that they couldn't create a more robust amount of missions. There are a lot of things 
 I would have loved to see in this game that don't exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDT_ZEUS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is set up in an excellent manner and you feel the need for upgrades, but they capped 
 it at 4 stars which sucks -= beacuse of that I have to give it a little bit of a lower rating, 
 but at least with that being said it makes u want to find all the hidden stuff in the game. One 
 thing that sucks is that there is no music when you run around, and theres a lot of running around. 
 I really enjoy the feature of the fortified fortressess and being able to acceess them by swimming- 
 they could have put so much more into this game but for what it is it is extreamly additctive and 
 more fun then any other game except gears that I have played so far on the system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfstone2087
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a pretty basic game. It's very similar to most open-ended games you've played, but 
 has a cartoon feel to it. This is most evident in the voice over guy. He basically walks you through 
 the game. You might think he's great in the beginning, but you'll soon learn to dislike him.
  
  There isn't much of a story to the game. There are gangs; You must destroy them. While doing 
 so, you can collect upgrades and level up your agent so he can be stronger, faster, and more skilled 
 at everything he does. You can also upgrade the Agency cars you drive so your driving skills can 
 increase.
  
  I'm worried that one of the reasons people will buy this game is merely for the Halo 2 Beta. While 
 that is a big plus, you may soon find yourself sucked into the game. Although, once you get tired 
 of the single player mode, you can hop online with Crackdown's Co-Op mode. This is where it's at. 
 You can bring your agent from the campaign and upgrade him while playing in a friend's game, helping 
 him or her get further in the single player mode. You can make your friends jealous with all the 
 sweet upgrades you have, that they don't. Once you've left their game, you'll also have everything 
 you've picked up or earned while you were there, like new weapons.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty decent game with a GTA touch but more innovative ideas behind it. The 
 graphics aren't meant to be spectacular, but they work well for the game. The sound is decent. 
 The game does lag up at times, but that's nothing to get worried about. If this review doesn't 
 help you make a decision, go and rent it. You'll find yourself pulled into the game in no time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HPDarkness
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is an awesome game, I feel most people bought it just for the Halo 3 BETA, like me. But 
 found it to be a fun addicting game! The soundtrack is incredible, I love the music in the game. 
 Although the game is cel-shaded, the visuals are amazing. The graphics could be better, but are 
 very good. The game is not repetitive like most Open City games. This game is no GTA rip off, The 
 game-play is completely different from GTA. I have not tried CO-OP yet but have heard it was very 
 fun. This game was worth the wait, and should be on every gamers Must Have list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DracoNamar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Imagine Master Chief saves the planet, and Galaxy, and then is out of work. So he dons on a police 
 uniform and goes up against 3 seperate gangs with hundreds to thousands of gang members who are 
 constantly attacking him, and he runs around shooting and blowing stuff up Grand Theft Auto style, 
 while gaining new abilites and attributes like a D&amp; D match.
  
  Congrats you have CrackDown. I expected this game to be another lousy gangster rap filled wanna 
 be flashy title that was going to crash and burn amongst its other brethren. It has awsome soundtracks 
 that relate to the car you steal, from hard rave, techno, salsa, marengae, death metal, rock, and 
 many others, you'll never get bored with the music. You're under constant attack and have access 
 to a huge arsenal of weapons. The many crime bosses that are incharge have their own specialties, 
 and upon their assasination, the game play alters around the loss of the individual gang. I highly 
 recommend this game, and expect it to be a instant classic for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSpam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I do love the free roaming games that have been dubbed the sandbox genre. Whereas Saint's Row was 
 a direct clone of GTA this is something new. The point of this game is that there is no point. 
 The story and criminals are there if you want to go after them, but it's much more fun to just 
 go leaping from rooftop to rooftop collecting Agility orbs then it is to go do the actual missions. 
 I haven't even begun to get too in to the chaos that I loved to engage in while playing GTA. Who 
 cared about being a criminal overlord when you could up your wanted level to a point that the army 
 chases you down? Same basically goes for this game though you get to play the other side. Morality 
 seems much more in your face since you are supposed to be a crusader of justice and not a common 
 street hood.
  
  There are some issues with this game. It's not perfect. I've yet to meet a completely perfect open 
 ended adventure style game. Oblivion was the closest, but even it had some problems. It's just 
 nearly impossible to make a flawless world with complete freedom. I managed to get myself stuck 
 whilst jumping maniacaly on the rooftops, but a simple Extract command from the menu took care 
 of that. Instantly I was back a Command Point with all my current attributes. A. I. is a little 
 on the strange side. Criminals are surprisingly tricky as they dodge, duck, dip, dive and dodge 
 your attacks with surprising effectiveness in most cases. They do get a little challenged when 
 it comes to entering and exiting their vehicles, but on the ground they are formidable. Pedestrians 
 are the source of the strangest characteristics as no matter what you're doing if you come near 
 them they start screaming and panicking. I'm not fan of the cops per se, but I don't scream in 
 terror at the sight of one. Granted I've never seen a cybernetic enhanced one walking around with 
 a bazooka in their hands.
  
  I've read a lot of people say the controls are awkward and driving is horrible etc etc. But once 
 you start to boost those skills they all become manageable. Aiming certainly gets better after 
 your fist level in Firearms.
  
  I can see this being my new go to game when I just want to veg. I spent so many hours with GTA3, 
 3.5 and 3.5.5.5 or whatever they want to call them and I never once finished the game. The missions 
 just lost my interest. I only did them to the point that I could unlock new areas. I see this being 
 the same experience except this time I can leap around like a Spider-man/Daredevil clone with the 
 eventual strength of the Hulk. And in my world that spells all kinds of yummy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calichegom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the game for about a week, and I think, it rocks when your character reaches 
 level 3 or more. the 3 dimension concept of the game (including going up in buildings and crossing 
 the city in a straight line) makes it different from any other open world game I played before 
 like grand theft Auto or scarface. I also liked the fact that the agency cars will change their 
 appearance as you increase your driving skills.
  I joust wish it had some more high buildings to climb, and ] I thought the game is short and could 
 include some other missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yugor1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Well, the time has come. It's Crackdown.
  
  It's unique. It's stylish. It has lots and lots of explosions. BIG explosions. The gameplay rocks. 
 Leaping from building to building, driving like an insane drunken 16-year-old, and making those 
 awesome explosions are just plain fun.
  
  It's also too short for its own good. However, this is remedied by joing a Co-Op game where some 
 has less done than you. The you can help them, and relive some memories form your campaign.
  
  The sound is perfect. You'll think the explosion is going off in your room half the time, and 
 the AI has some pretty good lines....... if they live long enough to say them.
  
  The graphics are great, and fit the game very well. Also, the draw distance is HUGE in this game.
 
  
  Admittly, the AI is about as good as you can expect from a game like this. But they do have a few 
 novel moments, such as when you whip around a corner in your supercar, only to find an explosive 
 road block that they've constructed.
  
  Anyone who likes open-world games should get this, and anyone who loves Co-Op should get this as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: science
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Yesterday, February 20th, Crackdown was released for the Xbox 360. Ive been waiting for this game 
 for a while, and not because the Halo 3 beta is being thrown in with it. The demo was released 
 earlier this year on Xbox live, and that really piqued my interest.
  
  Immediately after starting the game up, there was already a downloadable update for the game. After 
 that was completed, the game informed me there there was downloadable content as well. I went ahead 
 and downloaded the four free agent skins that were available.
  
  If you havent played the demo, then heres the basic premise of the game. You play a genetically 
 engineered super agent for the police. Your objectives are to take out different gangs and leaders 
 of each section of the city. By collecting agility orbs, you gain agility skill, which when upgraded 
 will allow you to run faster and jump higher - to the point of jumping from rooftop to rooftop, 
 covering huge spans in a single leap. By beating up criminals, you gain strength, which eventually 
 allows you to pick and throw cars, culverts, and other large objects at your foes. By firing on 
 foes, you build up your firearms skill which allows for more accuracy, and more deadly force with 
 your ranged weapons, etc. By hurting pedestrians and innocents, you are penalized by losing a bit 
 of your skill.
  
  The game is also in a sandbox environment, which means that you can do essentially whatever you 
 want, within the confines of the developers resources. While there are objectives, the game never 
 forces you to complete any objective, and you can power up your agent regardless of whether or 
 not you follow the plotline or not. Along that same line, the actual story is paper thin, to almost 
 non existant. It basically makes Gears of War look like War and Peace. Because of this, it makes 
 the game feels a little flat.
  
  The development team threw in a few mini-type games, like jumping through hoops with your car (called 
 stunts) , rooftop racing, and car racing to be completed within a specific time. For completing 
 these races below the time constraint, you achieve either agility, or driving skill, respectively.
 
  
  The A. I. is decent, but unfortunately doesnt pose much of a challenge at the default difficulty 
 level. During gameplay, I was able to essentially kick gang lieutenants (who are like mini-bosses) 
 to death with little fear of dying (death is handled through reproducing a clone of your agent- 
 with no skill penalty) .
  
  My major complaint with the game is the targeting system. You can target individual areas on gang 
 members and cars, which is a plus, but you cant easily switch between targets once youve locked 
 on one. When in a crunch, youll basically be swinging your targeting recticle all over the screen 
 wildly while pressing your target lock button trying to actually hit what youre attempting to 
 aim at. While its a pretty big annoyance at times, after an adjustment period, its not crippling. 
 A couple of my other complaints with the game are, I wish there were more melee attacks besides 
 kicking, and hitting enemies with your gun, and pedestrians and gang members alike die very easy 
 by merely nudging them with your vehicle.
  
  If youre buying this game expecting it to be The Shawshank Redemption of video games, you will 
 be extremely disappointed. But, if youre looking for some old fashioned GTA-Destruction-time-wasting 
 fun, then youll be in for a treat, regardless of the funky aiming system and the paper thin story. 
 An invitation to the Halo 3 beta isnt a bad thing either 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Co-Op is amazing, provides both players of a super hero, Batman &amp; Robin feeling with thousand 
 of things to do. Innovative, a cross between a 3rd person shooter and open-endness of GTA. It's 
 easy to get side track by the many side quest and stunts that are available along the way while 
 you do the main quest. Controlls are smooth, graphics are solid and sound fits the mood perfectly, 
 an underated game that will surpass expectations. This game will suck you in and you'll get lost 
 in the glorious world of Crackdown!
  
  It's not like GTA, where a lack of imagination led to the enforcement of dull rituals like visiting 
 the gym and protecting territory. You don't have to babysit the supply points once you've claimed 
 them. Crackdown never distracts you with anything that isn't fun. Hopping between rooftops is desirable 
 because it also allows you to hunt for Agility Orbs . There are 500 in the game, and some of them 
 are very difficult to reach. Leaping is also something you do in rooftop races - superhero parkour 
 that has you prancing all over the skyline against the clock. And of course climbing all over the 
 city is also fun because it's just fun. The freedom itself is liberating. Every review you read 
 will point out that you can climb the Agency Tower, which is immense, but that shouldn't demean 
 the experience of doing so. It's a thrilling climb, and a fantastic, extraordinary visual pay-off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackdaddy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  First off let me clean the slate for the nay sayers by answering some questions first.
  
  1) Is it a GTA rip off? Simply put, yes, HOWEVER, any game that is part of the sandbox genre is 
 going to be compared to GTA. In addition, this game WILL see an even stonger comparison since its 
 a brain child of the GTA creator. Crackdown does a relatively good job of separating itself from 
 GTA's style and warrant a decent look by the you just bought it b/c of Halo 3 crowd.
  
  2) Is the game any better than the demo? b/c the demo SUCKED!!
  
  I didn't really enjoy the 
 demo. I was expecting more and all in all the game felt clunky and buggy in parts. The final version 
 of the game seems to have tweaked a few things that REALLY pissed me off about the demo. Driving 
 was extremely squirrely in the demo, don't get me wrong, the driving still isn't solid, but you 
 definitely can notice you skill as you gain driving ability, but most importantly it doesn't suck 
 as bad as it did. Gunplay also seemed buggy and inconsistent, something I haven't really noticed 
 at all in the final version. Could all these tweaks be my imagination? Possibly, but I know one 
 thing, I have been FAR less frustrated playing the retail version over the demo.
  
  All in all I have really enjoyed Crackdown, Co-op is fun, single player is fun, collecting orbs 
 is, as everyone else says, addicting! Jumping from rooftop to rooftop then killing badies as you 
 fall from the top of a building is great. I also love when land after a long fall - the ground 
 cracks and ripples under your feet.
  
  I had to tear myself away from the game last night so I could get a good night sleep. Now I'm sitting 
 at work writing a review about a game I can't wait to get home and play again.
  
  It's not perfect though, on rare occasion the camera hurts and the sound is nothing spectacular. 
 The gun fire sounds are good, as are the explosions, but music is basically non-existent.
  
  Graphically, I enjoy the somewhat soft shadedness of the characters and the environments are 
 crisp and easy to negotiate. Gameplay is simple, fast and fun and despite a few sensitivity issues 
 with driving its still a solid game. Crackdown is at the very least a rental, it's a great game 
 to fill the current drought that all the consoles are experiencing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameaddict2424
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I just played Crackdown last night online with a Friend and I must say the game is pure unadulturated 
 fun, the gameplay is the meat and potatoes of the game which can be great and not so great for 
 some. The Gameplay is the main attraction, collecting orbs, epic explosions (best explosions I 
 ever seen) picking up cars as your strength increases ( you get the picture) this game will make 
 grin with glee as you jump from rooftop to rooftop with ease, kicking buses on their side the list 
 goes on but the game does have its flaws. If a friend comes over he/she will have to watch due 
 to no local play and for the gamers looking for a storyline will be dissapointed because Crackdown 
 has no storyline just Boss after Boss so the game isn't that well structure but the gameplay definately 
 will shine over these flaws because it is done so well. So if you looking for an over the top free-roaming 
 action-packed game with excellent gameplay but a not so good storyline, Crackdown is where is at.
 
  Oh and I strongly recommend you play this game with a friend online it doubles the fun Factor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  Crackdown has been the focal point of attention for sometime leading up to its release yesterday 
 (2/20) . The buzz was that the game wouldn't be able to deliver and that Halo 3 beta would sell 
 the game. I'm glad to say all the negative comments and anguish were unfounded.
  
  Crackdown delivers as a free-roaming, beat/shoot/explode-'em up game in which you play a experimental 
 super cop with burgeoning powers. Your task, clear the streets of the riff-raff which has occupied 
 Pacific City and run the community into the ground. Sounds like standard fare, and it is. How you 
 go about it is anything but. Crackdown offers you a multitude of ways to off any single person 
 or group in the game in the effort to reach your goals. Thank goodness there are so many opportunities 
 to take out the 'bangers. The entire world is open to you right from the get go, with the vertical 
 components of the game the only hurdle that you will encounter as far as exploring goes. This goes 
 away quickly as your agility rating (improved by collecting agility orbs) increases. Of course, 
 you'll want to do other things like lift RVs or semi-cabs and flatten whole walkways of people 
 but that will take work from you to get your strength up. Same goes for driving, shooting and blowing 
 stuff up. With each level, your effectiveness grows and you become that much more lethal to anything 
 and anyone in the game.
  
  The real fun comes when you finish the game, riding the city of the gangs (you have the option 
 to turn them back on again if you need to) and you are free to roam and collect achievements and 
 generally run amok on your way to it.
  
  Crackdown, played straight through, won't last you for very long, but experimenting and pushing 
 the limits of what you can do in this game will last for a long time. Oh and you can play Halo 
 3 later this year. Go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobobizarro
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Crackdown is the next series in the line of Grand Theft Auto and Saint's Row games, with a twist. 
 You are trying to clean up a city, not make it more dirty! You play the role of a Super-cop, a 
 person who has been genetically enhanced to do the will of The Agency. You are their Hammer. The 
 Agency is the combination of all government and police force from all over, the situation was so 
 grave that all law enforcement were made one.
  
  You are pit in Pacific City, which is divided by 3 sectors, each controlled by a different gang. 
 The three gangs: Los Muertos, The Volk and and the Shai-Gen each control a part of the city, and 
 they will not think twice to gun you down for coming to their turf. Each gang has 7 bosses you 
 need to take out in order to bring peace to that sector. As you eliminate bosses, you will notice 
 that sector start to look more clean and less gang bangers roaming around causing havoc.
  
  Crackdown is a game that let's you do pretty much what ever you want to do. From the start of the 
 game you can access all parts of the city, of course, some gangs are more difficult than others, 
 so explore at your own risk. You have 5 basic skills which you progress to a max of a 4 Star Rating, 
 or levels. Agility, has you running faster and jumping higher. Strength, has you throwing farther, 
 lifting extremely heavy object and increasing melee damage. Driving, has you being able to control 
 your vehicles better and in the case of Agency cars, they morph depending on your skill level, 
 giving you a better look and even weapons. Explosive, self explanatory, has you getting a bigger 
 bang from grenades and other explosive weapons, bigger bang and bigger boom (more damage, wider 
 explosion radius) . Last but not least, Firearms, increases the damage and speed of which you discharge 
 from any weapon in game.
  
  The game might be a bit on the short side, but it is still a lot of fun. Especially if you partner 
 up via co-op. Running around the city doing what ever you like with a friend has an added fun factor 
 that add that great value to the game. But, like GTA and Saint's Row, this game is not for everyone. 
 I personally never liked GTA, but this game is worth giving it a chance to see what it has to offer. 
 I recommend you pick this title up and give it a run, you might actually be surprised like many 
 of us were! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  The game is fun and you will find yourself thinking its an hour later... and its midnight~! The 
 game isn't to bad.... just has a few issues to keep it from an excellent status. This is another 
 game that is difficult to say it covers a $60 price point.... thinking mabey the more I play it 
 and play it Co-op.... it should cover its weight in gold? The visuals are very well animated... the 
 movements of your charaters... well.... it runs side to side... don't look right. I know its a comic 
 book look... but it could have been a little more smooth on the animations for movements... or I 
 guess more life-like? It is pretty difficult to say what I mean, but I am trying here. The sound 
 effects are great, the explosions are nice, and the driving is tight for the controller. After 
 I get to play this multiplayer I hopefully will be alot happier with my newest purchase. It is 
 a pretty fun game... and if it was at a $39.99 price... this would be a great purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEBUDDHAMAN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  I got my copy of Crackdown at ten a. m. and immediately went home to play it. What can I say, it 
 rules. I was expecting yet another GTA clone, but I was suprised when I found more than I expected. 
 Alot more actually. Being able to jump 30 feet in the air and snipe someone 3 blocks away? Priceless. 
 Blowing half a city block just because I can? OMG. And when you level up agility, your character's 
 apperance changes too. Yes, this game does borrow things from other games, but it borrows the good 
 parts, and makes it feel new and fun. I haven't played through it yet, but it does seem like it 
 may be a bit short, but that ok, so far this is gonna be one of those games that even though I'm 
 done with it, I'll still go back and play it alot just because. The simple fact is this, Cracksown 
 is not perfect, but there aren't any perfect games are there? Oh, and the whole Halo 3 beta invite? 
 Nice bonus. I reccommend this game to anyone who is tired of all the GTA clones out there, but 
 still wants the same style. Only playing as the good guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrendonSilver
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  So my copy of crackdown arrived in the mail on saturday before it came out and lets just say i 
 couldnt stop playing it it was soo much fun.. and for me i usually get bored at games and go back 
 and play world of warcraft but everytime you jump roof to roof you feel like your spiderman but 
 a super cop that acts like hes god. You can spawn back and get right back into the game really 
 fast yes the game is short only 21 missions/bosses but A. its so much fun you wont even think about 
 it B. Halo 3 beta whenever that comes out and 3. its one of the best games ive played all year 
 except for Quake 4 lawl just kidding guys :) goooo pick a copy of this game up you will not be 
 disappointed only thing is the people look really dumb but its okay if you have xbox live u can 
 download 4 new guys and then you can look cool
  
  PS get driving skills up cause then its MORPHING TIME :)
  
  Most Funny moment in the game i 
 got my jumping to max and my hair turned white O_o very wierd lawl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainova
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  You see an enemy in front of you. Do you shoot him in the face, or shoot his leg to make him fall 
 over? Will you roundhouse kick him repeatedly and stomp on him while he is on the ground? Or would 
 you rather just land on him after jumping 30 feet in the air to squish him like a bug? The choice 
 is yours in Crackdown!
  First off, the gameplay. You play as an agent, a super soldier working among the police. As you 
 go through the game, you upgrade stats like Agility, Driving, Explosives, Strength, and Shooting. 
 The game is free-roaming, similar to the Grand Theft Auto series, but instead of giving you strict 
 missions, the game says Here are 21 Gang Leaders. Kill them. You may kill them in any order, and 
 you can never really do anything wrong. As told by the Gamespot review, this causes the game to 
 be unique, along with having problems. The 21 bosses only took me 12 hours to beat, which for this 
 sort of game is a very short amount of time (Saints Row took me 20+ hours, and GTA San Andreas 
 took me 100+ hours) . Also, once you kill them all, there is not much left to do, except gain achievement 
 points and do time trials. This is not exactly exciting. On the graphical side, this game delivers. 
 Instead of going for a realistic, Gears of War-ish look, this game looks like a blend of realism 
 and Cel-shading, and turns out perfect (Your guy may be cel-shaded, but that building sure does 
 look real) !
  And on the sound side of things, everything sounds ok. Except the announcer. He repeatedly makes 
 the same comments, and repeatedly instructs you on how to do things you should have known before 
 you even played the game ( Try jumping to climb this building, Agent! ) .
  Value wise, this game has a decent amount of value. If you don't know, early copies of this game 
 include a Halo 3 beta invitation, a must for hardcore gamers. This adds value, but unfortunately 
 the game itself isn't, because of its relatively short length. Also, this game could have used 
 more development time, as glitches are very noticeable. You can fall through the ground, get stuck 
 in walls, and fall over from an explosive blast and not be able to get up again. The glitches stop 
 the flow of the game, and really let you see that it is not very polished.
  It's too bad the game is so short and has its flaws. Overall though, I do not want to give the 
 game a bad vibe. I have had more fun on this game than any other game in a long time (November, 
 GoW season) ! It only becomes better when you play coop with a friend over Xbox Live, and battle 
 the Gang Bosses together. Definitely buy or rent this game if you want to have fun, or like videogames 
 at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana918
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i've been playin Crackdown for about 3 hours now, and don't get me wrong, it's a great game, 
 but haven't i done all of this before? killing anyone insite? running over pedestrians? getting 
 chased by the cops for doing these things? (even though they're supposed to be on your side) and 
 scalling tall buildings? (a la spiderman) . Crackdown is a good game, but ever since GTA, games 
 of this genre have all just seemed to be lacking something. Sure it's fun, but it just can't seem 
 to live up to what it was supposed to be. Decent gameplay, some exciting shoot-outs and driving 
 moments, and the fun of jumping from building to building, this is what Crackdown has going for 
 it. But with the exception of Saints Row, this is just another semi-letdown. Good game, rent it 
 first. Unless of course ur one of those people who will be the only reason this game sells a million 
 copies...... u know who u are u Halo 3 beta people!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rougewarrior198
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, don't let anyone fool you. The only similarity with GTA is that it's an open 
 world game. The graphics are very colorful and the explosions are some of the coolest i've seen. 
 The controls are fine, they just take time to get used to. There may not be any story, but the 
 stories in GTA and SR are usually crap anyway. The abilities are what makes this game great. Jumping 
 from building to building is a virtual treat. And if you like achievments, then you will absolutely 
 love this game. It has the best achievments on any 360 game. The driving is good, and they get 
 really cool when you level them up. What I like most about this game is that it's up to you how 
 you kill the bosses. If you want to be bored, then just beat them to death. Or you can try to be 
 clever and experimental. I killed a boss with the sniper rifle and the rocket launcher. If you 
 want an exciting experience, then Crackdown won't disapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadBoy4u4u
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing this game a lot. It has only been a few hours and I am so addictive to it. 
 I think I haven't been this addictive to a game since grand theft auto vice city. I really give 
 this game 2 thumbs way up! I am so happy that I had enough money to buy this today. I was hoping 
 I would be able to and I'm so happy to be playing this. If your going to get a game right now I 
 would say Crackdown or Lost Planet. I really hope those that have bought this game really enjoy 
 it. I am a big gamer and if you are into stuff like grand theft auto or saint row then this game 
 is the one for you. This one blows all the others away. I am happy to say that if I didn't have 
 to work tomorrow I would play this game all night and all day tomorrow. I hope you all when enjoy 
 this game as much as I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The one thing that brings people down is the basic shallow missions. Kill Leaders, take territory, 
 all that. But thats pretty much what is in other games except it has a story behind it. I do wish 
 crackdown put a litttllllee more effot into the missions, and story line but leveling up and driving 
 a car with a rocket launcher and machine gun on it make up for it. You start off as a pretty.. 
 umm... Athletic character, but when you level up your basically a freakin super hero. When you 
 kick people they will be out of your sight in no time, same with kicking cars. You really cant 
 complain about the Value since it comes with Halo3 multiplayer beta, and the sound is just, well 
 it works lets say. The music tracks are decent but nothing special.
  Graphics-9
  Cel shaded, and great texture at the same time :O
  Sound-8
  Decent, what youd expect
  Gameplay-9
 
  The highlight of the game! Pure fun!
  Story-2
  Your an agent that shoots stuff.
  Multiplayer-10
  AWESOME!!! shooting your friends tires out have never been so fun! You can expierement 
 alot with this too. Like throwing cars at each other, seeing whos stronger, racing with whos agility 
 is better, and pretty much anything you want.
  Value-10
  Though its short its nice to get a taste of Halo 3 Beta!
  Plus you can level up and expierement 
 and Multiplayer never ever gets boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is not a bad game at all !!
  
  I played this for like 3-4 hours straight and just loved it. Very entertaining game. I really do 
 enjoy being on the rooftops and getting all those orbs, and increasing in all the skill that you 
 have in the game. The vehicles are not that bad but the driving at the beginning kinda sucks, but 
 it does get better once you increase your skill level in that area.
  Jumping is pretty sick in this game. The weapons are not that bad. Kicking people is tight once 
 you get stonger and also being able to lift big objects and throwing them. Also, love the granades....
 
  
  What I really like about the game is how massive the cities are... there are 3 main areas in the 
 game, each with a different gang. Each area is pretty big so it is hard to get bored of this game 
 when there is so much stuff to do. I highly recommend this game to pretty much anybody..... if your 
 looking for a game to buy.... this is it...... even if you are not looking... i would recommend at 
 least renting it..... its is a pretty great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of Crackdown. We finally have a less serious, Fail and screw up sandbox game.
 
  
  It was about time we got a game, that's alike in it's appearance to GTA but with superhero powers, 
 be able to jump 40ft high and shoot so accurate, you'll kill almost every gang member in sight.
 
  
  It's not all-in-all easy, thinking that you are a super-buffed out cop, doesn't mean you're untouchable. 
 Wrong, there's three different settings of difficulty, there's normal, there's hard and there's 
 hardcore. (Can't recall the specific names, but the hardest, really brings you to the ultimate 
 challenge) .
  
  Crackdown is a real one-of-it's-kind for sure. And that's exactly what makes Crackdown worth playing.
 
  
  Once you start, you can select one out of eight agents. (or twelve if you download the 4-additional 
 agents right away) . There's one for almost every race/life-style. Such as, Russian, African-American, 
 Asian, Hispanic, Norse, Thai, Gothic and Maori.
  
  Welcome to Crackdown - Worlds' only crime-infested playground.
  
  ==GAMEPLAY==
  
  Now, 
 you're set in Pacific City, as a minor, yet slightly stronger and more agile agent. You'll start 
 off on the for-now the safest spot to be - The Keep, AKA The Agency Island.
  
  You can take one of the three cars right away and go up the streets.
  That's one of Crackdowns' 
 awesome elements, no Go There, or else things, no Do that first options. It's what you want, and 
 how you want it to be happened.
  
  You can take the main kingpins out right away, and i mean, start over, and go after one of the 
 three.
  
  Anyway, you're set in Pacific City, a crime infested city. There's three main gangs; Los Muertos, 
 the Volk and the Shai-Gen. All three have their own islands, own ways of trying to kill you and 
 all have their own kinds of guns and weapons.
  
  Now, that i'm mentioning the bosses, that's the storyline. The only con about this game is, there's 
 barely a storyline. But, if you want to make a game, where the player decides on how to take the 
 gangs down, you cant make a set-storyline.
  
  Onto what you're capable of. You'll have five main skills; Shooting, Driving, Agility, Explosives 
 and Strength. Each of these can be leveled up to Level 5 (From zero-stars, to four.) .
  
  By gaining levels, you're able of doing much more. With agility, you can run much faster, and jump 
 higher. Strength makes you able of picking larger objects up. Firearms makes you shoot more accurate 
 over time. Driving makes you handle cars better, and the Agency Vehicles will upgrade. Explosives 
 lets you make major explosions once you level up.
  
  The city itself, is for you, considered a playground. You can do whatever the hell you like. Go 
 as a rouge agent? Sure... Wanna commandeer a vehicle? Rip that driver out! Wanna play some Catch! 
 with the gangsters? Alrighty then, pick that car up and swing it at 'em!
  
  The game itself has one major purpose, being fun. It wants to entertain you. David Jones, the man 
 after GTA, The Lemmings and now this one, has listened to many requests, and we all know - When 
 you were playing GTA, didn't you dream of picking that car up, and hurling it at that blasted cop 
 for shooting at you? Didn't you wanted to go jumping over rooftops? Didn't you wanted to make one 
 hell of some impressive explosions?
  
  Exactly, that's what most wanted.
  
  The gameplay, if you have some imagination, can keep you smiling and buzy for literally months.
 
  
  Now, there's one other feature i need to discuss; Online-Coop.
  I bet you got sick of playing the GTA: San Andreas multiplayer, going only in one car, staying 
 together, not being able of going away from eachother.
  
  Crackdown doesn't feature Split-screen, but it does features Online Coop. You're able of playing 
 Crackdown with a XBOX-Live friend. With no limits set. Doing whatever the hell you want. And i 
 tell you, it's extremely fun.
  
  There's also, you can do this with System-Link aswell. But you'll need two tvs.
  
  ==GRAPHICS==
 
  
  The Graphics might appear as cell-shading. Wrong again. The game features highly detailed graphics, 
 but they added a little-bit of comic into it. They did added alot of detail, but they gave it a 
 fatter-black borderline.
  
  The graphics may not be perfect for everybody. But, downgrading it did allowed RealTimeWorlds to 
 do another amazing thing. The draw-distance.
  
  It's simply, amazing.
  
  The physics are nice, but the vehicle physics might feel a bit weird now and then.
  
  ==SOUND==
 
  
  Crackdown doesn't features the corny radio you had in GTA/Saints Row. It has a large soundtrack. 
 Many songs, and most-likely, anyone will find something they like.
  
  The vehicle sounds, sound extremely well. It sounds like they recorded it straight from real cars.
 
  
  The gun sounds, are yet the best i've ever heard in a sandbox game.
  The area sounds, are VERY nice and blend nicely with the theme.
  
  The voicecast is a bit better, 
 random civillians don't blur all kinds of cuss-word filled sentances. But, do get scared and hurl 
 something offencive out. That's about it.
  
  All-in-all, there's just one con about the sound. The narrator, never... shuts up. Sometimes he 
 might sound handy, but overall he repeats the same stuff you've heard in the beginning.
  
  ==VALUE==
  
  The value is really, it depends on what game-style you're into. If you like GTA-like 
 games, with a impressive storyline, many odd-jobs and sort. That's not really what Crackdown all 
 features, it has the boss-elimination modes and some Agility races and some Vehicle races. Collecting 
 800 orbs is the other thing. But thats it.
  
  You'll need quite alot of imagination, to keep you buzy for a long time.
  
  ==SCORE==
  +8.0 
 for Real Time Worlds, they created an impressive one-of-its-kind game.
  +0.5 for the amazing battles, much shooting and stuff going on
  +0.5 for a awesome coop mode.
 
  +0.2 for a nice skill system
  +0.3 for a very nice game, that's really worth buying for most.
  -0.3 for a extremely short story-line 
 .
  -0.2 for a now-and-then crappy driving system. -------- 9.5 SUPERB --------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I love it, you can kill as much as you want. nice bosses, wonderful voice acting. It fufilled its 
 purpous. It is a great GTA ripoff. If this game is this good I can't wait to see GTA 4 in full 
 action. This game is what a good game should be. It could be the next big thing for Xbox 360. Much 
 better then Saints Row. This game actully got me off of GEARS all day. I am very surprised. This 
 game is awsome. You can do so much and your Gamerscore will be awarded with not so hard points. 
 Buy this game if you love to play Free Roams. If you like saints you will love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z0MBIES
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  its pretty damn good but not awesome. it has a lot of untapped potential and with a good story 
 line and a few side missions it could be an awesome game. it needed more work, but it also comes 
 with an exlusive (ya... hundreds of thousands of people exlusive) halo 3 beta invite. but it is 
 a good enough game to buy without the beta invite. and a vehicle with guns or one that jumps is 
 pretty nice. its also fun throwing around cars or just shooting peoples tires and watch them die 
 and noone caring. and jumping around like spider man is fun too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinx1971
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Crackdown is a cool run and gun type of game. It is an open world that allows you go where ever 
 you want and practically cause chaos in the name of the law. You get to waste gangs and some pesty 
 civilians that always seems to get in the way of your enforcement. My only problem with the game 
 is that it is too short. Once your character Hulks Out , the game becomes pretty much a breeze. 
 But I dont really mind because me like blowing things up!! Boom! I only thing I wish they included 
 in the game was a multiplayer deathmatch. I think it would had been cool to go at it with other 
 players with the city being our playground of destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Crack Down..... another sand box game but with a little twist.... your a cop for once..... you can 
 kill anything.... aslong as its criminals your aming for.
  its pretty fun to play since you get super powers (agility, strenght, better aiming, demolition, and 
 driving.) Its pretty fun.
  but the same thing is there like evry game of its kind..... gang members.
  Now to start the critic 
 part...
  the cartoony graphics are well placed for this genre , it runs smooth andno crapy cinematic (even 
 there theres not many)
  the gameplay is extrmely simple, specialy if you played the GTA franchise and saints row. but the 
 simpleness allows anyone to play (whos not offended by drungs or sexual themes) .
  the music in the game is pretty well placed.... dosent suck too much either.
  co-op mode is fun 
 and keeps you busy.
  the achevements are as easy to get then most game these past few lauch..... cought * fuzion frenzy 
 2*cought. this game is like a mix of hulk: ultimate destruction and gta.
  its a good game to buy besides the fact that it gives you a halo 3 beta invitation.
  
  yours 
 truly....... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divadave
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  the game is a very nice addition to the 360's list of games.. it can keep you occupied for hours.. and 
 even though you can probably finish the game in a day or so... This game just screams the words 
 downloadable content ... I mean.. I first wanted this game to get the halo beta, but after playing 
 the demo on XBL, I really could'nt care less if it has a beta or not.. this is truly a great fun 
 game... There is nothing more I coudl really say about this game.. the price tag could be a bit cheapper, 
 but, you do get a good quility game for the price tag. I haven't tried the online mulitplayer part 
 yet.. but, I will and get back to everyone about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMeHustle75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The premise behind the game is great, a super-cop in a GTA open world setting, there to take gang 
 members down and reclaim the city. Although you start the game stronger, faster and more agile 
 than a regular person, through the leveling system your powers continue to grow to more and more 
 ridiculous levels until the point you can lift and through cars and leap from building to building. 
 Your character also begins to look different as he levels and so do the three agency vehicles you 
 can choose from. The weapons although mostly standard work well, and the system of agency checkpoints 
 used to reload keep that part of the game from being to easy. Crackdown has two glaring but not 
 damning flaws; one the story is nearly non-existent it's pretty much super guy killing all these 
 other guys. Two, the announcer is just so bad he becomes repetitive in the first hour of the game. 
 As games grow more and more expensive it becomes harder to decide which ones to buy, Crackdown 
 is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Very short and that's the only problem with this game. Also there's a big bonus if you buy the 
 game when it first ship. Yep that's right it comes with a Halo 3 Beta free for download when you 
 purchase the game. So let's talk about the game you have a choice of different agents to choose 
 from in the beginning of the game. There are 3 different levels of difficulty to choose from. Once 
 you choose your difficulty setting you're briefed in the beginning to inform you of your duties 
 and what your job is. And that job is to clean up the streets and that's it. You have 3 different 
 gangs to choose from but the game is very linear when it comes to how to go about it. You can go 
 straight to the big boss if you choose too but you'll be very difficult to take him out if you're 
 not at full potential meaning you have to level up your strengths and skills to be able to defeat 
 your enemies. The story is pretty straight for it. There's no cutscenes or anything but there is 
 a short video clip of what happens once you eliminate a boss. The graphics in the game looks great 
 nothing amazing but watching a view from on top of a building looks great. The sound effects are 
 pretty satisfying when you blowing up stuff. The gameplay can get pretty addictive especially when 
 you're jumping around the city looking for orbs all over the place. You have 300 hidden orbs and 
 500 agility orbs all over the city. You also have co-op before your start it game it ask you if 
 you want invite friends, friends only, or anybody can jump in at all time option. Before you start 
 a game but the only problem is not as seamless like it was on gears of war. The game blacks out 
 and you have to go through a loading screen before you're able to start playing together. And once 
 you or your friend quits the game you die or your friend dies right there on the stop. This game 
 is pretty short as far as the main story goes. But I know some will continue playing this game 
 just to collect all the orbs and for the achievements alone people will continue playing this game 
 and for another thing included on the disc Halo anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjimbob
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to leap tall buildings in a single bound, toss cars like an angry Hulk, and use high-tech 
 weaponry to viciously dismantle powerful criminal organizations with impunity? Crackdown, the first 
 free-roaming action title from Realtime Worlds and Microsoft Game Studios, lets you do all of that 
 and so much more. While the core game clocks in at a measly 10 hours, you'll be tearing up Pacific 
 City chasing after elusive Achievements long after you've neutralized the gangs and brought peace 
 to town. In short, if you're a fan of open-ended games like Grand Theft Auto but have longed to 
 play the part of the iron fist of justice, Crackdown is your game.
  
  Crackdown, the brainchild of David Jones, creator of the Grand Theft Auto series and Lemmings, 
 puts you on the beat of a genetically altered super agent tasked with reclaiming the streets of 
 fictitious Pacific City. Each island of the sprawling metropolis is ruled by seven gang leaders, 
 six of whom are underbosses that report to a ringleader and are tasked with various roles in the 
 criminal organization.
  
  You can take out the bosses in any order you want, but if you go straight to the top without first 
 thinning the ranks you'll face greater numbers of aggressive enemies equipped with superior weaponry 
 guarding the kingpin. By starting at the bottom and working your way up, you'll see the ripple 
 effect of your actions both on the street and inside each enemy stronghold. Neutralize the gang's 
 recruiting officer and you'll see a dip in the number of foot soldiers patrolling the neighborhood. 
 Assassinate the arms buyer and you'll be dodging a few less rockets when you infiltrate your next 
 target's lair. It's a subtle mechanic that will be lost on the inattentive, but it adds a welcome 
 element of strategy to a game that's mostly about using brute force to solve a problem head-on.
 
  
  As a silent-but-deadly super agent, you have a variety of skills and tools at your disposal. For 
 starters, you have five abilities that, at the start of the game, are markedly more powerful than 
 your average bodybuilder. Climbing to new heights and collecting agility orbs will increase your 
 agility attribute, which in turn makes you run faster and jump higher. Punching, kicking, and throwing 
 enemies to their demise will boost your strength until you're flipping cars like a Gizmondo exec. 
 Sniping enemies from afar will increase your firearms aptitude, while chucking grenades and launching 
 rockets at clusters of goons will boost the destructive power of your explosives. Pulling off wild 
 stunts and mowing down bad guys while behind the wheel will up your driving skill, which affects 
 not only the handling of vehicles but also transforms agency cars into super powered killing machines.
 
  
  Like in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, to increase an attribute you simply perform an action successfully 
 over and over until your player levels up. To help speed up the process, there are several hundred 
 hidden orbs placed throughout the city in some less-than-obvious places. By gathering these glowing 
 spheres, you'll not only work your way toward unlocking some Achievement points, but you'll also 
 add bonus points to multiple attributes in one fell swoop.
  
  Within the first hour you'll notice a drastic change in your character as he'll leap farther, pick 
 up heavier objects, and create mayhem with ease. Virtual puberty aside, you'll also notice the 
 game scale to fit your newfound powers. As you venture off the first island you'll come across 
 taller buildings and you won't be able to crest the highest peaks without collecting more orbs. 
 And so continues the vicious cycle...
  
  It goes without saying that Crackdown has more than a passing similarity with the Grand Theft Auto 
 franchise, which is really no surprise since Dave Jones is the man behind both. Where Crackdown 
 deviates from the tried-and-true GTA formula is in three key places. For starters, you're the good 
 guy. True, you can direct your massive firepower at civilians and other agency police, but it comes 
 at a cost. You'll take a penalty on one or more attributes for causing too much collateral damage. 
 Keep screwing up and you'll find yourself tagged a rogue agent marked for death. You factor in 
 online and system link co-op and you've already put miles between each game.
  
  At this moment, the co-op feature isn't the seamless experience we'd hoped for. Should you receive 
 a join request from a friend or stranger, you must save and quit your current game and then restart 
 to place your partner in the game world. Also, that person does not have access to your agency 
 supply points (only the ones he unlocked in his game) . This can lead to some annoying gaps in team 
 play should one of you get taken out by a baddie and your partners closest spawn point is on another 
 island (or the Agency Keep) . While co-op is currently limited to Xbox Live and system link, it's 
 amazing fun and worth the price of admission.
  
  Another factor is the city's verticality. Pacific City might not cover the same acreage as San 
 Andreas, but it compensates for this by giving the player *lots* of places to climb and explore. 
 You'll find yourself ditching your agency ride in favor of leaping from rooftop to rooftop while 
 collecting orbs. Though most of the game takes place outdoors, there are many indoor environments 
 you'll venture through. While they are sparsely adorned, you'll find yourself doing a fair amount 
 of platforming inside as well.
  
  Lastly, GTA is a series known for rich characters, witty dialogue, and snarky humor. Crackdown 
 has a paper thin story that serves as nothing more than a backdrop to the action, though in this 
 case that's mostly fine. What laughs you derive from playing the game won't come from well-timed 
 jokes or comedic scenes, but instead from the sheer amount of chaos you can create with the tools 
 in your bag.
  
  It would have been nice if there were at least some characters you could latch onto in the course 
 of your adventure. The agency dispatcher, while humorous in his deadpan delivery, provides nothing 
 more than hardboiled enemy intel and gameplay tips. You won't encounter memorable roles like O. G. 
 Loc, Big Smoke, Lance Vance, or Luigi Goterelli during your tour in Pacific City. Instead you'll 
 hear looping ambient chatter from thugs and panicked denizens. So while you're jumping from skyscraper 
 to skyscraper to save the day, you'll view the locals just how they look from abovelike mindless 
 worker ants.
  
  Visually speaking, Crackdown is a pretty game. True, it lacks the graphic punch of the recent classic 
 Gears of War, but then again few games even come close. Instead of gunning for an ultra-realistic 
 look, the artists at Realtime Worlds opted for a graphic novel look, which is a marketing term 
 in place of the dreaded cel-shading descriptor. But this ain't no comic book. It's dark and foreboding 
 at times... and very violent, almost to the point of ridiculousness.
  
  Sound is sparse. Aside from the ambient noise of cars driving and people walking around, there's 
 not much to the game's audio in between bursts of gunfire. When you enter a vehicle you'll hear 
 a number of licensed tracks, many of which are forgettable techno or rock numbers that aren't bad 
 by any stretch, just not very memorable. Since you'll be spending most of your time leaping from 
 buildings you won't hear every track during an average play through (unless you're striving to 
 max out your driving attribute) .
  
  In almost every facet, Crackdown stacks up favorably to Grand Theft Auto. Controls are spot on, 
 save for a finicky target lock feature that sometimes sticks to the wrong enemy or object. Full 
 camera controls are a much welcome improvement to the genre, as is the pinpoint aiming feature. 
 Vehicle driving, while not on par with racing games, is satisfying enough to add depth.
  
  The only place that Crackdown comes up short is in its scope. The core game of defeating all 21 
 bosses can be completed in 10 hours or less on the default skill level. Side missions consist of 
 rooftop races and driving contests, but nothing more. You can play the game in Time Trial mode 
 to beat your previous records, and likewise you can gun for all 900 Achievement points included 
 with the disc (the last 100 will be available for free download on Xbox Live) . While it'll take 
 you some time to nab them alland without question these are some of the most creative Achievements 
 to date on Xbox 360 (Body Juggling, anyone?) they almost feel tacked on in place of actual tasks 
 and story missions. Whether the story content was trimmed to make ship date or it was by design 
 is unknown, but the game feels a bit lifeless without it.
  
  It's also worth mentioning that early Crackdown purchasers get an automatic place in the Halo 3 
 beta. Microsoft cleverly built a launcher into the Crackdown game itself, so you'll need the disc 
 in your 360 to download and run the Halo 3 beta code. Sell or trade in the game and you'll likely 
 lose that spot or be unable to participate when the download becomes available. For some, Crackdown 
 will be enough to keep them happy despite this added perk, though there's little doubt that some 
 trigger-happy kids consider the game a $60 beta key and nothing more. Consider us in the former 
 camp.
  
  In the end, Crackdown is a game that gives back to players what they put into it. If you're the 
 kind of person who likes the freedom to approach a problem in multiple ways, you're given ample 
 tools to kick ass and take names. In any boss fight there are multiple paths to reach your goal, 
 so no matter how you've groomed your character you'll have a means to reach your target. But if 
 you need your hand held through an intricate story to keep you captivated, you'll walk away disappointed. 
 This game will appeal to a very specific kind of gamer, but those willing to blaze their own trail 
 through Pacific City's underworld will reap vast rewards and hours of enjoyment.
  
  Highs: Expertly crafted world; great use of physics; game is rich with water cooler moments stemming 
 from emergent gameplay; controls are spot on despite some minor gripes with the target-lock feature; 
 co-op is wicked fun; the world provides almost limitless possibilities for player-directed activities; 
 maxed-out abilities turn you into an unstoppable superhero; Halo 3 beta access is a nice bonus
 
  
  Lows: No real story or characters to speak of; online co-op isn't seamless; game could use some 
 additional mission types
  
  Verdict: Crackdown isn't perfect, but it's damn addictive in a way that not many games are (and 
 it's got online co-op) . Whether you're scaling skyscrapers to nab those elusive orbs or kicking 
 thugs halfway across town, it never gets old despite its lack of story content and mission variety. 
 If you love sandbox games, you'll get back everything you put into it and then some. *Originally 
 published at GWN. com 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
