-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crash: Mind Over Mutant
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/crashbandicootmindovermutant/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Humorous cut-scenes styled after different cartoons.
 Some cool mutant powers to play around with.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Having to play the same levels multiple times is no fun.
 Camera can be more dangerous than enemies at times.
 Co-op play sucks for at least one of you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 93 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Crash Bandicoot's latest adventure has too much backtracking and too many camera problems to make 
 it recommendable. 

  Dr. Neo Cortex is at it again. He's causing all kinds of trouble on Wumpa Island, and, of course, 
 Crash Bandicoot is the only marsupial who can stop him. With that said, Mind Over Mutant isn't 
 a game in which you'll necessarily spend a lot of time playing as the titular hero. Rather, like 
 Crash of the Titans before it, this is a game in which Crash's main function is to assume control 
 of various mutants so that you can play as them and use their various powers to overcome obstacles. 
 This adds some variety to the proceedings for sure, but the amount of backtracking that you have 
 to do, coupled with a problematic camera that you have no control over, makes Crash's latest adventure 
 one that you'll likely tire of long before you've played for the seven or so hours that it takes 
 to beat.  

           Crash can dig underground now. It's easy. It's not fun.      

  Mind Over Mutant gets off to a reasonably good start; humorous cutscenes that employ a number of 
 different cartoon styles set the tone right off the bat. The early missions also do a good job 
 of familiarizing you with the controls for jumping, digging underground, engaging in combat, and 
 the like. It doesn't take long for things to start going downhill though. The biggest problem is 
 that too many missions not only require you to get from A to B, but also to make your way back 
 to A again. That, or you have to complete the same A to B level that you've already played through 
 more than once to reach C. So, after navigating all manner of floating platforms and hazards, as 
 well as completing your objective, you then have to do it all again -- sometimes backwards. That 
 wouldn't be so bad if the already-problematic camera would move to take this change of direction 
 into account, but it's positioned in exactly the same locations. Leaps of faith toward platforms 
 that you can't see aren't something that you have to make  too  often, but there's really no excuse 
 for them to exist at all.  

  A few hours in, you'll have traversed certain environments several times to move between mission 
 objectives, and regardless of the fact that some alternate routes open up as you gain access to 
 new mutants' powers, you'll be sick of them. About halfway through the game, another character 
 even mocks you for having spent so much time walking everywhere as he activates a few teleportation 
 pads to get you around the island more easily. Things start looking up at that point until you 
 realize that those pads are really only useful for the duration of your current mission.  

  That mission, like most, involves plenty of combat. Whether you're controlling Crash or one of 
 the dozen or so different mutants that he can climb onto after beating them into a daze, the moves 
 in your offensive arsenal include a basic melee attack, a more powerful block-breaking attack, 
 and at least one character-specific special move. Unfortunately, Crash is one of the least enjoyable 
 characters to play as because his abilities, which include an overpowered "counter" move, feel 
 so limited compared to those of the mutants. Crash's ability to spin for a long time isn't nearly 
 as satisfying as the RhinoRoller's ability to turn into a spike-covered ball and steamroll enemies 
 or the Grimly's ability to slow down time, for example. Other mutant abilities include performing 
 telekinesis, freezing enemies in blocks of ice, and -- if you're lucky enough to be playing as the 
 half-octopus/half-bagpipes mutant that is a yuktopus -- firing a deadly beam of energy from the giant 
 cannon mounted on your right-tentacle arm.  

           If player two can't keep up they'll spend much of their time off-screen.      

  After 
 progressing past a certain point in the game, it becomes possible to play cooperatively with a 
 friend. Player two can run alongside you as Crash's sister Coco or if he or she prefers, player 
 two can assume the form of Aku Aku -- a wooden mask with the ability to float around the screen, 
 collecting items and launching live chickens at enemies. Either way, your friend's fun is likely 
 to be short-lived. When playing as Aku Aku, you don't actually get to control him; you just point 
 at things that you want to pick up or hurl poultry at by moving a cursor around the screen. And 
 when playing as Coco, the camera still positions itself according to where Crash is, so unless 
 the two of you are moving through levels in near-perfect unison, player two will inevitably spend 
 a good deal of time offscreen.  

  Crash Bandicoot: Mind Over Mutant looks, sounds, and in many ways plays a lot like last year's 
 Crash of the Titans. The combat system has been improved; you can dig and climb now, as well as 
 power up your abilities by collecting the mojo scattered all over the island, but none of these 
 improvements are good enough to counter the negative impact that the new free-roaming world design 
 has undergone. The humorous cutscenes aren't enough to counter the negative impact either, which 
 is unfortunate because some of them are genuinely funny but appear so late in the game that unlocking 
 them simply isn't worth the effort. Even if you thought Crash of the Titans was one of the best 
 games of 2007, you'll find Mind over Mutant to be a disappointment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kellyrd88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:19 am PT
Review:  The good : A nice platform title for children on a 360, tries to rejuvenate an old series with 
 somewhat of a new spice, not to difficult for children to adapt to and defeat
  
  The bad : Repetitive game where you are constantly moving around the same couple of areas all the 
 time, when you think they have changed the game they bring back even more of the same old enemies 
 to face, not challenging enough for any skilled gamer, just an old series that sound move on and 
 start a new
  
  As a child from the late '80s I grew up with platform heroes like Mario and Sonic as mainstay characters. 
 Shortly there after two new characters caught the eyes of many; Crash Bandicoot and Spyro. Both 
 are legends of there time, but something like Brett Favre in the sense that they should have hung 
 it up when the time was right instead of clinging to something that just isn't there anymore. Crash 
 is stuck with people trying continually take him to a level that he topped out at with CB Warped. 
 The game is good for children, and that is about it. Maybe I have grown to old and may be a bit 
 harsh, but I just feel if they will continue to keep producing games like these they should sit 
 down and make a hell of a game and blow the roof off instead of trying to push junk out and force 
 feed it to their fans. For the fact that I did have a little fun while playing this game I gave 
 it a 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Crash of the Titans was a great game. It had fresh new ideas that worked well. Mind Over Mutant 
 is basically a rehash of that game, only less fun. But why is that? Let's find out. First of all, 
 why don't we start with the biggest problem in the game? The camera. I need to point out that this 
 is like the old Naughty Dog games, in that you simply run up or down a straight narrow path. It's 
 a free-roaming game, and that makes the "fixed camera" really quite awful. When you're running 
 towards the screen it doesn't zoom out enough, so you'll run into thin air and die. Now, apparently 
 you can't die. From falling to your doom that is. I think you CAN die when you lose all you health 
 in a fight though. Which is all good and well, not that there's any significant challenge here 
 for older gamers.
  
  The second biggest problem is the backtracking. Why isn't this the number 1 biggest problem? Well, 
 near the end you get these teleportation devices that... you guessed it, they teleport you back 
 to where you need to go. So that's quite helpful.
  
  The cutscenes are quite funny from time to time, referencing Dragonball and South Park (Canada on 
 Strike episode) to name a few. But is the actual game any fun to play? It's okay, but it's pretty 
 much exactly like Crash of the Titans, only worse. Most of the mutants are pretty much exactly 
 like the ones in "Titans", only with small changes in their design. They're not as fun to use, 
 and there aren't that many of them. One great thing about "Titans" was that just when you're about 
 to get bored, a new different monster pops up for you to play with. The fighting is not as good 
 and the platforming sections are standard stuff. The boss fights are a complete joke, all three 
 of them. Yes, that's 3. Okay if you are a kid or a fan of Crash you could check it out. But I would 
 rather suggest you get Crash of the Titans instead, if you haven't already. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsxMeUP_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  After only a year between Crash of the Titans and Crash: Mind Over Mutant it shouldn't surprise 
 anyone to hear that this new title only offers a few changes in gameplay. But even in that short 
 amount of time Radical Entertainment managed to one-up the franchise. This iteration is far from 
 being a masterpiece, nor does it attempt to completely disassociate itself from its predecessor, 
 but it's still an improvement. The game directly follows Crash of the Titan's hyperactive plot 
 with a similar Ritalin-deprived story. It gives players enough variety in gameplay to keep them 
 satisfied and offers plenty of good laughs, unfortunately only for a weekend - the game is rather 
 short. Crash might never have been an upper-tier platform franchise, but it always delivers good 
 rentals, and Crash: Mind Over Mutant is no different.
  
  
  REMEMBER THE TITANS? THEY ARE BACK
  
  The story begins following the events of Crash of the 
 Titans. After the Doominator robot smashed into Wumpa Islands, Crash Bandicoot, Crash's sister 
 Coco, Crush Bandicoot and Aku Aku (a magical tribal mask) return to their daily activities. Life 
 is good until all the inhabitants of Wumpa Islands receive gifts containing a contraption called 
 "NV". Much like a cell-phone, NV is the answer to everyone's problem-free lives. There's one little 
 problem, though. As soon as someone puts on a pair of NV goggles (they look like helmets) he or 
 she is turned into an idiotic mutant. Crash is naturally immune to the whole scheme because he 
 lacks the attention span required to even put on the contraption. Plus he's already an idiot.
 
  
  As you might have guess, Dr. Neo Cortex and Dr. Nitrus Brio are behind it all. To make the whole 
 ploy even more malicious they managed to betray Uka Uka, Aku Aku's evil brother (also a tribal 
 mark) , and milk his Mojo, which is used to manufacture the devices. And by "milk" we mean having 
 the mask hooked up to a bunch of suction machines... Coco and Crush had the misfortune to put on 
 the contraptions so they turned into mutants. With the help of Aku Aku, Crash sets out to foil 
 the plans of both evilicious Doctors.
  
  Crash: Mind Over Mutant is rather simple game - a platformer in the truest sense of the word. Players 
 must once again run around, gather Mojo and defeat various giant enemies. Like in Crash of the 
 Titans, monsters can be saddled up for added gameplay, expect here we have more variety. Radical 
 Entertainment created a fairly large amount of rideable Titans, each with different attack moves 
 and abilities. For instance, some can slow down time while others can turn into a ball or freeze 
 water. Some Titans are better at long range attacks, others at hand-to-hand combat, while some 
 have telekinetic skills that can lift enemies and move objects. Many levels are designed around 
 specific Titans, which the game conveniently makes available where needed. 
  
  Radical Entertainment nixed some of Crash's old moves. Our ever-smiling mascot can no longer use 
 Aku Aku as a surfboard, though he can still use his friend as a shield. Gameplay is straightforward 
 and similar to previous titles. Crash runs around destroying crates and other objects picking up 
 Mojo. Once enough Mojo has been accumulated our lovable bandicoot levels up. While riding a Titan, 
 Mojo will level up the Titan in question. Crash can double jump, spin, dig underground tunnels 
 in specific locations and perform a weak and strong attack. He can also dodge the attacks of larger 
 opponents with a well-timed press of a button. This might look like a lot but our canine friend 
 has a rather shallow assortment of moves. 
  
  The Titans are clearly the focal point of the game. Most of the action takes place while riding 
 them and there are plenty of oddities scattered about to keep players from running on foot for 
 too long. Crash can have up to two Titans in stock (only one if he saddles up a really big Titan) . 
 Each one can perform a weak and strong attack, as well as a variety of special moves that drain 
 an auto-recharging power bar. Gameplay in general is decent but a bit unpolished. Crash and his 
 Titans feel clunky in a slippery kind of way. They will often slide off structures they are supposed 
 to grab onto or activate items they are not facing. Despite some of the shortcomings, gameplay 
 is fun and keeps players interested throughout the entire game, thanks to the Titans.
  
  
  OPEN-ENDED LINEAR GAMEPLAY
  
  Mind Over Mutant tries to introduce open-ended gameplay to 
 the franchise - emphasis on "tries". The game is divided into a free roaming "outside" world and 
 "indoor" parts. The outside world includes various regions: Wumpa Islands, Ratcicle Kingdom, Rinoroller 
 Village, remnants of the Doominator and various areas in between. Players can run around in those 
 zones at will, killing enemies and gathering Mojo, but many missions are performed indoors, much 
 like in previous Crash games. For instance, to reach Nina's School players must to pass through 
 Wumpa Islands and Ratcicle Kingdom, which together can take around 20 minutes to go through, but 
 once inside Nina's School it's back to good old linear gameplay. There's nothing wrong with that, 
 mind you, just be forewarned that the entire game isn't open-ended. The majority of missions are 
 sequential so this open-endedness is only skin deep.
  
  The game is rather short in length. To counter this problem Radical Entertainment makes players 
 go over the same areas multiples times. This wouldn't be a bad thing had it not been so obviously 
 done to stretch out play time. The free-roaming nature of the outside world isn't a positive in 
 some aspects. Objectives aren't always clear, so when a mission tells you to go to a specific location 
 it's not always apparent how to get there. Players will often find themselves roaming like a homeless 
 dog. The cartoonish map doesn't help in the matter. All it's good for is telling you where you 
 are but it doesn't say how to get anywhere. 
  
  The most enjoyable part is the animation. Radical Entertainment gives us some hilarious cartoons 
 between missions. Dialog is funny, up-to-date and trendy. The game presents an effective social 
 satire of current consumer trends. Dialog between characters is smart and funny. Accolades are 
 truly well-deserved here. If this is what the creative heads up at Radical Entertainment are capable 
 of, Crash deserves his own animated TV series. Cutscenes use various forms of animation. Some of 
 them are done using side-splitting paper cutouts while others look like something out of the Cartoon 
 Network (picture Cow and Chicken or Dexter's Laboratory) . Video clips and various extras can be 
 viewed from Crash's house on Wumpa Island. 
  
  Previous Crash titles had a room with portals that lead to various missions. This formula hasn't 
 really changed. All Radical Entertainment did was increase the size of the room, except here portals 
 have been replaced with giant doors and caves, and the "room" now has an open sky, enemies, a few 
 tricky platforms, switches and walls to climb. It's a shy improvement from the old formula but 
 a step up nonetheless. 
  
  Gameplay requires a fair use of Titans and their unique abilities. In some parts players have to 
 create bridges by freezing water, slow down time to move through rapidly-moving platforms or pull 
 blocks out of walls, all with the help of Titans. While only playing as Crash, levels will ask 
 players to pass wobbly platforms, climb walls and dig tunnels to reach new areas. In later stages 
 portals become available allowing players to jump to specific locations. Getting to specific zones, 
 before we are graced with portals, is fun the first time around, but after going through the same 
 tricky parts multiple times - usually needlessly while straying on your way to a specific location 
 - things get annoying. Yes, Crash, smile Smile, you mutt, while I waste another 15 minutes telekinetically 
 moving blocks around trying to get somewhere, only to find out I shouldn't have gone that way. 
 Ergo, gameplay gives mixed feelings.
  
  
  SMILES, DROOLS AND SLUGS
  
  Co-op mode becomes available once Coco Bandicoot is saved from the clutches of her NV contraption 
 and it's not that good. Both players have to be on screen at all times, which usually makes one 
 of the characters more of a fifth wheel than an asset. To save Coco players must first defeat a 
 drooling, snarling mutant version of Crash's sister - the same goes to Crush Bandicoot. Most bosses 
 are taken out in a unique way, which is always a good thing. The mutated Crush Bandicoot, for example, 
 hides behind rocket-launchers that can only be destroyed by flinging TNT crates at them using the 
 telekinetic Titan. Nina, on the other hand, is "saved" by protecting her school project from being 
 destroyed. In all, boss battles are fairly simple and fun. 
  
  It should be noted that Crash can't die. For better or worse dying only sends players back to a 
 previous checkpoint without any penalties. There are no lives like in previous games. I personally 
 didn't find this to be a bad thing. Had they added lives players would have still managed to finish 
 the game, only with more headaches and in no less play time either.
  
  Speaking of headaches, one of the biggest drawbacks is the camera. Radical Entertainment created 
 a fixed camera, which is a good thing in most games since the best angles are chosen for us. Unfortunately 
 camera angles in Mind Over Mutant often suck. Much of Wumpa Islands will be played with players 
 running towards the screen with the entire level behind Crash, barely seeing what is ahead. And 
 even with the fixed camera players will often find themselves missing a ledge, usually because 
 the camera is completely zoomed out. Would it have hurt to at least let players have the option 
 to zoom in and out? Most of the game is played with characters about the size of raisins on screen. 
 Crash might look like some guy in an ugly costume with an oversized head, but as a player I would 
 like to see his nauseous smile from up close. We never get to see the game as depicted in all the 
 awesome screenshots. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  In all, Crash: Mind Over Mutant is a good game  not great, but good. It offers enough Titans to 
 keep players busy throughout the dozen hours or so of gameplay. The rideable monsters are pleasantly 
 varied. Gameplay is linear in some parts and finding your next mission can be a pain in the outside 
 portions, but since Crash is "immortal" getting lost and dying won't matter much. Bosses are always 
 a treat to fight. It's too bad Radical Entertainment makes players go through the same places multiple 
 times. The game is rather short, so we can only imagine how much shorter it would have been had 
 all the areas only been visited once. Still, Crash: Mind Over Mutant is a decent platformer, though 
 it fares much better as a cartoon. Players will find themselves laughing out loud on more than 
 one occasion while watching cutscenes. Give it a try if you liked previous Crash games, but be 
 warned, the game is short and you won't grasp all the inside jokes if you have the attention span 
 of our favorite bandicoot. 
  
  
  Graphics 68
  Nothing special. Most of the time the camera is so zoomed out we can't see any details.
  
  
 Gameplay 72
  Fun for the most part but going over the same parts gets annoying, especially when you get lost. 
 Co-op mode isn't available at first and it's not that good.
  
  Production 75
  Funny animated clips make it worthwhile, though not enough effort was given to make the game as 
 funny as the clips.
  
  Sound 80
  Memorable enemy lines and some catchy tunes. Great dialog during cutscenes.
  
  Replayability 
 60
  Short game and not enough extras for seconds.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
