-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crash of the Titans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/crashofthetitans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Monster-jacking adds some unique flavor to an otherwise vanilla platformer.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks a real distinct personality.
 Monster-jacking gets old after a while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a fairly sturdy, combat-heavy platformer with a good hook, but it lacks a real distinct attitude. 
 

  Ever since series creator Naughty Dog said goodbye to Crash Bandicoot on the original PlayStation, 
 the series has floundered. While the reasons for the inconsistent quality are myriad, one of the 
 key problems has been an inability to establish a tone that is consistent and compelling on the 
 part of the short parade of developers who've tried their hand at the series. There's just no signature 
 Crash Bandicoot feel anymore, which has made for a trail of indistinct, forgettable games. Now 
 Radical Entertainment is at the helm for Crash of the Titans, and though it's a solid effort -- arguably 
 better than the past few Crash games -- it still kind of feels like Yet Another Mascot Platformer. 

           Can you imagine how often the word 'edgy' was bandied about during the design of Crash's 
 sweet new arm tattoos?      

  Crash of the Titans doesn't overexert itself with its story, which is pretty boilerplate. After 
 teaming up in 2004's Crash Twinsanity, Crash Bandicoot and his nemesis Dr. Neo Cortex are back 
 at each other's throats at the beginning of Crash of the Titans. The game kicks off with Crash 
 and friends relaxing at home, attempting to recycle butter, when the quaintly insane doctor shows 
 up in a blimp to kidnap Coco and Aku-Aku. It's unclear how the kidnapping figures into his plan 
 to take over the world with hulking, mutated monsters and seems like a force of habit more than 
 anything else. Still, Radical manages to tuck some good humor into the proceedings, which, more 
 often than not, is thanks to some strong readings from a cast of veteran voice actors.  

  A solid but predictable setup gives way to some solid but predictable platforming action. Although 
 it's not as microscopically focused as the first three Crash games, the path you walk in Crash 
 of the Titans is still pretty narrow. In terms of volume, there's not a great deal of actual platforming 
 here nor is it terribly challenging, but a physics system that causes platforms to wobble precariously 
 at least makes it interesting. There are also a number of hoverboard sequences wedged in there, 
 which seem totally random both in terms of placement and length. There's certainly a greater focus 
 on combat, and every level contains several sequences where you have to take out a large group 
 of enemies before you can progress. As you defeat enemies and smash environmental objects, you'll 
 pick up mojo orbs. These orbs can earn you ability upgrades and new moves, though the combat never 
 gets more complicated than three- or four-button combos.  

  The big twist in Crash of the Titans comes from your ability to jack the giant freaks that Cortex 
 has deployed against you. When you start wailing on one of these monstrosities, a star meter will 
 appear over its head and begin to fill up as your attacks connect. Once full, you can hop onto 
 the shoulders of the monster and ride it around, like some kind of fleshy tank. You'll find that 
 there's a good variety to these monsters because they have wildly different suites of attacks, 
 as well as their own sets of strengths and weaknesses. Certain monsters are impossible for Crash 
 to successfully attack on his own, requiring you to jack another monster first. Having to daisy-chain 
 a series of monster-jacks during boss fights represents some of the most satisfying action in Crash 
 of the Titans.  

  The game does a pretty good job of introducing new monsters at regular intervals to keep you guessing, 
 but once you've figured out the basic tactics necessary to jack all the different enemy types, 
 it loses a lot of its steam. Crash of the Titans tries to compensate later on with larger numbers 
 of enemies, though this can lead to frustrating moments where you're being pummeled from all sides 
 and unable to defend yourself or retaliate. It should take about six or seven hours to play through 
 Crash of the Titans on the default difficulty level. The game naturally tries to lure you back 
 with hidden items and secondary goals that can earn you some unlockable extras, as well as a cooperative 
 mode. But you'll probably have had your fill of double-jumping, hoverboarding, and monster-jacking 
 by the time you reach the end the first time through.  

           Here's a fun fact that's totally made up: The working title for this game was 'Crash &amp; 
 Carry'.      

  Crash of the Titans offers pretty much the same experience on the Xbox 360, Wii, and PlayStation 
 2. The Xbox 360 version is naturally the best-looking, with the cleanest textures, as well as the 
 nicest lighting and particle effects. However, the motion-blur effects can get a little carried 
 away on Crash, which have the odd effect of making him look prerendered, like he was in a Donkey 
 Kong Country game. The Wii and PlayStation 2 versions are pretty comparable from a presentation 
 perspective. However, the Wii version's particle effects look nicer, and it also looks better on 
 an HDTV. Crash of the Titans shows some restraint when it comes to the Wii motion controls, which 
 the game only really uses for performing some of the monsters' special attacks.  

  Radical has created a reasonably fun experience here that's frothy, intermittently funny, and a 
 breeze to play. The big underlying problem with Crash of the Titans is that you could swap Crash 
 out for any number of other cartoony platforming heroes and not really know the difference. Without 
 much of a distinct style to call its own, it's hard to get too excited.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Diverse levels offering an assortment of different challenges over the course of the game's lifespan 
 - that is the one trait most of the world's greatest platformers all have in common. Moreover, 
 it is something many developers struggle to even approach getting right. Usually, regardless of 
 how good one single idea is, it will get boring with repetition, so it is always best for developers 
 to try and mix things up should they want to end up with a winner on their hands once their title 
 is released. Regretfully, Crash of the Titans is one of these games which is based around the concept 
 of one idea, and yes, as an unfortunate result does get grating with repetition.
  
  However, before we get any further, it should be noted that the core idea for Crash of the Titans 
 is a good one, and giving you the ability to hijack and control monsters throughout the game is 
 quite an entertaining one, at least for a while. However, when each of the levels in the game basically 
 plays like a retread of the one before the excitement starts to wear thin very quickly. In fact, 
 everything about the game sadly seems steeped in repetition with the same jumping sections, combat 
 sections, and boss section repeated and reused throughout until it leaves even the most stalwart 
 of platforming fans feeling weary and disheartened by what they are seeing.
  
  There are bigger problems to worry about though, such as Radical's decision to stay with the now 
 positively archaic limited lives system, basically forcing you to work your way though large sections 
 of levels - parts which may have already annoyed the first time round - all over again should you 
 die too many times. This is a very weird decision, particularly when you consider that most of 
 the other parts of the game were made with kids in mind, and if one age group is not going to like 
 replaying sections it would be them. If that is not annoying enough then the bane of all platformers 
 also comes into the fray in Crash of the Titans, that been bad camera placement. When you first 
 start it is not all that bad, and once both of Crash's feet remain firmly on the ground there are 
 no problems on show. But, and it is a very big but, as soon as you add any kind of jumping at all 
 the camera seems to make the most ludicrous positioning decisions making some jumps pure guess 
 work, and almost all of them needlessly annoying.
  
  So, with paragraph after paragraph of disappointment is there something good to talk about? Well 
 surprisingly there are a few plus points to speak of. Firstly, the collection of monsters on show 
 is impressive, and there are an acceptable number of new ones introduced as you work your way through 
 the game. Also, should you find what's on show interesting there is always the option to replay 
 some sections to find hidden items, seek out secondary goals, and earn some unlockable extras. 
 The games combo system is also very simple and intuitive, and even though it does not take much 
 skill manages to feel satisfying. Depending on which monster you have hijacked you will have a 
 differing selection of attacks mapped to one of three face buttons, and hammering these buttons 
 - usually without too much thought - will result in you dishing out a series of attacks. Alas, 
 even with these somewhat impressive, and highly accessible controls, the game has yet another problem 
 as some enemies are still very difficult to take down. To make things worse the game seems to enjoy 
 tossing a collection of these tougher enemies at you at the same time, thus resulting in multiple 
 infuriating deaths even if you approach them with some tactics in mind. It has to be said that 
 this part of the game really needed some more play testing. In fact, the whole game could have 
 done with a lot of refinement.
  
  Poor Crash, he has not been having the greatest time of late, with almost all of his recent exploits 
 since he departed from the original Playstation being nothing but disappointing. Even though Crash 
 of the Titans is certainly a step up from those lows, at best it can still only be seen as nothing 
 more than an average platformer, offering nothing we have not already both seen and played many 
 times before. However, with so little of the genre out there to appease fans right now many of 
 it flaws of Crash's latest effort are masked due to the limitation of the competition. Of course, 
 that is still no excuse.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Crash of the Titans
  
  Review 146
  
  Released: October 4, 2007
  Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
  Developer: Radical Ent.
  Game Genre: Action
  ESRB Rating: 
 E for Everyone
  ESRB Description: Cartoon Violence, Crude Humor, Mild Language
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (7/10)
  This time 
 around, Crash and the gang are having a peaceful time when Cortex strikes once more. He freezes 
 Crush and captures Coco and Aku Aku. It's up to Crash to save the day once more.
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  The gameplay is surprisingly interesting. There are enough new features to keep 
 repetition down. Crash must work his way up to full strength in this game. Moves (such as Crash's 
 famous spin) have to be learned and upgraded as the game goes on. Crash can no longer spin for 
 an unlimited amount of time until that upgrade is reached. 
  
  In addition, there are now new creatures called Titans that can be 'jacked' once they are defeated 
 and, using Aku Aku's mask, can be controlled. Controlling Titans is easily the best part of the 
 game, and is also vital to winning.
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  Poor cinematic graphics and average in-game graphics.
  
  Durability (6/10)
  The game is very 
 short and there's no reason to replay it.
  
  Overall Score (7.3/10)
  Rounded Score (7.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  The game will be nice to rent for lovers of platform 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  No Xbox game on the planet other then avatar and madden NFL 06 could have quicker achievements 
 in this game. In the first level I got about 14. How is that possible? i dont know but it happens. 
 This game isnt even fun half the way and the Uka Uka boss and the other spider thing is so frustrating 
 without a friend you might literally break down sobbing, but getting the nice 15 g achievements 
 makes you wanna go for the gold. The only reason this game is good because of achievements, and 
 that ive beat this game on like every system because my brother makes me on each system, yea its 
 weird. But the first time you play it you will think it is very good (in my opinion) because the 
 gameplay is new and original. what other game has you jumping around on monsters backs and making 
 you break down in frustration every time you couldnt jack him because it takes too long to knock 
 him out no matter how hard you try? Noone has. Thats why this game is great. Original and achievements 
 infestation. If you like achievements or are a big crash fan, this game is a must get, and i am 
 both so get it now if u want, though i recommend you rent (which i did) so you dont have to waste 
 money on the 2 hour storyline and it only takes a day to get all the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark1003
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  It's awful easy until you reach the end in when it becomes too hard at points and the combat is 
 just hammering X and Y until the cows come home, but Crash Of The Titans just has some feel of 
 goodness to it that makes you keep playing and not say that it was a waste of time. You just want 
 to continue for some reason and although it is very short (20 about 15 minute missions) it is replayable 
 and to get all the achevments you need to replay it. The story is kind of interesting too if you 
 follow it. I dont know what it is about it that keeps you playing but whatever it is it's fun! 
 it's full of easy achevments as a bonus as well! So even if you dont like the game by the time 
 you say ok this is not getting good so im not playing it you will have 400 achevment points! It's 
 replayable and you probly will replay it at some point because when i finished the game first I 
 only had 60% game completion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluJayFan5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  If you have been a long time fan of the Crash Bandicoot series then you will love this game. Personnally 
 when growing up watching my brothers play the First games I felt like I had to get this. Now I 
 have never played the others, but this one was a sure keeper.
  
  Once a gain you have to stop the evil Cortex from taking over the world or whatever he likes to 
 do, with your mojo. Although this time around he sends mutants and unfortunately for you they are 
 bigger than ever. Well instead of doing you basic spin attack from earlier classics, you are able 
 to "jack" mutants and basically mind control them for as long as you want. Each mutant has their 
 on ability and attacks that work against other mutants. Its a fun and big adventure that will last 
 for a good long time. Also not only do you have to beat the level itself you also have chances 
 to find secret items and stuff to contain. For example when you "jack" a mutant so many times you 
 are able to receive a costume that when you wear it you are able to one-hit knock out the mutant 
 for a quick "jack." The difficulty of the game is not too challenging, but not that easy as well. 
 You will find yourself stuck on some part as you go through, but I'm sure you will devise a plan 
 to get around it. You won't find yourself screaming at the game, when having some trouble if you 
 are a hardcore gamer. This game is all fun and a challenge for those achievement freaks such as 
 me.
  
  All and all I gave this game a 10 because i'm such a big fan of the bandicoot. Although If your 
 a first time player of the series I would rate it an 8.5. So go out, save the world and get jacking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreezyGamer
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Now when the first Crash Bandicoot game came out, i fell in love with it and stuck it all the way 
 through from the second one and Warped. I bought some of the first PS2 games and they were pretty 
 okay. I think that at least Twinsanity was the last okay one. They completely ruined Crash games 
 with all this "new and improved" crap. It is CRAP!!! They make him look like a complete idiot and 
 it just doesn't have the same impact as it once did. I played the Crash series for a little more 
 than decade and when i played these it was just retarded. It has no challenge at all like it did 
 and I beat it in a couple hours. The new characters are also really stupid. They've got nothing 
 good anymore. All of the good stuff is back in the early 2000's and late 90's. They do have some 
 good games but seriously, make a decent Crash game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Yuk. The first time I played this, I had just finished a session of the original Crash Bandicoot 
 on my PS3 (downloaded from the PSN store) . I was staggered at how little the graphics had improved 
 since then. 
  
  It's a forced-perspective 3D game - in other words one of those irritating 2D platformers that 
 switches to camera views that make it difficult to tell how far the next gap is and whether or 
 not your character has the ability to clear it.
  
  Interaction with the game's enemies is completely inconsistent - some you can fight, others you 
 can't - you don't seem to be able to jump on any of them as you could in the first Crash Bandicoot. 
 In fact, I found that you don't need to engage with the enemy at all - you can simply run past 
 them and they won't be able to follow you over the gaps.
  
  My biggest problem with this game is that the gameplay is over 10 years old, the environments are 
 extremely boring and generic and the central character has absolutely no character.
  
  I couldn't really recommend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midget98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This new crash game Crash of the Titans has got to be the best one since Crash 3: Warped. First 
 off I'm kind of a fan of monsters and causing devastation and all 15 of the monsters in this game 
 allow you to do just that. Each of these monsters is uniquely different from each other and all 
 have different powers and abilities. Also most of the monsters look pretty cool. The monsters aren't 
 the only good thing about this game, the game is funny and i enjoyed watching all the cinematics 
 because of the odd humor that always showed up. The only negative things id have to say about this 
 game is that on difficulty normal it was pretty short i bet it to 100% in less then 12 hours, and 
 that some of the unlockables are kind of lame. But other then that i throughly enjoyed the game 
 and im replaying it now on hard. I think this is for sure worth a rental and definitely worth a 
 buy once the price goes down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  It's a very fun game, for the first half an hour or so.... after that its all the same over and 
 over and over again, take control of some beast beat up the rest. Different beast or monsters have 
 a different power. Crash alone seems sort of a useless character, making the game even more boring. 
 The same aspects as the bad crash bandicoot games is bad. controls are not that bad, but camera 
 angles are far from perfect. They should have definitely put more time into it... I cant recommend 
 this game, but if your a big fan then rent it, but plz don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Whoever that like to play Crash games will find that this games is more different than any Crash 
 games before this. Firstly you can mount enemies and use it as your ultimate weapon. The upgrade 
 system also is great because it make you want to play this game more and more to see what are the 
 upgrades for your characters. The weak point of this game are it has no boss fight and you will 
 kill the same enemies from time to time and make you feel a little repetitive in the gameplay. 
 But enough said, the gameplay is still good to play even it has no boss fight because of the great 
 graphics for it's own engine and it's fun to play. Comment from me, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kermi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up last night because I was determined to take something home and the stores 
 I tried didn't have the Orange box in stock. My number two reason for picking it up was that my 
 fiancee is a big fan of the series, though she was turned off by the inconsistency and unrealistic 
 expectations of Crash: Twinsanity. worst case scenario, we strike out and return it to try something 
 else.
  What I didn't expect was a charming game with well paced humour and well constructed level designs 
 that add up to a whole heap of fun. The controls are great for this kind of platformer. The speed 
 of the game is somewhere above Twinsanity but below the older Crash games; frankly, I like the 
 way the game plays and prefer it to any of the older offerings. The games objective: to once again 
 protect your home from Cortex, this time while taking control of mutant beasts to smash your way 
 through any and all obstacles in your path. Crash will spent most of his time controlling one beast 
 or another, and while the types are pretty standard, there's enough variety thrown into the mix 
 to keep things interesting.
  The story is basic, but this doesn't matter a bit. There's a ton of cool unlockables (that aren't 
 just tied in with acheivement points, which is nice) like level by level concept art and new costumes 
 for Crash to wear.
  The graphics are below what I've come to expect from an Xbox 360 game, but they're certainly not 
 ugly and for this kind of game smoothing down the rough edges would be a wasted effort. The level 
 designs are fantastic to look at and even more enjoyable to play in as the game progresses through 
 the typical platform environments: caverns, lava lands, beaches, and so on.
  
  All in all it's definitely an above average platform adventure game with action-packed gameplay. 
 Money well spent, and if you've not gotten your hands on a Crash Bandicoot title before, this is 
 as good a place as any to get started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Not since Warped has Crash Bandicoot been cool, but this game changes it all. However, it doesnt 
 really pick up where any of the others left off but i guess it could be called Crash 6 or 7, depending 
 on how you look at it.
  
  The general gist of this newest edition is still very much a standard Crash game, run forwards, 
 killing enemies and collecting items, this time round though, you have a health bar (Ratchet &amp; 
 Clank style) and where you'd usually be collecting Wumpa fruits, they're now blue orbs called Mojo, 
 (along with the occasional Wumpa fruit to increase your health bar) the idea of collecting Mojo 
 to increase your skill and techniques, ranging from the length of your health bar to the strength 
 of your attacks.. this in itself is a great addition. Speaking of additions, the biggest of the 
 new ones and the one the game is pretty much based around is the ability to 'Jack' the larger mutated 
 enemies, each with their own abilities. This involves beating them down with a slurry of attacks 
 until they go dizzy, then you swiftly press the B button and Crash jumps onto their back, placing 
 Aku-Aku on their face and allowing you to control them and use all of their powers to your advantage... There 
 is also an enjoyable co-op mode where each jump changes players which keeps it fresh, its also 
 available online and adds that little bit thats been missing for so long. Along with other SMALL 
 additions, these four are the only real main new ones, which gives it a good start! GRAPHICS; Graphically, 
 its not a massive jump but i feel this is mainly due to the fact that if they changed it too much 
 more, it'd lose its original feel.. They're still bright and bouncy and some of the characters have 
 had upgrades in their looks, Crash, Aku-Aku &amp; Uka-Uka being the main ones, it features the 
 majority of original characters still looking reasonably the same though.. 8/10
  
  SOUND; To me, the Crash games have always had average sound variety but this one has tipped the 
 balance a little more, the voice-overs are still familiar but sound like they've had alot more 
 emotion put into them this time, the all round sound effects are alot crisper and the music on 
 the levels is also pretty top notch! 7/10
  
  GAMEPLAY; Like i mentioned before, its still the same kind of Crash game, HOWEVER it is VERY addictive! 
 When i downloaded the demo, i wasnt all that keen but for some reason, i rented it anyway, i couldnt 
 put it down! Its got an interestingly simple story, that doesnt come up to par with the like of 
 Crash 3 but is 100% better than some of the more recent ones..8/10
  
  RENT OR BUY; Definatly a rent first but i'd say 7 outta 10 times you'll end up buying it, simply 
 for the replay value..7/10
  
  OVERALL; For the co-op mode, the online play, the story and improvement over past and more recent 
 attempts at a Crash Bandicoot game, which makes it a worthwhile buy! 8.5 well deserved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasxalis1987
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Well, when i've learned that a new bandicoot game was coming on, i wanted it like crazy!!! But now 
 that i got it... i dont know what o do with it.
  Well, there are some new elements in this game, such as the anima hijacking. You basicly take control 
 of big animals with tremendous strenght, to open your path or to smash your enemies. You will do 
 this often, quite boring if you ask me.
  Our bandicoot friend throws panches in this game, and the spin attack (rotate the left joystick 
 counter clockwisw and press x x x x x) , yes is that difficult, instead of just pressing X.
  Also, you can jump, and by pressing several times the X button, he moves his hands as e helicopter, 
 or something.
  Another elements that are missing, are the nitro boxes and the tnt boxes. Where the heck are they!!! I 
 mean... COME ON!!! It is a crash bandicoot game, it is supposed to have those!!! The Aku Aku mask 
 does not protect you from enemies, but it is used to hijack animals and as a skate. And you always 
 have it, you dont need to find the mask from a box like the previews games.
  Well, the graphics are okay, the sound is good, its just i ddidnt like the new elements that are 
 included in the game. I want old Crash back.
  Thats my oppinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tingle-Tuner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Crash of the Titans is Radical's first real attampt at resurrecting the crash bandicoot franchise, 
 and the results are... better than you would expect.
  
  As you can clearly see from the box art, Crash got a makeover, and a good one at that. They really 
 filled Crash with his own personality in this game. The other redesigns in this game are... mixed.
 
  
  Characters aside, the gameplay is fun, if a bit simplistic, and often hilarious. Characters often 
 spout out funny phrases while you beat the crap out of them and one level has N. Gin, the funniest 
 character in the game, ranting over the speakers in his base (Has anyone seen my family reciepe 
 for toast? I CAN'T FIND IT!!!) .
  
  The new combat system is a vast improvement from the original spin attack. You can perform combos 
 and even spin attacks like from the previous games, though Crash does get dizzy if he spins too 
 long. Jacking monsters is another great addition to the game. Crash can now jump on top of monsters 
 and control them to fight and destroy thing, though there is now a real variety in how you can 
 use the monsters. I would have liked to see some swimming or jumping monsters.
  
  The graphics are vibrant and smoothly animated. I have no complaints in the graphics department. 
 One problem I did have with the game is the boss fights. All of them require using monsters to 
 destroy something instead of directly fighting the villain. I would really like to see this fixed 
 for the next game.
  
  In the end, Crash of the Titans is a fun and rewarding experience that can be enjoyed by any open-minded 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgrouleau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Having never played a Crash Bandicoot before, I tried the free demo on Xbox Live.
  
  After playing the demo I just had to get this game.
  
  Keep in mind something here: I'm 41 
 years old, not a kid. Although I understand from the few reviews that this is supposed to be a 
 kids game, I have to say that it is a lot of fun.
  
  Beautiful graphics. Superb music. Witty dialog. In all: great production value. The difficulty 
 level is just right, not too hard, not too easy. Just plain fun. Levels are just the right length. 
 Good replay value, if only just to get all the Voodoo Dolls, Spybots, and Combos.
  
  Whether you are buying this for a kidor a kid at heartI highly recommend this game. The young 
 ones will enjoy the colorful environments, wacky characters and well paced action, while adults 
 will chuckle with delight at all the cultural references thrown in.
  
  The perfect analogy I can think of is the television series The Simpsons. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdprogrammer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Crash of the Titans is just a fun game to play. Very light hearted with lots of crazy monster to 
 take command of. The voice acting is excellent and I find myself smiling as I listen in on the 
 the conversations of the enemy. The levels (Called chapters in the game) are not long and most 
 can be played in 15-30 minutes. Some may take a bit longer. Chapters are very different to keep 
 the game interesting.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is playing with a friend. Kicking the bad guys into dust is a 
 lot of fun with a friend tagging along. Also, it is amusing that you can ride around in your friends 
 back pack.
  
  Overall this is a great game to play with your kids if you have kids. If you are a kid (even at 
 heart) grab a friend and play a few chapters together. You'll have some laughs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  No control. SIERRA, YOU MUST PLAY THE GAME BEFORE YOU RELEASE IT! People dont like not being able 
 to look around or move.
  
  Running in one direction makeS you feel ripped off. Even the PS1 version has far better control!
 
  
  Dont waste your money!
  
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT 
 BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT 
 BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT 
 BUY, dONT BUY,
  dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, dONT BUY, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compaq345682
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply.... this game is great on nearly every level. The game play itself deviates away 
 from the old style of the Crash Bandicoot series with its new combo system which allows for moves 
 other than his trademark spin attack. (although the move is still usable) There are also titans 
 which are large mutant animals that you can hijack and control to crush all your foes. This opens 
 up a fun new way to play the game. The game is still linear with one path and sometimes a different 
 route that leads to the same location but the vastness of the levels themselves give it a less 
 constraining feeling. The graphics are crisp while still giving off a cartoony feeling. The controls 
 are smooth and react on time without a need for button mashing. The levels are also planned out 
 exceptionally well giving you enough of a challenge while still remaining fun. This game's sense 
 of humor is fitting for younger kids but appeals to adults too with plenty of pop culture references 
 from movies and the real world. The games replay value is average as the game gives you hidden 
 relics to find within the levels which unlock concept art. There are also different skins that 
 crash can wear after jacking enough of certain titans.
  
  The game is suitable for all ages and I especially recommend it to any fans of the Crash Bandicoot 
 series. Even still this game is worth a rental for the casual gamer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
