-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Hard Evidence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/csi4hardevidence/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Quality of the writing has seen a significant jump over the previous games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Solving the mysteries is painfully easy and kind of boring.
 Character models look awful.
 No new gameplay elements compared with every other CSI game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 4.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 269 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 26, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hard Evidence offers few surprises and even fewer challenges throughout its five undemanding murder 
 mysteries. 

  Playing Ubisoft's CSI games has always felt more like taking part in a truncated version of one 
 of those cheesy murder mystery getaway weekends than actually solving a realistic crime. At every 
 turn, these games find ways to clue you in on and push you toward exactly what you need to do next 
 to proceed. You don't so much investigate as you go through a number of mundane motions to get 
 to the predetermined conclusion. There's no threat of failure, nothing even remotely resembling 
 a challenge to be found. They are less games and more mediocre episodes of the TV show that require 
 button presses to unfold. CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Hard Evidence is the fourth game in the 
 series, and it doesn't diverge one bit from the formula laid down by its predecessors.  

           Hard Evidence is a mildly ironic subtitle given how stupid easy this game is.      

 
  There are five cases to solve in Hard Evidence, with victims ranging from an immolated racist 
 cab driver to an electrocuted '80s rock group on a reality show that more than closely resembles 
  Rock Star: INXS  from a couple of years ago. As always, it's up to you to solve the crimes using 
 the scientific tools of the trade you've likely seen on the  CSI  TV show. You'll be plucking bullets 
 out of walls and matching them to various guns, dusting for finger prints, taking casts of footprints 
 and tire treads, and even swabbing semen stains off of used condoms. No one ever said the life 
 of a CSI was a glamorous one.  

  The main problem with Hard Evidence -- and it's the same problem that every CSI game has ever had -- is 
 that it's so unbelievably easy. Every ounce of thought or legitimate investigation is separated 
 from the mix, creating a sort of paint-by-numbers murder mystery. All you have to do is poke around 
 each location, wait for your cursor to turn green to dictate that, yes, there's something for you 
 to look at there, and then click on it. The game even decides exactly how you should collect every 
 piece of evidence, and the most thought you have to put into it is something along the lines of 
 "should I use ninhydrin or luminol to detect blood on this particular surface?"  

  If for some reason you ever do get stuck, it usually doesn't take long to figure out which scene 
 you missed something at, since a big green checkbox goes over every piece of evidence and every 
 scene you've investigated completely. If it doesn't have the checkbox, you missed something. Beyond 
 that, all you have to do is make sure you've asked every question to every suspect. And if you're 
 still somehow stuck, you can just ask any of the tagalong CSI characters for a hint. It "counts 
 against your evaluation" at the very end, but that evaluation doesn't really mean anything.  

 
  The one nice thing you can say about Hard Evidence is that the writing is at least considerably 
 better than in the last game, 3 Dimensions of Murder. That game was predictable beyond belief, 
 essentially telegraphing who each culprit was long before the endgame. Hard Evidence does no such 
 thing, and the storylines are actually thoughtful and a bit perplexing at times. Solving them may 
 be a breeze, but you won't necessarily guess who did it until the evidence finally comes together 
 at the very end. It's not quite as sharp as the writing on the show, but it's a heck of a lot closer 
 than ever before.  

  Unfortunately, while the writing may be solid, the presentation of the cases leaves a lot to be 
 desired. Several of the voice actors from the show reprise their roles in fairly lazy fashion, 
 and the few who don't (namely Marg Helgenberger and Jorja Fox) are replaced with actors doing lousy 
 impressions of the characters. The remaining voice actors are equally sedate or hammy, with no 
 middle ground to speak of. The game's graphics are an even bigger point of contention. All the 
 characters look mildly mutated, and the facial animation is extremely poor. The lip-syncing for 
 the dialogue doesn't match up at all, and all the characters have these really creepy eyes that 
 move around in a really unsettling way. The environments aren't bad, but apart from hunting around 
 for hidden blood stains and bullet holes, you're not going to spend much time appreciating the 
 aesthetic qualities of the area you're in.  

  One additional blight on the game's presentation is its insistence on shoving advertisements and 
 product placement down your throat. For example, when you get a vehicle to search, it's not just 
 a car. It's a Chrysler branded car with more Chrysler logos to discover than should be humanly 
 possible. Every single location you search in the game has some area to click on with an HP HDTV 
 in it. And the Visa ads... oh god, so many Visa ads. Not only are there billboards for the company 
 everywhere, the writers even inserted Visa into the  dialogue  in one of the cases! Captain Brass 
 actually refers to the "good people" at Visa and talks about their card monitoring services. Basic 
 ads are one thing, but this game crosses a line or two or three.  

           The sheer number of Visa, Chrysler and HP ads in this game is painful to behold.      
 

  Hard Evidence is the first CSI game to appear on the PC and Xbox 360 simultaneously. The games 
 are near identical, save for the predictable interface differences. The PC version has a leg up 
 on the 360 version, simply because it's a lot easier to click around the various menus and tools 
 using a mouse and keyboard than an Xbox 360 controller. It has another leg up on top of that, given 
 that it's $10 cheaper than the 360 game. At the same time, if you're some kind of Xbox 360 achievements 
 nut, Hard Evidence might just be the breeziest 1,000 points you'll ever earn over the course of 
 a six-hour game. There are no tricky points here. Just beat all the cases, and you'll get them 
 all.  

  If you've already invested in the previous CSI games, you're not going to find anything new or 
 exciting here in the gameplay department. All you'll get are five brand-new cases that you will 
 solve exactly the same way you did in the previous games. If that's enough for you, then by all 
 means, give Hard Evidence a shot. However, more discerning players looking for something vaguely 
 resembling a challenge would do best to skip this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Its not surprising that games are released based on popular television shows. CSI: Hard Evidence 
 is not the first game based on the series but the first one on the Xbox 360 platform. The entire 
 cast of the Las Vegas Crime Unit is present and very much involved in this adventure game.
  
  Game play: 7/10
  
  You start off as being the new person on the team. The game is broken 
 into five separate murders (missions) for you to solve. As the player you accompany one or more 
 or more of the team members are you examine crime scenes, evidence and interview suspects and witnesses. 
 You job is to find enough evidence to bring in suspects for questioning. You are given a chance 
 to use all the tools that the show uses. From examining DNA to collecting gunpowder residue, you 
 detective skills are tested. As you progress you will need enough evidence to justify arrest warrants 
 and catch the criminals. Along the way you have some side quests to make your boss happy.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  The graphics of the cast members are clear and resemble their lifelike 
 counterparts. While there are plenty of locations you encounter in Las Vegas, they are bland and 
 the options to view crime scenes areas are very limited. The details could have used a little better 
 modeling and great detail.
  
  Sound and Music: 6/10
  
  While the voice acting recreates an episode. The conversations seem a little boring and not very 
 exciting. While the music is basic and non intrusive, the music score is passable.
  
  Difficulty: 2/10 (Degree of skill to enjoy the game)
  
  This is not a hard game at all. The 
 storyline prevents you from moving forward until you find the clues to move to the next scene.
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  Without going into much details of each crime, I can assure you as a fan of the show, I can assure 
 you the game remains true to the show. The problem I have with the game is the effort on the resulting 
 game. There was plenty of potential with the CSI franchise but the developers seemed to have just 
 released a passable product not a great one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmcgrath540
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Characters and voices sound nice, but the pause between each dialogue is just ridiculous, and slows 
 the pace of the game down immensely, which is to say that the game has an already slow pace. The 
 gameplay itself is pretty shallow. Each area you visit takes about 30 seconds to load. And from 
 there, you may be have one or two items to collect each time you visit said place, but it takes 
 you about 30 seconds for that level to load before you have to leave again and process the evidence... 
 which takes another 30 seconds to load. The game just feels overly tedious. If a real crime scene 
 investigator was processing a crime scene, they would make sure to collect most of the evidence 
 at once, not make numerous trips to crime scene!
  
  The controls of the game are pretty stable, but being able to use the joysticks in game besides 
 controlling the cursor and camera gives me the feeling that this game was quickly made. While not 
 having the freedom to make the mistakes while choosing the right instruments makes the game feel 
 far more rushed and far too easy.
  
  This game took me a total of 5 hours to totally complete. So that's roughly an hour per level. 
 A quick rent or use of gamefly for easy achievements is all this pile of garbage is worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Well Lets start off to say unless you are a die hard fan and really love the show then rent it 
 don't buy it.
  
  Its not that bad of a game if you really love sitting for hours doing the same thing for 5 missions 
 but it really got old in a hurry to me however once I got in the game I got into it a little bit.
 
  
  If you are after Achievements it takes about 10-12 hours and there is really no way not to get 
 the 1k if you beat the game you are going to get 1k achievements.
  
  I am pretty sure they made the achievements like that so people would actually play the game ha 
 ha .
  
  How ever the graphics are pretty good I will give it a 5-10 could have been a lot better but not 
 much worse.
  Sound 2-10 The Voice on the characters is terrible.
  Controls 7-10 A little too slow for me.
  Lighting in the game 4-10 Very Dark is some scenes.
 
  
  All and all the game isn't good but it isn't bad either so I am going to give the final score of 
 a 4.5
  
  
  
  Thanks for Reading and have a good one. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Opinion - It's a no brainer. Only fans of the show will spend the time hunting around for bugs, 
 clues, in the crime lab, and interviewing people in this game. It can't stand by itself. The only 
 immersing element is if you imagine yourself as a CSI investigator while playing, cause if you 
 don't I'm pretty sure you're going to put the game down and forget about it.
  
  Good - Just like the show. You have to be very meticulous in your powers of investigation. Completing 
 a case is very rewarding.
  
  Bad - Graphics stink. Some of the cases lame and the television characters no help at all. Just 
 the ocassional pat on the back.
  
  Overall - C- for this game. I played it through since I really had nothing else better to do at 
 the time. Save your money or buy from Ebaoy or Craig's list. Don't rent since it'll take a long 
 time to go through all cases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Hard Evidence is yet another title in the CSI franchise. Now, we see CSI making its debut on Xbox 
 360. Those who have played the PC games, will be familiar with the 'point and click' style of it. 
 Indeed, that's how it is on the Xbox 360 but with a controller instead of a mouse. Controls are 
 easy to get used to, although this sort-of game really deserves to be played with a mouse, if this 
 were possible to do on the Xbox 360.
  
  It doesn't require some intense thinking skills, since most of it is simple. You get detailed information 
 at the start of each case and will soon be on your way to crime solving. Pretty much, you just 
 hunt around for some evidence, collect any relevant items, examine them for further inspection 
 and then process items at the lab. You'll find weapons and loose bits of clothing throughout the 
 cases, which is the key to finding the right suspect. DNA can be analysed at the lab, where you'll 
 have to match it to the database or to other items the DNA was found on. Other items can be analysed 
 in different ways. Such as putting together a broken teapot on the table, like a puzzle.
  
  Once you've collected a lot of the evidence, you'll probably think the next thing to do is to question 
 suspects. So, if you ever get stuck - you've either not collected enough evidence, not processed 
 enough evidence or not questioned everybody. So, really those three things are the main points 
 you'll want to get through cases. If you're following the story of each case, it will certainly 
 be easier to get through. Although, some of the dialogue isn't exactly very good, a lot of it still 
 shapes up to be somewhat interesting to keep you watching the cutscene (and to help you track down 
 the suspect) .
  
  Along the way, you'll work with different detectives. These can provide hints if you ever get stuck. 
 Now, whenever you bring up a hint, item or want to travel to another location, you have to open 
 up thePDA. This device serves as the portal to getting somewhere. The interface of the PDA (and 
 other devices) isn't exactly appealing. It just seems a bit too plain and boring to look at. Going 
 somewhere else means you have to wait a brief amount of time for it to load up. It's not too bad 
 but the look really doesn't impress for an Xbox 360 title. Hard Evidence does often feel out-dated 
 in some parts.
  
  However, just because it's a video game, doesn't mean you're not going to have a lot of stuff censored. 
 It's clearly something that is probably aimed at teenagers and above because of the various cases 
 containing items like knives, bloodied clothes and even a condom. The cursor in the game will be 
 helpful, since it lights up green if you hover over something that can be collected. You can of 
 course turn this off and a few other options, if you want to make Hard Evidence feel a bit more 
 challenging. There's a few extra bonuses you can unlock - some by finding the hidden bugs, finding 
 all evidence and by not asking hints.
  
  In terms of visuals, it's not something that looks amazing or revolutionary. I would have thought 
 something that doesn't seem too demanding on the console, could have at least had some better visuals. 
 It does seem bland, kinda faded when looking at the environments. Characters look good below the 
 face but for some reason, the animation of the lips do not synchronise with the voice and the eyes 
 seem to bulge out. So, at times, they can look a little bit creepy.
  
  Whether or not to choose this or the PC version won't be a hard choice. You're better off using 
 the mouse on the PC but Hard Evidence does offer some simple achievements - in fact only a few 
 that you can view on the guide without even needing to scroll down. It doesn't really seem they've 
 wanted to make Hard Evidence anything special for the Xbox 360 - it just seems like a copy and 
 paste job over to another platform. It will certainly appeal to fans of the show but Hard Evidence 
 just didn't keep me entertained from the start. I found myself playing it in small increments but 
 it doesn't last too long, anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikerbuie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  All in all it was a good game, but 1 of the 5 levels was on a previous CSI game.... whats up with 
 that? So for me buying it used for half the price was a good deal.. would have been mad if i gave 
 forty bucks or so and i could not even get 5 new levels. I felt the Lab was a bit simple. I guess 
 I am trying to say it needed a little more "Hands on" if you know what I am talking about with 
 the DNA testing and the chemical testing. I also thought that the other characters in the game 
 that was present during each level could have done more than just stand their. Make them move around 
 and at least make an attempt, to find something. You would think the developers would utilize all 
 the developing space possible.... maybe I am to critical.... OR MAYBE I SHOULD JUST BE A GAME CRITIC! 
 LOL well anyway the story's were interesting, and sometimes twisting, and yet sometimes predictable. 
 Not worth the money new, but worth it used... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClintCrumpler
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this is another game that i decided to rent and give it a try. I like the show the game is 
 based on and i figured what the hey. So as soon as you start the game you start to notice long 
 load times is a very big problem. Between every little thing you have to wait through yet another 
 load screen. 
  In total there are 5 missions or "crimes" to investigate. Each one is unlocked after you solve 
 the one before it. Each mission is about 2-3 hours long. Not because of all the intense action 
 ha ha, but because of the load screens. Each mission usually consist of these actions. Go to the 
 crime scene pick up a lot of evidence take it back to the lab. Analyze it. Question suspects. Go 
 back and forth between all of these things until eventually you find enough evidence to make one 
 of the witnesses confess. You don't actually get to choose which of the witness you feel are guilty 
 the game decides that. So if you are looking to spend about 15 hours to get an easy 1000 achievement 
 points or you really really really love the show this game is a decent rental otherwise don't waste 
 your time. You will be in a constant state of boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty straightforward. No puzzles, minigames, or other crazy tasks. Just interrogate 
 and search for evidence. 
  
  The loading/saving time can take a little longer than average. Each of the five crimes that need 
 to be solved requires a lot of back and forth visitations to suspects and the Captain, which can 
 cause a lot of gamers to lose interest in this game.
  
  Overall the game is of average rating: not much in replayability, character modeling is top-notch, 
 and everything needed to solve the crime is obvious. 
  
  Controls are simple and easy to pick up and learn within about 5 minutes. Collecting evidence can 
 be a bit picky in certain areas, and overly compensating in others. Not much replay value unless 
 you don't unlock all the bonus content your first play through (and actually care to unlock them) .
 
  
  The storyline is intriguing and makes you want to find out what happens, much like a tv show (with 
 better acting) . If you don't mind a quick and easy 1000 gamerscore and like solving crimes, then 
 this is the game for you! If you like a challenge, consider trying the game with no assists. This 
 game is definitely a rent and return ONLY unless you don't mind playing the same five missions 
 over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorien665
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game CSI  hard evidence is based around the CSI show where forensics and police investigators 
 solve crimes, by examining evidence and crime scene details.
  
  I would not say that I was a "fan" of the show, but if it is on when I am on a quest for something 
 to watch, I sometimes land on it and enjoy the show, so I thought maybe I would enjoy the video 
 game too.
  
  Not convinced if I would enjoy it, I rented the game instead of buying it and boy am I glad I did! 
 The game itself comprises of 5 crimes which you have to solve. You must visit each crime scene 
 and collect evidence and pictures etc to get an idea of what happened and based on this evidence 
 you may get additional locations to visit.
  
  The crime scenes are well presented and once you have spent a little time mastering the controls 
 then it is easy to navigate around :P
  
  You can have up to 6 locations for each investigation, however some of them are repeated on other 
 investigations which I thought was a bit of a "cop-out". Evidence is also collected at these sites 
 and is taken back to the lab for analysis. Once you have collected enough evidence you may get 
 a search or arrest warrant.
  
  At the end of each investigation you are awarded an investigator grade to let you know how you 
 have done. Don't worry it does not seem to matter which grade you are to get your achievements.
 
  
  The loading times were a bit long and this frustrated me, as did the reusing of suspects and locations. 
 The game was an average renter but I am very glad I did not buy it!
  
  You get 200 achievement points for completing each investigation and so this game offers up an 
 easy 1000 points, but at times it is boring and for me it was a bit of a slog to finish the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a game based on the series CSI. Instead of playing as one of the actual characters in the 
 show you are the lead agent and they are your side kick. The characters follow you and if you get 
 stuck you can ask them for advice but basically all of the investigating is going to be done by 
 you. The game play is your basic point and click. You get a story of the crime and then you are 
 at the crime scene. Then you click away finding clues and taking them to the lab to be analyzed. 
 You then get to talk to people while collecting more clues and insects. I have never seen the show 
 so I really do not know about the whole insect but anyway... the game itself is nothing major. 
 You talk to various people get evidence. The graphics here are average at best and the music is 
 pretty bad. One proplem I had was that the music sometimes was so loud that it was hard to hear 
 what the characters had to say. This game is really not very hard and there is no reply ability 
 here. If you are a fan of the show then this is a must or if you are an achievement hound. The 
 points are pretty easy here to get. You go to basically 8-10 rooms doing your research and then 
 the game ends. No special ending here or anything. I would only suggest this game if you can get 
 it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoe256
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Okay, let me start off by saying I love the CSI TV show, and I like all things crime-y... but one 
 thing I didn't appreciate was a boring tutorial level about Grissom's missing doughnut! Plus it 
 didn't actually help anyway, I think a 'learning on the job' tutorial would have been much better.
 
  
  You are then thrown into a case which is quite boring, I'm not sure if it's particularly lengthy... or 
 just feels that way! And although you've completed the tutorial you are still a bit unsure of the 
 controls as it requires a bit more than the tutorial explains, but still not too hard to get the 
 hang of. After that it's all much of a much-ness. Just going to crime scenes, collecting evidence, 
 back to the lab questioning.
  
  Overall, this game is a bit of a waste of time and money. Even if you are a fan of the show, you 
 still won't like this game.
  
  ________________________
  
  Good Points: Easy achievements (even easier if you use a walkthrough!) , okay voice acting.
  
 
  Bad Points: Hmm where to start! The GFX are original Xbox at best, the character models are absolutely 
 hideous (George Eads should be suing the makers of this game because he looks nothing like that!) , 
 product placement is appaulling. Controls are stupid, who uses the D-pad anymore?!
  
  ________________________
  
  Rent it, or buy it and trade it in after you've got the points 
 because sadly, there's not much else to this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock_Roberts
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  My wife and I are huge CSI fans, and we played the first CSI on the OXB, and when we heard about 
 the new CSI game, I was wanted to play it. But I was kinda worried about buying the game. With 
 so many games starting to become a fast game to beat, I didn't want to go out and fork out 60 bucks 
 for a game that I can beat in a week. So, after talking it over with my wife, we went out and rented 
 it, and I am glad we did!
  
  The game is five different cases, which are all good in my eyes (my wife didn't like the last one) . 
 They all played pretty well and where just like the last game. Each case took about two hours to 
 do, sometimes three or four if you went back to get everything. You really don't have to be a CSI 
 to play the game, everything pretty much tells you want to do with it. Sometimes you are looking 
 around looking for the next thing to do, but pretty much it's fast pace. 
  
  There are some unlockables in the game as well as somewhat a mini-game. You are partnered up with 
 the CSI gang and you go out and solve the cases. You start off meeting with your partner and then 
 going to the scene of the crime. From then on out, you put two and two together and go from there.
 
  
  Over all, I'm glad that I rented it, I wouldn't buy the game by no means, it's not worth ther 60 
 dollar price tag that's on it. Great to rent, that's it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  So I ended up borrowing this game from GameStop to get a couple of easy acheivement points, but 
 let me tell you, this game really isn't worth all 6 hours of it you have to trudge through. As 
 par my usual rating, I'll give Pros and Cons, then go through Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Value, 
 and Replayability.
  
  Pros
  -I've always loved how they wrap up episodes of CSI but throw in fragments throughout the way to 
 make you think differently, and these are in the game.
  
  Cons
  -Everything else. It's a bland, boring game where you have to click things when your cursor turns 
 green.
  -Too often, obvious things that should be hidden aren't, by the murderers of course. Who leaves 
 this crap in the middle of nowhere?
  -Loading...
  -Do I even have to continue?
  
  Gameplay: Okay so the meat of the game, but not really. This game has 5 cases, all of which were 
 boring so I printed out a guide to the cases to easil know what to click on, get, and test. Even 
 that was tedious, since the cases take roughly an hour with a guide, and longer without one. You 
 click things, yup, when your cursor turns green. You investigate the murder scenes, then test out 
 various evidence at the lab, bring in people for questioning and eventually wrap up the case and 
 arrest them. Usual CSI, but without anything engaging or fun, you may as well watch the show for 
 free on TV.
  
  Graphics: Boring and recycled. In fact, you come across the same area at least 3 times among the 
 5 cases, but you interact in them differently each time because there's a different case. Also, 
 the character models are re-used, some girl you question is in 2 different cases, are you joking 
 me? There's not even any eye candy, much less they have to recycle half the game. Oh, and everybody 
 looks like zombies deprived of fun.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is terrible, no music otherwise, so... ya...
  
  Value: Definitely not worth 
 the price tag, or even a rent. If you can borrow it for free and are fine with tedious games, then 
 print out a guide and get to those achievement points! Which are easy, by the way, just complete 
 each case, 5 achievements, voila 1,000 points. Actually, y'know forget it, just go rent Avatar 
 for your 1,000.
  
  Replayability: 0/10, seriously who would go back and play a case they already know everything about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 17, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I had this weird dream that I bought a game for my lovely new Halo Ltd Ed 360 the other day. Yeah 
 it was great! It was a game based on the hit US Tv Show CSI. The odd thing is that once I fired 
 it up it was actually a Ps2 game with blocky graphics and mechanics, rubbish by the numbers story 
 and game and horrible voice acting and lip synching! But in my dream I looked at the box and it 
 definately says Xbox 360 on it?
  
  Wait a minute!!! Its not a bloody dream!!! Ubisoft have actually tried to mug me by selling this 
 horrible rubbish game as a title befitting my 360!! Quick someone call the real CSI to investigate 
 this criminal action!!
  
  Ubisoft you should be ashamed!!! This is no more a 360 game than Manic Minor on the Commodore 64 
 is!! The only thing that stops this being the worse 360 game I played is the 1000 gamer points 
 it game me!! actually no that wont save it!!
  
  AVOID!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukonCornelius6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  CSI: Hard Evidence is a game based on the hit TV show, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. This game 
 comes up quite short in my opinion, though.
  ---Graphics: The graphics are so last-gen its crazy to think this is an XBOX 360 game. People have 
 sharp edges and don't move in realistic ways. This is very much like early generation xbox games. 
 There are also some really bad Las Vegas cut scenes that are in the lowest quality possible. They 
 look terrible on an HD TV.
  ---Gameplay:
  The gameplay is quite easy. See evidence, move cursor to it, press A. Talking to people is also 
 brain dead easy. You're given questions you can ask when you select a person, but the order doesn't 
 matter. So yeah, the game is VERY EASY.
  ---Sound:
  At least they have the real voices... Other than that, the voice acting is pretty poor. The great 
 cinamatic background music is there, but it doesn't help the mood at all.
  ---Replay-ability:
  Most people won't play through this one time forget more than one time. Plus, 
 once you solve the cases, it's pretty tedious to go back and do a case again. You are graded after 
 you solve each case. Depending on how many clues you ask for, how much evidence you find, and how 
 many thoroughness points you have, you are graded. For each of the three grades, you unlock a game 
 video or drawing. These unlockables are pretty underwhelming, but I guess someone who really liked 
 the game might go back and get the highest grade for all five cases.
  ---Achievements:
  There are five cases. You get 200 gamer points for solving each case. These could have been so 
 much better. Maybe something having to do with the bugs you collect or the grades of the cases. 
 I just know we haven't seen achievements this easy and boring since the first 2K and EA sports 
 games on the 360.
  
  Overall:
  I guess my opinion is a little skewed because I love the show. I am finished with 3 cases now and 
 plan on finishing the game, but I do not recommend this game to anyone that doesn't love this genre 
 and the show. I do on the other hand recommend this game to anyone trying to get achievement points. 
 This game isn't painful, it's actually a bit fun, and the achievements are very easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game mainly because I trully like phoenix wright for the DS and tought it was going 
 to be an average game. Oh boy was I wrong I probably fell asleep 4 to 5 times while playing this 
 game. the game is short with only 5 cases and the cases are dull with minor twists once in a blue 
 moon. gethering information is a drag sometimes and having to keep on going back to places wouldn't 
 be so bad if it wasn't for the longer then average loading screen that in my book there is no reason 
 for. This game has a bad story line a bad voice over bad rendering and the graphics look like it 
 belongs in a lesser console like a N64 or maybe PSone. the only thing that keep me going is that 
 this is probably the easier 1000 points you will ever get as is almost if not impossible not to 
 solve a case, the game pretty much plays it self and if you don't know wat to do you can just use 
 one of the 32 hints that they allow you to have. I don't like hatting on games but this one is 
 a big pass. But if you have a craving for achievement points like me Rent it and you can get all 
 the five achievements in one day. If you read this and you are a fan of the series (well someone 
 must be they have like 4 or 5 variations of the show) and you think that you should buy, because 
 you love games you love the show how can you not like this well please do yourself a favor and 
 RENT it first you will thank me some day or not and then that just means that you are a prick lol 
 jk :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  It just doesnt translate into a good console game. A neat idea and Im sure a few people will enjoy 
 it, but it gets confusing and a bit sloppy, you spend alot of time seemingly doing little gaming 
 as you must be presise or it makes you start over again pretty much.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly bad for a simple game and it would be more fun to do in person.
 
  
  I would stay away from this game.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  xxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx x
  xxx xxx xxx 
 xx xxxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx xxxx xxx xxx xx x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjpeters57
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to take a break from the multi-player FPS games that I love, to immerse myself into a 
 crime solver. Instead of quick reactions ruling, I wanted to use different parts of my brain to 
 find clues, follow trails, eliminate suspects and nail the criminal. While CSI Hard Evidence seems 
 like the right solution, I was entirely disappointed. I agree with the advice to rent this game 
 if you must, but I don't place any value on it. It wasn't fun, the graphics were horrible, the 
 dialogue was weak. If I have to say anything good - the cases were sometimes cleverly written.
 
  What took away from my enjoyment was that at one point during a case it became obvious I had made 
 all the right progress, and collected all the clues, but for some reason the game acted like I 
 wasn't where I needed to be. While most cases take about 2 hours (due to extremely long scene loads) 
 the pain sets in when you have to start over. You can't shorten the dialogue, and have to listen 
 to it all over again. I hated that. I do think that given some more thought, the idea of a crime 
 scene investigative game could be a lot of fun, so maybe this is a very early prototype of better 
 things. But don't waste your money on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of the show then you will no doubt love this game, speaking has a fan of the series, 
 it would seem that the makers and Ubisoft are milking The Series sucking ever last drop from the 
 show and making it into a game, well I wouldnt say they where milking it at all, since the last 
 CSI game (which was a bore) the developers needed to change the direction, they have created a 
 slightley new control system which is difficult to master on a controller, since i am use to playing 
 CSI games on my computer, it took a bit of getting used too, unlike the previous game's, where 
 you have to select the tool for investigation, you get the Tool automatically which is really bette 
 rthan picking the wrong tool and getting an annoying over voice saying that's the wrong one.
  The game is adictive, probaly suited to people who like to use there Brain which is needed every 
 Seond of the game, from searching for clues or dusting for print's, every second will keep you 
 active.
  they are 5 mission's, each about 1 - 2 hours of play, around about 10 hours for an normal gamer, 
 or about 4-5 hours for someone who know's what they are doing.
  The Achievements are simple, 200G for a level 5 200G's equal 1000G
  simple achievements.
  all 
 in all a decent game which will keep you active and entertained for hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  I had a good time with CSI on the regular X-box and was eager to try the 360 version. This game 
 is not bad at all. Like the other CSI games, you have to scan each crime scene and to discover 
 evidence to put the case together., interrogate, use the lab, and etc. This is really a good game. 
 You have to use your head and it gives you a break from all the shooters out there on the 360 comsole. 
 The controls are a little pain when it comes to moving around each section of a scene but thats 
 it. I liked this game. For me its always fun trying to solve really good puzzles that put a good 
 story together and has great cases that you will want to finish to find out who did it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmodeus_z
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is another title that was released without much or any promotion. It just appeared. I know 
 about the popular series on television but Ive never watched a single episode. For that matter, 
 I have little time for TV nowadays. But Ive been a fan of the many crime series aired over the 
 last ten years so naturally I welcome this game with open arms. But Im in no position to compare 
 the game with an actual episode on TV.
  
  Graphics
  
  Being a game that lets you play detective, graphics is one important factor especially for an environment 
 that tries to mimic the real world, and for that this game scores decently close to what you get 
 from Oblivion and Bioshock. Im comparing with these two games because CSI: Hard Evidence is also 
 presented in first person perspective. Actually in terms of graphics, its pretty much spot on 
 with The Godfather, but there are glaring differences which I will explain later.
  
  Like all new XBOX 360 games released from this quarter of 2007, this game can be played on 1080p, 
 but I played the game on 720p with a normal Pro console and a 27inch HDTV. Good enough. No framerate 
 issues or lag.
  
  Gameplay
  
  As a detective, you have to solve 5 different cases, one at a time. You do not have a choice on 
 which case to pursue first. It is simply solving Case No. 1 to unlock Case No. 2 and so on.
  
  You have a partner who follows you everywhere whom you can discuss the case with and other 
 team members back in your headquarters who helps you with certain procedures.
  
  Unlike Oblivion and Bioshock which allows full and free movement, you move around the vicinity 
 only if the game allows you to. Your actions are limited to only those that is interactive to you. 
 For example, instead of being able to access every nook and cranny of a house, you get to visit 
 living room, kitchen and a fridge. Even your scope of vision is limited. Your cue is a green movement 
 arrow which tells you whether you can access an area or if there is something of interest to look 
 at.
  
  While the movement is restrictive, I guess one good thing is it saves time traveling around. I 
 spent the same time each night playing this game and Im able to complete it in 2 nights, whereas 
 Bioshock took me a couple of days!
  
  The interesting part is when you access an item. Each item may be a piece of the whole puzzle or 
 provide a further lead to a clue. If you locate a new clue, say a fingerprint on a bottle, you 
 will be able to retrieve it using a host of detection and collection tools. Some clues are easy 
 to spot but it gets harder in the later cases.
  
  My favourite venue is the lab because this is where I get to piece the clues together. The satisfaction 
 of discovering something new is always rewarding.
  
  When you interact with team members or with the persons of interest, you will be given a few dialogue 
 lines to choose from. After getting a response, you then proceed to choose the next available dialogue 
 line and proceed on from there.
  
  In a nutshell, its pretty much linear. There are no two ways to solve a case. Trigger the appropriate 
 clues or the game will not proceed. There was once I ended up traveling to all the different locations 
 just to access any new dialogue line/clue just to let the case proceed.
  
  At the end of solving the case, you will be sent for evaluation. It tells you whether you have 
 located all necessary clues and have looked at everywhere possible. You will unlock bonus items 
 if you attain a Master Rank but even if you dont, you will still get your achievement points.
 
  
  This game only has 5 achievements  200G, just for solving each case. So if youre rushing through 
 the game, dont bother about getting Master rank and earning bonus items.
  
  Presentation
  
  For a detective game, this game has provided the basics.
  
  Intriguing 
 opening cutscene, surprise twists and unexpected ending. Yes, all 5 cases do not have the ending 
 you quite expect it to be. Either that or Im just not cut out to be a detective. Im not sure 
 whether these cases are taken from the actual TV series.
  
  The characters in CSI: Hard Evidence have more emotion and facial expressions than those you see 
 in Oblivion. Voice acting is superb. Makes you feel as though these characters are alive. The stories 
 may not be as deep as Bioshock but enough to keep you going, especially when the twists hit you.
 
  
  On one scene, my teammate and I were inspecting a house and I chanced upon a piano. When I first 
 played it (by interacting with it) , my teammate appreciated it. The second time I played it, she 
 shook her ahead. I felt that was hilarious and added depth to the character.
  
  As mentioned before, this game has about the same graphics engine as The Godfather, but while you 
 get to experience more in The Godfather, but you cant help feeling lonely in CSI: Hard Evidence. 
 Set in Las Vegas, you do not see any other characters around other than your team members and the 
 persons involved in the case. Not even yourself or any part of your body. With the intense action 
 you saw in other single-player campaign games like Oblivion and Bioshock, it just makes you wonder 
 whether the capabilities of the XBOX 360 have been fully maximized in this game.
  
  Even with limited stuff going on at a time, the game is not perfect. For example, at the beginning 
 of the game, you are asked to input your name but I see no reference to it in the game. On one 
 scene, I tried to get the DNA of a lady by capturing her lipstick marks from her drink. Funny thing 
 is she was looking at her drink and did not react when I took it away. It would have been more 
 realistic if she had left the scene or had turned away.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Detective games, especially one based on a television series are few and far between. If youre 
 looking for something different, try this out. Good for growing your Gamerscore points too.
  
  Theres not much replay value other than to get bonus items or to locate all possible clues. 
 Other than that, its a cool addition to the game library. The cases you solve have a couple of 
 adult themes. For example, Case No. 4 projects a racist but real view on a certain ethnic group. 
 But if youre a mature adult, this is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruthless_9mm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I felt that the critics have been pretty hard on this game but there are a few things I agree with.
 
  
  1) TOO MANY VISA ADS
  2) Character models look more like claymation than real life
  3) VERY Short with next to no replay value
  
  But, this I found was actually a really enjoyable 
 game to play. I really enjoyed the story line and it was a VERY easy 1000 points for my gamerscore. 
 if you like the show and would kind of like to see an interactive episode than give this one a 
 try. And heck for 1000 points in under a day?????? Why not
  
  TAG: GI_LifeLine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiftyInc
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  CSI: Hard Evidence is a good game for about 2 days after that you complete the game and there is 
 nothing more too do. beside getting all the bugs (insects) in the game. This game is better than 
 all the other csi in means of graphics but the story lines have been better n other csi games. 
 basicly everything in the game is told to you in what to do. you spent many hours listening to 
 the characters talk and basicly you can play for about 4 hours. overall i would say rent the game 
 for a few days and then you will have enough of it. because there is no point in doing every case 
 over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikedDeath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  CSI: Hard Evidence is like all the other CSI games out there, in which you have to find evidence, 
 which is apparantly 'Hard'. In it you play as a new CSI, and are taking orders from Grissom. You're 
 first case involves a Cabbie set on fire! Throughout the game, you travel to many different locals, 
 some are the same as the other games like the crime lab, Brass's office, the interogation room, 
 and Grissom's office.
  
  While playing this game, you might notice that you travel to the same places in different missions, 
 ie. the luxury suite, in which it's in mission two and three, coincidence? The cases are weird, 
 and it's all straitforward, there are no alternate paths. You also have to collect specific evidence 
 to move on with the story, and sometimes it takes a while to find that specific evidence. Other 
 times you are looking for evidence, and you check everywhere, but you don't seem to find any, and 
 when you go back to the crimelabe you get a cut scene telling you to go to Brass's Office in which 
 you are issued a warrent and then you're sent back to one of the million places in which you've 
 been only to collect one piece of evidence.
  
  Now, on to the voice acting, it is really bad. The characters mouths don't move correctly, and 
 their words seemed jumbled together. Their words are slurred and are barely legible. I think they 
 shouldv'e got voice actors that sound similar to the real-life actors; they should stick to TV.
 
  
  The game gets repititious after a while, and there's nothing to do but collect evidence and question 
 suspects. And you also have to collect bugs for Grissom, which is technically disturbing the crime 
 scene, and all you get is a video - 5 in all, since there's only 5 cases. But I don't see why Grissom 
 can't collect his own bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaysgrand
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game intending it to be a pretty exciting game to go through, with the whole collecting 
 evidence and all. In reality it is nothing more than a way to collect additional gamer points. 
 To me it seemed each level took about an hour or so. It wasnt exciting or thrilling although it 
 was great to interact with. I beat this game in 3 days and could have done it sooner if i played 
 straight through. I wouldnt reccomend buying this game but instead RENTING it and play through 
 it there. Just didnt live up to my expectations of what it should have been. Stick to the TV show. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
