-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Culdcept SAGA
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/culdceptsaga/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible for people unfamiliar with card-battle games.
 Tons of different card types allow for unique strategies.
 Unlocking new cards is rewarding.
 Competitive multiplayer is unpredictable and fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland visuals.
 Some issues with online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 306 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Omiya Soft
Genre: Card Battle
Date: Feb 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Culdcept Saga is easy for beginners to learn, difficult for experts to master, and fun no matter 
 who you are. 

  Card-collecting games can be extremely intimidating. Veterans of card-battle duels know the lure 
 of building another deck in a fascinating new universe. But if you've never understood the appeal 
 of pitting your cardboard Yeti against your friend's two-dimensional Colossus, you might find these 
 games tedious or intimidating. Culdcept Saga is neither. The depth of traditional card games is 
 on full display here, but the addition of a game board, customizable avatars, and rules that are 
 similar to Monopoly make Culdcept far more accessible and fun than traditional card-collecting 
 games.  

           Why are the creepy ones always attracted to fire?      

  Your goal in Culdcept Saga is to score a set number of points before your opponent does. Every 
 lap around the board nets you additional gold (like passing "Go" in Monopoly) , but the majority 
 of your money comes from the tolls you'll collect. Instead of just buying plots of land, you'll 
 lay down creatures, claiming a spot as your own. If your opponent lands on your property, he or 
 she can pay rent without making a scene, or challenge you to a duel. The winner takes the spot 
 while the loser pays the fine. You can improve your land (like houses in Monopoly) , increasing 
 its value while making your creature stronger. There is more depth to this basic structure, such 
 as chaining colors together to increase the toll value, but the property-owning mechanics will 
 be familiar to anyone who has played the popular board game. The early rounds focus on the fun 
 and unpredictability of different game boards, letting you learn the ropes before the game presents 
 you with the more in-depth strategies presented by the various cards.  

  Before the match, players build the deck they want to take into battle. There are almost 500 different 
 cards in the game, but your deck can hold only 50, so you'll have to decide on your general strategy 
 before the match begins. There are three different types of cards: creatures, items, and magic. 
 Creatures allow you to claim property; items make your monsters stronger in battle; and magic affects 
 the players, letting you do things like double the toll money you earn or force your opponent to 
 roll a 1. Players hold up to six cards in their hands at one time, and your opponents are able 
 to see what you have lined up. This removes some of the surprise but adds a layer of tension that 
 makes the matches even more intense. A boastful player may leave a powerful card in his or her 
 hand for a few turns, letting the unspoken threat linger and putting the opposing player on edge. 
 If you build your deck right, though, you'll be able to counter the card before it can hurt you, 
 leaving your opponent sputtering and desperate. The volatility and unpredictability of the matches 
 make Culdcept Saga a blast, keeping you on your toes the whole time.  

  The battles themselves are even more delightfully devious than the prefight board play. The creatures 
 are diverse and dangerous, imbued with all sorts of powerful secrets and hidden tricks. The game 
 starts out with simple creatures to give you a feel for the conquest, so you're not overwhelmed 
 with confusing cards. In your starter deck, you'll have trolls and rats, basic cards that will 
 teach you that HP signifies your health, ST is your attack power, and if your ST is higher than 
 your opponent's HP, you'll most likely win the battle. You can equip your Red Troll with a giant 
 sword, though, that can tip the battle in your favor, and don't forget that Giant Rats always attack 
 first. Taking advantage of the various quirks of each card is satisfying, letting you play your 
 opponent like a drum if they come to battle unprepared.  

           No deceptive naming here -- that really is a giant rat.      

  After each match, you'll 
 earn new cards, so even if you're struggling to understand how your Chimera lost to a weak Goblin, 
 you'll be able to build up a stronger deck for the rematch. The diversity of the cards is staggering, 
 making each match completely different from the last. The Flying Puffer can be used for kamikaze 
 attacks; when it loses a fight, it takes its enemy down with it, so you can vanquish a superpowerful 
 card with this simple fish. Aspidochelone earns more ST and HP after each round, so it's an unstoppable 
 behemoth if the match goes long enough, but it's just an ordinary whale with an island on its back 
 in the beginning. Spudfolk aren't much for fighting, but you can earn extra money every time you 
 pass them. Sylphs are weak, but can transform into an awe-inspiring Garuda. As fun as this variety 
 is, the one problem is trying to counter their unpredictable powers. Mistwing neutralizes red and 
 blue cards, so if you built your deck around those elements, you'll find it awfully difficult to 
 get rid of it. But most cards have weaknesses that can be exposed with a well-constructed deck, 
 so once you learn the ins and outs of Culdcept Saga, you won't find yourself in a no-win fight. 

  The amount of replay value in Culdcept Saga is impressive. You earn cards after every match, win 
 or lose, but unlocking rare cards will take a commitment. Even if you don't get the one card you've 
 been pining for, the flow of new cards is steady enough to make the rewards of battle worthwhile. 
 You can also unlock new parts for your avatar, from a simple cowboy hat to imposing devil wings. 
 To win these items, you'll have to meet some difficult requirements, such as destroying a powerful 
 Deep-sea Dragon with a mere Powder Eater. The cards and avatar parts give you plenty of reason 
 to keep playing, either against the computer or up to three of your friends. While the story in 
 the single-player campaign is forgettable, your artificial opponents are challenging without being 
 cheap, presenting a wide array of techniques to teach you the intricacies of battle. The online 
 play is lag-free, but one problem sometimes crops up during a four-player match: one unlucky person 
 will sometimes lose the ability to talk, removing the tasteful banter that makes competition so 
 enticing.  

           A sentient tree fighting an electric bird should look a lot cooler.      

  As accessible 
 yet deep as the gameplay in Culdcept Saga is, the visuals are not so inviting. This is a sequel 
 to a PlayStation 2 game, but the graphics don't seem to have been upgraded in the interim. Creatures 
 materialize as 3D figures when placed on the board, but they lack detail and quickly cycle through 
 a few frames of animation. The battles are even less inspired; instead of viewing the fantastical 
 battles in riveting, high-definition graphics, you're left staring at a still shot of the two cards 
 depicting the creatures. No animations or even cool sound effects here, just two cards, side by 
 side, the loser leaving with a slash across its surface. If you ever wondered what a fight between 
 an ice wall and a mummy would look like, you'll have to keep using your imagination. Graphics are 
 clearly the least important element of a card-battle game, and the art on the cards is bold and 
 vibrant, but the lack of interesting battle animations takes away some of the charm.  

  Culdcept Saga is an exciting card-collecting game if ever there was one. The battles are chaotic 
 and unpredictable, letting you devise your own strategy from the bounty of unique cards. It's the 
 inclusion of a gripping board-game mechanic that pushes Culdcept over the top, though. The beauty 
 of designing a game around the fundamental tenets of Monopoly, one of the most popular board games 
 around, does wonders for bringing in players who shied away from card-collecting games in the past. 
 And for genre veterans, it adds another layer of depth to a game that is already bursting with 
 it. Culdcept Saga is an infinitely rewarding strategy game that can be enjoyed by anyone itching 
 to put that pompous Hypno Sloth in its place once and for all.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Skeez123sbc
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most addictive games I have played in my whole life! I've played this for well 
 over 100 hours and anybody I've ever introduced to it, has fell in love. My chick friends would 
 be like "So are we ceptin' tonight or what?" or "Wasup, you think you can exCEPT your fate?" And 
 we would be playing for hours. Mind you, I am a bartender and do have a social life, but there 
 is something about this game that anybody can get into. Whether it's the strategic aspect, collecting 
 cards, or just owning somebody that landed on your 2048 tolled, round 70 Aspidochelone with Greed 
 cast on it! (you obviously have to play the game, to understand what I just said) I still don't 
 have every card and I'm still highly addicted. If you want a game with excellent replay value, 
 this is it! Basically it is a mix of Magic the Gathering and Monopoly, and if you think Magic the 
 Gathering is LAME (I clowned kids in H/S for playing that crap) don't worry, this is a lot less 
 lame than Magic. If you like strategy, this is an awesome buy!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDunlopeth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this game up for 9.99, because I'm a self admitted achievement point junkie, I didn't 
 think I would even play past the first satisfying *BLOOP*. But to this day I still play this game, 
 and am yet to hear that ever familiar sound.
  
  For someone who had never played a Culdcept game, I can go as far as to recommend this to anyone. 
 It sucks you right in and leaves you there until you either fall asleep during a huge 4 player 
 battle that sometimes last hours, or beat a rival Cepter in the games lack luster, but fun nonetheless, 
 story mode. You start the game with a very limited character creation screen. Seems pointless to 
 me apart from online play but character creation is a big thing these days so why not. As you play 
 the game you can unlock new armor and weapons for you "intimidating" Cepter to wear and wield as 
 you encounter rivals on the same dirt path for awhile. The story is redundant and mars the score 
 I'm giving this game. If only the basis of the game was: Create a deck of cards, battle rivals, 
 earn more cards, build your deck, and dominate online. I think that's a pretty good formula for 
 a game of this genre, but instead we are given the story of a young lad sold to a slaver who is 
 intercepted on a road out of town by a standard japanime babe, then attacked by another japanime 
 babe in even less clothing. Whatever.
  
  Once you get to the point where the story is the last thing in your mind, you find yourself strategizing 
 and waiting in anticipation for your opponent to roll a 1 and land on your Ogre on a Level 5 yellow 
 space. Mmmmm satisfying.
  
  The battles themselves are fun to watch. However they are very short and can often consist of one 
 card totally obliterating the other. The art is fantastic, and it's gratifying to watch a sword 
 swoop in a cut your enemy's card clean in half.
  
  In conclusion, Culdcept Saga is a highly addictive game with a sub par story that can be done away 
 with. Great online play and excellent art. One thing I hold in high regard about this game over 
 almost everything else out on the market is that the instruction manual is basically a novel. When 
 a games manual tells you how to play the game, there's nothing better. EA should really take note 
 of that and maybe add more than 6 pages in English and 6 in French.
  
  I give Culdcept Saga a well deserved 8.5/10
  
  -Levi Dunlop
  Gamespot - LDunlopeth
  Gamertag 
 - Black Mumbazo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3KindgomsRandy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  There really aren't that many games on the market that touch on either the board game genre (and 
 if they do, they're generally terrible) or the collectible card game genre (Eye of Judgement on 
 the PS3 is the only other one I can think of so far this generation) . So when a really good one 
 comes out, it's worth a look, even if it is something of a rehash of the original.
  
  Culdcept Saga puts you in the shoes of a user created Cepter and charges you with collecting the 
 shattered remnants of the Book of Life and using them in battle with the ultimate goal of creating 
 a new world.
  
  Story, Setting, Characters: 7
  
  The story here is absolutely terrible. The good news is, Culdcept Saga makes no real effort to 
 make the story matter; it's just a vehicle to move the story forward and give you a reason to fight 
 battles in interesting locations. 
  
  On the plus side, the settings are interesting in both variety (with 30 or so maps to play) and 
 visual style. The scenery and map styles are well done and provide a decent backdrop for your gameplay.
 
  
  The characters come in many shapes and sizes and are almost exclusively opposing cepters that you 
 must play against during the story mode. That being said, they are mostly good looking and well 
 voiced, so that's a plus.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The gameplay is what CS is all about, really. You begin by creating a book of cards out of three 
 main categories; Creatures, Items, and Spells. Further, each category is segmented into groups. 
 For creatures, you have Neutral, Fire, Water, Earth, Wind, and Multi-Colored (more details later) . 
 For items, Weapons, Armor, Tools, and Scrolls. And for Spells, you have Instant Effect and Enchantment. 
 
  
  You can create your book in a multitude of ways with any balance of cards you like, up to the 50 
 card limit. As a result, there are literally hundreds of successful ways to create a winning deck.
 
  
  Once battle begins, you take turns moving around a many spaced board. Each space can be either 
 a territory, a board modifier (changes your position or the layout of the board) , or a special 
 space (giving you money, buying symbols (think stock market) , or generating a random board wide 
 effect) . The goal of each battle is to reach a preset amount of gold and cross the finish line.
 
  
  You gain gold by placing creatures on territories (where you will later have the option of leveling 
 up like in Monopoly to get additional toll values) , crossing forts, and passing "go" which is a 
 castle in this game's case.
  
  If you happen to land on an opponent's territory, you have the option of paying the toll, or invade 
 and attempt to capture his territory. Which is where items come into play. These will vary the 
 Strength and Hit Point values each creature in combat possesses make it easier for you to win. 
 Other items have a variety of other effects which I won't go into here.
  
  If you can succeed in all areas of the game, you'll eventually amass enough money to win the map.
 
  
  Win or lose at the end of the map though, you'll gain new cards and perhaps some new avatar parts 
 to dress up your cepter.
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  
  Nothing spectacular, but some of the backgrounds look nice and the cards are generally beautifully 
 done.
  
  Sound/Music: 8.5
  
  Sounds is unremarkable, but the music is mostly very nice. Tends to do a good job of setting the 
 tone for either the map you're on or the cepter you're facing.
  
  Replayability: That's the entire point of this game. Imagine a card game you only played once. 
 What would be the point??
  
  Multiplayer is a treat in house. You can have up to four people play locally with you, though it 
 tends to extend the length of the game exponentially. If you happen to have less than 4 players 
 to play with though, you can fill in the gaps with Story characters you've already bested.
  
  Final Score: 8.25 (rounded up to 8.5 for GS)
  Culdcept Saga comes with my highest recommendation 
 to anyone who likes a strategic game that is strictly turn based.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardQuor
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  A Primer for the uninitiated: Magic: the Gathering is a collectible card game, where you collect 
 cards to build a customized deck with which you play against other people's decks. Monopoly is 
 a board game which pits would-be slum lords against each other in a game of chance, while they 
 collect more properties and force each other to pay ridiculous amounts of rent for landing on their 
 properties. Culdcept Saga is a video game most accurately described as a hybrid of these two games.
 
  
  When I first heard the concept for Culdcept Saga, I have to admit, I was quite skeptical. Monopoly 
 plus Magic: the Gathering? There's got to be more to it than that. But I was surprised to learn 
 that it does play out almost exactly like one would imagine.
  
  Now, it might sound like I'm trying to put down the design of the game, what with my assertion 
 that it's no deeper than two games put together. But if you're a fan of Puzzle Quest, then you'll 
 agree with me that there's a world of difference between mashing two games together, and splicing 
 two games together seamlessly.
  
  And seamless is really the adjective of choice in this amalgam of awesomeness. When you combine 
 the strategy of constructing your deck and playing your cards right, and the luck of a die-roll, 
 the result is a somewhat more level playing field than in either of the individual counterparts. 
 In Magic, if the skill gap between any two given players is too wide, it becomes apparent right 
 away, and what ensues can hardly be called fun for either party. And in Monopoly, the opposite 
 is true, the game hardly rewards skill at all, and is mostly just a game of luck.
  
  So Culdcept Saga strikes a very nice median between the two, making games between intermediate 
 and veteran players enjoyable for both, and rewarding skilled players for their effort. 
  
  All of this is wrapped up in a nice UI with an obviously anime-inspired art direction. Controls 
 work fine and there aren't any bugs which I've been able to point out. Graphically, there's nothing 
 really to write home about, even the Wii would probably handle this game with some effort. Though 
 that is not to say that the graphics are bad, they're just not great.
  
  Some gripes that I can foresee is in players new to the collectible card game aspect of Culdcept 
 Saga. As the learning curve is actually quite steep, it's not uncommon to be stuck on the first, 
 tutorial stage of the game. Unfortunately, it is a necessary hurdle to jump for new players. Though 
 it should be noted that players do not go unrewarded for the time spent in lost matches, and any 
 addition to your collection is arguable a useful one this early in the game. (The larger your collection, 
 the more choices you have in changing and fine-tuning your deck.)
  
  Though the other problem with the game is the time it takes to clear a level. In the first few 
 smaller maps, matches typically last a very reasonable 30 or 45 minutes. The problem begins to 
 develop as you progress through the story and the maps and number of players starts to increase. 
 With the additional real estate and opponents, matches can last an agonizing 2-3 hours. Thankfully, 
 there is a save feature, but resuming a saved match often means having to re-examine the playing 
 field which in itself can be very time consuming.
  
  And my final pseudo-complaint is the story. While it's nice that the developers took the time to 
 craft a well-thought-out universe and lore for all these cards and such, it's a bit disappointing 
 to learn that the story is treated as an afterthought. The story provides an excuse, rather than 
 a reason, to finish the matches which you'll be playing. What's amusing though, is that the voice 
 acting is so atrociously dry, it manages to make the story entertaining. I really can't bring myself 
 to give it negative marks for the story. The way I see it, story is only a negative mark if a game 
 falls apart without it AND fails in that respect, as well. Culdcept Saga stands strongly on it's 
 own, even without a story.
  
  All in all, the fun I have with this game far outweighs the negative points I've listed here. New 
 players unfamiliar with collectible card games and the mindset therein may struggle a little at 
 the beginning, but it's definitely a hump worth getting over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawaiiinsomniac
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Like the headline... You'll spend a lot of time with this game and either... 
  
  a) You like it a lot
  b) You're so frustrated you want to rip the game out of the console and 
 film yourself cutting it into pieces and then posting the video on Youtube
  c) You just returned it after playing it for the first time.
  
  This game definitely has a 
 lot of good things going for it and a lot of bad things going against it...
  
  The Good
  You'll get your money's worth if you don't throw your controller at the screen, the game will take 
 hours and hours and hours. A single round can last over an hour. The story line is pretty original 
 and the game play is like a card-game/board game. I don't want to spoil the story, but the gameplay 
 isn't too hard to learn, but if you're going to pass the 4th level, you're going to have to know 
 more than your basic cards. I'd suggest editing your deck before every level (you can have 50 cards) 
 mixing your deck with the appropriate amount of creatures, spells and items.
  
  The Bad
  Each game is quite long. The first round took me over an hour and my first achievement of 5 points 
 was about 3 hours of playing the game. The game does get slightly easier in which you learn the 
 intricacies of each creature, spell, item, support, etc., but sometimes you will feel like the 
 computer is cheating!
  
  If you like puzzle games, and you don't like to lose and you want to spend a lot of time playing 
 a game... this is the game for you...
  
  Best of luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Let me first state that I did not play the original. And with that being said I can say that in 
 my case it was not necessary. Culdcept Saga uses a tutorial system that is introduced to you as 
 you play the game. If there is some new feature to the game play or a new tile on the map the game 
 that you haven't seen before in story mode, it will give you a brief description at the start of 
 the match. The game also makes use of load screens to display information about game mechanics 
 and the world of Culdcept.
  
  The story in the game is definitely not a strong point and is mostly used to advance the game play 
 and introduce new characters you will battle. The real meats and potato of Culdcept saga is definitely 
 the online play, which sadly is almost non-existent unless you have friends with the game and are 
 willing to wait around for a match to start. At the time I wrote this I seriously doubt anyone 
 is even playing online near me and to top it off the online feature is not forgiving in its game 
 selection status. It would have been nice to have been able to go online and see what matches are 
 available and then select the one you want to try and join. But from what I have seen both the 
 creator and person wanting to join need to have similar settings for the game type. This of course 
 has lead to me not really going after any of the online achievements, but my hats off to anyone 
 that has and completed them.
  
  The graphics are not great animation wise. The real beauty is in the picture on the cards and the 
 boards and backgrounds you play on. It was nice to see the artist name on each card too.
  
  The selection of cards is broken up into three types, creatures, items and spells. The creatures 
 have six different types, fire, earth, water, wind, neutral and multi-element cards. The item cards 
 have weapons, armor, tools and scrolls. The spell cards have actions that are timed based, condition 
 based, single target affect and multi-target affect. What is interesting about all of these cards 
 are of course the combinations you can make once you have acquired all the cards, which will definitely 
 be a time consuming event.
  
  Culdcept Saga is not for those who don't want to take the time to play an hour-long match session. 
 Now you can pause the story mode games, but there are draw back to doing this if you are going 
 for the achievements. The problem with pausing is the game will not count any achievements you 
 might have achieved for that match. The reason for this is uncertain to me but I imagine it has 
 to do with breaking up the match session, preventing it from being saved so that you might view 
 it later. Yes, you can save your matches to view later. But with matches easily running into an 
 hour-long fest do you really want to sit down and watch the whole thing again? It would have been 
 nice if the playback feature allowed you to choose a round to look at instead of making you watch 
 the whole thing to possibly get to the round you wanted.
  
  I mentioned the achievements earlier and let me just say that they are time consuming. No more 
 time consuming than some of the online achievements for a lot of games out there, but a lot of 
 them can only be reached off-line and not online. The most time consuming achievement had to be 
 the Avid Collector achievement, which requires you to unlock all the parts that are possible in 
 the game. Parts are basically outfit pieces that you collect after performing some action in the 
 game which then allows you to dress your avatar. And while there are those power players out there 
 that can give you some ideas on what to do to unlock some of the parts, other parts just require 
 you to play the game, such as defeating 100 story mode characters in the story mode.
  
  Since I recently finished all of the off-line achievements for the game I will be retiring it to 
 my collection case unless some completely improvable tournament comes up where I might run into 
 other willing to play. But since I sincerely doubt that I will see that happen, I am still glad 
 to say that I did all the off-line achievements. Even though it took me 4 months.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Culdcept Saga, as a strategy card-trading game, is enjoyable and contains nonstop action. Your 
 desires to recieve all 500 cards grows as every battle ends, and the story quickly wraps you in 
 an adventure.
  
  Gameplay - A
  
  A card trading game, but with the feat of also including a monopoly - esque style board game action. 
 One major problem is that luck plays a somewhat huge part in the game, but in the end, skill always 
 comes out victorious. 
  
  Graphics - 
  
  Cards, beautiful; backgrounds, enchanting; boards, unique; and the story w/ cutscenes... reminiscent 
 of the PS2 era. Though every other aspect contains vivacious color palettes tha really pop and 
 individualize each card, the cutscenes in this game, are another of its major flaws. Very average 
 looking, and almost a litte "cheap". 
  
  Value - 
  
  Endless card and board fun, with matching lasting hours ; WHAT? "matching lasting hours" - yes, 
 and this can be tedious, though making the overall game longer. This game is full of options and 
 multiplayer modes (with unique characters and decks) , but with matches this long, bothering to 
 play can really be a hassle.
  
  Sound -
  
  Different in a good way, but nothing out of the ballpark... original, but in a way, not so much. 
 Carrying the game along, yes; usually ignore the music; also a yes. It's just there - but the game 
 does have those few special moments where the music really catches you attention; but i mean few.
 
  
  In total, the game is unique, and ultimately, fun to own. Countless hours of gameplay can be placed 
 into it, the cards look beautiful, and it's just plain fun. Sound, forget about it, that's not 
 significant; give it a chance, and trust me, you won't regret it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Culdcept Saga is certainly not for everyone. If you haven't heard of this game before, I could 
 sum up it by saying if you combined 'Magic: The Gathering' and Monopoly, then you get Culdcept 
 Saga. It's a very fun and addicting game if you can get into it and if you have lots of patience. 
 It's also one of the worst games for the Xbox 360, in terms of presentation. If you end up playing 
 this game for any amount of time, it will be because of the excellent gameplay. It won't be because 
 of the lousy graphics, lame story, or hideous voice acting. I know a lot of people won't be able 
 to get past that problem. If you can, however, you will be in for a treat of a game.
  
  Like I said in my opening, if you ever played Magic: The Gathering then this might be a game you 
 will really get into. I wasn't a huge fan of Magic, but I played it a decent amount. And as soon 
 as I started playing this game, I really got into the mix of collecting cards, making up a deck, 
 and the mix of a board game similar to Monopoly.
  
  The game basically goes like this: You start the game with a deck of cards. Each one has a certain 
 'element' that it's associated with. Fire, Water, Earth, and Wind are the four elements. You can 
 then mix up your deck with any fifty cards you want. In those fifty cards, you can mix between 
 creatures, items, and spells. It's up to you how to use those cards and which cards to mix in the 
 deck with others. Some people prefer to just take all the best cards they have, but those might 
 not mix well together. Others may want to focus on just bring with cards that help one or two elements 
 and blend together well. For instance, the Fire and Earth cards tend to work well together. It's 
 all up to you and it's fun to mix and match to find a deck that fits your play style.
  
  After you have made a deck you like, you are then placed on a board that is very similar to the 
 board in Monopoly. As you roll the dice, you will land on certain spaces that correspond to the 
 elements that you carry in your hand. If you land on a red space, and you have a Fire creature 
 then you can place it on that space. You can place conflicting elements on colored spaces if you 
 want, but then you don't get an element bonus. Or if you do put, say a Water creature, on a Fire 
 spot on the board, you can always change the color later by spending some 'magic' (the game's form 
 of currency) . As you work your way around the game board, if you land on someone else's creature, 
 you either have to use another creature to defeat the defending one or pay the 'toll' (same thing 
 as rent in Monopoly) that is on the land. As the game goes on, the owner of the land can level 
 it up and the toll goes up with it (again similar to buying houses and hotels in Monopoly) . And 
 just like in Monopoly, when you pass the starting point ('Go' in Monopoly, here it's a castle) , 
 you get more magic to spend, etc.
  
  There are lots of other little things I could get into and go on for awhile here, but that basically 
 sums it up. You can also use spells at the start of a turn, use items when attacking/defending 
 a land, and there are other special lands on the board that do a variety of different things depending 
 on the map. It's a very fun and addicting type of game, but it can be frustrating because some 
 of the game relies on luck. Of course, with any game that a dice is involved with, you will have 
 to deal with the luck factor. And it can especially frustrating when the CPU seems to have MUCH 
 better luck than you.
  
  In fact, some games can take up to three hours to go through and your only reward for losing is 
 that you receive several random cards for your deck. If you win, you get many more. As I mentioned 
 before, you will have to have patience to enjoy this game and this is exactly what I meant. A lot 
 of people will not be happy with playing a level for three hours, only to lose to the CPU when 
 you thought that they got a bit 'luckier' than you. Thankfully, the game is very fun and it's not 
 the end of the world to replay the same level again.
  
  In the single-player game you get a story in between levels. This story is actually pretty lame 
 and you won't give a damn about the characters or the story in general. You can skip through the 
 scenes if you like and you won't be missing much if you do. The storyline is certainly not one 
 of the strong points of the game. In fact, the presentation as a whole, is NOT a strong point in 
 the game.....
  
  To say that the visuals in Culdcept Saga are last-gen, would be giving it a compliment. This looks 
 like a lousy looking PS2 game. Now while I didn't expect the graphics to be great, by any means, 
 I was expecting a little better than this. In fact, the only reason I didn't score this game higher 
 than an '8' is because of the graphics and voice acting. The poor visuals really didn't bother 
 me too much, but it might be a big deal to some other gamers.
  
  To listen to the voice acting in this game, I find it similar to what it would be like to listen 
 to the sound of 'nails on a chalkboard' for about eight hours straight. It's terrible. Like the 
 visuals, this was clearly not a priority when bringing this game to the Xbox 360. Once again, that 
 will disappoint a lot of people, but I wasn't expecting it to be much different. This is a budget 
 game and as long as the gameplay is solid, I was happy. The music isn't too bad, but it's nothing 
 that will be in your memory for any amount of time after shutting the game off.
  
  Sure the presentation blows hard and the story is crap, but this game is all about the gameplay. 
 And that is where Culdcept delivers if you are interested in the premise of the game at all. I 
 would love to see what a bigger budget version of this game would be like, and I am hoping the 
 next game in the series will give me that wish. I would highly recommend this game to anyone with 
 patience and was into Magic: The Gathering at all. It's not going to appeal to everyone, but this 
 is the type of game that will garner some hardcore fans and could end up being one of those 'cult 
 classics' that people might be talking about years down the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueflob
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  While Culdcept fans were all hopipng for an incredible new Culcept as part of the jump to a current 
 generation console, this title is somewhat disappointing.
  
  It looks beautiful in HD but it seems that the jump to higher resolution imaging affected the gameplay 
 and it causing delays whenever characters and events appear. This can get highly annoying since 
 AI characters are constantly commenting on your actions and a small lag will occur everytime.
 
  
  The gameplay is somewhat similar to the previous game, a few new things were added here and there 
 but there are not significant enough to actually improve on the game experience of the previous 
 title.
  
  It's also too bad that the Versus mode is not as straightforward as it used to be on the PS2 game. 
 This game is just another developer that doesn't understand the rules and regulations of Xbox LIVE 
 profiles and poorly adapted his title to the Xbox 360. Basically, one cannot create multiple cepters 
 on a single profile and profiles are required to play in Local multiplayer.
  
  This is a big blow for the game since the beauty of Culdcept for PS2 was its ability to have multiple 
 cepters on the same console and import other cepters from your friends when they came over for 
 a game. This is somewhat all gone since they made it so complicated with the LIVE profiles. I also 
 doubt that lots of people will be committed enough to play 1 hour turn-based games over LIVE, it 
 just isn't as entertaining as having a bunch of friends over for a game on the same console.
  
  All in all, this game fails to improve on it's concept and the additional content added doesn't 
 add anything to it. Poor multiplayer support kills this game as it was it's sole purpose.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhoAmIAgain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Thoughts:
  
  Although Culdcept is a great game worthy of great praise, it doesn't pull out the punches to be 
 a complete game. What i mean is, everything is subpar. This game was solely made for fans of the 
 culcept history/games/manga. Anyone else would just discard the game as boring and time consuming. 
 getting through the rough edges like the dubbing (Voice overs) and the first year PS2 Graphics. 
 much of this game also requires fore-planning, skill, and a great amount of luck.
  
  Strengths:
  
  Culdcept is incredibly addictive, no doubts about that. that really makes up 
 for the game length. everything runs smoothly and every match feels just right. even the monopoly 
 like style to it is refreshing and it brings a good light to the added history of Culdcept. Battle 
 sequences also seem very much like yu-gi-oh, you give equips, cast spells, lay traps to gain the 
 upperhand against the opponent. Many or most of the creatures you can get have abilities and can 
 give you advantages and disadvantages to every battle. which makes the game more into fore-planning 
 and perceiving game. As long as you know what your opponent is thinking you have the upper hand 
 if you got the right hand.
  
  Flaws:
  
  Although I don't care about game graphics, I felt a little letdown. Being a game for the 360 it 
 should have had more unique battle sequences and should have had better graphics. the match length 
 is also something to worry about that could prematurely make players forget about the game. each 
 match is a hour+ long and has no in-game save. the dice also is very mean.... its really hard to 
 get a roll you really really need, leaving it all up to luck.
  
  Overview:
  
  Culdcept is a great game. It could be improved allot and made far more interesting for newer players. 
 The game requires lots of skill and luck, which is good for players who enjoy a good strategy game. 
 Although many aspects of the game seem sub-par they really make the game like it was for the past 
 Culdcept games trying to be more loyal to that game play. Culdcept is addicting, fun, and free-flowing 
 game that new and old players would enjoy. but newer players will have no real understanding of 
 the Culdcept game and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyte_spede
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I was bored and decided to try out the demo on xbox live. The demo does a good job at teaching 
 you how to play, it is a pretty solid mix of board game with trading cards. Most people sum it 
 up saying it's a mix between Monopoly and Magic, I won't argue with that. If you enjoy card games 
 and also board games then this game has value. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Basically you make your way around the board trying to claim lands and level them up while keeping 
 your opponent from taking them. When you land on a space an opponent controls with a creature, 
 you can either battle or pay the toll. When you level up your land it gives benefits to the creature 
 on that land and also raises the toll. This keeps up until you build up "Total Magic" points, enough 
 to win. When you have enough, you have to pass the castle spot on the board in order to claim victory. 
 
  The game provides some good fun with building custom decks and matching wits strategically with 
 your opponents decks. This is coupled with the luck of dice rolls to make your way around the game 
 board. A game usually takes a while to complete, which is a bit of a downside. In multiplayer games 
 you can set the Total Magic points though, which is nice. The game doesn't always do a very good 
 job of explaining cards, and you have to go to the help menu often just to figure out what your 
 card does or why you can't play it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  They aren't good. But they are good enough! This type of game does not need to rely on graphics, 
 but it certainly doesn't seem like they put much effort into it. Creatures are rendered in 3d on 
 the game board but in battle they are just cards. Animations are very bad, but again easily overlooked.
 
  
  SOUND
  Pretty substandard sounds for everything. Sound effects are quite basic, voice acting is terrible. 
 Music in game doesn't get annoying though so all is well.
  
  SUMMARY
  It is a fun board/card/strategy game, and even though its clear its not a high budget production, 
 its a fun game that is only 40 bucks to get. I would deffinitely recommend checking out the demo 
 if it intrigues you at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is the first strategy game I have played in a while that has caught my attention. While it 
 is not a graphics fest like an FPS or other common Xbox360 fair, it is an excellent concept for 
 a game that is well thought out. For the first time since I have bought by Xbox360 I find myself 
 sitting in front of the screen for hours on end. The gameplay is very addictive and fun.
  
  The storline isn't anything to write home about but I don't play this type of game for the storyline 
 I play it for the challenge and gameplay which this game has in spades. I think most reviewers 
 are missing the boat a bit on this one giving it about 10% to low a score.
  
  The AI while not perfect is not to bad making this a good solo played game, while online matches 
 might also be fun if a person has time to play out a game. Does anyone know if online matches can 
 be saved and resumed? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: Solid card game meets Monopoly style gameplay, decent graphics, interesting storyline, 
 great multiplayer, it is challenging.
  
  The Bad: Each game can last you quite a while, achievements are very hard to come by, character 
 animations can look kinda dumb, is fairly slow paced.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Board and Card games are becoming a big thing on the now current gen systems, mostly for the online 
 multiplayer aspects. Playing a classic board or card game online with a few friends often has a 
 similar effect to playing a real one with friends around the table. Then again, there are some 
 board and card game consepts that can only work in video game form. One of these is Culdcept Saga, 
 a unique board and card game fusion that is a very unique and enjoyable experience. 
  
  You play as a character who you name, who discovers that he is a Septer, and has the ability to 
 use cards to save the world. Yes, I know, it sounds hokey, but at least the storyline is interesting 
 and ties the board game style battles together fairly well. 
  
  The core gameplay consept is basically Monopoly meets the Eye of Judgement. You are given a deck 
 of cards featuring creature, spell and item cards. You use these cards while moving around a giant 
 board and taking over teritory. Each teritory has an element, which can be changed if necessary. 
 Like the Eye of Judgement, creatures have spacific elements attributed to them that can either 
 give them bonuses or hurt them. If you place a creature on their own element, they will recieve 
 a bonus. Place them on a harmful element, and they will loose HP while in battle. 
  
  You basically take turns going around the board placing creatures and casting spells as you go. 
 Your goal is to achieve the required SP amount to win, which changes based on the map. You get 
 SP by winning battles, making laps around the board and by achieving combos, which are to have 
 several spaces of a same element in a row. 
  
  Battles take place when you land on an opposing players space or the other way around. If you are 
 attacking, you select a creature out of your deck to attack whatever creature the enemy has placed 
 on the board. You can use items, such as a weapon or armor, to boost your attack or HP if you are 
 defending. Attackers must destroy the enemy creature to win a space and avoid paying a toll. The 
 defender must simply survive, even if the attacking creature is not destroyed. This knowledge helps 
 in selecting what creature to be placed on a space, so you can use that creature's special attributes 
 to your advantage.
  
  Some creatures have special attributes, such as always attacking first, or gaining more damage 
 when attacking. Some also allow for the use of support creatures, which basically allows a second 
 creature's attributes to be added to the first creature's, giving you a very nice advantage. When 
 placing creatures, make sure to select creatures with very good defence attributes or allowing 
 support creatures to keep your chains alive. 
  
  Similar to Monopoly, you are able to level up land for a higher toll. If an opponent looses a battle 
 in a Level 5 land, they are in serious trouble and you have an even better shot of coming out victorious. 
 It's all about knowing how to play the game, and having fun doing it.
  
  There are a few downsides to Culdcept Saga, such as the fact that there really isn't a quick game 
 option. Matches tend to last anywhere between 30 minutes to 2 and a half hours, so make sure you 
 have some serious time on your hands before starting a match. The game does support up to 4 players 
 online or off, as well as custom book creations, which are really nice additions. The character 
 animations may appear to be fairly lame, but they do have a stylized look to them, similar to another 
 Namco game, Eternal Sonata. The achievements of Culdcept Saga are not easy to come by. I have played 
 the game for almost 10 hours now, and still haven't earned an achievement. So don't expect to earn 
 anything unless you are willing to put some time into this game.
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of board and card games, Culdcept Saga is a great choice. It's a unique 
 and different game that can bring you hours of enjoyment, plus it's only $40, which always helps.
 
  
  Gameplay: It's a unique twist of Monopoly and Eye of Judgement that works really well.
  
  Graphics: Solid and very stylized, but can look wierd.
  
  Sound: Very good musical score 
 and solid voice acting.
  
  Value: It's only $40, which is an excellent price for what you are getting.
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 A Dwarf beat a Wall of Stone? WTF??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechemo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to start by saying that one, I played the PS2 version to death all the way up until I got 
 the 360 version and loved it. Two, I have not gotten very far in this version yet (still working 
 on Mass Effect... only so many hours in the day) . In the end, this version may not bring a whole 
 lot more to the table that the original other than updated graphics (which are nice) , some new 
 cards (again, haven't gotten that far) and much better cutscenes (eh) but is it fun, addictive 
 and certainly worth $40? The answer is yes. My misgivings with the game is that it is a little 
 rehashed if you played the original - some of the card art is exactly the same while some card 
 stats are the same, but with prettier pictures. There are just a few new 'powers' like Doublecast 
 that I have encountered and I hope to find even more down the road. Bottom line is if you haven't 
 played the original and like Magic or other collectible card games, you really should give this 
 a shot. If you loved the original, this is still most likely worth your time. If you didn't like 
 the original, not only will you still not like the sequel, you are a heartless golem and you have 
 my sympathy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerodorb
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I never even heard of the Culdcept games before, but thought I would download the demo and I'm 
 really glad I did. This game is the closest thing out there to Magic the Gathering on a console. 
 Dare I say it's even better?? I love it because it's so easy for anyone to pick up and play, but 
 has a deep strategy element as well. It also gives you rewards (cards) when you finish a game, 
 whether that be a single player, vs., or online game. This was a brilliant addidtion which is a 
 real rarity. I love the idea of using just one character for all types of games. Why don't more 
 games do this?? 
  
  Also, I have a real love for 4 player games, especially offline. What's more fun than playing a 
 game with 3 friends?? Nuthin!!! Make more 4 player games!!!
  
  This game really brings a much needed reprive from FPS's that are great, don't get me wrong, but 
 sometimes don't seem all that original. I know Culdept isn't all that new of an idea either, but 
 being an XBOX and 360 owner, it's a great addition to a library that kind of lacks simple, turn 
 based, non-flashy-type of games. Microsoft was brilliant in getting exclusive rights to this game, 
 now I'll never even have to think about owning a sony product!!! 
  
  This game is a real gem!!! Buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dar55104
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  First, some downsides.
  The graphics won't blow your mind, there's nothing here that will appeal to the twitch gaming crowd, 
 and it takes a bit a couple wins under your belt to understand what's going on. Much of the voice 
 acting is bad to the point of hillarious, but that might just be on purpose.
  
  That said, once you get enough play time in on this to get the hang of it, it's extremely addicting. 
 It's one of those games that keep you saying "Just one more round and I'll quit, honest." until 
 you look up and realize just how many hours it's really been. 
  
  The basic gameplay is pretty straightforward. You go around a board, grabbing up squares while 
 trying to get the right amount of magic to complete the game. So that part is basically Monopoly. 
 You also have a stack of "cards" that you randomly draw cards for your hand and play for various 
 effects which is pretty much any collectible card game our there, or even just the old game of 
 War with a standard deck of cards. Where it becomes crazy strategy is deciding which of your cards 
 to put in your deck, when to play them, and how, and that's the part that gets addicting. Unfortunately, 
 that's also the part that can get confusing and will keep a lot of people from getting far enough 
 along to start enjoying it. Give it a chance, though, and the strategy will start coming to you. 
 Think of it like any other type of game the first time you played it. RPGs and FPS games are at 
 least as complicated as this one is to someone who hasn't played them before.
  
  It's unlikely you have another game like this one buried in your collection unless you've got the 
 previous versions of Culcept but I'll say it's worth the shot. Give yourself a break from Call 
 of Duty or Mass Effect for a bit and give this one a try. Oh, and one little cherry on top to catch 
 your interest. It's price brand new is only $40.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asquidsurvives
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out and have sat down and played with it almost everyday for 
 more than four hours. It doesn't seem to lose anything from the time you start story mode. Even 
 with all that play I would say I'm about 3/4 of the way through story mode. There are so many cards 
 it is unbelievable. That is what makes this game have an extremely high replay value. The online 
 play is mediocre though. The games are fun and alliance matches are really cool, but the server 
 has ton of lag and people get kicked from the game all the time. I have yet to finish a game with 
 the same amount of people we started with. If your looking for a game to sit back and relax a little 
 then this is the game for you. So next time your getting ready to buy a game don't count out Culdcept 
 Saga And considering this game is only $39.99 new that should put it above some of the others you 
 may be considering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  It's the ultimate in the field of geekdom: a game that combines the cutthroat real-estate experience 
 of Monopoly with the strategic, collect 'em all mentality of card games. Hotels are denoted as 
 territory levels, money is replaced with spendable magic, and if your Minotaur can't beat up your 
 rival's Red Ogre for control of his red space, then you'd better be ready to pay a handsome fee. 
 This is the game Namco-Bandai has produced for your Xbox 360, Culdcept Saga, and for a reasonable 
 forty bucks, you too can be traipsing around the Coliseum as the curlicue-haired youngster who 
 oh so conveniently stumbles across his fate as a Ceptor (a fancy name for a card player) at the 
 outset of the game. Cut to angst, odd hairstyles, and a gameplay experience that is simultaneously 
 addictive and maddening, and you have a vague idea of what you're in for.
  
  There are a number of elements that might pop out as being substandard when you compare Culdcept 
 Saga to, say BioShock, and if you're looking for a game that will push the 360 to its technical 
 limitations, you might want to consider looking elsewhere. The graphics are on par with the RPGs 
 the PS2 churned out in the past, complete with their array of blocky, arm waving movements. But 
 though it may be true that the shadows are reduced to an ominous black disc at the characters' 
 feet, the models' lines are still crisp and the card-wielding cast themselves unique (I defy anyone 
 to find a character whose chin is as bizarrely shaped as Koenig's) . And once you get past Rilara's 
 er, blow-up doll features, you might be impressed by the stylistic choices made with the cards 
 themselves, which have been designed by an array of artists to fully capture that Magic element 
 the game designers were shooting for.
  
  These cards are bright, water colored pieces, and with five hundred to call your own, you'll be 
 spending quite a bit of time amassing the creature, item, and spell cards. You'll be spending another 
 few hours picking and choosing cards from your pile to create sixteen custom decks. Depending on 
 how you form and play your deck, these cards can make or break your match online or off. There 
 are a number of stats to look at: G and TG for your Ceptor (your expendable income) , ST and HP 
 for your creatures (the first rules over your creature's strength, the other their health) , and 
 MHP denotes the maximum number of hit points you can add onto your Harpy. These stats are altered 
 with item cards like maces and boomerangs, as well as territory bonuses and neighboring creatures 
 and thankfully there's a tutorial to guide you through the surprisingly in-depth system Omiya 
 Soft has created. Most matches will take a half an hour of strategizing, as there will probably 
 be over fifty rounds played, giving you plenty of time to pull up from behind.
  
  You can choose to plow through the entertaining, albeit corny storyline in single player, or take 
 your cards online to battle against other gamers. You can face off against other people in Alliance 
 or Blind Matches, the former focusing on team play and the latter taking your deck and randomizing 
 it based on your personal preferences. The online matches are where the game really shines, and 
 with the exception of the occasional lag and the occasional scarcity of other players, Culdcept 
 Saga's online mode is what will bring gamers back to the title time and time again.
  
  More than Monopoly, more than Magic, Culdcept Saga packages the ruthless strategizing of Risk in 
 its green colored box, as you are forced to think five rounds ahead in order to maintain a slight 
 edge over your competitors. Your Ceptor, the princess, and in fact, the entire world is relying 
 on you to carry the torch to victory, as hackneyed as that may sound, but therein lies the other 
 hidden treasure that the game brings. It's a fun, cheap, feel good gaming experience that although 
 frustrating at times, although backstabbing and merciless at times, Culdcept Saga is always an 
 engrossing and addictive experience. And for forty bucks, people, where can you and your Red Ogre 
 go wrong?
  
  Pros:
  - Deep and in-depth gameplay allows for a good deal of customization and strategizing as you take 
 on AI and the international pool of gamers
  - Graphics, although a little dated, are still artistically well rendered and the cards are nicely 
 drawn, colorful, and display a wide range of beasts ripe for the picking
  - Replay value is extremely high, with a multitude of multiplayer matches, both online and off, 
 to choose from
  
  Cons: 
  - Game has a tendency to lag online
  - Sound is a little subpar, with lackluster voice acting and a musical track that loops over and 
 over during the course of a half hour match 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yogizilla
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Let's use a new acronym: CBG.
  
  What is a CBG? It's what you get when you combine a tradeable card game (TCG) and a board game. 
 It's crazy.. and it works.
  
  Before I proceed with my wordy review, I will say that Culdcept is NOT for everyone. If you are 
 short on patience or time, playing online and offline can be annoying, mainly because you have 
 to sit through lots of screens (even when the computer plays) . TCG purists may not like the huge 
 luck factor that the board game mechanics introduce but, on the same token, players that do not 
 appreciate TCGs may not find very much appealing about this game.
  
  That being said, I think Culdcept Saga takes a great tradition and perfects it. This game has hit 
 potential (sleeper hit or cult classic, AT LEAST) . It's just one of those games that you may look 
 at initially, thinking to yourself, "What the??" After a little gameplay, however, you realize 
 the game offers deep gameplay and high replay value.
  
  I won't go into the story too much because it is cliche (think of your typical JRPG) but there 
 IS a story. You get to play the part of a young boy that leaves his poor town to live as a slave 
 and hopefully return home with money for his family. You run into a traveling princess along the 
 way. She is the one that senses the great power lying dormant within you. Your power is unlocked 
 and it is determined that you are Neo, the one, and you must save the world. Hey, I warned you 
 that it was cliche... but what isn't?
  
  The game shines when you realize how much strategic depth you have. As you battle other Cepters 
 (the card carriers/casters) , you earn new cards, whether you win or lose. You can use these cards 
 to create up to 16 custom books to use in battle. With around 500 cards in the game (more cards 
 than any Culdcept game before) , there are tons of combinations and strategies that one can employ.
 
  
  Playing through the single-player mode gives you the perks of unlocking parts you can use to decorate 
 your personalized avatar. I notice people playing the story mode just to beef up their deck before 
 going online. It makes sense since your character in story mode is also the same one you get to 
 use in versus modes, with real human players - YAY!
  
  To me, the real gold in this game is being able to battle people online. You can go in solo or 
 form alliances, in servers of up to four players at a time. This game seems to have some international 
 presence as I have encountered people that speak limited or no English at all. This means you can 
 sometimes lag at times but, fortunately, the game drops people whose connections have become unstable, 
 replacing them with AI players. The auto-balancing feature definitely is welcome, especially since 
 the AI players can be customized to use certain strategies.
  
  Yes, I said "customized AI players", folks! For the perfectionists out there, you can create AI 
 players, specifying the rules they follow in various scenarios. The AI algorithms are determined 
 by a series of priorities. Using a slidebar, you can tweak different behaviors, giving each AI 
 player a distinct personality and aggro level. Very neat.
  
  Back to the online play. My other major gripe is that the server filters and queries need to be 
 tweaked. It's hard to find open servers, mainly because the queries are very specific. If you want 
 to find an Alliance Match or Blind Match, you may have a very hard time.. At least for now. I reckon 
 it'll be easier to find open servers once this game catches on more. I also see that Bandai-Namco 
 is treating this game with ginger gloves so I smell patches and new content in the future.
  
  Blind Match is a very welcomed online mode. In a Blind Match, players choose the elements/attributes 
 they wish to focus on in their book. A book of cards is then dynamically generated for each player, 
 according to their preferences. It's a beautiful thing because new players will not have to worry 
 about playing against people with rigged decks.
  
  I know I am jumping ahead here but it's because multiplayer deserves extra attention. The online 
 play is what really shines in this title though creating your own avatar and dressing him up is 
 neat, even if he looks a little too femine at times. Speaking of which, where are the female character 
 models for your avatar? And only two skin tones.. This is clearly a Japanese-influenced game! =oX
 
  
  The object of the game is typically this: capture territories, defend them, and collect as much 
 magic as possible. The color-coding of territories makes Culdcept look like Risk at times, which 
 I think is part of it's charm. Held territories can be upgraded, making them easier to defend while 
 increasing your total magic for the overall battle. When players land on your territories, they 
 must pay a toll or try to invade and take over your territory. Collected tolls count towards your 
 total magic as well.
  
  It's strange but Culdcept treats magic like gold, and vice versa. It'll irk you a bit at first 
 but then you get used to it. I write this off as something lost in translation.. or perhaps the 
 gold itself is magical! *shrugs*
  
  Some of the creatures you can summon have special abilities. I find the territory abilities fun. 
 Amongst these territory abilities are the ability to evolve, perform global effects, or increase 
 the defensive power of your creature. I have found a few Pokemon fans enjoying the whole evolution 
 and creature battling aspect of Culdcept Saga.
  
  Since Culdcept Saga is a board game at heart, you can expect the usual board mechanics: complete 
 a lap around the board and collect a bonus. Very much like Monopoly there. As you progress, the 
 boards become more complex, providing special squares ranging from shrines to warps to forts. This 
 variety makes the strategic components of the game even more deep but not overly-complicated, either.
 
  
  Battles are long and can drag on if you're not careful but I think it's just right. You get to 
 have many chances to catch up so no one is every really out of the competition until the very end. 
 Typically, you have to reach a minimum of around 5000-8000TG (Total Gold/Magic) . It takes around 
 50-70R (Rounds) to do this, depending on the map. That can be equivalent to 10-20 laps per player, 
 on average. That's a lot of moving around the same board but it moves along if you allow yourself 
 to get hooked into the game - I know I did!
  
  It's great fun having a player increase the value of their land, only to have it taken away by 
 you. Invading lands and defending them doesn't seem to ever get old. The strategic elements thereof 
 are quite numerous. You have to be mindful of the attribute/element of each territory. Owning many 
 territories of the same color increases land and toll value at the same time. Matching your creature 
 attributes with the land attributes gives you some nice defensive bonuses (HP) as well.
  
  There are not too many stats to look at, which makes the game easier to figure out for the newcomers. 
 Your main stats are G, TG, ST, HP, and MHP. G and TG apply to your Cepter/avatar. These represent 
 your current magic level and your overall/total magic (essentially, the cumulative value of all 
 your territories) .
  
  ST represents creature STrength and this comes into play when you are on the offensive or use a 
 creature or item that provides an Attack First ability. This is important to take note of because 
 some monsters have a strong attack but no HP, making them easy targets for invasions or spells 
 (oooh, the nukes in this game can be a real drag if you are on the receiving end) . HP represents 
 you individual creature's Hit Points and MHP, naturally, is your creature's Maximum Hit Points. 
 Pretty simple, eh?
  
  The game has solid balancing. Creatures that are over-powered are more expensive to summon and 
 have some sort of weakness or limit. For example, a monster that offers natural defensive abilities 
 may not allow you to equip it with an armor Item or protective Spell. This keeps the game from 
 becoming broken.
  
  I believe this game has something for the strategist in all of us. I personally enjoy collecting 
 the cards and employing clever card combinations. I've had a few people curse me out already by 
 tricking them into thinking I was vulnerable (I use a lot of cards that, on their own, are weak) . 
 The deception and bluffing aspects are always fun.
  
  Overall, I'd say everyone should try this game. Love it or hate it, it's something fresh and different 
 for the XBox 360 library. For $40, it's one of the big bargains out there right now, up there with 
 Orange Box and Shadowrun. w3rd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killdot1335
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  I went to the store to big up culdcept sega (witch for some reason dident come out untill the 7th.) 
 But anyways, I was very surprized to find out it was only $39.99!! I took it home, unwraped it 
 and through it in my xbox 360. Within no time I was running my version of culdcept saga on my big 
 screen in full 1080p! It looked great! I allready played the demo so i picked it up quickly, and 
 jumped right into the story mode. Witch has great cut scence! Their very long and kind of fun to 
 watch. The first level is the level you play in the demo from xbox live marketplace. Was pretty 
 easy to beatm however got a little bit harder now that its the real game. My plan is to play the 
 story for the while, and unlock alot of the rare cards before i head online. My only concearn is 
 the fan base. Will there be enough people to play online with? I'm sure but we'll see. I think 
 it might be hard to find a match online at weird hours though. Anyways overall! Great Game!!! very 
 addicting, very fun. Will recomend it to anyone who enjoys a challenge!
  
  Cheers.
  
  p. s. and yes.. i will be spending over 100 + hours in this game. just once i get online, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I see some reviews on other places, namely Gamefly rating this game any where from 5 to 7 average. 
 Of course the brain dead people giving this game low reviews probably haven't even tried to play 
 it for more than the demo. This is a fun card collecting in fairly in depth but not too complex 
 game. The graphics are clean and the cards look nice. The main thing is the game play here, and 
 it does that very well. Just think of Magic the Gathering mixed with Monopoly and you are somewhat 
 close to what this game is, but not as complex as rules as Magic. I recommend anyone who likes 
 collectible card games and building decks to give it a try, or if you like board games. I believe 
 there are around 450 cards in the game which is pretty decent amount. You don't have to play online 
 the computer can play well enough as you progress through a story mode.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Take Magic: The Gathering card game and mash it with a board game environment like Life or Monopoly 
 and you have a mixture called Culdcept Saga for the 360. This isn't the first game by Bandai Namco 
 Games but actually their 4th of this installment. The most recent one came out for the PS2 which 
 got a respectable 7.9 by Greg Kasavin. The ideas and some gameplay features are still the same 
 but this installment has a different story line (RPG like) and of course the 500+ cards to try 
 and collect.
  
  The story begins with you creating a character by choosing its name, hair style/color, and skin 
 color. Once you create him (no way to change the sex of the character) , you go through the story 
 line about the protagonist (you) and how he was raise by his aunt and uncle after his parents died 
 and had to sell himself to help his family and the village out. From there, he finds out that he 
 is actually a Cepter (a personal who can wield the power of Culdcept cards) thanks to the help 
 of Faustina. From there, the story rolls on as the protagonist learns about his new role as a Cepter 
 and future perils that lie ahead.
  
  Gameplay: From watching some of the PS2 version of this game, the idea seems similar is not recycled 
 from that game back in 2003. You will have a deck of 50 cards and you will draw a new one every 
 turn. You can only have a max of 6 cards in your hand. If you pick up your 7th on your turn, you 
 will have to discard it. These cards consist of three different categories that consist of creatures, 
 spells and items. Creatures are broken up into 6 attributes consisting of fire, water, air, earth, 
 normal and multi. Spells can be used on Cepters of creature and items can help or hurt creatures 
 in battle. The battle field looks like a monopoly board with colors (similar to the attributes 
 of the creatures) which can improve creature's stats (a fire creature on a fire block will help 
 the HP and ST stats) . The strategy of the game is to get a certain amount of TG (Total Magic Power) 
 points and make it back to the base part of the board (the starting block for everyone) . The more 
 passes you make on the base, battles one and board pieces captured, the higher the TG power you 
 will receive. Those points are not usable but the G (Magic Points) points are used for using cards 
 and upgrading areas of your captured board. G points can be important as well with winning the 
 game since it helps you capture the areas on the board by placing cards on unclaimed spots. Every 
 action you take in this game involves you using your G points so that's were the strategy comes 
 in because if you don't have enough points to defend your areas, you could lose them as well.
 
  
  The game also entails some customization as well with dealing with decks and 'some' character changes. 
 Editing your book (or deck) is kind of special in this game as you can change the name of it, the 
 icon that represents your deck and the cards that you want to play with every time you start a 
 battle. You can also change the character's appearance somewhat as you are awarded clothing if 
 you win battles. Clothing may include a head, body, back and left and right hands. Other customizations 
 may include AI changes and Rule Changes (both you will have to make to use in a game not in story 
 mode) .
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a lot better then the PS2 version but that is expected when playing 
 a game on the 360. The cards that you use are well designed and the character models aren't terrible 
 to look at when seeing cut scenes or when battling on the board. The battles are anything special, 
 graphically, but that's what makes this game kind of appealing. The non-heavy graphics seem like 
 an Xbox Live Arcade game but has the features of a console game. Expecting a heavy graphical card 
 game from Cultcept Saga isn't why anyone should buy/try this game but for the nice graphical placed 
 strategy game that it was made to be. The animation has its highs in the battles when a card is 
 hit. There isn't any 3D animation of the creators but animation of the attacks themselves. If a 
 creator has a sword, a sword will be seen 'slashing' through the card and maybe cutting it in half. 
 The same goes if a spell is cast or if the creator has to bit at its opponent. 
  
  Sound: The soundtrack has a feeling of RPG type music back from the SNES or NES eras. The music 
 isn't that bad though as it changes during battle at good points. The sound effects are standard 
 and have the 'slashing' and 'whooshing' sounds needed when in battle or the 'stepping' sound when 
 walking. The voice acting can get cheesy at times but the actors' voices for all the characters 
 were well chosen. Wouldn't say the games high point in the sound but still, it isn't that bad.
 
  
  The overall game is still solid but people who played the old game and didn't like it will probably 
 not like this game. If you like card games and strategy games, this game will be for you. It isn't 
 Risk or Carcassonne but still up there with one of the best strategy games out today for the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobro456
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Pros Easy to learn, Great Gameplay, nice reply value, and the list goes on.
  
  Cons- Dice rolls seem to be pushed in computers favor and cheats and not actually random., almost 
 to the point I can call it, when I am 1 away from an opponent and his land is max I say i am rolling 
 a one and i roll a one everytime.
  
  
  Gameplay 10 (a great mix of a board game and a stradgy card game)
  
  Graphics 7 (whether have 
 the low graphic to have grweat gameplay)
  
  Longevity 9 (three person battle takes an hour you do the math)
  
  Reply Value ( I have gone 
 back and played the first stage about 10 times and still not bored)
  
  Next Gen 10 ( I give it a ten cause Card games like this have been rare and it is great to see 
 some coming out)
  
  Is this the best game ever made? No! What this is a game out on the 360 that players been waiting 
 for since the first Xbox. A stradgy card game where you can get the feel of playing games like 
 Yu Gi Ho and Magic. The addition to the broad game type play makes the game even more interesting.
 
  
  I have never played the first one but I am hooked on this one. I have always said that I would 
 gladly sacrifice the ober graphics consoles been working so hard to get for great game play. They 
 could have hyped the graphic shown actually battles but then they would have to take away from 
 the game play.
  
  Storyline interesting but cut scenes are nothing to write home about.
  
  As a non hardcore Video game player I will tell you this, GET THIS GAME! it is something you 
 can play alone, online, with friends, and for familes this is a perfect family type game that even 
 your mother or farther can play and learn. 
  
  My biggest compliants are that I have not seen any option to trade cards via online or just with 
 friends on the same 360. I would love to see that seeing my roomate got cards I want and I have 
 cards he want. 
  
  This is to show you it is not about ground breaking graphics but great gameplay. Hopefully we will 
 see more card games online coming out soon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sengenjin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of card battle games, board games, or strategy games you should go out and buy 
 this game. Or at the very least try the demo. I enjoy card games like Magic the Gathering and board 
 games like Talisman and HeroQuest so this is right up my alley. There are nearly 500 cards to collect 
 and tons of strategies and combos that you can come up with using these cards. You can create up 
 to sixteen different books increasing the amount from the last Culdcept by six. If you are like 
 me you will probably use up all sixteen slots as the deck building aspect is part of what makes 
 this such a fun game. There are virtually endless combinations you can come up with when designing 
 your books. Seeing you strategies and cards work well together while playing the game is a very 
 rewarding experience. You even get full control over the appearance of your avatar and book in 
 this Culdcept. I already unlocked a cool looking ninja mask and chain mail for my character to 
 go along with his claymore and buckler shield. The art and music in this game is once again top 
 notch. The new animated 3D creatures are really cool looking too. This game is packed with features 
 and customization. There are many different play modes including my new favorite online Alliance 
 matches! If you enjoyed the last Culdcept or enjoyed the demo for this game you should definitely 
 get this game. This is probably the best $40 I ever spent as I will easily be getting over 500 
 hours of replay value with this game. My friends even think it is awesome. I got to go back to 
 playing it again now, thanks for reading my review! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  If you played the original Culdcept for PS2, Culdcept Saga is almost exactly what you'd expect 
 it to be. More cards, more maps, more story, etc. 
  
  What people need to realize is that this is NOT a pretty game. They've pretty much copied/pasted 
 the old PS2 graphics and added some anime-ish character designs. The first thing I think when I 
 see anime style characters is that the developers were lazy, and in some cases, that's true with 
 Culdcept Saga.
  
  The most important thing to remember is that Culdcept isn't about graphics. It is 100% about the 
 gameplay, which is just as good as ever. (Really, really GREAT) . Who says a next-gen title needs 
 next gen graphics anyway? Games with 2D sprites can be great, no matter what generation of consoles 
 we're talking about.
  
  There's not a lot of new card art in Saga, but what's there is really great looking. There's quite 
 a few new cards. I'm still unlocking them, so I couldn't say how many were added.
  
  The online play takes awhile, and yes, the rumor about seeing your opponent's cards is true. Old 
 players will remember that in the original Culdcept's story mode, you could see the the computer 
 opponent's hand. I honestly feel this just adds another layer of strategy to the game, and isn't 
 a hindrance at all.
  
  Overall, sometimes it feels like the developers of Culdcept Saga were lazy, and the whole game 
 probably could've been a downloadable expansion back to Culdcept (if Culdcept were made for Xbox360) . 
 If you played the original title until you were sick of it, then you probably won't find a lot 
 of content here worth getting back into. However, if the idea of hours and hours of board game 
 stratagem and collecting cards sounds good, there's no better title than Culdcept Saga. It's truly 
 a unique experience, and well worth the steep learning curve.
  
  UPDATE 
  I've earned quite a few new cards, and it seems there's more new art than I previously thought. 
 Also, the feature of earning parts to customize your Cepter is pretty neat.
  
  The biggest problem I have with the game right now are the poorly translated menus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethMcCoy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is innovative as well as creative. Just download the demo and see if you like the style 
 of gameplay. You can play by yourself, online with friends, or even on the same xbox with friends 
 (which is great) . This is a very addictive game and the fact that you can win new cards by battling 
 (and that they'll probably add more packs via content download) makes it that much better. I would 
 have given it a 9.5 but I had to dock points for them using 2d pictures of the cards during a battle 
 instead of the 3d models of the creatures (or a combination of the two) . The game is a little difficult 
 at first and the rules are a bit tricky to learn (I've played several full matches and I'm still 
 confused about a few things) but that just adds value to the game in my opinion.
  
  Another bonus is that this game starts out at just $40. That is a great deal if I've ever heard 
 of one! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
