-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dance Dance Revolution Universe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/ddrevolutionuniverse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good-looking graphics.
 Decent variety of music.
 Plenty of interesting modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quest mode makes no sense on its own, and there's nothing in this package to help you understand it.
 No custom soundtrack support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 455 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Rhythm / Dancing
Date: Feb 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
DDR Universe offers the standard sorts of changes and upgrades you'd expect from this nearly decade-old 
 series. 

  Dance Dance Revolution is flying its flag over yet another game platform with DDR Universe, the 
 first installment for the Xbox 360. The game comes with a decent dance mat and offers many of the 
 same modes found in the DDR Ultramix games, which were released on the previous Xbox. With handy 
 tutorial stuff for beginners and more than 70 songs to choose from, Universe is accessible to players 
 of all skill levels.  

          Sure, Konami could have implemented custom soundtrack support, but then you'd never buy 
 another DDR game ever again!     

  Like most of the domestically released DDR games, Konami has placed a handful of North American 
 and European licensed tracks into Universe. The highlights of the more popular tracks include a 
 Chemical Brothers remix of Kylie Minogue's "Slow," "Twist" by Goldfrapp, the remix of Steppenwolf's 
 "Magic Carpet Ride" that was made popular by the movie  Go , and more tracks from artists like 
 Ozomatli, Chris Brown, Phats &amp; Small, Depeche Mode, and the Sugar Hill Gang. All that is matched 
 with more typical DDR tunes, including speedy Eurodance tracks "www. Blonde Girl" by Jenny Rom and 
 remixes of music from Castlevania and Gyruss. It's a healthy mix of music that doesn't stray too 
 far from what the series is known for, though it's 2007 now, and the genres that have fueled this 
 series for almost a decade now aren't what they used to be. It might be time for a more drastic 
 change in musical direction for this series, though the fast-paced happy hardcore Europop stuff 
 that the series has been leaning on all along is at least fun to hop around to.  

  When you first launch the game, you're dropped into a stripped-down version of the game that's 
 meant for beginners. This version of the menu only lets you do easy stuff and is focused on getting 
 new players up to speed. From there, you can transfer over to the "master mode" menu, which is 
 the full-featured game with all of the modes and options you'd expect to find in a DDR game. Party 
 mode is the local multiplayer mode, where up to four players can play in various cooperative and 
 competitive modes. Workout mode tracks the number of calories you're burning by playing the game. 
 Challenge mode offers up very specific tasks that really change the way you think about the game. 
 Some challenges may demand that you not get a combo higher than 10 steps, forcing you to purposely 
 miss one out of every 11 steps. Some ask you to step only on eighth-note steps, or only on two 
 arrows at a time, and so on. Edit mode lets you create your own steps. The manual implies that 
 you can upload and download edited step data via Xbox Live, but if that's in there, it's buried 
 extremely deep, because the game doesn't make any mention of these features either in the edit 
 mode or in the Xbox Live menus. Over Xbox Live, you can play various multiplayer games against 
 other players. But since you can't really see them dancing with you or anything, it's not particularly 
 compelling to play online. It does, however, provide online leaderboards.  

  The game also has a quest mode that gives you a map of North America, broken up by states and provinces. 
 You can travel from one area to another, taking on challengers in dance contests or attempting 
 to earn fans or backup dancers. This is also the area where you unlock more songs using the money 
 you earn by dancing. But the entire mode is set up incredibly poorly. The manual doesn't describe 
 what you're supposed to be doing, and the game doesn't offer any assistance, either. The primary 
 task you'll get is a dance competition against a computer-controlled dancer. All this does is make 
 a meter appear that you must fill to win. The catch is that you usually can't fill the meter by 
 dancing to only one song. And after you finish a song without filling the meter, a screen comes 
 up telling you that you've failed... but if you hit A, it'll load another song and you can continue 
 filling the meter until you win. To make matters more confusing, there's a "fanbase" event that 
 works the same way, except the meter drains between songs. Some songs don't have enough steps to 
 fill that meter -- in fact, most songs on the default difficulty won't have enough steps to fill 
 that meter, making the events impossible to win. With some more in-game explanation or some help 
 from the manual, this might all make sense. But as is, it's easy to feel as though you're stumbling 
 through it with no idea what you're even supposed to be doing.  

          If you're really crazy, you can set up four mats and dance on them yourself in quad mode. 
     

  Graphically, DDR Universe looks roughly like the Ultramix games, with cel-shaded dancers that dance 
 over a jumble of trippy-looking videos. On the 360, of course, the dancers look better and the 
 video is slightly higher in quality. But on occasions where the dance arrows are scrolling quickly, 
 the arrows don't scroll as smoothly as they should. Overall, though, it still looks pretty good. 
 Like other 360 releases, there are 1,000 achievement points to earn in DDR Universe. Many of them 
 come from just clearing all of the different songs, but there are also plenty that come from unlocking 
 songs in quest mode, which makes quest mode's poorly described flow that much more aggravating. 
 The game also entirely disables the 360's custom soundtrack support, which is unfortunate, as being 
 able to import your own music into the edit mode would have made this a much more interesting package. 

  The real catch with DDR Universe is that you'll need to buy a new dance mat to play the game on 
 a new console. So that's a reinvestment for those of you who have been playing the game on other 
 platforms, though the game is selling in a package with one dance mat for $79.99, which is reasonable. 
 Whether you're a DDR fan who's fine with getting more of the same or a 360 owner looking to get 
 some rhythm action, DDR offers a little something for everyone, and it's a good package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: richmond5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows what to expect from the DDR Franchise. Variable difficulties, some type of music 
 you hate or like, and pretty above average excersize. Despite having such an atrocious quest mode 
 with inconsistent levels of accomplishment, an annoying host speaker, and no customizable MP3 tracks 
 I agree with plenty of people it provides good cardio workouts.
  
  So I want to unlock more songs through the quest mode and after accomplishing a few regions and 
 unlocking 2 songs, I thought things were going to be sweet and every single song can be played 
 on the game mode, but then I happen to stumble on to another "tournament" that is impossible to 
 pass, BELIEVE ME!!! I am not a hardcore DDR dancer but I know enough lil'tricks to stay on task 
 on Diffucult mode and that stupid piece of crap bar is not filling up at all!!! I feel like going 
 to the bloddy Boston Marathon. 
  
  After 10 straight songs and only making 2 "Boos" in average, the bar only goes up 1/10 of the way, 
 WTF???!! Also i was at 1/4 of the bar filled and then it goes down all the way to 0. I mean I know 
 i made some mistakes, but the real big problem is i that when I don't even Friggin know why and 
 what it means if the other character i am against or myself goes into a FEVER mode!! PLZ explain 
 what the hell it means!!!! and then for a couple of songs, the bar looks like a barber shop spinning 
 pillar and it looks like it is erasing all my hard earned progress while I make very minimal mistakes. 
 ARRGHH!! It discourages me very badly when that happens for the 1000th time.
  
  There is no way to back out of an event when you land on a location or even exit the quest mode 
 and go into other modes. Frustrating. Just Frustrating.
  
  So all of you are wondwering why this game is not in the my Trash bin? After almost an hour fo 
 time playing this game and being zoned into all the so-so music they have, I found out i lost 4-5 
 lbs of access water or fat in my body from that time I played it. It just makes me feel very "accomplished" 
 though knowing that weight will come back in a matter of days or weeks. From all the excersise 
 I've done in a lifetime, this excersizing with DDR gets me zoned in for a whole hour and I never 
 feel unsatisfied even when I am out of breath and have legs of a dead-drunk woman in a club with 
 heels on. On expert mode, it is suicide to me and probably in ONI as well.
  
  So my fellow curious game consumer, if you want to here some so-so beats and get a surpisingly 
 effective cardio workout, get this game and the dance pad, but handle your frustrations and patience 
 in the quest mode before you throw a fist to you HD TV or Standard TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancientcard
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  This DDR is a great game why because even if your just a novice you can become a intermediate in 
 less than a day. DDR universe has a lot to offer especially with the awesome songs i mean even 
 i knew like more than 4 of them which was really cool. In DDR universe you first start out as a 
 beginner the if your good enough you go to master edition (i use mat just so you know) and when you 
 reach master things get a lot harder and tons more addictive especially in workout mode so you 
 can see how much calories you burned you know just so you can know. DDR universe for xbox 360 has 
 many type of playing like speed which is basically just hitting the arrows with no accuracy required 
 and also attack vs your friends and also copy and a lot more which makes things really interesting. 
 in this game the graphics are good for a DDR game which is interesting to look at the screen to 
 see what your dancer is doing. The thing is about this game is that there is a quest mode which 
 really is really pointless (from gamespot) but its there for just unlocking songs and other stuff. 
 DDR universe is a great game to get especially if you love rhythm games as much as i do and yes 
 i know they're releasing new versions so i cant wait to get it and review and anyway overall i 
 think this game in Fantastic its not perfect but Fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoe256
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I bought this game on the premise that I could do something fairly fun and improve my fitness, 
 without it being too strenuous...
  
  Unfortunately I am endlessly frustrated with this game! 'Basic' mode is damn near impossible, unless 
 you are an Irish Dancer or something and can fail your legs about all over the place very quickly. 
 Songs with approximately 110bpm are almost do-able for a complete beginner.
  
  Secondly, the 'encouragement' from that silly girl is anything but encouragement, she tends to 
 go 'Don't worry, have a rest then try again...' when you are about to die from a heart attack or 
 something after bounding around for a few minutes. I always feel that when she says 'Dance baby!', 
 she should replace 'baby'... with a five letter word that also begins with B, she is a slave driver, 
 and an intensely annoying one at that.
  
  Another sticking point for me is the 'selection' of dancers, even the Wii version looks better 
 than this one. Although I've become strangely fond of my Afro guy in the leotard.
  
  Last but not least, at the end of the song not only do you get a big fat D for being so rhymically 
 challenged and quite blatently not being an octopus, you are informed you have only burnt 5 calories 
 for all your trouble, jumping up and down like a complete loon.
  
  I'm not really sure what I expected, the music is okay and it does what it says on the tin, it 
 is a dancing game... but I kind of expected it to be better, and easier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magix2k
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Dancing Stage Universe... Hmm weird title if you ask me. There's a good reason behind it. I'll 
 explain it later on. DS Universe or DDR Universe (US) , is the new DDR instalment from Konami for 
 the Xbox360 console. Too bad they didn't port this game to the PS2/3 too, but hey. They wanted 
 to make this game exclusively for the 360... (boo, *looks at his PC/PS2 compatible Cobalt Flux 
 pad...*)
  
  I will explain this game in 3 categories.
  
  
  Gameplay (9)
  Just the same'ol concept you would expect from a DDR game, lol. Hit the corresponding arrows on 
 the rythem & beat as they move up. They added a mode called Quest Mode. For those who played DDR 
 Ultramix 3 should be familiar with this mode. In this mode you have to compete against several 
 opponents (Amy, Afro, Lady etc.) scattered over the US. Thus the word "Universe". Hmm, pretty weird 
 for us Europeans to walk around the US in this game, even though we live in Europe...
  
  In every state you have to clear objectives. It varies from hit x jumps, x combo's, etc. etc. In 
 short, lot's o stuff to do in Quest Mode. Too bad most of the unlocks are only unlockable in this 
 mode. Which are hard for beginning novices...
  
  There's some other modes too. Challenge mode puts your skills to the test and it's really hard, 
 I can tell you. I cursed all night long clearing that g*peep*y*peep*ss Maximizer song on Sudden, 
 Boost, Reverse and no combo break... I still haven't cleared that challenge yet...
  
  You got How to Play, Trial and Super Easy modes for novice players. There's also this neat Relay 
 Mode, where players switch off dancing in the middle of a song. Don't forget the 8 to 12-pad mode. 
 It's an expensive purchase, but if you've got 2 or 3 pads. You can extend your grooviness to another 
 level. I haven't tried it yet, because I got 1 official 360 konami pad, lol...
  
  
  Graphics (7)
  Nothing has changed. It's just the same old xbox Ultramix theme with a flowerish 
 flavour. I mean jeez. A next-gen console with graphics I've seen 2 years ago. What the f*peep* 
 man... Oh yeah, it's funny how they implented musicnotes tunes when you scroll through the main 
 menu's. Nice touch and I love it, hehe.
  
  
  Music (8)
  They removed some license songs from the US-version, such as Everytime We Touch, WWW. BLONDIEGIRL... 
 You will be able to download unlocks and extra songs from the Xbox Marketplace to extend your music 
 collection. 
  
  The songlist is IMO sweet. New entries such as Tsugaru (OR-IF-IS Mix) , PARANOiA Evolution, MAXIMIZER 
 & the o-so cute Koibito cat song makes it a worthy package.
  
  
  Overall
  This game is just great for starters and advanced players. It's just too bad that I can't use my 
 Fluxy on my 360. Guess I have to wait for a controlbox... Gameplay is satisfying. The multiplay 
 option, local and live, is great. Esp. the various mods. It's longtivity will last longer if you 
 got friends. 
  
  The graphics could've done better. I mean look at the Beatmania theme's. They look different everytime 
 a new style is released. The graphics in DS Universe = crap. Same old concept as the old Ultramixes 
 with flowers. Konani?
  
  Like I said before. IMO the songlist is satisfying. Trance, Drum'n Bass, J-pop, Salsa (wtf?!) etc. 
 makes it great and enteraining for all sorts of people. Able to buy and play new songs for the 
 Marketplace is a gogo.
  
  
  
  I give this game a solid 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I love DDR games. I even have that Stepmania version of it for PC. So I had to get rent this for 
 360.
  
  DDR plays songs and as the music play notes come from the bottom up and you have to hit corresponding 
 button as it reaches the top of your bar across the top of your screen. Its like Guitar Hero or 
 Boom Boom Rocket. You can use the controller or the more popular dance pad. Its pretty easy or 
 pretty hard depending on what difficulty you play. 
  
  So..... what is this junk? Well for starters nothing has changed! The haven't bothered to make the 
 graphics better. Oh sure the effects and menus are "pretty". But the characters are still crappy. 
 Now you can play online, bah, it wasn't much fun online. Well at least people with seizures benefit.
 
  
  So whats the big deal sealer? THE SONGS CRAP! I didn't recognize one song. I mean usually if I 
 don't recognize a song I at least LIKE something in the game. This stuff was so horrible I couldn't 
 get into it. It felt like teenybopper song track. Silly songs that were either to to girly, to 
 fast or to crazy. S much for DDR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The American produced Dance Dance Revolution games are among some of the worst versions of the 
 games out there. It seems that the American developers are trying to put their own touch to the 
 series and they continue to fail at it. Its been proven that the Xbox Ultramix are sub par versions 
 over their PS2 cousins, the focus on bland In The Groove style music make the Xbox games less appealing. 
 This tradition continues forward face first with DDR Universe, the inaugural DDR mix for the seventh 
 generation consoles. Exclusive to the Xbox 360, DDR Universe brings in about the same content you'll 
 find on the Xbox games but with a much higher price tag (the bundle costs 80 bucks) . Just about 
 every irk and pet peeve I have with the Ultramixes are fully present in Universe, which of course 
 was developed by the same American studio who did the Ultramix games. The first problem is the 
 frame rate. The game runs smoother than the Ultramixes but IT STILL SLOWS DOWN! What the hell is 
 wrong here Konami Digital Entertainment America? Are you guys stupid or something. This is the 
 Xbox 360 we're talking about now and you still can't program smooth scrolling arrows? The graphics 
 are pretty ugly enough as is with the generic cell shaded characters dancing to 5 year old choreography.
 
  
  Bad design choices are in the mix too. The idiot developers thought it would be cool if the game 
 had a universal banner look. All the song banners in this game have this uniform look where the 
 fonts are the same and some generic colorful palette in the back. The music here is pretty bland. 
 The game has about 70+ songs but an extra 10 songs on the disc have to be paid for via Xbox Live. 
 Yes you buy the disc but 10 of the songs on that disc is not part of the admission price. . . Yeah, 
 talk about retarded, but I believe that is M$$$ choice as its Xbox Live structure is a complete 
 disaster for your wallet which is why PS3 has a better online structure. You have your typical 
 songs from well known artists such as Depeche Mode, Kylie Minogue, Chris Brown, etc. You also have 
 your standard Konami Original tracks and the all important crappy songs from no name bastard djs 
 who lack any talent such as JT 1Up, Alien Six, etc.
  
  DDR Universe is a stupid rip off. Why should you pay much more for a mix with just as much content 
 as you'll find in older consoles with the same quality. This game was poorly received by fans. 
 I've said this before, stick to the PS and PS2 games for real DDR games. Not crappy American made 
 trash like this. POO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theabridgedevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  This installment of DDR is got to be hands down the best DDR to come out on a microsoft system. 
 The song list MUCH better than the Ultramix series. If you liked the licensed tracks well this 
 mix isn't for you. There's not many licensed tracks but instead the traditional DDR songs. If you 
 are new to DDR by that I mean it is very euro-style and techno. Old school fans of DDR will find 
 that this mix goes back to its roots.
  
  Gameplay:
  On your screen arrows either pointing left, right, up, or down come from the bottom of your screen 
 and when they reach the marker you step on the corresponding arrow. It's actually simple in the 
 beginning. Seriously... you knew how to play right.
  
  Difficulty:
  Really well thought out. Beginners should have no problem jumping right in to the game and veterans 
 of the series are sure to be challenged. Beginners have training mode, tutorials, and a beginner 
 difficulty. Experts have song that feature oni steps (challenge steps) and a challenge mode.
  
  Game Features:
  Game mode-pick a song and difficulty... then dance
  Party mode- Multiplayer 
 on the same console. Featuring power speed and relay games
  Quest Mode- This where the game falls apart. Quest mode is the way to unlock songs. But there's 
 is no purpose. You travel mindlessly dancing to songs and then moving on without really a reason. 
 I personally don't like it.
  Workout Mode- game mode but here you can count calories.
  Challenge mode- the game presents a song and tells you to do a certain thing. Complete and move 
 on. The higher difficulties will prove to be very challenging.
  Xbox Live- Go head to head with anyone around the world if you have an xbox live gold membership.
 
  Edit Mode-Make own steps for songs IN the game
  Jukebox-Listen to your favorite DDR tunes.
  
  Overall, this game is a lot of fun despite a 
 few minor hold backs. If they could improve quest mode a little, allow us to import our own songs 
 and make steps for them in edit mode this would be a perfect game. But it's still a lot of fun. 
 High recommendation that you at least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  DDR Universe for the Xbox 360 is a very good game.
  
  Disagree or Agree just do so after reading my whole review thanks.
  
  If you, ve never played 
 DDR before it's a game that involves movement and almost anybody can play it. It's very fun and 
 addicted.
  
  The object of the game is too go with the rythem and be fast. Don't worry about people around you 
 just have fun! But make sure you have room in the room your going to play in because it comes with 
 a pad and you mite run into something.
  
  Basicly, you have this panel on the top of the screen that looks like this;
  
   
  
  and 
 when the arrow that matches the one of them starts to get very close to the arrow you press it 
 with your foot like this;
  
     
  
  when its that close u wait till it perfectly matches then press it! but don't be too early or too 
 late or you'll get a bad score..
  
  It takes practice but it can be alot of fun.
  
  and when you get the hang of it you can do stuff like this;
  
   
    /\  
  
  just watch 
 the panel at all times and your feet will do the talking.
  
  the cool thing is you are having so much fun but at the same time you are getting a good work out.
 
  
  There is even a work out mode if you really want to know how much ur losing.
  
  and there is also alot of fun game modes and a desent selection of dance-able songs.
  
  and 
 maybe eventually if u get as good as me you can do double pad and do this;
  
     
      /\ \/
  
  and it's also really fun with friends! go dance dance with dance dance revolution 
 universe!
  
  8.0
  
  EDIT: sorry about the arrows being all screwed up. Apparently Gamespot doesn't let me do the space 
 bar like that. Well I hope you understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianoman4life
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the classic games to ever be in arcades is the DDR series! And now it comes to 
 next generation consoles starting with the 360s version of Dance Dance Revolution Universe! I 
 really like this game. It helps a lot with cardio and will help people to move more than sit on 
 the couch. A few downfalls, but its not that bad.
  
  Good = Perfect
  Bad = Boo
  
  Gameplay
  Perfect: Classic DDR gameplay, dance pad required, workout mode is a great way to keep 
 track of steps and calories
  Boo: Quest mode is frustrating to figure out, especially competitions, cheating by using a wireless 
 hand held controller.
  
  Controls
  Perfect: Same DDR controls, simple up, down, left, and right buttons
  Boo: Hard to find the A 
 and B button sometimes, sometimes not as responsive as you think especially the soft pad
  
  Graphics
  Perfect: Crazy, upbeat, bright graphics! Avatars are funny, included are a few 
 music videos
  Boo: Not that much videos, some avatars are weird looking
  
  Sound
  Perfect: Music selection is perfect for this game, sound effects are good enough
  Boo: probably 
 needs more songs I know.
  
  Overall
  If youve never played a DDR game, this is the one to start with Its a good buy for having over 
 70 songs! Some of the modes are hard, especially Quest Mode, but it pushes you to the limit to 
 master the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first of all, anybody who says It's too hard to use a DanceMat to, has to be in a wheelchair 
 or else is really lazy. It doesn't take long to get good at DDR Universe.
  
  I'm just going to get this out of the way, the Quest Mode is crap. The only argument for doing 
 that mode is to buy the other songs, but personally, I'm just going to wait for an Action Replay 
 or GameShark to come out so I can unlock all of the songs.
  
  At the beginning you go to training mode, which, like the title suggests, trains you in the ways 
 of DDR. You have to clear one song to go onto the next untill you complete the last song. In Master 
 Edition you can just chose any song on the list you want.
  
  Anyway, the songs are great, include plenty of types of music for anybody to enjoy who would want 
 to play this game. There are 5 difficulty levels, Beginner, which features a character on a DanceMat 
 to guide you, and is the simplest mode. Basic is the first mode that will save your rating, and 
 does not feature a dancer. Difficult is where it really starts getting fun, because it makes even 
 you concentrate on slow songs. Expert is very hard, and takes a while to do even one song to. Oni 
 (which in Japanese mythology is an evil monster) is only featured in a few songs, and is meant 
 to mess you up if you are using a DanceMat.
  
  There are plenty of fun modes to play, and if you add more players it gets more fun, even more 
 so if the other person has no clue what they are doing and stumble around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeman2000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I've taken a liking to DDR since I played DDR Ultramix on the Xbox, and comparing it to DDR UNiverse, 
 I see a few upgrades, but not too much. The ablility to choose your dancer is cool, and they're 
 are a better selecton of songs, but the graphics didn't make much of a leap into 3rd-gen, and sometimes 
 the background gets too flashy and its hard to concentrate on the notes. Being kind of a novice 
 player, I seem to have trouble making the jump from Basic to Difficult. I cant keep up on difficult, 
 and I always get A's on basic.
  
  All in all though, I enjoy playing DDR Universe, and it's even more fun when you've got 2 mats, 
 so it feels worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  DDR: universe is my first experience with a DDR game. I've seen it in the acrades, but out of shyness, 
 I hesitated to play it in front of other people. My sister never had that problem as she normaly 
 plays DDR whenever she sees it - and she's pretty good at it. She bought it with a new Playstation 
 2 and I sat back and watched. I felt DDR for my Xbox 360 would be a great way to get myself out 
 of my chair and lose some pounds. Last night I went to my local Gamestop and shelled out $80 for 
 the game + the mat.
  
  The game could use ALOT of interface tweaking. I have a 32 inch television and many of the menu 
 options were very difficult to see and understand. The fonts need to be increased a bit to make 
 the game easier on the so-called casual gamers who would buy a system just for this game and the 
 workout it offers. Similar to the above Gamespot Review, I feel the menus need much more explanation 
 so the casual gamer can understand them. The manual isn't very informative and neither are the 
 in-game instructions.
  
  For example, there is a timing option in options menu which I have absolutely no idea of the purpose.
 
  
  Also, the above gamespot review was the only thing that clarified the vagueness of the quest mode. 
 I kept failing songs even when I danced perfectly to them - and now I understand why I failed whering 
 the game's manual didn't inform me - you've gotta fill the dance meter with multiple songs. The 
 problem is, the QUEST mode is a neccesity because you can't unlock all the unlockable songs in 
 the game unless you play through it with near perfect performance. I'm also a bit dissapointed 
 with thepad. The quality is good but I feel it would be better if it was slightly wider and had 
 less sensitivity nearer to the center. For people with small feet, its no problem but for larger 
 feet, it is too easy to misstep and be penalized. Also if you have wide hips, standing with feet 
 side by side can be disorienting and you'll have trouble centering yourself when your feet return 
 from steps.
  And the steps are quite difficult - in most cases you'll be jumping, twisting and performing dance 
 moves that are so tricky, you'll feel like a pro once you've mastered them.
  
  To the game's credit, there is a workout mode which allows you to track burned calories on a daily 
 basis and save your progress to the Hard Drive.
  Play the game an hour or two and YOU WILL BE EXHAUSTED - and the workout mode option will show 
 you how many calories you've burned. How the game decides this, I don't know but it has something 
 to do with your personal body weight you've entered and the difficulty of each song. The game also 
 features a Challenege mode which allows you to do dance in unorthodox methods as part of a mind-game 
 and coordination challenge. For example, in one challenge, you must only dance to LEft and Right 
 arrows and ignore the Ups and Downs. Very interesting and highly exciting if you actually win a 
 level. I am a bit dissapointed with the music list. YEs there are 70 songs but most of them are 
 techno and very few are American radio top hits. I'm looking forward to songs like Umbrella , 50 
 Cent's club hits, and other top 10 joints from Hot 97.1. I would also like to be able to make MY 
 OWN steps. if 360 has a Hard Drive and you can usually listen to custom soundtracks, there is no 
 reason you shouldn't be able to make your own dance tracks... except for the fact that allowing 
 you to make your own steps would probably prevent you from shelling out $50 for the next DDR game 
 which you'd only buy to get MORE MUSIC.
  
  Many of the tracks are pretty good but, if you do happen to hear a song from your favorite artist, 
 most likely there will only be one. Sugar Hill Gang, Earth Wind &amp; Fire and Cascada for example 
 have just one song on the list. The songs have been chopped down to short versions rather than 
 extended versions which would be better for your aerobic workout which means you'll be dancing 
 in spurts - less than 3 minutes. Besides having to play the difficult quest mode to unlock new 
 tracks, You can purchase some tracks off Xbox Live via gamer points, but they are still of the 
 Techo genre and most people won't recognize them or probably appreciate them after spending the 
 money. The graphics are typical. Bright animations that play at 60 FPS easily on Xbox 360 (these 
 same graphics would run on Playstation 2 without probelm I think) . There is support for 720p and 
 1080p but many people will end up playing on CRT televisions so they might not ever access the 
 highest resolutions. Its really not very neccesary as you spend most of your time staring at the 
 arrows trying figure out the next step. What is great is the backgrounds when they switch to music 
 videos. Some of the Videos are quite cool. Getting Achievements for the 360 isn't too hard. you 
 typicaly gain 20 points for completing any 10 songs with a high grade so if you go through each 
 song you'll gain plenty of gamer points. You can also play the Challenge modes to unlock 50 or 
 more Gamer points. (in just 2 play sessions I gained 70 points) .
  
  In conclusion, I feel the $80 is money well spent. I now am a novice at DDR and I could seriously 
 see myself trying my luck in the pay-per-play arcade. Its a great workout that will have you sweating 
 bullets in no-time flat. Definately a change from the typical couch potato game style.
  
  I'm trying to have substantial weight loss in exactly one year with DDR's help. Wish me luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  So yeah its another DDR game. if you dont know the object of this game is to step on arrows (using 
 you actual feet) intime with music. It may sound simple but it can get quite complicated and most 
 people are not good at this game and end up playing on the easy difficulties.
  
  so as a DDR veteran who plays on the highest levels i will say this. There is no such thing a s 
 a bad DDR game. They are all the same only that changes is the music and maybe a few game modes 
 so if i were just scoring the music i would give it an 8.7 Its a decent list of songs but some 
 some ps2 version have better collections then this and some of the song versions in universe are 
 not the best versions .
  
  There is also a game mode that is exclusive to the xbox and started in DDR ultramix 3 which is 
 quest mode. Quest mode is the closest thing to a story mode as your going to get in a DDR game. 
 It basicly consists of you dancing around the country trying to win dance tournaments.
  
  My wishlist for DDR universe 2
  
  i would really like to see a more in depth beginner mode 
 because people really need help with DDR
  
  i would like to see a Non stop mode like in the ps2 versions and arcade machines 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vash92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  DDR is back but this time next-gen on the Xbox 360. The game has a mat with 4 panels: left, right, down, and 
 up. Cost 80$ and i know its alot of money for a game that isnt as good as halo, grandtheft auto, 
 or gears of war. Anyway to my review.
  
  1. Gameplay: ok dance pad 4 arrows: up, down, left, and right. You step on the arrows when the arrows 
 in the game reach the mark. Really isnt that much gameplay is there. Ok you can change the options 
 like faster, slower, no jumping, or no frezze arrows.
  
  2. Graphics: The graphics are kinda hard to review. Well some songs have music videos and you really 
 can review a music video can you. Flashing colors and dancing people. Well they have colorful arrows.
 
  
  3. Sound: well some songs are great and some suck so thats kinda hard. well if you do really good 
 this girl cheers you on and if you start sucking she starts boo you. 4. Replay value: the game 
 has over 70 songs and +100 minutes of music.
  
  all together the game has a quite boring quest mode, an edit mode, a diffiecult challenge mode, and 
 get in shape with workout mode. well you decide if you want to get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoman19
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong if it says DDR i'll play it. The game mode never gets old. But in DDR universe 
 the songs = : (. No good japense songs i mean its nothing like the arcade versions. I think it's 
 cool how they tried to do a quest mode, but quite frankly I didn't even like it. The online play 
 well, there's never people online. Since im a DDR fan I still have it and play it, but I would 
 much rather play at the arcade. If you are a DDR fan get this game. It's not the best but it keeps 
 my attention 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnocentWitness
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This DDR game isnt bad at all, but one of the few problems is that there isnt a great selection 
 of Japanese inspired music. I probably heard 3-4 classics, but there arent any other new ones either. 
 It was fun to hear a lot of hip hop songs, but it's not ddr material. Second, the Quest Mode is 
 ridiculous. Going around the country completing challenges for money to travel and purchase movie 
 and music clips, which will basically give you an edge in dance battles. The only real reason to 
 play quest mode is to unlock the certain amount of songs to complete your song list. challenge 
 mode is.... well a challenge. I could not find it in my skill level to go past the fourth level. 
 There is no way I could even try any of those challenges with my feet. However, it was amusing. 
 I'm not sure if this is a glitch, but during game mode, the dancers blend with the bg movie, which 
 distracts me. Im a huge fan of the dancers, and it was great to see Emi and Rage, and intriguing 
 dancers like Honey and Lady, but come on, where's the effort. Names like B, Lady, Queen, Afro are 
 ridiculous. Bring back Akira, Jenny, Johnny, etc if you're not going to try. This game was ridiculously 
 a lot of money for the bundle pack, and even if you; re an avid ddr player, get a friend to help 
 chip in, because nobody should be force to pay so much for a game that offers this little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticDynamite
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Dance Dance Revolution, as old as it is, is not only an arcade classic, it's almost an integration 
 into popular culture. And it's easy to see why; DDR was the first exertainment game to come out 
 and hit mainstream arcades. Now, with all of the different DDR games available for home consoles, 
 most of which are really just the same as the last game, critics are beginning to feel that the 
 DDR series is getting stale. But critics and fans still acknowledge one thing: DDR is still fun. 
 And though it hasn't changed much in its transition to the Xbox 360, DDR Universe will still provide 
 hours of enjoyment to anyone who is interested in the series but has not played it yet.
  
  DDR works like this: As the arrows gradually come up from the bottom of the screen to the top, 
 your job is to hit the arrow on the included dance pad when the arrow aligns with the arrow on 
 the top of the screen. Doing so will slightly increase your health meter, and not doing so will 
 sharply decrease it.
  
  When you begin DDR Universe, you are taken to a bare-bones version of the game called Basic Edition, 
 which includes a few of the songs in the core game. Once you've cleared all these songs, you are 
 then given access to the Master Edition , which is the main game.
  
  DDR Universe contains lots of songs; a total of 73 are present within the game, but you are only 
 given 58 at the start. The only way to earn more songs is by playing through Quest Mode.
  
  Considering the songs, they range from old school (HOT LIMIT; My Only Shining Star) to good (There's 
 A Rhythm; September 99) to why bother? (Everytime We Touch; any of the two or three rap songs) 
 to odd but good (Koibito; Tir 'Na Nog) to techno (about 80% of this game) . So basically, if you 
 like techno like me, welcome to heaven.
  
  The rest of the sounds are decent. The menu and in-game sound effects are nice, with the exception 
 of that girl/boy who compliments you when you're doing well and negatively comments when you're 
 not. Fortunately, you can shut her off in the Options menu.
  
  Considering Quest Mode, I actually find it to be fun rather than broken. Sure, it has its flaws, 
 like not warning you when it needs to, but it generally is a fun way to earn new songs. In Quest 
 Mode, you travel across the United States and Canada moving from state to state while accepting 
 certain challenges, such as doing a certain number of combos, a dance battle, or earning up enough 
 FANBASE. If you win, you earn money and clear the state, which you can then use to buy Movie Clips, 
 Song Clips (which you must buy if you have any hope of beating it) and Backup Dancers.
  
  Challenge Mode provides perhaps one of the most challenging gaming experiences in history, especially 
 in the later levers and especially with a dance pad.
  
  The graphics consist of solid cel-shading animation and fun little pointless minimovies. So, in 
 short, the graphics are solid.
  
  Overall, DDR Universe will provide enjoyment to anyone with a sense of rhythm, a DDR fan, or someone 
 who has an Xbox 360 and wants to check out DDR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermanunbound
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I have to say it, this is the most addictive game for 360 that I have played. I never tried the 
 Dance Dance Revolution games before, just liked to see how good people could get. Amazing graphics, 
 loads of good songs (missing Get Busy by Sean Paul) to keep you entertained for a long time. I 
 can't wait for the next installment. This game is well worth the 80 dollar price tag. I'm buying 
 another mat soon for multi-player. I just wish they would institute the custom soundtrack feature 
 for 360. Then I could dance to all my personal favotires.
  
  Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior212
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When I went out to buy this game, I was looking forward to a game with a lot of japenese style 
 music like the old DDRs and I was very disapointed with the amount of crap I found in this DDR. 
 The game has nothing wrong, the gameplay is good, graphics well we don't care. The story mode kinda 
 sucks, nothing really solid. I could just say this game would have gotten from me a 9 if it had 
 good music and an interesting story mode. Maybe they changed the songs style because it's coming 
 over the 360, mostly an american console but ...
  
  Oh and the price tag hurts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldenboy467
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I dont have to tell you what this game is all about because if youre reading this, you already 
 know how DDR games work. This review is about the good and bad in this version of the game. The 
 good: 1. The playlist is lengthy and varied, but most songs are not my cup of tea.
  2. Many different modes provide variety
  3. The calorie calculator is a very nice touch. The 
 bad: 1. Quest mode feels broken. Please read Gamespots review for more details. 2. A few songs 
 have dance steps that dont match up to the beat of the song. This is perhaps the most fundamental 
 aspect of a DDR game and those songs feel broken. 3. Some songs do not retain your top grade when 
 you improve your score on the song. My goal was to get an A or AA on all songs on basic difficulty, 
 and when I accomplish this on a hard song, I expect my score to be saved. 4. The little girl is 
 so annoying that I want to reach into my television screen and smack her. Her bitter and nasty 
 sarcasm on higher difficulty settings is a complete turn off. The only way she could be worse is 
 if they replaced her voice with MoMo from the Xenosaga series.
  5. Personally, I dislike more songs than I like on the playlist.
  6. Most challenges are too 
 difficult to bother with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Spartan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Dance Dance Revolution Universe is the first installment on to the xbox360. Sure it's a DDR game, 
 But Konami fine tunes it and puts some great songs and more types of songs then your typical jpop/eurodance 
 like www. Blonde Girl, And extra features for first timers to get into the game.
  
  There are 11 modes in ddru from the basic game mode where you pick a song and play to the party 
 mode for your friends. Also as in ddr ultramix, There is a xbox live mode so you can play your 
 friends, Or play a kid from across the world and show your skills. Training mode for the player 
 who just dont get it, It shows you what you need to do, To the player who needs a challenge there 
 is well.. Challenge mode, Where you have to step there way or you will fail. If your a dance dance 
 revolution vet, Your not going to find a great chellenge here this installment is for the people 
 who never played or is really bad a ddr.
  
  Graphics has never been ddr's strong points and it shows. Sure the dancers and the videos look 
 cleaner, But thats pretty much it! If you ever played a ddr game on the first xbox your not going 
 to tell what the differece is. For a hd ddr game my expectations where crush, By low res videos, 
 Colors, And dancers. The menus look plan and it seems like they just redone some of the menus from 
 dance dance revolution ultramix 1-4 (For the Xbox) . If Konami ever had a part of ddr to work on 
 it will be it visuals, I know you dont play ddru for the graphics, But this is just lazy!.
  
  Unlike other ddr games where most of the track list is jpop with a few slow jams, Universe 
 is a more all around style with songs like www. Blonde Girl by Jenny Rom to Chemical Brothers remix 
 of Slow, even radio hits such as Every Time We Tounch by Cascada and Run It! By Chris Brown, That 
 feels right for this type of game. The song list is very soild, And there is not to much they did 
 wrong with it. Also there will be more downloadable songs coming from xboxlive!. Whatever you are 
 in the mode for they have it here. Same old same old, Left arrow, right arrow, up and down arrow. 
 But it's tune alot better with the music in ddru. If you are a beginner , This is the best ddr 
 to start with cause it's made for the first time player or that girlfriend who dont really play 
 games, But still wants to try it out. When you put the game in for the first time, It shows you 
 the basics of how to play. And you can always play on that beginner level, Or if you think you 
 have what it takes you can always step it up to expert. So it's has a difficulty level for everyone.
 
  
  One hot female dancer is stepping for her life and her family's from the hands of Dr. Musik!.... Ok 
 maybe not. DDR is really not about story, The next thang to a story it has is a mode called Quest 
 Mode, Which you go around a map of the U. S. and dance for money that you can buy new song with. 
 The thang about this is that it really dont show you what you are doing very well and it kinda 
 seem pointless, And after a while i wish i could have just buy it from a different mode in the 
 game after finishing songs from Game mode or sumthing like that. It feels half done and frustrating, 
 Because you need to go through this mode to unlock the other songs.
  
  If you are new to ddr or is a ddr freak this game is for you, But dont expect the next gen ddr 
 cause i dont think it exist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  In DDR Universe, there are more modes to play in, including Party Mode, Training Mode, and Quest 
 mode. The best part of the game is the Party Mode. In the Party Mode, there are smaller classifications 
 of multiplayer modes, like Speed, Power, Score, Bomb, Point, and Battle ( I think it was Battle) . 
 Amazingly, Battle Mode is actually a mode where different moves (left, up, right, down) mean different 
 attacks. Left for the first player means fire wall, and the rest of the movements activate fireballs 
 that are thrown at the opposing player, and lightning. If your avatar is hit by lightning or fire, 
 it will move the avatar down. The one who gets moved the lowest is the loser. Point is where players 
 start out with several points, which could be deducted if the player doesn't do the right dance 
 moves at the right time. Speed means... well, pure speed. It's a battle of speed.
  
  For single player, I haven't really played much of it, but from the small amount that I have played, 
 it isn't very exciting. All you really do is go up against a CPU player. The music variety isn't 
 doing so great this time around. There are only a few good and catchy beats to the game. The character 
 selection is fun and overall satisfying. Choose an afro-man dancer or a girl dressed up in a sexy 
 cop suit. Value wasn't too disappointing. I think differently from the other reviewers who absolutely 
 hate buying the game for eighty bucks. But look at the seperately sold dance pad... It's about 30 
 to 40 dollars. If you buy the eighty dollar bundle, it means the game is $60 and the mat is $20. 
 Better deal eh?
  
  And graphics, what more do we need from DDR? It's a dancing game, not a second Gears of War.
 
  
  Overall, this game is great. If single player attributes were put below, I would've given this 
 game roughly an 8.3 or so. But luckily, it's not there, and fortunately, I'm in love with the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chasemandvd
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game is NOT a bad game, it is fun with friends and on Xbox Live, the 80 dollar price tag is 
 a steal for the quality of the mat. You might be a little disappointed if you are a hardcoe DDR 
 fan, but if you are not you are going to have one hell of a time. Plus the songs on the game will 
 rock your socks off with all of the remixes, and the downloadable songs are going to be the **** 
 So go to the store and buy it you probably will not be disappointed in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  And let me say this: 1UP's review was so far off, it's not even mildly humorous. 360 owners have 
 been waiting for a game like DDR since launch. And as DDRU adds some changes to the series, it 
 still keeps the fun and challenging gameplay in tact. The first thing you'll notice when booting 
 up is the menu... right off the bat you're drug in to a 'beginners' menu. This menu only lets you 
 play songs in beginner difficulty and take tutorials, you cant even change any options here. For 
 anyone who's played DDR at least once in their life, you can completely forget about this, and 
 switch to 'master' mode. This is where the game is, offering several modes, options and the like. 
 There is the standard game mode (arcade style) along with the usual workout counter, XBL play, 
 challenge mode and a somewhat awkward quest mode. The quest mode attempts to add a true single 
 player mode to the series, and has mixed results. The basic premise of this mode is you, the dancer, 
 must travel from city to city, completing contracts and earning cash to move to another city and 
 eventually unlock songs. It's kind of interesting at first, but you learn its really just the arcade 
 mode with some dialog and unlockables thrown in. The challenge mode is worth mentioning, as it 
 adds a huge twist to the gameplay entirely. You have an objective, ranging from simple feats like 
 'No BOO timing' to more unique ones like 'Hit no higher than a 10 combo'. It's pretty fun, and 
 challenging, as the name says, and a nice change from some of the unforgiving songs in arcade mode. 
 You get achievements for each tier of challenges you beat, so you can use it as a comparison for 
 your skill.
  
  There is a party mode, which has some interesting ideas, but doesn't really do the game any justice, 
 and its more fun to just hit single songs in the arcade mode. There is support for 4 players, which 
 seems odd considering the 360 only has 2 front USB ports and 1 in the back. Unless you have an 
 accessory (like the HDDVD drive) that adds another port, 4 player play isn't an option, since there 
 isn't a wireless pad available yet.
  
  The graphics in DDRU keep the same feel as every other title, which is good. Simple, cel-shaded 
 dancers and trippy, seizure inducing background videos and the occasional music video. There is 
 no lag present in single player, and the game runs just as smooth on every song. Some of the music 
 video songs force the game into an annoying 4:3 ratio, but its easy enough to overlook that. The 
 price is quite reasonable as well, at 80 dollars it may sound expensive but think about it. The 
 N-G pricetag is 60 dollars, which means the pad itself is only costing you 20 dollars. Considering 
 authentic Konami pads can retail for up to 35-40 bucks, this is a deal.
  
  Also, the game adds the beginner mode, which is for people who have never played DDR in their life. 
 Its a nice addition, making the game more accessible for players of any age or skill level.
  
  The music has a decent variety to it, but not quite the variety seen in previous games. Universe 
 shows a strong favor towards techno, with most songs having at least some kind of techno/electronica 
 roots. There is some R&amp; B and classic music (including rock and disco) and a very dissapointing 
 selection of boppy J-pop/rock songs. There are currently 10 songs available for download at about 
 a dollar each, which alone means the game can easily double its 70 something song library by mid 
 year.
  
  DDRU brings DDR to the 360 in style and shows promise for the future of DDR, and other rhythm games, 
 on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This is another of the few games that holds on to the value.... breaking a $100 bill.... getting 
 a small amount of change back... wasn't that bad. This game has alot of good music, visuals... and 
 speed. Over-all I have had several hours of play on my new dance-pad and say this is a solid buy. 
 I have never had the chance to play this on the PS2 or XBOX and read reviews wanting to buy it, 
 but didn't. I have had fun and alot of getting off the couch due to playing this one. The music 
 on the game is pretty good mixed in from current tracks back to the '70s. I see alot of replay 
 value on this one.... but then again I have only have had it one day and say this is a great buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undsioux7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Like the Classification says: just plain fun. I haven't gone online or played the pary mode. But 
 the single player entertaining. The Quest mode is very confusing and the directions are bad. You 
 need to play until you win in a city, but then you have to make sure you hit the back button right 
 after you win, or you will continue to do more dance songs with no benefit. Graphics are nice but 
 nothing special for the 360. Sometimes to much going on in the background and the perfect good 
 etc. get in the way of the arrows coming up. The online and party game mode may be what saves this 
 for the people who own it on another platform. Without those, I am not sure if its worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  For the record, I have not played any other version of Dance Dance Revolution, so I cannot compare 
 this version to any other versions.
  
  I found the game to be extremely fun. I am not a co-ordinated person, but after having completed 
 the tutoring levels, I was ready to hit the dance mat big time. At first you may be hesitant to 
 go crazy and just shuffle your feet, but after a few songs, and the awesome overpowering beat of 
 the game will take control of you feet and body, you will be dancing like a person possessed, but 
 in a good way.
  
  The dance mat works great. It is very responsive, and it is nice and comfortable on your feet. 
 It is made or a tarp like material that you can wash easily.... good thing, since they suggest you 
 play bare feet.
  
  I love the fact that this game has a workout mode, that will estimate how many calories you have 
 burnt, and playing this game will burn calories like crazy..... but you will not have more fun burning 
 those calories than with this game.
  
  I give the game, two arms up in the air, waving like I just don't care.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilplaynebody510
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Very Addicting very first to play and im glad how its set up im going to download 10 more songs 
 off the market place WHOOT WHOOT!!! Also dont be nervous to give this game a try this game pays 
 off in so many ways burn time and fat..!! lol not that i need that but stil. Especially if you 
 got a buddy over xbox live its really fun . Im going to get the ones for ps2 or even the older 
 xbox because this game songs are catchy not anything id buy in a store on any givin day. But for 
 the exercise its just right! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
