-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Sector
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/darksector/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Killing enemies with the glaive never gets old.
 Protagonist's abilities make him a lot of fun to control.
 Mostly intelligent enemies and varied boss battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only two multiplayer modes.
 Storytelling is pitiful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,829 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Digital Extremes
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Sector lacks the compelling storyline that it alludes to early on, but offers plenty of enjoyable 
 combat nonetheless. 

  It was almost four years ago that Digital Extremes announced it was working on Dark Sector, a third-person 
 action game now available for both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Better action games have come 
 and gone since then, regardless of which console you own, but the good news is that those same 
 games have left their mark on Dark Sector, which borrows liberally from Gears of War and is at 
 times reminscent of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. Dark Sector's story isn't nearly as interesting 
 or told nearly as well as that of either of the aforementioned games, but if you step into the 
 boots of elite black-ops agent Hayden Tenno solely for satisfying combat, then you won't be disappointed. 

           The prologue mission is a great way to familiarize yourself with basic gunplay controls. 

  The single-player game starts off promisingly with a moody black-and-white prologue mission set 
 some 20 years before the events of the other nine levels. Getting comfortable with the controls 
 used for gunplay and for getting in and out of cover should take you no time at all as you battle 
 your way through it, and it won't take you long to realize that the enemies you're facing are smart 
 enough to employ a lot of the same tactics that you do in the interest of self-preservation. The 
 story gets underway with a bang as well -- a few bangs, actually -- but as you progress through the 
 game, the story rarely feels like it's moving along with you. Characters come and go without giving 
 you any reason to care about them, you travel between locations killing everything that moves without 
 really knowing why, and new abilities are frequently added to your formidable arsenal without explanation. 
 Dark Sector's lack of good storytelling shouldn't hamper your enjoyment of the game too much because 
 cutscenes are infrequent and brief. Nonetheless, it's unfortunate that a protagonist as fun to 
 play as Hayden doesn't have a great narrative to back him up.  

  To simply refer to Hayden as a killing machine would be to downplay just how overpowered you can 
 feel at times while playing as him. The skills with conventional firearms that you learn in the 
 prologue mission stay with you for the entire game, but even as increasingly powerful weapons become 
 available to you, you'll find that you spend far less time using them. That's because throwing 
 the glaive that grows from his right hand early on is a more elegant, powerful, and satisfying 
 way to dispatch foes than any gun. Initially, the glaive is used simply as a projectile weapon 
 that comes back to you like a boomerang after every throw, making enemy decapitations and severed 
 limbs a rare treat. However, when you gain the ability to add aftertouch to your throws, it becomes 
 an even deadlier projectile that you can steer around corners and over obstacles to butcher enemies 
 in glorious slow motion. The PS3 game supports an option to steer the glaive by moving the motion-sensitive 
 Sixaxis controller, but the right analog stick does a better job. Applying aftertouch not only 
 makes slicing up enemies easier, but also affords you a front-row seat for the kill because you 
 get to see everything from the glaive's perspective. Decapitating enemies this way  never  gets 
 old, though some of the glaive's other uses definitely do.  

  The glaive isn't just an awesomely powerful weapon; it's a veritable Swiss Army knife that can 
 be used to unlock doors, open ammo crates, and pick up items that would otherwise be out of reach. 
 The uses for Dark Sector's answer to Link's boomerang don't end there, though, because with a little 
 help from the elements your glaive can be used to light torches, create columns of ice, and even 
 put out fires. By hitting specific items scattered throughout the world, it's possible to imbue 
 your glaive with electricity, ice, or fire for a short time, at which point using it to kill enemies 
 becomes more satisfying than ever. Nevertheless, that's rarely the reason why you're afforded access 
 to an element; more often than not, the elements are needed to overcome environmental obstacles 
 or to solve simplistic (though occasionally challenging, timed) puzzles. For example, sheets of 
 black goop stretched across doorways have to be burned before you can progress, and mechanically 
 sealed doors can be opened only with an electric charge. Puzzles like these crop up a little too 
 frequently in Dark Sector and, given that you don't even have to think about them after the first 
 occurrence, it doesn't take long for them to feel like chores that you have to complete before 
 you're allowed to progress and have fun playing with enemies again.  

           Killing enemies with the glaive is a lot more satisfying than using a gun.      

  
 Dark Sector's impressive combat sequences are also broken up with exploration, which becomes a 
 necessary evil as you realize that searching every nook and cranny of an area before progressing 
 to the next is the only way to find ammo, currency, and weapon upgrades. Money can be used to buy 
 new weapons on the black market, which is conveniently located under every manhole you come across. 
 It's important to buy and upgrade both a pistol (which you wield simultaneously with the glaive) 
 and either a rifle or shotgun at some point, because weapons that you pick up from slain enemies 
 function only for a short time before they're automatically disabled. There's a reason they do 
 that, but going into it here would risk spoiling one of the story's very few twists for you. Weapons 
 on the black market are extremely expensive, so despite the range of options to choose from, you 
 shouldn't expect to own even half of them by the time you reach the boss at the end of your first 
 play-through.     

   

  There are several boss battles in Dark Sector, and all of them are very different. Variety comes 
 courtesy not only of bosses that differ wildly in shape and size, but also of the weapons and abilities 
 that you'll need to defeat them. None of the bosses are overly challenging if you take your time 
 with them because, with only a few exceptions, their attacks just aren't powerful enough to kill 
 you with a single blow. They'll hurt you, and the borders of the screen will flash red to let you 
 know that you're injured, but Hayden regains health so quickly that getting into cover briefly 
 or even simply performing a few evasive rolls is generally all you need to do to get back to full 
 strength. That's not to say that all of the boss battles are easy, though, because they're not. 
 It's just that often the tricky part is figuring out how to beat them rather than actually doing 
 it.  

           There's no health bar, but you'll know when you're in trouble .      

  Although playing through Dark Sector's single-player mode doesn't reward you with a great story, 
 it's definitely a great way to prepare for the game's online multiplayer offerings. There are only 
 two multiplayer modes, but both of them will afford you the opportunity to play as Hayden at some 
 point, complete with all of the skills that he has at the end of the single-player game. Both of 
 the online games, titled Epidemic and Infection, are designed for 10 players and can be played 
 on any of five specially designed maps. Epidemic pits two teams of five, each led by a Hayden, 
 against one another in a battle to see which team can kill the other's leader first. Infection 
 tasks one player, as Hayden, with killing as many of the other nine players as possible before 
 they manage to bring him down. When you're not playing as Hayden, you assume the role of a garden-variety 
 soldier armed only with a firearm, explosives, and the ability to move in and out of cover. One 
 Hayden versus nine might not sound like a fair fight, but when used in conjunction with shield 
 and stealth abilities, Hayden's glaive-and-firearm combo gives him a significant edge over the 
 competition. Ultimately, our experiences with the lag-free multiplayer modes thus far suggest that 
 the balance is about right.  

  Neither the game types nor the maps really lend themselves to groups of less than 10 players, so 
 bots can be used to make the numbers up until more players decide to join. Like the enemies in 
 the single-player game, the bots generally exhibit intelligent behavior but occasionally slip up. 
 (On at least one of the multiplayer maps, they can regularly be seen standing around doing nothing.) 
 Regardless, Dark Sector's multiplayer modes are a lot of fun even when you're playing as a soldier, 
 and the biggest disappointment is simply that there aren't more modes or maps. A straight-up deathmatch 
 option in which everyone has Hayden's abilities would probably be chaotic, but this seems like 
 a missed opportunity regardless, as does the vehicle that you commandeer for a time in the single-player 
 game but which is nowhere to be found in multiplayer.  

  Playing online is the only time you'll notice any significant differences between the Xbox 360 
 and PS3 versions of Dark Sector. The Xbox 360 version lets you join unranked or ranked games automatically, 
 whereas the PS3 version features a more conventional lobby system. Both systems perform their functions 
 admirably. The Xbox 360 version benefits from some neat single-player and multiplayer achievements, 
 but these are replicated on the PS3 as "entitlements," so those of you playing on Sony's console 
 aren't really missing out unless you have a penchant for gamerscores that span multiple games. 

           Playing through the single-player game will make multiplayer a lot easier to pick up. 

  Visually, Dark Sector rarely fails to impress, though you'll occasionally stumble upon low-resolution 
 textures while searching with a flashlight in darkened corners for pickups. Furthermore, it's a 
 little jarring in such a realistic-looking world that your glaive frequently travels through walls 
 on its way back to you, but then this is a game that really tests your ability to suspend disbelief 
 at every opportunity, given the nature of its puzzles and the lack of storyline. The game's audio 
 is also worthy of note, thanks to an original score that does a great job of letting you know when 
 danger is present or past. Likewise, some really satisfying sound effects make the weapons feel 
 powerful, the environments feel creepy and abandoned, and some of the enemies far more intimidating 
 than they deserve.  

  Dark Sector isn't the next Gears of War, and it isn't a game that you should go into looking for 
 a compelling story. You could certainly do a lot worse if you're looking for 10 to 12 hours of 
 single-player action and some multiplayer kicks, though.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (154 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gun-Kata
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is simply put an epic failure. Borrowing heavily from Gears of War/ Resident Evil/ [Insert 
 Random Cover Shooter Here] , this game could go down in the annals of gaming history as one of the 
 biggest letdowns, along with Fracture, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, and Mercs 2. While at first 
 chucking your glaive around and being able to use aftertouch and powerthrows along with absorbing 
 fire, ice, and lightning to combine for devastating attacks is enjoyable, drawn out & pointless 
 boss fights, rubberband AI, and one of the worst game stories of all time add up to bring this 
 down. 
  You would think this would have the makings of a AAA game at first glance, due to the great graphics 
 and killing sequences such as Finishers that give the game a gory feel, but negatives far outweigh 
 positives in this trainwreck. At this point in the 3rd person shooter game, all the epic titles 
 have been released and it seems publishers/developers are more willing to leech off titles like 
 Gears of War/Uncharted to make a quick buck or loss (in this case) . Do the gaming community a favor 
 and don't buy this game to send these people a message that it is NOT okay to continue to churn 
 out blatant rip-offs of more polished titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief1694
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I have never heard of D3 Publisher until now. I figured that it would be a crappy game since it 
 is made by a 3rd party company. But recently I wanted to give it a try. Im really glad I did.
 
  
  
  
  As soon as i started playing it, It looked like Resident evil 5 . but the controls are much like 
 Gears of War. Its a shame that the Campaign is so short because the gameplay is one of the best 
 i have seen. The graphics are that of Gears of War or Resident Evil, With vivid colors, and realistic 
 looking environments. There are'nt a lot of weapons but you can upgrade weapons with modifications 
 you find throughout the levels. Also you can buy weapons in the Black Market with "Rubles" that 
 you find throughout the levels as well.
  
  I loved this game. Its very fun with an interesting storyline. D3 should make more games or make 
 a sequel to DarkSector 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD1109
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, so most people look past Dark Sector because it's one of those games that just don't stand 
 out. Well, it certainly should. 
  
  Dark Sector is awesome. If you haven' already figured it out, you play a secret agent who is ordered 
 to find out all he can about the bio-hazardous things going on. All the while you get injured and 
 the bio-hazardous "things" infect you, causing you to grow a kick-ass giant ninja star from your 
 arm that you can throw and catch like a boomerang, or just knock people upside their faces with 
 to decapitate them or even pull off these moves called "finishers", where you basically go into 
 this cutscene of awesomeness and like crack their chest, slice their arm off while hitting them 
 in the head with their own weapon, or even just giving a one-two punch by slicing off all of their 
 limbs in two motions. These moves look amazing and are really rewarding.
  
  ANYWAYS, Dark Sector has an average storyline. This is a little bit of an upset because the gameplay 
 is among the best I've ever played or seen. The storyline is good though, it just isn't great. 
 There are ten chapters in all, totaling around 12-15 hours, depending on how you play them. There 
 are a few bosses in the game, but there isn't one at the end of every single level, just a select 
 few. These boss fights are simply brilliant and keep you on the edge of your seat, using your head 
 trying to figure out what the hell to do, and when you finally do, it changes up and gets even 
 harder. These fights take about ten minutes and are extremely fun. Throughout the game, you will 
 find, upgrade, and purchase many weapons, but really, you don't hardly use them. You have to keep 
 a pistol, but other than that it isn't too necessary. The glaive is much more fun to use and has 
 so many different abilities and power-ups that you won't even want to go back to using your guns. 
 If you ask me, the game is more of a Sc-Fi Action/Adventure than a full-blown Sci-Fi Shooter. 
 
  
  The controls are set up really nicely and are similar to those of which you see in the Gears Of 
 War series (except the glaive is used with the RB button, and reloading is X) . Even if you haven't 
 played Gears Of War, the controls are easy to learn. 
  
  If you asked me what my main complaint is with Dark Sector, I would tell you that the multiplayer 
 is extremely weak. There isn't anyone online, there are two lousy modes, and the leaderboards are 
 set up in a confusing manner. BUT, then again, look at games such as BioShock or Dead Space. They 
 don't have ANY online play, but they are still incredible games. That is how I think of Dark Sector. 
 (Just not quite up to par with those games)
  
  If you can spare $29.99, definitely check out this game, or at least rent it. I bought my copy 
 for $9.99 at BlockBuster because it came in a clear case with no manual or cover art, but the game 
 disk was brand new/never played. I suggest this game to people who have some money to spare and 
 are looking for a cool single player experience or just a chill out kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  Dark sector is tough to judge, and when a game like this looks and plays like gears of war where 
 can you go wrong? Well if you makes the bosses so cheap and the levels really badly then thats 
 how but anyway on with the review.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played gears of war then dark sector will feel similar with a 3rd person 
 view and a cover system thats not as fleshed out as gears of war but it gets the job done, sort 
 of. The story in dark sector starts out as very intriguing but seems to dissapear after a while, 
 i won't delve into because that would be ruining it. The main difference is a permanent weapon 
 called the glaive, imagine a razor sharp boomerang and yes it is fun, you can charge it up with 
 quad damage and the scenery for example, see a fire? throw the glaive at it and you can burn your 
 enemies alive but this game can get pretty violent so i wouldnt let younger kids play. There are 
 some bits in it where you just look around a litterally say "Where the hell am i supposed to go?" 
 which basically sums up the bad level design, but the worst part is the bosses. The first major 
 boss you fight in a church is a blast but its one towards the end where you scream at your tv and 
 wish you throw your controller at it, because this boss is invisible; kills you in one shot, and 
 you can only hear it coming and see the tiny splashes of its footsteps, but when you get so far 
 he shoots about 7 heat seaking blue bomb things and if even one hits you, you are dead appears 
 across the screen and you have to start all over again.
  
  Sound: Guns all sound average with no real OOMPH! except for the shotguns but thats about it, voice 
 acting it passable at best but nothing special at all but when theres hardly a story hey, who needs 
 voice actors?
  
  Multiplayer: This can be quite fun but i have only played a few times, the best is when there one 
 super player and the rest are normal russians, its so fun!
  
  conclusion: Dark Sector is a very ambitious game but could have benefited from a more fleshed out 
 story, better level design, more checkpoints and bosses that arn't unforgivingly brutal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is a great game and anybody that loves killing zombies, having 
 firefights with hostile soldiers, and throwing a tri-bladed weapon through a guys neck then get 
 this game! Don't listen to the critic reviews. This game is a wonderful experience that every gamer 
 should enjoy. Here are the reasons that I say this.
  
  
  Gameplay: Dark Sector has a great combination of gameplay. The cover mechanics are remeniscent 
 of Gears of War and the aiming is like that of Resident Evil 4. You can buy new weapons and upgrade 
 your weapons from a black market merchant very much like Resident Evil 4. To top it all of, you 
 get a tri-bladed boomerang like weapon known as the Glaive. The Glaive can be used to dismember 
 enemy infected and Lasrian Soldiers alike, while also being a puzzle-solving tool. Gameplay is 
 AAA.
  
  Grapics: The graphics of Dark Sector are like no other graphics i've ever seen. While looking real 
 and clear, the game is also very fluid. There is no HUD which makes the graphics look even more 
 realistic. All of this is powered by the Evolution Engine. These graphics can rival that of any 
 Unreal Engine powered game to date!
  
  This game is so good that i'm giving it a 9.
  Sound: The sound is ok but sometimes when there's background noises you can't hear the dialogue. 
 Compared to the graphics, the sound isn't very great.
  
  Story: The game starts off in a cinematic showing a half-destroyed submarine emerge from the depths 
 of the Lasrian Coast. A U. S. S. R. ship follows and boards the submarine. A man from the boat climbs 
 aboard and looks down a breach in the hull and orders his men to follow, but as he looks something 
 gets out and pulls him in. Twenty years later you take the place of Hayden Tenno, an elite U. S. 
 Spec-Ops agent sent to Lasria. I'm not revealing anything else, just get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisGamer5757
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  Picked this up for 10$ at a local HMV and it's a surprisingly fun game to play. The story line 
 early on really does throw you for a loop but it picks up quite nicely and provides a good 10 hours 
 to complete. The Game develops an erie and creepy feeling of being alone through the game with 
 some rather gnarly tough enemies that sometimes just pop outta nowhere. The Glaive is the real 
 money in this game. There are Pistols and shotgun type weapons you can use but I came to find it 
 far more satisfying cutting guys in half, decapitating enemy after enemy, it just does not get 
 old and when Hayden acquires the aftertouch ability (ability to control glaive in slow motion) 
 it just makes the kills all that more fun. Underrated game in my honest opinion, give it a try, 
 you'll have more than a couple "Oh Snap!" moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erazor521
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game before I get to the actual review? Well, I liked it. That's about 
 it. 
  
  The story isn't amazing but that's a rarity in video games anyway. You play as Hayden Tenno, a 
 government agent sent to the country of Lasria to capture a man by the name of Mezner. Hayden starts 
 off obnoxious, cocky, whiny and ruthless and slowly changes into a good guy. I point this out because 
 the game can't help but point out how much of a jerk Hayden is to everyone he knows in nearly every 
 cut scene that involves more characters than just him. Hell, even Mezner, the game's primary antagonist, 
 takes the time to point out how much he hates Hayden (though it's never made clear how he even 
 knows who he is) . Despite all of this, I really liked Hayden more than most shooter protagonists.
 
  
  Anyway, it turns out Mezner has taken control of the Lasrian military. What does this mean for 
 Hayden? It means his job is going to be a whole lot harder. To top it off, Lasria has been overrun 
 by a strange infection that turns all effected by it into horrible mutants. Early on in the game 
 Hayden is attacked by one of the infected humans - who also happens to be Mezner's right hand man 
 - and contracts the infection. Hayden then sets out to find and kill Mezner. The infection is what 
 makes the gameplay really stand out but I'll talk more about that in a moment.
  
  The game controls pretty much the same way Gears of War does. It's an over-the-shoulder third person 
 shooter with a "Tap-A" ( or X on PS3) cover system. You tap the A/X button and Hayden, the game's 
 main character will hide behind whatever object he happens to be making physical contact with provided 
 that it's not a person or fire. To shoot from the hip you simply press the trigger button. But, 
 to fire with any sort of accuracy, you'll need to press the secondary trigger button to mount your 
 equipped weapon on your shoulder. The B/O button can be used to make Hayden melee enemies, leap 
 over any chest-high objects in his path, jump down specific ledges, or perform brutal finishing 
 attacks on enemies who have taken enough damage. Those are just the basics of the controls.
  
  Strangely, Hayden can't blind fire from behind cover. You always have to lean out to shoot 
 your enemies. This is easy to forgive since blind fire is nearly useless in every game that uses 
 it. Instead you're given something I like to call a "Blind Melee" that allows Hayden to quickly 
 elbow an enemy in the face from behind cover. This actually comes in handy as it knocks back the 
 enemy long enough for you to finish them off any way you'd like.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, Hayden's infection is what really makes the game's controls stand out in 
 quite a few ways. First of all, Hayden cannot hold on to enemy weapons for more than about 45 seconds 
 because they are all equipped with devices that deactivate them when they are handled by anyone 
 who is infected. Instead, to use any gun besides a pistol, you'll have to visit the Black Markets 
 scattered throughout the game to purchase illegal weapons with collectible money. As the infection 
 spreads through Hayden's body you unlock new powers to use such as a force field, invisibility 
 and others that all involve the glaive.
  
  Yes, now is the time I will talk about the glaive. This is the part of Hayden's infection that 
 effects the gameplay the most. The glaive is a bladed disc that grows out of Hayden's right hand 
 soon after he becomes infected. The glaive can be thrown like a boomerang and will be quickly drawn 
 back to Hayden meaning your ammo supply is rarely an issue. The glaive has many different abilities 
 - most of which involve slaughtering Lasrian soldiers and infected citizens in the most brutal 
 of ways. As Hayden gains new powers provided by his infection the glaive gains such abilities as 
 being controlled in midflight, stealing weapons and items, and conducting the elements of fire, 
 ice, and electricity for extra special mayhem. 
  
  The game also stops you at points to solve puzzles. There's not too much to say about them since 
 they don't show up too often. They are generally challenging and often require you to know the 
 finer points of using the glaive.
  
  Graphically, this game is great. There is a great amount of detail in both the environments and 
 the characters and the rain effects are some of the best I've ever seen in a video game. Blood 
 effects look great too. While the game is pretty heavy on the blood it looks very realistic and 
 every enemy loses what appears to be a realistic amount of blood. And this game looks great under 
 any circumstances. I've played but the 360 and PS3 versions in both standard and high definition 
 and it always looks good. Granted, it does look alot better in HD, it's not bad if you're stuck 
 with a standard definition television. My only gripe with the graphics is how dark they are. You're 
 pretty much forced to increase the brightness settings in the options menu when you start playing 
 it.
  
  This game's sound department is pretty swell too. All of the voice actors, and that is every single 
 one of them, deliver their lines very well. None of the lines sound weird or awkward. The sound 
 effects are great too. Each weapon sounds just right and the explosions are great. In the areas 
 of the game where gunfire isn't the focus you can hear just about every footstep, every raindrop, 
 and every stepped in puddle. The music is pretty standard but it sets the tone of the game well. 
 It's a mix of generic war music and generic horror game music. None of it really stands out but 
 it gets the job done.
  
  Like pretty much every other shooter these days, darkSector comes with it's own online mode. There 
 are two playable online game modes. Epidemic and Infection. In Epidemic, two teams go head-to-head 
 in a 1 life-per-player elimination round. The teams are divided between The Agency and Lasria. 
 Each round, one player on each team is chosen to play as an infected soldier. The Agency has Hayden 
 while Lasria has a fully infected soldier. Everyone else plays as a standard soldier. It's a tough 
 choice between firing on the weak regular soldiers or focusing all of your shots on the enemy infected. 
 It's heartbreaking to take out all of the enemy soldiers as the infected only to have the enemy 
 infected sneak up behind you using his camo ability and snap your neck. Overall, Epidemic is very 
 fun.
  
  Infection is more of a Juggernaut-type game mode. One player is infected and everyone else is a 
 soldier and must work together to kill the infected. Everyone has one life and when you die, you 
 sit out the rest of the round just like in Epidemic. 1-to-5 (or more) may sound unfair but infected 
 players are so powerful it quickly becomes a challenge to take them down. The human player who 
 delivers the kill becomes the infected player the next round. Infected is the more difficult game 
 mode, no matter which side you're on, but it's also alot of fun.
  
  This game cost me only 9.99$ new at my local GameStop so the price is reasonable. But, if you don't 
 think it's right for you, you can check out the demo on Xbox Live or Playstation Network. There 
 aren't really any differences between the 360 and PS3 version except that the PS3 version gives 
 you the option of using the SixAxis motion controls for the glaive's aftertouch ability. It doesn't 
 feel tacked on and works well. Graphically, both versions are identical. Overall, it's a great 
 game and is definitley worth any shooter fan's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassimoMoretti
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is the early 2008 Xbox360 and Ps3 title which stars Hayden Tenno a Secret Agent hellbent 
 on stopping a man named Mezzner from turning the inhabitants of "Lazria" into  
 uuuhh!? yep. While trying to destroy Mezzner you are captured and infected. Through out the game 
 you are basically on a hunt to kill Mezzner and get out alive. Sounds good. The first thing you 
 will notice when you start the game is that the cutscenes are extremely boring and next you will 
 notice that this game is a "Third Person Shooter" and that the only thing to remember this game 
 by is the Glaive. A blade that grows out of your arm as part of this Infection. This weapon is 
 great and allows for some great decapitations. But when you are not slicing foes you are firing 
 the short selection of weapons to buy from a black market merchant who's face we never see. When 
 ammo isn't present you can steal enemy weapons using the glaive, but the gun will shortly realize 
 you are infected and lock up using modern technology. That kinda sucks but you can fire off a good 
 two or three clips. The entire game you will run through a level shoot a bunch of people, endure 
 a really easy puzzle, unlock achievements left and right since they are very easy, and occasionally 
 fight a boss that is designed to be killed with the glaive, using elements like fire and electricity. 
 There are 9 short stages to the game which is disappointing since shooting people in the face is 
 so much fun. If you don't like campaigns there is a multiplayer option which you probably won't 
 like since the options are really weak and unfair. Overall Dark Sector is worth a look .......... 
 at your local rental store. But it still gets a (7.0/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micia212
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:09 am PT
Review:  DarkSector is a great idea and new take on a shooter. The glaive is a masterful tool allowing great 
 techniques to win a shootout. The game also requires a bit of thought. You cant just rush in and 
 shoot at whatever moves. That, you will find, will lead you to a very messy death.
  
  The combat system has been done the best however i still get a bit chewed up in the close combat 
 areas. There is not enough variation for close combat other than rattling the B button. Some may 
 say the stroyline isnt as good as it should be but i beg to differ. I quite liked the storyline. 
 The scenery is well done as well as the cover intelligence however without any idea of where to 
 go you can find yourself walking around aimlessly.
  
  Altogether this would be a good rental or perhaps a good buy when it gets cheaper... thats what 
 i did anyway and it filled a boredom space and got some good gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  I don't know why there are so many haters for this game. It has great graphics, fun game play, 
 good mechanics like the cover system (obviously copied from Gears of War but that's not a bad thing 
 really) , and is quite atmospheric. Sure the story could use some work but story is just one aspect 
 of a game and a smaller one at that... game play makes the game. You get a good assortment of guns 
 within the game but of course the best weapon at your disposal is the glaive and you'll enjoy slicing 
 and dicing enemies over and over again especially when you get the ability to control its flight, 
 then you can watch the carnage (Sweet!) Yes I admit you fight the same enemies quite often which 
 can get annoying but then they lead you to interesting boss fights which make up for the utter 
 lack of varied enemies. It is also not a truly easy game to master which is good. It takes some 
 time to get really good at the combat but once you are it rewards you with some great firefights 
 and boss battles. This game is really cheap now so I recommend picking it up if you see it cause 
 I doubt you'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeenoControl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I remeber reading about Dark Sector's first world preview in Game Informer. And it looked very 
 promising. But every cover story of GI looks to be promising. I saw a trailer several months later, 
 and was pissed. It looked very stupid and boring. It wasn't till I went to Hastings to buy a couple 
 games for a sale they were having. I decided on Bully, Dark Sector, and Far Cry Intincts Predator. 
 But had to abandon Far Cry for Call of Duty 2 because THE CLERKS LOST IT. But Sector was somewhat 
 cheap and I gave it a chance after a suprisingly decent demo. I started into Dark Sector and was 
 proven wrong. It was a very good game with a great new weapon style (the glaive) . The graphics 
 are also amazing. I'm sure that the Revolution Engine has a bright future. But the plot was confusing 
 and didn't mesh well. There's also an online component, which was very frustrating. It's very good, 
 but how can you want to play a game that doesn't even have standard deathmatch? It only had 2 main 
 modes that revolved around you being Hayden against everyone else or the protection of Hayden. 
 It's truly the wrong direction to take. But the campaign was good enough to make it a recommendation. 
 With great cover mechanics and weapons, and a very good enemy design, the campaign is very enjoyable. 
 There's also the option to use a decent variety of glaive powers at your disposal. And the dismemberment 
 is cool to witness. I would definitely rent Dark Sector, but maybe not quite the buying quality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  First off I went in to this game reading the review that it was a good game... and I disagree with 
 the gamespot review and support the x-play review... First off the story is that you are somewhat 
 of a corrupt soldier working to find this USSR guy who created a virus that turns people into zombies... 
 Or whatever.... I was surprised about reading about the games cast because an actor from the TV 
 show smallville (lex luthur) plays the protagonist and the dark haired guy and barely talks at 
 all... I think the first level was well done, showing you how to play... and then you become infected 
 with a virus that makes your hand turn into a boomerang that you can throw at people... This aspect 
 (controlling the boomerang) is well thought out.... I think the gunplay is weak the only 2 weapons 
 that are worth mention is the pistol and the shotgun... but your time is limited on "human weapons" 
 which saps the fun out of the game.... Personally the gameplay is similiar to Gears of War and 
 Gears of War 2 without the fun... Your character is really, really slugish and cover is bad and 
 feels weak... even the button scheme "press b button to jump over an object is bad" The game also 
 does not let you use grenades.... which is bad because your enemies can.... Upclose combat is weak 
 and it is hard to hit foes.... The finishers look cool, but are repetitive after a while... The 
 enemies are lacking and annoying... You fight zombies, soldiers, and soldiers with shields... The 
 soldiers with shields are really hard to kill and annoying and the zombies come in packs and cannot 
 go down easily... The game also respawns enemies even after you kill them so you can be in the 
 same section forever because the enemies respawn, the boss fights are also worthless and dumb and 
 it is pretty much... do 1 level and fight through hords of enemies and repeat.... The graphics 
 are great though and really dark... I just wish their would have been more scenary other than the 
 "cemetary" or "the city" or whatever... Overall im glad I rented this game and did not pay 20 dollars 
 to buy it... I only played about halfway through it and got bored of it and the music will drive 
 you insane... think scary movie 3 type music (nails on a chalkboard) Also the way you use your 
 blade to burn goo and open doors is annoying and the multiplayer is retarded and I only got in 
 one match with 4 people and nobody plays it.... All in all stray away from this game unless you 
 want the achievement points (which I got like 85 decent) or a good game for graphics.... Just buy 
 Gears of War 1 or 2 than this game... It is a waste of time and money.... Lost Planet is even better 
 than this game and that is 20 dollars.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Why is it, that when something good comes along, everybody rushes to rehash it over and over again? 
 Strange I wonder why that happens. Anyways, here is "Dark Sector", aka clone 245 of the (in) famous 
 "Gears of War", itself being the in vitro synthetic life-form born out of "Resident Evil 4; and 
 "Kill Switch" - you gotta love the wonders of game design genetics. Now, about "Dark Sector", what 
 can be said that isn't already present in its cloned DNA? .. (the 
 wind blowing outside) Nothing, that's right! You would've thought that the guys over Digital Extremes 
 would have some ideas on how to improve, or at least slightly perfect its genetic father, but 
 NOPE. No ideas here. Oh, I forgot, there's some wicked little shuriken thingy called a Glaive, 
 but I could've sworn seeing it someplace else. It makes the game much better, having wicked powers, 
 like a shield and a power attack, and invisibility and stuff, it's just so freakin amazing! And 
 the guns? Don't get me started on those! AK's, 9mm's, Shotguns, it's all in here. Seriously! And 
 y'know, you can even upgrade them and buy new ones at a black market vendor (deja vu hits , let 
 it go gone, hmm, wonder what that's all about?) . It's all about epic warfare, killing wave after 
 wave of nasty enemies, wave after wave, after wave, after wave, after wave, (yawn) hmm where was 
 I, oh right, wave after wave, after wave (just copy-paste this 1235 times in the text and save 
 me the work, ok?) . It's just amazing how many enemies they placed in a double layered DVD, I mean 
 if it were a bluray, one could understand, but in a DVD, that's a huge achievement, dude. And it 
 has freakin huge bosses too, like a chopter and some big ass monster that's twelve feet tall. Where 
 else have you seen the sheer class of these enemies? Hmm? That's it, nowhere! "Gears of War" just 
 doesn't cut it in number and size of enemies, that's how badass this "Dark" thingy game is! And 
 they copied "Gears" so thoroughly, just as noble, honest thieves would, including every little 
 detail; faulty gameplay included. I mean, talk about commitment, I would've sworn the developers 
 could understand how annoying getting stuck to a wall while being shot at is, but maybe they're 
 just masochists. Who knows? A lot of freaks prowl game companies these days (I've even heard of 
 one crazy japanese guy that has 90 minute cutscenes in a game, and can still get perfect scores, 
 hihihi, but shhhhhh, highly classified, very hush hush, don't tell anyone about this, no one noticed 
 it yet) .
  
  Talk about that Hide-o what's his name, they even wrote this crazy plot in his homage, about some 
 scientists that build a perfect virus that goes like, out of control and **** turning people into 
 crazy cyborg zombies, or ninjas, or some stuff like that, I guess it depends on the bloke, and 
 then the CIA wants it, and you're a spy guy for them, but you're infected and **** but that gives 
 you strange powers, and so you have to use them to stop the nutty USSR scientist that feels bad 
 about some mysterious dark event in the past they never disclose, and so wants to destroy the world 
 with the virus, and then there's some hot, black chick, that's also pissed about the mysterious 
 dark event in the past they never disclose, but you're in love with her, big romance, that kind 
 of stuff, but then it all comes down to a big fight for humanity and **** sacrifices are made 
 I mean, talk about oscar winning scripts, man. Totally awesome.
  
  Alas, I digress, you can check the story for yourself. The thing that you absolutely need to know 
 about "Dark Sector" is how beautiful it looks. It's just so what's the word?  Dark, that's it. 
 Really dark. Let's put it this way, it makes "The Darkness" and "Gears of War" look like gaudy 
 paintings - that's how dark, gritty and drab the game looks like. I mean, colors? Who needs those? 
 Throw them all away it's what I tell ya (they hurt the ozone lair, man - join the cause, clean 
 up the planet of those nasty colors) . The soundtrack? Freakintastic, I've never heard anything 
 like it, its brooding strings and heavy bass lines are simply revolutionary! Well, if you forget 
 every horror movie soundtrack to this day, that is.
  
  There's just so much good stuff here If I had one game to take to a desert island it would be 
 this one. It's that good. Do yourself a favor buy this, Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Dark sector is a wonderful game in the sense of story, scenery and mission content, but it lacks 
 in weaponry and different types of enemies. Now don't get me wrong this is a great game in its 
 own right. The story is intense like a futuristic area 51 project gone terribly wrong. It's so 
 in depth that you find yourself not being able to put down the controller because you want to know 
 what will happen next. The scenery outside and level structure are very well put together and the 
 further along you get in the game the longer the missions get which make it real fun for extensive 
 game play. Now the weaponry is average in the respect that you can only carry 2. A handgun and 
 a rifle. What I didn't care for was that you have to acquire a very hefty amount of money to purchase 
 these weapons. You can also upgrade these weapons, but only once so if the upgrade sucks oh well 
 your stuck with it unless you sell the gun and start over. The enemies are kind of weak. They never 
 really change, but I will same some of them are an absolute b*tch to defeat when they are in packs 
 or the elite trooper by itself can make you want to break things. The boss fights are awesome but 
 difficult to figure out at times. I would recommend this game to anyone looking for a sci-fi adventure 
 and a good amount of gameplay. Plus is very cheap used. What more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Remember the 1983 dud of a movie, Krull? No? Well, you were more than likely too young. The movie 
 was horrible , but it did have one interesting element. The bladed glaive weapon. It only took 
 25 years to implement this idea into a video game. Combine that with some blatantly ripped off 
 elements from excellent games like Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War and you can't go wrong, right? 
 
  
  Well...
  
  Dark Sector has you playing as a government operative with the odd name of Hayden Tenno, infiltrating 
 a fictional Soviet bloc country called Lasria. The storyline is never made very clear, but from 
 what little is told, Hayden is sent in to terminate a scientist who is responsible for the creation 
 of a techo organic virus that is mutating people into hideous zombies and metallic monstrosities. 
 Hayden is attacked by one of these mutants, resulting in his right arm being infected by the virus, 
 granting him special powers along with the glaive - a bladed spinning weapon.
  
  The game shamelessly tries to copy Gears of War and Resident Evil 4 in so many ways, but fails. 
 
  
  You control Hayden from an over the shoulder view, and you have a cover system very much like Gears 
 of War. Unfortunately, the character movement is very floaty and imprecise. Hayden, who is much 
 more lightly built than his cousin Marcus Phoenix, moves like a tank. He has a sprint a lot like 
 Marcus's "roadie run" , as well as a jump and roll, but neither is as well implemented as in Gears, 
 and feel very sluggish. Moving Hayden around feels like he's ice skating. 
  
  The cover system also is a mess. Like Gears, you use the same button to both sprint and take cover, 
 but it works poorly. A lot of the environments feature some close combat with various barriers 
 and obstacles. You might accidentally end up taking cover when you're actually trying to evade 
 an enemy, and die repeatedly. Gears system felt very intuitive as well as responsive - this does 
 not.
  
  The gun play isn't very good either. You have a small assortment of weapons available, starting 
 with a pistol. You can purchase and upgrade weapons from a merchant, much like RE 4, but the upgrades 
 do very little noticeable damage, and lack the satisfying punch and fun of Leon Kennedys goods. 
 The merchant is a silhouetted figure that lives in manholes, and the few lines he speaks aren't 
 memorable like our hooded Re 4 friend.
  
  But the one saving grace that manages to make this game somewhat worthwhile is the glaive, a weapon 
 that is almost a carbon copy of the one in the film Krull. Hayden can use it in a variety of interesting 
 ways. As well as being able to throw it and dismember an enemy, you can charge it with various 
 elemental powers like fire, electricity and ice. Some of these elemental charges are needed to 
 solve puzzles in the game, which are basically to open doors. Theres a neat after touch feature 
 where Hayden can guide the glaive in slow motion after throwing it, and its very similar to the 
 one in Heavenly Sword, but slightly better. 
  
  One of the most unsatisfying things about this game are the unintuitive and absurd boss battles. 
 Each bosses weakness is never made very clear. Sometimes it simply requires repeatedly shooting 
 or glaiving them with some timed sequences. Others might involve finding a chink in an enemys armor 
 that we are supposed to discover, but isn't made at all clear. It mostly ends up being a trail 
 and error process that may have you throwing your controller at the wall in frustration.
  
  Graphics wise, Dark Sector actually looks pretty nice, but the visuals can be very uneven. The 
 character models are highly detailed, but the environments are mostly recycled rooms hallways and 
 warehouses that look hastily designed and thrown together. It's almost as if they copied the same 
 level over and over in an effort to extend the games length. The lighting effects are very nice, 
 and Haydens mutated metal arm and glaive look fabulous. As others have mentioned though, Haydens 
 face looks very odd. Too flat, and what's with that weird emo haircut in 2008? It just doesn't 
 fit.
  
  There is a multiplayer feature with two modes: Epidemic and Infection. Infection lets you play 
 as Hayden against the biotroopers. If one of the troopers manages to kill him, he gets to play 
 as Hayden the next round . In Epidemic, it; s a team deathmatch where you earn points by killing 
 their team leader, which is a Hayden for each team. Almost no one plays this game online, and the 
 multiplayer feels very tacked on and dumb. It certainly doesn't add any incentive.
  
  I would go into detail about the story, except that there isn't enough to tell. But you know the 
 basics by know. The good guy goes in to clean up. He fights bad guys, and meets up with a few sympathetic 
 characters. There's the mysterious female with a shadowy past that somehow has a connection to 
 you, but is never touched on. Then there's the dud of an ending. Without going into detail: TOO 
 SHORT and STUPID. At least Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War had stellar gameplay and boss battles 
 to make up for the generic stories. Sadly, Dark Sector does not.
  
  Dark Sector isn't a horrible game. It isn't even a bad game. But it isn't very good either. It 
 ends up being a glued together mess that's not as satisfying as the games it tries hard to emulate. 
 
  
  If you happen to see it in the bargain bin, I'd say go for it. But you're better off replaying 
 Resident Evil 4 or Gears of War. They did it right. --Chief
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I went into Dark Sector with high, but well restrained, hopes. It looked like a decent Resident 
 Evil 4/Gears of War clone that would be an enjoyable blast for about seven or so hours. What I 
 got however, was a game that is actually very dull, generic and bordering on broken.
  
  Dark Sector has a plot, apparently. The fictional former state of the USSR Lazrius has had reports 
 of a new disease infecting people and turning them into horrid mutants. You, as some random gruff, 
 short dark haired American agent, whose name I can't remember, has been sent in to Lazrius to try 
 and stop the mandatory offensive Eastern European dictator from spreading the virus. Oh, and the 
 main character gets infected early on, and there's the token black character who only serves as 
 the game's poorly thought out love interest. Apart from those few little titbits, I have no clue 
 whathappened, and I can't remember a single character's name. Sure, I wasn't expecting a plot akin 
 to your average JRPG, but it's done so poorly, it is simply unbelievable. Terrible voice acting, 
 abhorrent cut-scene direction and probably one of the worst videogame scripts I have ever had the 
 pleasure of sitting through make for a painful experience. You could just skip past the cut-scenes, 
 but then that would make the bare bones gameplay even more pointless.
  
  Dark Sector is pretty much your average Resident Evil 4 clone, apart from one interesting gimmick. 
 Within the first hour or so, the infection causes your arm to mutate, and out of one of your arms 
 pops out the Glaive, a three-pronged discus which you can chuck at enemies, and later on, control 
 in slow motion to chop off limbs and heads. There are various elements which you can pick up in 
 order to deal with enemies and solve small environmental puzzle. Apart from that though, Dark Sector 
 is just junk.
  
  The controls are slow and plodding, and moving is difficult, and there'll be many times when getting 
 into cover is much too difficult in a heated fire fight. The controls are also far too sensitive 
 on the default settings, and you're gun reticule will be flying all over the place, making it painfully 
 difficult to aim. The game also seems adamant on not giving you much ammo, and vast parts of the 
 game are made much harder than need be thanks to this little oversight. Enemy A. I. is also a real 
 sore point. The only attack pattern seems to be duck and cover, which is so predictable, most encounters 
 simply turn into a basic rhythm game. They also seem to have a tendency to encircle you, and I 
 have died multiple times due to being surrounded by enemies.
  
  The aforementioned environmental puzzles are an absolute nightmare to deal with, as what you end 
 up having to do all the time is run back and forth looking for an electrical or fire source, and 
 this understandably becomes tedious. These problems aren't evident within the first few hours, 
 and there's a good chance you'll enjoy actually enjoy the game, but after a while everything starts 
 to mount up, and it soon becomes unbearable.
  
  Everything about Dark Sector's visuals are middle of the road. The lighting throughout the game 
 is far too overzealous, and everything glows in the light. Green, brown and grey are Dark Sector's 
 favourite colours, and having to stare at that limited palette for the whole game is just depressing, 
 and a great example of how this "realistic" trend in games is just making things dull. You'll also 
 see A LOT of dank corridors and run down industrial areas, which really do make the whole game 
 far duller. Enemy types also lack variety. You'll see a maximum of five different enemies throughout 
 the game, and most of them look pretty similar to the other types. The boss fights are also uninspired, 
 and you'll often see the same bosses over and over and over again. The small amount of voice-acting 
 is unbearable, and the enemies make the most horrendous shrieks, and you'll just end up switching 
 the sound off, and in the end, I just listened to my iPod as I was so bored.
  
  I was only able to get through two thirds of the game before giving up. That was only about five 
 hours worth, so if you're somehow able to slog through the entire game, then don't expect more 
 than ten hours worth of gameplay, and most of that will consist of running around like a headless 
 chicken, or having to repeat fire fights you've died in.
  
  Closing comments: If Dark Sector had been released five years ago on the original Xbox, then it 
 would have been a sure fire hit, but we live in 2008, and third person shooters have come a long 
 way since last-gen trash such as Advent Rising and Psi-Ops. Dark Sector is enjoyable for a very 
 short amount of time, but the problems seen in those first few hours never go away, and only get 
 worse with the repetitive gameplay. Dark Sector could have been a fun, brief game, to quickly run 
 through, but there's just so much that's broken with the game that not even a dismembering flying 
 weapon can save it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The intro to the game is really good, you have no clue as to what is happening and they ease you 
 into the story line very well. It's very dark, and the graphics look great. It takes a bit to get 
 used to when they start to bring in new weapons and such. It gets tricky when the glaive comes 
 into play, you can get the buttons mixed up between the handgun and the glaive. The lighting in 
 some areas of the game is poor when in dark places, and some of the enemies are a little annoying 
 and unrealistic. Getting melee'd 2 times by a enemy shouldn't result in automatic death. There 
 were a few glitches that shouldn't have happened in certain areas, but I can look over that. I 
 do have more to play but right now the game is so so to me. The online play is very confusing and 
 there are only two modes. Its limiting and I would say its multiplayer is not a strong point of 
 the game. The game is worth a try though if you like the 3rd person over the shoulder look and 
 being able to cut people in half, as well as limbs and heads with a sharp boomerang looking thing 
 called the glaive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This was ubelievable. I was in complete shock. Now I have been meaning to get this for a long long 
 time and finally bought it a month ago when I saw it was only 20 bucks brand new at walmart. First 
 let me tell you the Story line is provacative and fun. It enthralls and captivates you with its 
 dark and dreary environments and creepy level design. 
  
  The one true way to describe this game is Gears of war meets Resident evil. Not the new one, im 
 talking about the old PS1 days when Resident evil was scary. So here I was a couple of days before 
 resistance 2 came out and I noticed I bought this game a month ago and never played it. Now two 
 days later I beat it. Not cause its short but simply cause I played it practically non stop. The 
 game offered me a solid 15 to 18 hours of fun challenging gameplay. Then playing with surround 
 sound at 3 in the morning when your wife and kids are asleep adds tons to the creepy factor and 
 made this one hell of an adventure. 
  
  I strongly urge and recommend you to get this game. If I knew it was this good I wouldve bought 
 it when it was 60 bucks. I cant believe I waited so long. Now you have an opportunity to enjoy 
 it as G4's TV network calls it Games for Cheap Bastards.. Especially in todays economy when paying 
 60 to 80 bucks a game, it is a relief to get a great game at a hugely discounted price. It doesnt 
 make any sense as to why the game didnt get better reviews. 
  
  Bottom line. Great game and has my solid stamp of approval. Great graphics, great story, amazing 
 gameplay, and you have yourself one hell of an excellent game. I recommend it with full certainty 
 that you will find some part of it that enjoys it and makes you feel fulfilled and satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pun1sher1234
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game i was pretty excited to start playing. I heard alot of good things about it 
 from developers about the glaive abilities such as sticking to walls and causing EMP bursts as 
 you retract it.
  There is enough ammo to last you a good while in the game for the first few chapters if you use 
 the weapon and the glaive together. One of the worst drawbacks i experienced with this game was 
 weapons. They were so inaccurate, you would wonder how this guy landed a job as a covert ops specialist.
 
  Another thing was the weapons themselves. If you pick up a weapon from an enemies corpse after 
 you become infected, the weapons governor for that weapon will eventually shock the gun so it is 
 unusable. the only way around this is to find rubles in the world and buy your own weapons from 
 the black market.
  I found myself using the pistol and glaive more than the machine gun, even when i had full ammo 
 because it was so damn inaccurate and weaker than the pistol. The human enemies are entertaining 
 to kill for those of you who enjoy brutal gore because if you cut something off or break their 
 arm, they will scream loudly and drop to the ground. 
  The zombies on the other hand... were dismal to fight. They withstood bullets and even the glaive 
 way more easily than the soldiers and they are alot faster too. Most of the game about halfway 
 through to the end was mostly populated by zombies and freakishly strong armored soldiers. i found 
 myself hiding around corners and sprinting everywhere for the most part. 
  And many segments of the game had zombies that would continually spawn forever until you move up 
 which got really annoying because they would just rush me and shrug off all my throws like a push 
 in the chest. so i would die repeatedly even on the easiest difficulty. For the rest of the game, 
 i only really saw zombies when there never really was an explanation as to why they all cross your 
 path on their way to some special beacon.
  All in all, this game could be a crossover between gears of war and resident evil except the controls 
 suck, the enemies arent very smart and enemies were pretty much just bullet whores waiting for 
 you to shoot them and move on with little or no plot/character developement at all. Dialogue from 
 the black market seller is really repetitive as well as the glaive throwing. Soldiers with shields 
 were plentife in the first levels and they were so cheap it was almost impossible to kill them. 
 Dont buy this game unless you really want gore and chopping off limbs right now because itz not 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  If, like me, you had written Dark Sector off as just another run of the mill shooter with a gimmick 
 (Fracture, TimeShift etc) then you'd be mistaken.
  
  Although the game may have a plot that doesn't quite let you know whats going on, the gameplay 
 speaks for itself.
  
  You'll run, shoot and Glaive your way through ten levels of monsters, henchmen in yellow jump suits 
 and all matter of the walking dead. Each level sees you getting even more powerful than the last 
 till you feel like you could conquer anything.
  
  And here's where the great combat comes in. Being so powered up doesn't make the game easy, it 
 just means that each fight becomes bigger and more intense.
  Dark Sector makes great use of the boss fights too. It's always nice to find bosses that feel like 
 the old 8-bit games (when bosses were bosses) . All of this culminates to a great end boss that 
 will leave you feeling very satisfied.
  
  There are a few bugs now and then (mainly bleed through of characters in walls) and sometime the 
 repetition of 'enemies at one end and you at the other' killing them all and moving on can get 
 a bit much.
  But to be honest these are just tiny things in a game that, although not without flaws, will get 
 your energy pumped up and have you decapitating bad guys time and time again.
  
  All in all and excellent game that fans of this genre should definitely give a go.
  
  Beautiful 
 graphics, great gameplay, perfectly balanced difficulty.
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game as of late and wondering why I hadn't played it beforehand. The gamespot 
 review score is a little surprising, I feel like it's definitely an underrated game. 
  
  I do agree that the story is a little lackluster, but I for one never prioritized the story of 
 a game unless it's an RPG. If it's a gory action game, I appreciate a good story, but honestly, 
 when you get right down to it, it's not all that critical.
  
  So, what's so good about Dark Sector? The music, the atmosphere, the great visuals, a flying blade 
 that shoots out of your arm that you can control in slow motion and decapitate enemies, and well, 
 I'd repeat the last one a few times because it's so freggin awesome to use :)
  
  Other nice original elements include picking up stuff on the floor with said flying disc (such 
 as enemy weapons) , finding the occasional black market shop to upgrade, purchase and sell weapons, 
 good in-your-face combat on occasion with finishers, enemy weapons that will disable themselves 
 after a time that pushes you to use your ammo wisely. Oh, and one of my favorite touches; enemies 
 that scream in (prolonged) agony as you dismember them :)
  
  Note that I have played Gears of War, many many many times, and yet I don't feel as though this 
 game is a carbon copy or a cheap knock-off. Yes, it's definitely got some GoW influence, but then 
 again, I loved Gears of War (who didn't?) so I don't mind its influence on this game at all!
  
  In conclusion, I highly recommend it. It's now selling at a third of a full priced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer85257
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  I had a free rental and none of the games i wanted to try were in so i decided to rent this game 
 instead of let the coupon expire. I can't tell you how surprised i was by what a great game this 
 was and how it just didn't get the respect it deserves. The story isn't anything special but i 
 never play the game for a great story its just a bonus if its there. When you get teh glave and 
 learn how to use it, you will be tearing peaople apart and tearing of limbs. Nonstop action that 
 never gets old and the bosses can be challenging. If you havent played this game, its well worth 
 the rental if you dont wanna buy it and its also a good boost to your gamer score. i got about 
 700 points in 1 week. I haven't played the multiplayer so i can't speak for online and am not too 
 sure if the are even any games left to try it out but the story mode is worth the play alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I did'nt think it was very good and got stuck at a very early point 
 in the game. Once I worked it out I got the hang of it and started enjoying the game. Although 
 you cannot really use dropped weapons, you will till easy get through the game using your glaive 
 and pistol but you can also use the black market to buy other weapons such as shotguns. At first 
 the finisher moves are pretty cool, like breaking someone's neck for a quick kill but after a while 
 they get boring as there is about 3 finishing moves per type of enemy.
  Overall this game feels like gears as the gameplay is very similar e. g taking cover. It isn't as 
 good as gears but is still a pretty good game, I dont really think it's got much replay value and 
 probably the only reason to play through again would be for the 110 GS for beating the game on 
 Brutal Difficulty, If you think its worth the effort. ( I know I dont ) As for online gameplay barely 
 anyone plays it, there is only 2 game types and about 6 maps. If people played it I think the online 
 would be pretty good, but they dont.
  
  Dark Sector is a great game for a first play through but towards the end of the campiegn it starts 
 getting repetitive. It got me about 600 GS and didn't take too long, If you want some GS and A 
 fairly good good game to get it on aswell then try Dark Sector out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a somewhat promising game it has it's unique combat that is different then most 
 third person action games. Adding to that the combat was good but the way it was presented by throwing 
 a sharp glade could have been amped up a bit more it could have been used like a bat or a hammer 
 that would have made combat more stylish. But it still was interesting to see it used as a throwing 
 weapon nevertheless.
  
  other things intrigued me like being allowed to guide your glade to turn on switches and using 
 your glade with elements such as fire, ice and electricity. The rest of dark sector from the beginning 
 to halfway through seemed to be the building part like it didn't start off with a bang but it still 
 provided enough at that point to keep you wanting more.
  
  Then halfway through everything gets amped up combat gets way better and your playing faster trying 
 to get through it faster which made things increasingly difficult. IF Digital extremes had used 
 that amped from the halfway point in the beginning then maybe dark sector would have done way better 
 and it wouldn't have felt so lacking.
  
  With all this said about dark sector it still stands as a pretty good game because all of all the 
 different ways you can use the glade, and because of that it intrigue you but not for awhile but 
 don't let that stop you from playing this. This game still has its really fun moments so if you 
 can overlook its lack in game play depth and short campaign you'll see this game as something special 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Having read all the bad press about Dark Sector i thought i'd write my own review.
  
  Dark Sector by no means is a bad game - but it does have its problems. 
  
  We all know the 
 story by now, some nut guy wants something, you have to stop him, bla bla. This story has been 
 done many times before. If nothing else, it keeps things going, it does its job, but nothing more.
 
  
  As for the gameplay, that's a little harder to describe.
  Lots of people compare Dark Sector to Gears of War, and rightly so, it is VERY similar - VERY!!! 
 You find cover shoot someone in the face and move on - just the same as GoW.
  They also say its very repetitive, well HELLO, its a shooter, these games, by their very nature, 
 are somewhat repetitive.
  
  But why is Dark Secotor scoring so low?
  
  DS gets many things right, from the graphics, lighting, some of the sound (not all) . But it fails 
 on weapons, variety of levels, bosses ect. 
  The weapons are few and far between. While you can pick up an enemy's weapon for a short time, 
 your own are very limited. You only carry 1 hand gun, & 1 shotgun/machine gun, at any one time. 
 While there good enough they lack the punch that GoW manages to bring.
  
  Yes you can buy new weapons, but this is some what of an after thought (taken from Resident Evil 
 4) . When you buy a new gun, you put the old one in a locker and can only change it at the shop 
 - Hay its a game, give us an inventory and the option to swap weapons.
  
  The sound is good for the most part, but nothing special.
  
  I guess my biggest problem with 
 DS, is re-spawning enemies. Its just not fun - its cheep, so why do it.
  
  Overall, Dark Sector is a good game & well worth a look if you've got nothing else to play. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I picked up Dark Sector for a mere $10. It is worth that much, but not much more. The campaign 
 mode offers some dubious puzzles and hidden elements to tease your cranial funcitons with, however 
 the AI in the game is about as lame as a 2 legged dog. The enemies spawn in the same spot every 
 sing time. So you can imagine the challenge there.
  
  On a downside, the controls are a bit too touchy even when the sensitivity is adjusted. The graphics 
 are OK... still nowhere near the capabilities of their 1080p rating though.
  
  Online play is fun, if you have a group of friends to play with, otherwise the Dark Sector savants 
 will eat you up, spit you out, stomp all over you, then eat you again, all while visciously tea-bagging 
 you. There are only 2 modes of online play; Death Match & Infected. 
  
  Death Match is your typical kill as many guys on the other team as fast as you can and whoever 
 reaches the set score first wins. Infected though, is a bit different. Infected is 1 guy vs All. 
 The infected dude racks up points by slaughtering as many opponents as possible before somebody 
 on the other team offs him. Being the infected gives you the wonderful ability to turn invisible 
 for short periods of time too. Good fun there.
  
  All in all, with its lack luster campaign and after thought-ish style of online play. I would really 
 recommend picking this game up only if you find it the discount racks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiggy_Wilson
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game for a long, LONG time. When it arrived I was exstatic. "This 
 game is gonna' own man." I said to the cashier at the time of renting this game, "Yeah," he replied 
 with an earnest grin, "I played it this morning, it's awesome."
  
  I now know that he must not have played very much of the game, because it gets old FAST. The introductory 
 level is great. It sets up the story and the core game play mechanics (save for your bladed frisbee) . 
 This game looks amazing and the sound/ acting is brilliant.
  
  Now, that being said, once you get your special disc of death that becomes your main weapon throughout 
 the game. Sure, you can use standard gun... but beyond a pistol there's really not much more you 
 can use (unless you want to shell out the money to buy a gun that doesn't have that Anti-Virus 
 thing on it.)
  
  My advice (even though you probably don't care all that much) rent it. If you like swinging around 
 a glaive (or throwing it, even though it has a range of like... two and a half meters) and neutral 
 coloured environments... rent it until you're sick of it. I can't recommend buying this game since 
 it has almost no replay value.
  
  I didn't even TRY the multiplayer, I was too busy playing Halo 3. My friend, on the other hand, 
 HAS played the multiplayer, and he HATED it. 
  
  But, if you really want to buy this game... then go waste sixty bucks... no skin off my nose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  if you have this game you know it is a great shooter. it it a third person shooter. you play the 
 part of Hayden a secret agent. the game starts off good. enemies are pretty easy to kill. and then 
 you get transformed. meaning some kind of alien force does some work on you. you acquire a weapon 
 called the glaive. this weapon is very useful in beating other bigger enemies. you can throw the 
 glaive and if you are accurate enough, you can take a guy's leg off!! you also have more conventional 
 weapons like a pistol and assault rifle. which are cool. when you finish the first chapter you 
 get 10G in the 360 version. also, the glaive can be used to steal items. by throwing and and when 
 it returns you get the item. so if you like shooters, you will like this game. i got it for cheap 
 and it has been alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorjuela
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this game for (blushing) the easy achievements and the price ($20 New!) and was 
 I surprised. The graphics, the gameplay, the sounds, the quirky story, and the challenge all combine 
 into a wonderful experience that raises the question of how did I miss this game?
  
  But still, this is a review and I'll start with the graphics. Let me start with complete honesty. 
 I cannot tell you where I rank in the graphics whoredom, but I can tell you that I will always 
 appreciate graphic quality enough to hold the same general opinion wwhen people are awed or underwhelmed. 
 Dark Sector awed me. The detail in the main character is pretty intense and engaging. The effects 
 on the Glaive and the fire arms is pretty standard next gen awesomeness, and the environments never 
 fail to impress. I would put this game on par with almost anything that is not GOW. Really.
  
  Now, however the graphics shine, the game play is the nice, juicy fat of the game. The movement 
 controls are pretty standard for a third person game. Where this games shines, albeit with many 
 similarities to other games, is the combat. Press the right trigger and you will fire your equipped 
 handgun, hold the left trigger to aim and you will have more accurate fire when you press the right 
 trigger. Press the right bumper and you will throw your (and the key to the experience) glaive. 
 This three bladed disk is pretty versatile. So much so that you can use it for defense, offense 
 and gathering of weapons and supplies. However, the main thrill is taking out enemies with Glaive. 
 It's so versatile, that you can take one guy, charge it up with electricity from and arc somewhere 
 and electrocute another enemy and then use it to take out another guy with seamless ease. This 
 thing can do it all!
  
  The ambient sounds and character voices are very dramatic to add some depth to the story, but otherwise, 
 it's not going to make or break the game. The audio works and that's enough.
  
  The story? Well, I'm trying to follow it and it's nice sci-fi stuff, but aside from giving you 
 the reason to continue on, it's forgettable in most parts, but wholly interesting for the big scenes.
 
  
  The Challenge on this game is very tasty. It's got that GOW war "You had better take cover or die" 
 level of challenge. The AI is very much up to snuff. Know how some of those enemies from GOW were 
 hard to hit because they actively took cover? Pretty much the same kind of situation here. They 
 tend to actively seek out ways to connect their shots and most often (more often than GOW) will. 
 The controls for Glaive also add another level of challenge; but in a really good way, with just 
 the right amount of "WOW", when things work out right.
  
  
  To sum it all up. If you have sometime between blockbuster games and you have a spare Jackson in 
 your pocket and some more for the Gov, pick this up.
  
  You will NOT BE DISSAPOINTED.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: indecisiverhino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  The game looks great all the way through. It's a ton of fun to play. The glaive absolutely steals 
 the show. The guns are no slouches though. Nice touch with the upgrades and money management with 
 the weapons. The environments shift between dark and spooky to alive yet ominous. The ~15 hour 
 story is pretty stock for shooters (bad guy doing world-threatening things and bad guy has special, 
 mysterious powers/henchmen) . The plot details are there, but you have to watch/listen closely or 
 you'll miss them. Boss fights are good and some were fairly tough. You will notice shades of God 
 of War, Gears of War and Resident Evil 4 in there. (As well as Krull for those not too young to 
 know what a 'Krull' is.) My take on the 'homages': if you're gonna be derivative; derive from only 
 the VERY BEST. And it does so in spades. There were a few moments of frustration where it wasn't 
 clear to me what to do or how to accomplish certain goals. Those were very brief and very spaced 
 out. The fun moments outweighed any of the frustrating ones 25-1 or so. Good odds for any Greek!
 
  Quick official breakdown-like thing:
  Graphics: 10 (really... so smooth and clean looking)
  Sound: 9-- a lot of repetition from enemies. But I'm no audiophile so this isn't a big one for me.
 
  Gameplay: 9.5 -- some frustrating moments that bothered me a little. Those were very rare.
  All that other stuff: Good length, solid standard-fare shooter story. Lot's of incentive to go 
 back through and play it on a higher difficulty.
  Overall: 9.5. GREAT GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Testify_exe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Story - 5
  Graphics - 7.5
  Sound - 7.5
  Gameplay - 8
  
  Summary - Dark sector mixes shooting with mutant powers and the combination is exciting at first 
 but towards the end of the lame story it gets repetitive and you just try to grind until you see 
 the end of it all. But it's not really worth it.
  
  Story- Your some sort of cia agent who gets infected with a virus that mutates your arm into a 
 kickazz weapon. That's about it. There are plot developments that make you scratch your head and 
 say wtf? This isn't Hideo Kojima however and it's not written well, so the wtf? moments are just 
 why the f*** am i playing this moments.
  
  Graphics - Next gen. THat's about all i can say really. NOthing here looks spectacular
  
  Sound- 
 Standard B-Grade Action game
  
  Gameplay- The Glaive is real cool. It is. The game would have sucked if it had not been included 
 at all. The game also throws you some cool powers alot of which they don't explain how you got 
 them in the first place. The best power is invisibility. You turn it on sneak behind a soldier 
 perform a fatality and then use it again with no cool down to do it to his friend. but you get 
 this in the last hour or so in the game and it looses its cool factor soon after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  March 2008 was a busy month with some really high profile titles such as Army of Two, Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2, Condemned 2 and Bully Scholarship Edition. On March 26th Dark Sector was released with 
 very little fanfare, hype or attention yet, it's an excellent action title, that will thrill you 
 with some interesting moves, awesome finishers and will keep you on your toes. 
  
  Your character's name is Hayden Tennoa government agent sent out to a desolate country in the 
 USSR to hunt down your main enemy named Mezner, who has access to a toxin that mutates human beings 
 into zombies, creatures and werewolf-like beings. Early in the game, you get infected with the 
 toxin and your right arm gets coated with some sort of flexible metaland then you get the Glaivethe 
 weapon of choice for much of the chaos you will cause throughout the game. 
  
  The Glaive is a three bladed weapon that looks like an extremely large shuriken that you will throw 
 as your long range attack but it can also produce some really brutal finishers when enemies are 
 up close. As you progress throughout the single player campaign, your Glaive will also gain new 
 powers that really add to the variety of ways you can attack your enemies. It will be able to absorb 
 cold, heat and electricity. The spectacular result is that you can electrify, freeze and burn your 
 enemies to death. In addition, the Glaive will also have the ability to scoop weapons left on the 
 ground by your recently deceased enemies. Even with all these different ways to dispose of your 
 foes, the most awesome ability is called "Aftertouch". 
  
  The Afterouch can be triggered when you throw the Glaive with the right bumper and then you click 
 the right bumper again when it leaves your hand. The camera then zooms in from a third person perspective 
 and you get to control the Glaive in slow motion with the right analog stick. Not only does this 
 offer you some spectacular kills up close and personal but it's necessary to master this ability 
 to solve certain "open door" type puzzles.
  
  All of the action is seen from a third person perspective similar to Gears of War. You can carry 
 two guns at any given point but you will mostly always use the handgun/Glaive combination. The 
 other weapon slot is for a shotgun or machine gun but you're unable to use the Glaive unless you 
 switch back to the handgun. There are weapon upgrades and a small variety of guns you can purchase 
 in the Black Market however, the choices are pretty limited and I can't help to feel that this 
 aspect of the game was throw in. Even the upgrades didn't seem to have that much effect on my newly 
 modified firearm.
  
  Last but certainly not least, your mutation also brings powers of invisibility and power shield 
 which definitely help in the later levels of the game. 
  As you can tell, I've taken a lot of time to describe the different abilities, weapons and methods 
 in which you can defeat your opponents. The reason I went into great detail is because the variety 
 of attacks and the way you dispose of the mutated beings, is the best aspect of Dark Sector.
  
  Hayden is seen in a third person perspective similar to Resident Evil 4 and uses a cover system 
  la Gears of War. For the most part, this works really well although when the action gets hectic, 
 the camera doesn't turn as fast as you would want it to. 
  
  Overall, the graphics are good but at times, inconsistent. Some levels look fantastic with some 
 memorable visual moments and in other instances; they seem to dip in quality with uneven and low 
 resolution looking textures. You'll also get that "haven't I been here before" type of feeling 
 as some of the environments seem to closely resemble previous areas. The visuals definitely fall 
 into the "acceptable" category for this type of game.
  
  The sound design is very good. The music quality is as good as any recent title I've played and 
 it does a fantastic job of letting you know when you're in trouble or when the action has stopped. 
 There are occasional sound hiccups when the action gets hectic but overall the sound effects are 
 fantastic, particularly in surround sound. By the way, Hayden's voice is played by Michael Rosenbaum 
 (aka Lex Luthor in the hit tv series Smallville) , and he does a pretty good job delivering lines 
 of a somewhat weak storyline. 
  
  About the storylineit starts off as really intriguing and then just fizzles out like a can of 
 flat soda. In the end, watching the cut scenes was almost tedious because with the way the storyline 
 unfolds combined with certain boss battles, none of it frankly makes any sense whatsoever.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer on Xbox Live for Dark Sector is very basic with only two modes and 
 it's very difficult to find anyone to play with. If you're looking for a good multiplayer experience, 
 this is not the title for you. 
  
  If you put aside the occasional graphical inconsistencies, basic multiplayer and weak storyline, 
 Dark Sector is a solid action game that I definitely recommend. It offers a 10 to 12 hour long 
 single player campaign. It has very accurate controls with spectacular ways to eliminate your opponents. 
 If you combine that with the solid musical score and quality sound effects, there is definitely 
 a good title to be played here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  3rd person adventures are not difficult to come by in modern day games. Unless you seek a more 
 gritty and adult oriented setup, the selection seems even thinner. Good thing Dark Sector came 
 along with its spy smashing sci-fi action that greatly utilizes its inspirations from similar games. 
 With a sketchy story mainly focused on Hayden Tenno, the lead who fights inner demons and displays 
 killer black op skills; you must thwart an evil organization that throws tons of faceless soldiers 
 and mutated baddies in your way for 9 levels of pure carnage. To say the lack-luster story takes 
 you any further than this would be exaggeration, but never doubt how exciting action with various 
 weapons and powers, decent pacing, and pretty good graphics can take a sleeper hit pretty far.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  To garner some perspective on the main character, you start the game with normal weapons such as 
 the pistol, machine gun, and close quarter attacks. Aiming guns is pretty easy with an over the 
 shoulder view very reminiscent of games like GoW. Adjusting the sensitivity is a nice perk within 
 the options that really helps in the head shot department. As for moving thru the environment, 
 Hayden is what some would call "sluggish". He has nifty moves that allow him to dive and roll away 
 from danger, and the cover mechanics work as good as they should, yet running seems like the weak 
 spot for this agent. 
  Beyond simple human means, you later acquire a mutation that allows for even more curious death 
 dealing methods. Nothing overly complex; just a massive glaive that springs from your hand and 
 shears up anything in its path with the added ability to adopt elements such as fire, ice, and 
 electricity. The more you mutate, the more defensive powers you unlock such as deflector shields 
 and cloaking, all helpful goodies that allow for more elegant hurting to the baddies. Another cool 
 plus to the glaive is the ability to interact with objects and such. While scooping up unreachable 
 items and currency, you can later use this stuff in shops scattered in every level that sells, 
 trades, and upgrades whatever you see fit.
  
  VISUALS
  Dark Sector shows what it knows. Coming from developer Digital Extremes, who created a few good 
 looking games in the last few years for various systems, it was real nice to see what they've learned 
 working with next-gen gear. Compared to previous games in their library that has similar dark and 
 murky environments with military maniac designs, it's really hard to tell from a fan standpoint 
 what has really improved. If you're new to the sci-fi mutation vids, everything will look nice. 
 As for really being blown away, those moments are rare as you see some large enemies tear up entire 
 buildings and the usual glaive imbued action.
  Facial animation is done very well, so much it's worth mentioning, but the main character does 
 seem to have a tiny face compared to his body. Nothing serious, but its does warrant a chuckle 
 while serious dialogue is being exchanged. The other cast members are decent looking, but you hardly 
 ever have a chance to appreciate them, as all you mostly see are mindless soldiers who wear mask. 
 There are a few boss battles worth mentioning and a few nasties lurking about, but like the masked 
 soldiers they wear out their welcome kind of quick.
  
  AUDIO
  Music is not the preferred tune for Dark Sector; cue in the awesome blood curdling screams of the 
 fools who challenge the your glaive. There are a few ambient tracks that play as you move from 
 one scene of action to another and the occasional high tempo boss track, yet that's not why I recommend 
 increased volume. The mountains of soldiers you face from start to finish don't have names, but 
 they sure do have lovely voices. After killing numerous baddies with context sensitive attacks 
 and long-range weaponry, you will likely hear your fill of the same death scream. Happily, there 
 is pretty good sound effects to compliment the array of pain you deliver. When dealing with different 
 creatures you hear a few different sounds, but the most crucial is the ones that tell you where 
 the enemy is in the dark. Not essential, but very helpful nonetheless.
  
  EXTRAS
  Every good game has its major draw or appeal, online multiplayer is not it for this game. With 
 2 modes that pit 10 players against each other and a handful of maps that can be played with humans 
 and computer players, you'd think that would be enough in this decent offering. I say it was a 
 bit of a distraction. In all respects, my online time doesn't compare to my single player game, 
 so maybe I missed out on some great fun. Sadly, like most 360 games that have a small online offering, 
 I caught the stagnant end of the online community that has long moved on to different games since 
 its release.
  Which takes very little away from what's already there. Besides the joy of earning  of the achievements 
 simply playing thru the game, you can find a slew of goodies that help you maximize your hero's 
 arsenal and skills. The environments don't offer much in the sense of exploration, but they do 
 introduce some cool vehicles that resemble spider tanks. Past that, the final hours of the game 
 do leave a lot to be desired as Hayden is super geared up and the story kind of stumbles to a sloppy 
 finish.
  
  OVERALL
  With a worthwhile single player that offers plenty of tools for destruction in its small package, 
 Dark Sector really shines even thru all its minor flaws. Somewhat of a multiplayer, generic characters 
 and a terribly scattered story all should hinder this game from being fun. Yet, with the magic 
 of solid controls and fair difficulty from start to finish, this title deserves a rental from any 
 fan of action adventures. Just don't expect anything breathe taking from the ending that follows 
 the final boss. You've been warned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendaryscmt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  As you first open up this game, the one thing that I want to point out really quick is the cover 
 of this game, and the instruction manual. Doesn't take too long to discovery that the back of the 
 game's cover, along with the manual, are in 3 different languages. This has no effect on my review, 
 however, just something that I found odd.
  
  
  Dark Sector puts you in control of Hayden Tenno, an American Special Forces agent sent to a fictional 
 Soviet nation, Lasria. Before you even have control of him, you learn that Hayden doesn't want 
 the mission, and tries to back out, only to be turned down by his superior. As you play throughout 
 the game, you'll learn that you're in Lasria to stop Mezner, a man that has spread a Technocyte 
 plague across the country, changing normal people into zombie-like monsters, and ultimately giving 
 you your greatest powers. However, while it seems simple at first, there are many unanswered questions 
 throughout the game, such as where the Technocytes and the monsters you face come from, and so 
 on. While the story follows a simple plot of 'kill the bad guy', it's the surrounding elements 
 which get the most attention, and that get the most mystery.
  
  When you finally start to play Dark Sector, you'll be instantly reminded of Resident Evil 4. The 
 game has an over the shoulder camera, which works pretty well. The controls are pretty solid for 
 the most part, except for a odd problem I found while moving. I don't know if it's a real bug, 
 or of it's just something wrong with mine, but I noticed that if I held down the left analog stick 
 towards the left for a few moments, then let go, Hayden would still be moving towards the left 
 until I moved in another direction again. It wasn't something that ruined gameplay, or that will 
 really affect this review, but I found it to be annoying sometimes. During combat, the game plays 
 out a little like Gears of War. By moving up to an object, and pressing the A button, you can take 
 cover behind that object. Also, while moving in a direction, the A button acts as the dodge button. 
 However, while taking cover, you can't crotch, which doesn't seem like a huge deal, but when you're 
 playing it does make a difference. Also, sometimes when you want to take cover, you have to be 
 close to that cover. If you're not, you'll dodge when hitting A instead of taking cover, which 
 leads to some frustration.
  
  The main focus in Dark Sector is Hayden's Glaive, which is a key point in solving puzzles and in 
 combat. By tapping the right bumper, Hayden throws the Glaive, which can also gather energy from 
 certain elements like fire and electricity, which are stored in the Glaive for a few moments, unleashing 
 even more hurt to your enemies. While equipped with the Glaive, the only other weapon you can use 
 is one of the several available pistols. When not equipped with it, you have your choice of other 
 assorted guns. You can also sell and buy other weapons from the Black Market in the game by finding 
 the manholes. Weapons can be upgraded with power-ups that you find throughout the game, which make 
 minor to no differences. While the weapons for the most part are solid, the game sometimes puts 
 too much attention to the Glaive, where as after the first level, weapons enemies drop can now 
 only be used for a short time due to your infection. Ammo runs short at certain points in the game, 
 but as a whole, is bearable. Yet, on the plus side, the gas grenades in this game that the enemies 
 use on you have been well designed. Instead of just taking damage, your vision becomes blurred 
 with different colors, making it harder to see your enemies.
  
  Enemies you face in the game are passable. The human soldiers you face will take cover when possible, 
 and slowly advance towards your position. That said, the zombie-like enemies are less smart. They 
 charge at you regardless of what you have firing at them, and at certain points in the game, they'll 
 just keep coming, which makes it frustrating to say the least. However, the game has some variations 
 in enemies, from human soldiers to the zombie-like townsfolk to giant Technocyte monsters.
  
  Overall, Dark Sector isn't a bad game. As you play along, the game really doesn't throw anything 
 new at you, and it almost feels like a chore to beat. It has its moments, but they all pass too 
 soon.
  
  
  The Good: Graphics look great, solid voice acting, interesting mix of Resident Evil 4 and Gears 
 of War gameplay, Glaive does have its perks from time to time.
  
  The Bad: Story really doesn't make a whole lot of sense, dodging and taking cover doesn't work 
 as well as they should, elements that the Glaive can be powered up with are few in between.
  
  Buy, rent, pass: Dark Sector is worth a solid rent to most people, where the game can be beaten 
 within a good 8 hours or so. If you're one of those people who like seeking achievements, the game 
 will probably take a little long. The multiplayer really isn't worth it, but with its price drop 
 to $20 now, it might be worth a buy for some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked this game up at my local EB Games for only 19.99 brand new. Let me tell you, 
 it is very underated. You can tell right of the bat that some of the same people that did this 
 game also worked on Gears of War. Digital Extremes used their own graphics engine, and lets just 
 say it looks NICE. All the environments and textures are top notch. The character models are well 
 done, along with the animations. 
  The story may be a little lacking, but as far as videogame plots go, it does alright by me.
  
 The sound is very good also. You need to crank this bad boy up on your surround sound system to 
 fully enjoy the sound of the glaive as it whizzez back to you, after decapitating some of your foes.
 
  Multiplayer is a little sparse, but I mainly purchased it for the single player anyway, and for 
 20 bucks, you can't go wrong. So I say if you haven't picked this one up yet, go to EB and grab 
 it. You won't regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  My first exposure to Dark Sector was a small, teaser picture of the glaive weapon. I thought that 
 perhaps a game based on the 80's movie Krull might have been in the works. I didn't feel it a stretch 
 at the time as an upcoming game is set in the Conan the Barbarian universe. As more material was 
 released and trailers, the impression was changed and expanded my curiosity. 
  
  Set in a fictional Soviet nation of Lasria, Dark Sector introduces a gritty world ravished by a 
 virus that mutates humans and turns them into powerful creatures with deadly weapons and abilities. 
 Sent in to stop the virus before it spreads worldwide is Hayden Tenno. Hayden is part of a government 
 that is called to thwart a madman, named Mezner, before his plan to infect the whole world can 
 be implemented. Can Hayden save the world from being infected by a deadly virus before it is too 
 late?
  
  As the game opens, Hayden is deployed in Lasria, a Soviet nation, at the center of a spreading 
 virus. You are deployed and told to seek out the one responsible for the virus outbreak. The initial 
 mission serves as a sort of tutorial to acclimate you to the controls used in the game. As you 
 make your way through the compound, you confront the man responsible, Mezner, and are infected 
 with the virus responsible for mutating the residents of Lasria. This is where the game really 
 starts as Hayden learns to adapt to his infection while still on a mission to stop a worldwide 
 epidemic.
  
  As the infection takes hold of Hayden, he discovers a new ability that allows him to summon a deadly 
 weapon called a Glaive. Using this weapon allows him to dispatch enemies from a distance in a brutal 
 fashion. As the glaive impacts with an enemy, it will either infect them or if thrown with force, 
 can decapitate them or sever a limb. Enemies react to the portion of their body damaged as they 
 fall to the ground, screaming, in a bloody mess. To say that the game contains violence would be 
 a bit of an understatement at the damage dealt by the glaive.
  
  As you progress through the game, you will encounter times when you can charge the glaive up with 
 a particular element. Fire, electricity and ice allow for increased damage to enemies by catching 
 them on fire, or electrocuting them. Some of the most fun comes from the ice damage that freezes 
 an enemy solid so that you can shatter them into pieces. While the elemental attacks with the glaive 
 are certainly fun, they do serve another purpose in the game. Certain areas require you to burn 
 away material blocking a passageway or to use the electricity in the glaive to power a door or 
 lock. Many of these puzzle type situations seem overly complex and unnecessary in a game of this 
 nature. Add in the complexity of trying to control the glaive through tight openings to reach an 
 electrical panel or source of fire so that you can progress become tedious and frustrating.
  
  Hayden, too, receives additional abilities as you progress through the game. Initially you 
 are in possession of the glaive and some increased strength and stamina. However, as you progress 
 through the game you gain other abilities that allow you to summon a shield briefly to protect 
 yourself. One of the more useful abilities gained is that of invisibility. Using this ability will 
 let you slip past security cameras in certain portions of the game as well as allow you to sneak 
 up on an enemy and take them out using a finishing move that is quite brutal.
  
  Some aspects of the game felt sort of misplaced, such as the weapons system. At times you can enter 
 a Black Market where you can purchase different weapons or upgrade a current one with items you 
 find through out the game. While these do indeed improve your damage, ammo carrying ability or 
 accuracy, under the right circumstances you need not even use many of the weapons available. The 
 weapons in the game do serve a purpose in that you can often shoot farther then you can throw the 
 glaive. However, if you run out of ammo, you are left with little choice in how to deal with an 
 enemy. Enemies do drop weapons as you kill them, however in an interesting twist, they are genetically 
 altered to render themselves useless after a few moments of your usage. I will say that it is an 
 interesting way to get you to conserve your ammunition once you gain access to the Black Market 
 to buy weapons. It also forces you to really make use and get your glaive usage to deliver many 
 kills. 
  
  Another such issue that made itself known at various times in the game was camera issues in close 
 quarters combat. Many times the camera would lose track of where you were focusing on and kind 
 of stutter and mash your character and an enemy together. This made it difficult to get your bearing 
 and take out enemies before they killed you. Employing a matrix-like ability to slow time and maneuver 
 the glaive to its target is introduced in a ability called aftertouch. By employing this skill, 
 you can slow down the movement of the glaive and guide it to its target, whether enemy or puzzle. 
 
  
  Achievements will come pretty steadily as you progress through the games single player mission. 
 You will encounter achievements for completing the chapters as well as specific tasks throughout 
 the story. In addition, a number of secret achievements will round out the thirty-two possible 
 in the single player mission. Completing the list of thirty-eight achievements are six that are 
 obtained in the various multiplayer modes over the Xbox Live service. Some achievements will require 
 planning and skill if you wish to obtain all thirty-eight. 
  
  When playing a game that sets up a specific tone, an environment that matches will complete the 
 experience and enhance the gameplay. The environments you will encounter in Dark Sector really 
 do convey the dirty, grittiness of a city in the midst of a biological and military battle. Broken 
 streets and building floors make navigating your way challenging as you are assaulted by enemy 
 troops and mutated residents. 
  
  The game presents a dark and gritty world ravished by war in a battle against a deadly infection. 
 Making your way through the various buildings and military installations, you will encounter broken 
 buildings and structures that offer varying degrees of cover and protection as you fight your way 
 through. Some of the walls and items you will use to provide cover and protection will deteriorate 
 as they are fired upon by enemy troops. Backgrounds appear realistic and massive as you make your 
 way around each area.
  
  Keeping voice chatter to a minimum plays into the gritty, single player aspect. As you make your 
 way through each area, you will overhear the communication of enemy units intent on wiping out 
 you and the infection plaguing the city. Occasionally, you will encounter messages communicated 
 to you by your commanding officer to relay orders or vital information necessary for your task 
 completion. Rounding out the sounds is not lush, massive orchestral music, but the realistic sounding 
 effects of gunfire and the impact of bullet and weapon upon flesh and other obstacles. The most 
 minute details complete the auditory picture such as when you charge up the glaive with crackling 
 energy or the sound of metal freezing upon contact with frozen tankers. 
  
  Looking purely at the single player aspect, there is not much incentive to replay the game after 
 completing it the first time. Perhaps if some new abilities or weapons were unlocked there would 
 be a draw to replay. As it stands, all that is provided is a harder difficulty, called Brutal mode, 
 which increases the strength and damage of enemy units while making it easier for Hayden to die. 
 While the game was interesting and contained an engaging story, the thought of replaying it for 
 a mere achievement would feel more like a chore.
  
  A common way for a game to offer replay value is by the inclusion of an online aspect. By including 
 a multiplayer aspect, a game can live entice people to invest their limited gaming time. One of 
 the draws of current gaming is the ability to extend the life of a game through well done and thought 
 out multiplayer modes. Dark Sector offers two modes of multiplayer that can be played over Xbox 
 Live or system link. Infection is a gametype in which one player is in the role of Hayden possessing 
 all weapon and abilities available in the game. The other players spawn as enemy soldiers intent 
 on taking down Hayden. The enemy team must communicate and work as a team to take down the player 
 in control of Hayden. The player killing Hayden will start the next round as him. The other multiplayer 
 mode, epidemic, is played similar to infection except that each team has a Hayden and their goal 
 is to take out the other teams Hayden. If you have played Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4, this mode plays 
 like the VIP gametype that occasionally comes up in matchmaking games.
  
  Shooter games are a popular staple of console gaming. While many seem to get lost in the massive 
 amount of choices available, there are occasionally games that stand out. Dark sector combines 
 the first person shooter genre with a story you might find in an X-Files episode or a sci-fi movie. 
 Dark Sector will provide an engaging story with some immersive scenery that provides an experience 
 well worth checking out.
  
  The game does exhibit some minor faults that present themselves occasionally. In addition, the 
 overly complex final fight of the game is prone to make some throw down their controller in disgust. 
 However, these instances do not diminish the overall experience and satisfaction obtained by completing 
 the game in full. Unless you are a die hard shooter fan who craves any and all titles, this game, 
 while not a must have, is still an enjoyable title that would be a good addition to your library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  The game dosen't have any REAL problems, but while you play it you will feel hollow, and you never 
 quite get immersed, and you will never get to feel like, or connect with the main charecter. He 
 is pretty neat and and alot of fun to play around with, but he doesn't have a heart. You never 
 quite know whats going on, and you won't realy care. You never feel invested in the game, it is 
 fun while it lasts, but it won't last long, and you have this feeling like you could just stop 
 playing the game at any moment and you wouldn't feel bad not finishing the game. Even if you do 
 finish it, the ending is anti-climatic, and isn't very cool, and you only unlock a hard mode. And 
 online is boaring, unpolished, and uneven, so you won't play it more than once or twice. Not much 
 to come back to. The game handles fine, looks good, and is long enough, and realy is a good game, 
 even great. But after beating it, you won't want to play again, and you won't have a reason to 
 either. The game isn't a bad one, I'd even call it great, and it dosen't have any actual problems, 
 but it dosen't realy have much going for it..... except the cool blade, which stays fun till the 
 end. The game is worth playing, but don't expect it to stay interested much longer after the credits 
 roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The36OAddict
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  By no means is the Dark Sector a bad game. It's just not a very fun game. 
  
  Dark Sector actually does deliver well in the graphics department, but slacked off quite a bit 
 in other areas. Game controls are often frustrating and make for a challenging time in combat. 
 Cutscenes are generally short and informative leaving the player lost in the grand scheme of the 
 game's plot.
  
  There is other good news though. Controls really aren't that big of a problem, nothing practice 
 can't help. Also overly sensitive controls can often be corrected in the options screen. Boss battles 
 are often intresting and require just enough thinking to not become annoying and remain satisfying. 
 And of course one of the most unique things about the game is the glaive. Decapitations and Power 
 Throws are often quite enjoyable to perform all throughout the game and never really lose their 
 effectiveness.
  
  If you are a person who can learn to just enjoy the gameplay after getting used to it you would 
 probably like this game granted you can put up with the bad story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Dark Sector had its first teaser trailer back when the 360 was first shown at E3. 
 The teaser definitely got me interested in the game for it was advertised as a stealth-action game. 
 Well, now a few years after that teaser the game has become a 3rd person shooter. Oh how are they 
 going to make this one unique though? Well they added a blade that is growing out of the main character's 
 right arm to try and add more to the game play. 
  
  Okay now that my (complaining) is over with I'll go into my review. This game is not that bad, 
 but is no where near worth buying over $25. To go more in depth, this game doesn't have depth. 
 The story is very simple and doesn't explain much to what is going on except the bare minimum to 
 know what is going on. Through the game you are not confused to what is happening you just wish 
 there was more. To put it shortly, there is no back-story. This is a good thing because many game 
 have been terrible at putting back-story cut scenes into games and by judging how these cut scenes 
 were, this would be one of those games. 
  
  There isn't much to talk about with the game play; shoot, shoot and throw? Yeah that is really 
 all to it, but it is a 3rd person shooter, not too much different to expect. The addition of the 
 scythe is a nice feature. Decapitating people every now and then is much fun and you are still 
 able you use a gun at the same time. There was a big problem with the shooting; there was very 
 little ammo in the game. It seemed as if the developers wanted you to use the scythe as much as 
 possible and you do, oh and that noise the blade makes as it flies through the air gets really 
 annoying. These are problems that don't get into the way of the game; they just make it very repetitive. 
 As you progress, you obtain new powers as the virus is slowly taking you over. These powers make 
 some great moments in the game and do come as a use, but if you play the game at the harder difficulties 
 then the game doesn't change all that much. You still find yourself hiding behind everything for 
 you will die very easily. The boss fights and puzzles do change up the pace, but they are based 
 on the elements used in the game as weapons and there are only 3 elements to use. So really you 
 just look at what element is sparking and throw you scythe into it and throw at enemy or object 
 in the way, then repeat. 
  
  Multiplayer isn't much either, just two games to play and either isn't that much different from 
 a standard death match, actually one is exactly that. The other is one player is infected and the 
 others fight that one. What is good about this multiplayer is that no one is playing it everyday 
 and hasn't master the skills of scythe throwing or headshots more than you have if you played through 
 the single player, therefore you can easily get into the game because you aren't dieing a million 
 times before you even get your first kill. 
  
  All in all this game is ok, it has potential, but that is just lost in the carelessness you can 
 see that is obvious in this game (not its graphics though, which are very good) . When you look 
 at this game, it is just a broken down version of Resident Evil 4. The story is very similar, the 
 game play is very similar, and not to mention the bosses look very similar, but are poorly played 
 out. Actually when I look back at this game I don't know why everyone didn't want to get infected, 
 the virus had too many benefits and no draw backs. You were still in control of yourself (obviously 
 since the main character is infected throughout the entire game and there is no cure) , you skin 
 turns into metal, you gain super powers, and really you almost can't die. So I don't see the big 
 deal if this virus got out, it seems as if it would help humanity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start off by saying anytime someone makes a game where you can dismember body parts 
 they get two thumbs up in my opinion. Dark Sector's new weapon the glaive adds a new game mechanic 
 to the shooter genre. The cover system is Gears-esque but somewhat unique where it is not as good 
 as Gears but still of good quality. The different powers gained make you feel like an overpowering 
 being with the ability to slew your foes with brute force. Nonetheless, this game does have a serious 
 crutch. THE STORY BLOWS! Why make a mysterious character with a mysterious story and not explain 
 anything throughout the entire story. The main character looks like a pretty boy yet he is the 
 type of badass good guy, which does not fit the pretty boy appearance. Also their is a girl in 
 the game where the main character obviously has a past with which throughout the story is never 
 explained. Nothing is ever told how anything occurs it sort of just happened yet the story alludes 
 to the past yet never actually tells you what happened. This game is one where you skip every cutscene 
 because it is not like it helps you understand the game in the first place. However, the game is 
 more than worth playing because of the new game mechanics and strategies that are introduced. Even 
 though there are still some parts of gameplay that make the game somewhat frustrating. For instance, 
 the level design is poor and if you are going to make a game linear PLEASE make it linear do not 
 make me choose one way where it is not even the correct way and do not add random puzzles that 
 stall the action. Overall, it is bloody and has a new game mechanic and if you are tired of the 
 same old type of shooter this is a quality play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javier
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Biased on the reviews I decided that there were other options and that this game didnt justify 
 a full price investment. So I found the game on sale at the local store and decided to buy it to 
 pass the time once I finished "big name" games and wait for the next big release.
  My expectations were somewhat low and I didnt expected to be wowed in any way.
  
  I was wrong.
 
  
  The graphics are really impressive there are lots of graphic details that really make the ambiance 
 stand out and the soundtrack and sound effects are well done and applied. The most interesting 
 aspect is the glaive, you can combine your attacks by using your glaive, gun, rifle granades and 
 melee combat so you really have a lot of options to confront your enemies, plus you can add enviromental 
 properties to your glaive attacks such as fire, electricity and freezing damage, plus you can buy 
 weapons and upgrade them to your liking; melee combat lets you perform "finishing" moves that really 
 never get old to perform.
  True, the story is really "meh", but ultimately action is what must this genre must really rely 
 upon and Dark Sector delivers.
  
  Sometimes excess of exposure and to much publicity overinflates a game to mythical proportions 
 so much that very few people dare to speak ill about it and the few ones who do just do it to look 
 cool. Dark Sector didnt rely on viral campaigns or controversial ads, maybe that would have made 
 this game to stand out a little more.
  
  Sure, its got some faults, you may feel the glaive underpowered sometimes but otherwise it would 
 make the game too easy; A. I. is not the brightest around but compared to A. I. of games like Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 or Battlefield Bad Company makes this game feel as if you were fighting Einstein.
 
  
  I cant talk about the multiplayer section since I havent played it. In my opinion, having a multiplayer 
 option as an obligation for every game released today seems a little dull since the majority of 
 multiplayer matches reduces to: kill the other guy. But if you enjoy multiplayer deathmatches then 
 you are in luck and consider it as a bonus to the solid solo campaign in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent2800
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be good because of all of the reviews in magazines before the 
 game came out but I was wrong. this game has a pertty good start but when you start to progress 
 in the game it really begins to get repetitive and boring as the previous review stated this game 
 is very reminisant of Gears of War and Uncharted: Drake's Fortune but the game that clearly leaves 
 its mark on dark sector is resident evil 4 the character Hayden Tenno is an exact mirror to leon 
 s. kennedy, he even wields the same pistol as leon the 9mm complete with laser even though you 
 can't use it. the music in the game can become quite annoying especially when the mutant workers 
 appear with weapons that appear from nowhere. he stationary machine guns aiming is so aweful i 
 didn't even bother using it. you hardly get any money to buy any weapons untill towards the last 
 couple of chapters in the game. the multiplayer aspect of this game has very little variety and 
 gets repetitive after a bit. the graphics are good but a little bit too glossy. overall this game 
 is good for a while but after that it just becomes repetitive and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadspace1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Its important to first note that with the announcement of this i was quietly excited that a game 
 may expand on the gritty feel and intuitive combat system laid down by gears of war at the launch 
 of the x box 360, however early on i was to be disappointed by this game in a string of disappointments 
 that marred the experience of this game.
  
  The first disappointment came with the quality of the graphics. The character models are perhaps 
 the worst. Firstly the head of each character seems squashed and out of proportions which makes 
 the player feel as if their deadly, glaive wieldiing hero, is in fact a child's toy! This is soothed 
 slightly as the characters do move convincingly, especially as hayden slides in to cover and jumps 
 out to hurl the glaive into a pack of enemies. Also the rag doll physics of the dismembered enemies 
 also looks convincingly painful. From a distance the different locales and dingy buildings look 
 good but get closer and the textures are bland in comparison with the high quality we're used to 
 on the x box 360. The level of interactivity with the environment is at a loss as well. You would 
 expect if you shot a fire extinguisher in the current generation of games then something would 
 happen? Or windows would smash if you shot them even if you couldn't get in the room they led to? 
 Given that this sort of interactivity was common place in many of the later playstation 2 and x 
 box games you would expect it to appear now. However this seems to have been severely overlooked 
 in dark sector and limits the immersion you feel in the game. Also most of the locales look exactly 
 the same with very little variation. Eventually one grimy building looks very similar to the last 
 and with that any pace the story has built up is insignificant as there is no sense of progression.
 
  
  This gives lead to a second problem. The story. There isn't really one. There's a bad man who's 
 going to release a deadly virus, your a good man who wants to regain his honor sent to stop the 
 bad man. Thats it in a nutshell. Which is disappointing as early on the game hints toward so much 
 more and once the game has ended your left with the feeling of 'is that it?'.
  
  The combat system, to be polite, liberally borrows from gears of war and for the most part functions 
 admirably. Jumping in and out of cover is easy and firing out a few shots from whatever weapon 
 may be at hand is satisfying. each weapon having its own distinctive, and expected feel. This all 
 stands up well as long as the enemies stay at a good safe distance where you can blast round after 
 round at them from your pistol or, as i'll get to later, eviscerate with your glaive! however, 
 all falls to ruin when the enemies get close enough to pummel you to bloody death. The glaive, 
 and overall dark nature of this game should allow for some spectacular close combat combos and 
 finishers. Sadly this is an opportunity missed and the close combat system, or lack of in this 
 case, is clumsy in the extreme and consists of one attack that rarely lands where you aim. this 
 makes close combat an annoyance rather than the bloody, and fun carnage it should have been. There 
 are finishers that are suitably gory in most cases and it never really gets old to grab an enemies 
 arm and shear it off at the elbow. Theses finishers are also easy to accomplish, a button prompt 
 appears and with a press of the b button the enemy is finished. The problems aside, this game has 
 one redeeming factor that warrants at least one play through. The glaive.
  
  The glaive is a metal appendage that grows out of hayden's arm after he is inadvertently infected 
 with the virus he was sent to stop. This is the part of dark sector that fails to get boring throughout 
 the entire game. You can throw the glaive and chop off heads, or limbs. You can imbue the glaive 
 with fire, ice or electricity to deal certain elemental death to your enemies. Once after touch 
 is added to this, the ability to follow and guide the glaive in first person once it is thrown, 
 the fun really begins. The infection not only gives our hero the ability to wield this deadly appendage 
 to dismember his foes but it also bestows on him a plethora of hidden powers. These powers are 
 regularly, without reason i may add, revealed to hayden as the game progresses in order to solve 
 a puzzle that is waiting just round the corner. Once all of these abilities are un-locked you really 
 do feel power full as you deflect bullets and sneak up on enemies to plant your glaive in their 
 face. 
  
  There is another selling point to the game and thats the boss battles. These battles require a 
 lot more than you would expect in order for you to become victorious and consist of more than one 
 segment. this means that you constantly have to change your tactics in order to beat them. However 
 there could have been more, and you still feel like the innovation is there but just needs to be 
 matured a bit more to make the battles even more epic.
  
  The addition of the powers, the glaive and interesting boss battles reminiscent of resident evil 
 4, make a bland game a lot more fun than the sum of its parts and definitely make it worth a rent 
 if not worth the money to buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is, despite what most people say, a game that has it where it counts. Overall, it's 
 a good shooter with atmospheric settings and intense gunplay, but with some fallings. Lets address 
 the story, first.
  
  After being marred with developer delays, Dark Sector finally came out for the Xbox 360 and PS3. 
 With all that time spent in development, you'd think the story would be refined and told in such 
 a way that caught the player's eye and left him wanting more... well, unless you're a three year 
 old, or a mental patient, Dark Sector's dubious storyline won't be catching anyone's eye. The story 
 makes a great start, with a cutscene taking place twenty years before the game begins, and a dim 
 and grizzly black and white level to set the tone of the rest of the game. After that, I'm fairly 
 sure the developers left it to monkeys, because the story becomes quite inane and nonsensical. 
 Okay, so there's this virus- or something- that turns people into metal- or something- and the 
 main character is immune- or something- and he fights his way through Russia, blasting people with 
 a gun and disembowling them with a glaive. Then he meets a fellow soldier- or something- and she 
 betrays him- or something- and... I'm lost, and you're bored. Suffice it to say, the story is easily 
 forgettable.
  
  Not saying the game is bad. From a graphical standpoint, the game is wonderful. With crisp textures 
 and great character models, its obvious Dark Sector was given special treatment in the graphics 
 department. Although, there's the occasional grainy texture, and the soldiers don't seem to have 
 many different character models- they're all the same guys. The lighting in the game is fantastic, 
 and sets the mood very nicely for a dark and grisly adventure.
  
  Speaking of the gameplay, this is where the game really shines... sort of. Some of the gameplay 
 is extraordinary, like the gunfights and boss battles. Some of it, like the puzzle-solving, is 
 boring and bland. The gunfights are, in my opinion, very fun. Although, besides your pistol and 
 glaive, there aren't many other weapons. You have an assault rifle and a shotgun, but you have 
 to buy the other weapons... which translate into a mini shotgun and an automatic pistol. So the 
 guns leave a little to be desired, but who needs guns when you can grow a damned glaive from your 
 arm? The glaive kills make the fights entertaining, and as you progress you'll unlock different 
 abilities with the glave that make it much more fun- and cinematic- to use. The boss fights are 
 very fun, and usually long and exciting, tasking you with finding an individual way of killing 
 each boss, rather than shooting them.
  
  The sound in the game is decent, at best. The music is bland and forgettable, and the sound effects 
 are run of the mill. The voice acting department is a mix, as the dialogue ranges from bad to okay, 
 but the screams of the soldiers are very satisfying and fun to listen to.
  
  Overall, Dark Sector is a game that does a lot of things right, but has a few things wrong. Not 
 every game has to be perfect, but when you can't do little things right, you have to ask yourself 
 if proper attention was given.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game does not deserve the low scores it has received. It is a perfect example of how a major 
 release delay (or perhaps a premature teaser release) can harm public opinion. 
  
  As has been stated many times already, Dark Sector is reminiscent of both Resident Evil 4 and Gears 
 of War. I was expecting more of a 3rd person action game like Devil May Cry and it took a little 
 while to get used to the stiffer controls but once I realized that it was a mechanical clone of 
 Gears of War, I really started to enjoy the game more. The graphics are top notch and are at least 
 on par with Gears minus some frame rate issues, etc. The character designs are excellent with lots 
 of great detail and the details on the walking tanks are sure to please any old-school Ghost in 
 the Shell fan (or other Masamune Shirow works.) The soundtrack is excellent and atmospheric sound 
 effects do an excellent job of making for a dark and creepy environment where applicable (especially 
 the sound of taunt wires during intense mutant attacks!)
  
  The original mechanics of the game are done very well and are very enjoyable and add to the already 
 great mechanics taken from GoW. The story may be a little light on narrative but there are certainly 
 many less original plot lines out there so I don't understand all the complaints about the story. 
 The voice acting is average to above average and never crosses the line into ridiculous so no complaints 
 there either. One complaint of mine is the game manual. It is very minimalistic and repeated in 
 English, Spanish, and French (which may not bother some people as they throw away the manual anyway) 
 but it makes the game feel a little cheaper without a decent manual to help present the game. 
 
  
  After reading the reviews I was not interested in this game but after downloading and playing the 
 demo on XboxLive I went out and purchased it the next day and have been very happy since. If you 
 read the Gamespot review you will see that the only major complaint is with the weak story. I'm 
 a fan of a good compelling story in a game but Dark Sector doesn't have a bad story, it just has 
 a story that doesn't interrupt gameplay as often as some games do (one could make the argument 
 that the developers were going for a minimalist approach to storytelling.) I really don't think 
 it deserved to be downgraded so much just for this. Give it a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector was first announced about 3 years ago back before the Xbox 360 so elegantly graced 
 our presence. At first, I didn't know what to make of it. Survival horror based shooter, Sci-Fi 
 shooter, or just plain run of the mill 3rd person shooter. However, back in March of this year 
 it is finally released and I have mixed reactions but more or less it is a solid game with a few 
 flaws and some mesmorizing traits.
  
  Gameplay:
  You take the role of Hayden, a secret covert op agent for the military in taking control and seizing 
 the spread of an infectious disease being released and produced by a Russian madman. (I. E. It's 
 basically Resident Evil 4 but set in Russia and the main character is plain and generic and surrounded 
 by military rebels.) The general gist of the game is utilizing the unique powers you are granted 
 from the glaive which is an additional appendage grown once you have contracted this perplexing 
 disease. The features of the game are an over the shoulder camera (A-la RE4) and the gunplay is 
 powerful and effective and offers some upgrades along the way from an underground black market 
 (I. E. RE4's masked merchant.) and a number of impressive elements for use with the glaive. You 
 can make extraordinary use of ice, electricity and fire elements as the game progresses and unlock 
 various upgrades that prove more than useful throughout the course of the game. Light the glaive 
 on fire an incinerate objects in your path, or freeze the glaive and keep enemies on ice, or just 
 find a conduit and electrify the glaive for starting up generators or electrocuting foes. The melee 
 combat and/or finishers are fun to perform but are extremely repititious as you progress through 
 the game and seem to easily performed if you want to just rush and blow through the story.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are tweaked in a way that deem impressive on a now current gen console. 
 The lighting by far is the most impressive, with shadowing of cell textures on both the environment 
 and the glaive as well. The character models and facial expressions could use some more polish 
 or time to produce, but other than that the engine being used to deliver these graphics tends to 
 tie in nicely with the rest of the game. Decapitating enemies, dismembering them, or just cutting 
 them in half is always a plus.
  
  Sound:
  This has to be one of the more deliberate and unique aspects of Dark Sector. The sound which I 
 watched several videos of how they performed them, are brilliantly executed with crunching and 
 splintering of bones and spewing of blood being introduced with the use of vegetables and garden 
 tools. Now thats making good use of produce. The soundtrack is forgetable and the voice acting 
 is passable at best. The main focus is the gruesome and teeth chattering audio found in executions 
 and weaponry funcionality.
  
  Control:
  The control is basically Resident Evil 4 for the most part. Controlling Hayden is easy, and the 
 camera is always over the shoulder and responsive to your movements. The use of the glaive is highly 
 addictive and controlling it once you are granted upgrade status to slow motion is extremely awesome. 
 Other than that the basic tactics of hold left trigger to aim and right trigger to fire are implemented 
 as well as a duck/cover system that works well with minimal flaws.
  
  Overall:
  The major gripe I have with Dark Sector is the length of the game and the horrid voice acting and 
 generic looking main protagonist. Boss battles range from ridiulously hard to insanely easy, and 
 completing the game in under 12 hours leaves much to be desired with a passive online mode as a 
 tack on. However, I enjoyed this game, and found it to be fun, innovative making use ot a blade 
 in various methods, and having a general good time with the balance of run and gun, slice and dice 
 your way to the outcome of the story. If you're interested and have played Resident Evil 4, you 
 know what to expect with this game, and can be pleasing for a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector took one too many pages from Gears of War. All the enviroments looking so post-apocalyptic 
 (ever seen that before?) . But that aside Dark Sector really has a good single player campaign. 
 The enviroments are also very highly renderd and have so much detail. Dark Sector also succeds 
 in having some mixing up of the enviroments. That first flashback mission in black and white! Whats 
 up with that? I felt as though i was playing a game from the 30s. But there were no video-games 
 at that time. But a page that Dark Sector didn't take from Gears of War, is the difficulty. Thats 
 a good thing because Gears had some Insane Level Of Difficulty. So all-in-all this game should 
 be played because it has a compelling story, cool weapons (what is a 'GLAVE'?) , and if you liked 
 Gears of War, here is a game that is just like it. But the diificulty is just right so have fun 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B2E5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a well put together game. But, thats only for gamers with a sci-fi taste in games. 
 There are a few shady parts that the game does not answer to but if your intelligent enough to 
 listen and possibly care you might get it.
  Multiplayer is a different story. I only saw two gametypes which are infection, and another i cant 
 remember, possibly a deathmatch type. Anyways, the same old repetitive matches can be boring and 
 might have most people ignoring multiplayer all together.
  The best part is having an awesome blade attached to your characters palm and chopping anyone in 
 its way. In campaign i know you can use an after-touch feature to move it yourself.
  So overall this game isnt worth whatever price it is unless its just 10 bucks. If your a sci-fi 
 die-hard then i recommend that you buy it but otherwise i wouldnt.
  
  6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  set during the Cold War, an American submarine surfaces off of the coast of Lasria, a fictional 
 Eastern European city. This vessel's intent is not to attack or survey. Rather, it has risen from 
 the murky depths to signal defeat. Its hull has been breached, not by a torpedo or a depth charge, 
 but by something that physically tore it open like a can of beans. It doesn't take the Lasrian 
 military long to investigate, but the only thing they learn is that the cause of the breach is 
 still nestled within the submersible, waiting for human contact.
  
  After this heart-pounding tease, the game flashes forward 20 years. Hayden Tenno, an American operative 
 sent to gather intelligence, is understandably on edge. But it's not what hides in the shadows 
 that worries him; it's the air he breathes. Within this first level, the game successfully creates 
 an unsettling atmosphere that makes you think this rabbit hole must be incredibly deep. With an 
 agitated Lasrian army standing between you and your job, it also doesn't hold back from throwing 
 the you into the fires. Even in this introductory zone, the gunplay is very impressive, and should 
 make anyone who has played Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War feel right at home. It offers a beautifully 
 designed over-the-shoulder targeting system, visceral pop-and-shoot gunplay, and plenty of fodder 
 to mow down. 
  
  This early gameplay, as entertaining as it is, is just a prelude to greater things. The game really 
 doesn't begin until Hayden is infected at the end of the level. Rather than developing a cough 
 or the sniffles, his right arm mutates it a hulking mess of flesh, metal, and something alien. 
 This should be reason for concern, but this gross mutation does bring a profound advantage  one 
 of the coolest weapons in recent memory, the bladed glaive. It functions like a boomerang, but 
 before returning to your mutated hand, it usually cuts into an enemy with the remorselessness of 
 Wolverine's claws. Once this weapon is introduced, the gunplay is pushed to the side. The developers 
 have placed this unusual weapon on a pedestal and spend the rest of the game worshiping it. As 
 the enemies pour in, it gains new powers, such as the ability to channel fire, ice, and electricity, 
 and also the ability to slow time so that you can manually control its flight path. 
  
  It becomes such a focus, in fact, that even the story, which had such promise, is tossed into the 
 trash. I couldn't even begin to tell you what the game ended up being about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halvas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  well lets say i didn't feel like it was a average fps since i barley fired a gun,
  every once in a while i used my hand gun to finish some zombie that didnt want to die.
  what 
 i did use was the glaive:
  the glaive is a neat idea you can throw it, dip it in fire/ice/electricity and make it explode, 
 you can direct it to hit a certain enemy and you can slice people with it.
  the story is actually fine, 
  you play a agent thats sent on a secret mission and something goes 
 wrong
  it's but they didnt put in too much cutscenes and the only time they talk about the storyline is 
 between levels.
  although the only problem with the game is that its repetitive:
  you find yourself over and over again ducking behind a object in the same place while the same 
 people try to shoot you.
  
  dark sector is a fun game but i feel that the fights somehow feel abit repetitive.
  thats why 
 i gave it 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is just one of those games that you can love but then completely hate at the same time. 
 It mixes battles that seem to just tread on at times with some decently challenging puzzles. If 
 i were to compare this to any 2 games it would probably be a mix between Gears of War and Resident 
 Evil. At times, it seems like Dark Sector stole its controls from Gears of War. For example, you 
 use A to go in and out of cover, Sprint, and even role just like in gears of war. 
  
  The OVerall story in Dark Sector is actually really generic, it doesnt seem like they put any thought 
 into it at all. Basically you are on an island trying to keep an infection from spreading to the 
 rest of the world. While on the island you become infected and inherit many cool powers such as 
 a shield that can reflect bullets, you can also turn invisible to sneak past, or stealth assassinate 
 your foes. But, the coolest weapon in your arsenal would have to be the Glaive. Just think of it 
 as an extremely oversized ninja star that acts as a boomerang. To through the glaive you can tap 
 RB to through it, or hold it and release at a specific time to get 4x the damage. If performed 
 correctly, you can sever off basically any body part off of your foes. If you happen to come across 
 a fire you can through it into the flame and then at your enemies to set them on fire. The same 
 can be applied to electricity or even ice. Aside from the glaive, you are also packed with a heavy 
 arsenal of weapons, ranging from accurate sniper rifles, to high powered shotguns.
  
  With such a generic storyline, you would think this game sucks right? Wrong. This game offers many 
 different types of enjoyable combat ranging from sneaking past enemies and assassinating them with 
 the glaive, to having a full on asault that may last over 10 minutes. Cover is key when it comes 
 to surviving those long firefights. Just like in Gears of War, your health will regain after a 
 short period of not taking damage. Ammo is preety scarce in this game so you will have to endure 
 using the glaive for long periods of time. dont worry though, when used correctly, you could use 
 the glaive for the entire game if you wanted to, but it would get boring.
  
  Aside from the enjoyable gameplay, the visuals in Dark Sector arent half bad either. The graphics 
 will once again remind you of gears of war because you will be mostly playing in a dark depressing 
 type of environment. When compared with eachother the graphics in Gears are way better but Dark 
 Sector Still keeps up with some of the most visually impressive games on the market.
  
  All in All, Dark Sector is a decent game that offers a fun, but really really short single player 
 experience, so i recommend that you rent it because you most likely wont want to play it again 
 once you beat it a few times.
  
  Overall: 7.9
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8 
  Replay:7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Ok. I'll just say it now. I still want to see its original theme, the out space version. It looked 
 better. But after playing the demo I enjoyed it and gave this new direction a shot! Not bad at 
 all. But has some problems that drove me nuts. 
  
  I'll start with the good:
  
  -Its easy! lol. Even on the unlockable difficulty of Brutal its still pretty easy. And trust me 
 you will play it again since its addicting to kill people with the glaive and since you can't buy 
 everything the first time through. But yes its easy! Not super easy but easier then some games.
 
  
  -Its bloody and gorey. Not beyond imaginations gorey but gorey enough since your using a giant 
 predator disc! Theres no greater thrill then a slomo decapitation or watching a body split in two! 
 
  
  -Some don't like the story but I didn't think its horrible. Its not the best thing ever but I certainly 
 enjoyed it. Reminded me of some scifi/horror russian movie. 
  
  -The bosses while confusing at first as to what to do were fun to fight. Where as most of the time 
 in games its really easy or hard and not fun at all. These bosses put up a good fight, are fun 
 and make you scream "In your face!" when you kill them! 
  
  -Over all everything you do just fun! Using a pistol and glaive at the same time just rocks! Or 
 using your powers which I won't mention for sake of spoilers is just a great feeling. More so because 
 even with them you as easy as the game is your invincible! So when you do everything right you 
 feel so good... and hey... its just looks cool!
  
  So what makes the game so bad?:
  -For starters online mode is horrid. Theres not alot of players. I didn't get to play the one game 
 mode. But the other mode I played a few times was just crap. One guy is invisible..... totally. 
 And a few others have to kill him. Problem is since theres no even a trace of wheres he at its 
 near impossible to kill him. Person who actually can kill him becomes the invisible guy and scores 
 a point. This goes on until time is up. 
  
  -SP wise you can buy weapons with money you buy and upgrades you find in game. Problem is you can't 
 "unupgrade" items nor do you does this buy/sell system work like you think it would. Really needs 
 work. Make sure you wait a few levels before buying what you want. Because better weapons always 
 come along as you go on and problem is by the time the best come along you either have no money 
 left or you have saved everything but now will only get to use the new weapons for a little bit. 
 Weird design decision.
  
  -While the game is easy there are just some things that are beyond hard or at the least a royal 
 pain and make you scream "Why did they make that so difficult to do!". Such as a enemy you will 
 so often with a shield who stays close to the ground. This guy is a PAIN to kill and since all 
 he does is run up to you, stab you once and your dead it makes things very hard. Especially since 
 you have to leave cover to take him on usually which means being shot to death by everything else.
 
  
  -This game often leaves you wondering "What the heck do I do?!?!" While usually you can figure 
 out what to do you'll get to alot of points where you will spend like 10 minutes sitting in a room 
 or back tracking... etc because you have no idea what to do only to see there was a switch, barley 
 visible door, opening... etc. 
  
  -Same goes for bosses. As much as I loved them there is NO guidance on what to do,. You simple 
 see them and start to fight them. Theres no even environmental clues as to what to do like "Hey 
 I bet this handy RPG shoots that giant spike and it lands on that Troll!". Not here. You will often 
 run around like crazy until you figure out out how exactly to kill a boss.
  
  So these negatives really kind of hurt the games ratings. I can get past the online because the 
 SP was so fun. But the SP problems got on my nerves. Mixing very easy with sudden beyond hard things 
 or clueless spots drives me nuts. Make a game either easy, medium or hard. Not BOTH ends of the 
 extreme at once. All in all its still a good game worth the rental, its about only 10 hours I'd 
 say, longer on hard (aka brutal) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair21
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  When I read the preview in my issue of Game Informer, I got excited and practically drooled over 
 this game. Unfortunatly I didn't read the review.
  The game starts good with foreshadowing of a compelling storyline and fun mechanics. Then after 
 the first boss its all downhill. The combat either gets repetitive or when they introduce the fully 
 infected annoying. The infected are extremely dumb, utilizing the 'run up to him and blast away 
 with a RANGED attack' tactic. Although the glaive is fum it gets old (although hearing a person 
 scream as his body is torn in half does not.) Then there is a funny glitch, if I throw a power 
 throw and it hits a wall early on there is a 50-50 chance it will go through the wall instead of 
 bouncing off. Overall this is a decent game that did not live up to its ambition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoydeath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I know everyones been giving this game game a low score saying it sucks and I'm okay with that 
 because they have the right to say whtaever they want, but for me i think this game deserves at 
 least a 8, i had fun with this game, it wasn't too easy but wasn't too hard either and i know that 
 during the boss fights they don't tell you what to do because (i think) they don't have too many 
 games don't tell you how to beat the boss, some give hints but not all of them. I think the single 
 player campaign is decent enough and I love the multiplayer , only thing is that they have the 
 same problem that kane and lynch did: barely any maps and few game modes which even though thats 
 bad i still loved the multiplayer of kane and lynch and dark sector anyway, for me, as bad as anyone 
 said this game was I say make a second dark sector or downloadable content for this game because 
 i love this game and for that i give this game a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: customgtp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I must compare this game to gears of war because you can tell it is made with the same engine. 
 The movements, running effects, and how you hide behind thing are very similar. I have GoW and 
 have played it. Found it very boring. I know others love it. it does have a great Multi player 
 and the graphics are very good but I don't. Sorry for you fans. Now this game.... Great story. it 
 starts off right away with letting you know about the infection and the lock down that is going 
 on. The blade is the best. those that play and use the guns are just missing out. It reminds me 
 of the blade you pick up in Half Life 2 with the gravity gun. that was fun too! And this game never 
 gets boring. You get different enamies to fight and the blade and guns get more and more features. 
 Everytime I want to stop playing to save it for another day I deside to go one because I am having 
 too much fun. I recommend this game highly. Why it is a 7.5... I don't know. Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game upon it's release and was a bit sceptical because I saw the review from OXM 
 and they gave it a 5.5 out of 10. But then I actually read the review and it was the most childish 
 review I had ever read. It seemed to hurt Ryan Mcaffrey's feelings that the game was similar in 
 ways to Gears of War. Needless to say, my feelings of OXM reviews has forever changed. DarkSector 
 really has good things going for it. The Glaive for instance, the coolest weapon in the game, is 
 fun to use as it is gruesome. It all starts with an infection that creates this weapon called the 
 glaive, and as you move through the game your glaive becomes steadily more powerful as well as 
 acquiring other powers to help you through your seemingly hopeless journey to find a cure. However, 
 if it werent for the infection in the first place, you wouldnt be nearly as powerful as you are 
 with it. The trade off is worht it, so it seems. The glaive is able to absorb fire, ice and electricity 
 for a period of time and you are then able to freeze, incinerate or electrify the enemy and the 
 pull off horrendous finishing moves that are a twisted pleasure to preform. There is a few things 
 that could have made it more like Gears of War but that would be taking away from the originality 
 of the game. This game is alot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is one of those games that most gamers will play through once, then move on to something 
 else without a second thought. One of the big selling points of Dark Sector is the glaive. This 
 weapon is essentially a bladed boomerang. Yes, it's fun to use at first, but once you have chucked 
 this thing at enemies a couple dozen times, the novelty wears off. Early on I realized that the 
 glaive was actually less effective than simply using the games various guns. The most effective 
 use for the glaive is picking up items such as extra ammo and temporary enemy weapons. I say temporary 
 because the only way to keep the games guns is to purchase them without the anti-infection system, 
 which is on most of the enemy weapons. Most weapons can be purchased through the games black market 
 merchant (Think Resident Evil 4) . When you are not using the glaive, the game plays almost identical 
 to Gears of War. Dark Sector uses the same cover system as Gears of War, so when not using the 
 glaive, it becomes painfully obvious how similar the two games are. I also found that the game 
 is just plain boring. You end up fighting most of the same enemy types throughout the whole game. 
 Even the boss fights are nothing more than finding the enemies one weakness, and exploiting it 
 until they have been killed. The game is relatively easy. Most gamers will find that they can blast 
 through Dark Sector in no time. Once finished, most gamers will not play through Dark Sector again, 
 unless they are achievement junkies i think it was a big wast of 60 bucks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector has really good graphics and the Glaive is a great weapon but... I find the game is 
 too darn slow and the story is almost non-present. The main character moves extremely slow and 
 it makes the gunfights really tedious and longer than they should be. All the tricks you can do 
 with the Glaive is cool but is not good enough to keep me going.
  
  The graphics are great but some of the levels look bland and the enemies doesn't have the personality 
 of Gears's Locust.
  
  The sound is decent but nothing more.
  
  The story is paper-thin and doesn't make any sense most of the time. This game should last you 
 10 to 15 hrs but that's because the character moves so slow and some of the gunfights are tedious.
 
  
  
  The multplayer is pretty much tacked on and won't keep you interested for long. At least the game 
 gives you some easy achievements if you plan on sticking with it thru the end.
  
  You should rent this game before purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  No you're not dreaming, Dark Sector plays very much like Gears of War and Resident Evil 4. It takes 
 probably the best aspects of both of those games and applies them well to this one. Granted it's 
 not quite as well exectuted as it's original source, but while you are waiting for Resident Evil 
 5 or Gears of War 2, Dark Sector will fill the void. 
  
  Ok so there isn't really much of a plot here, but then again there really wasn't much of a plot 
 in Gears of War either. That's probably what makes these games so much fun to play. You don't have 
 to really pay attention, you can just pick up and play. If you Dark Sector down and then pick it 
 up again a week later you won't have to try to rehash the plot in your head. Dark Sector is very 
 good about throwing you right into the action with out boring you with any type of Metal Gear Solid 
 45 minuet cut scenes. So if you are in the mood for cut to the chase, this game is for you. Basically 
 you play an American spy who has been sent in to assassinate several operatives that you don't 
 really want to take out. But you do anyway. Along the way you become infected with a disease that 
 mutates because of a hypo you took earlier to avoid getting infected. Thus your arm goes metal 
 and you grow a glaive out of it. As you go along through out the game you find more out about the 
 virus, your mission, and the operatives behind the mess. 
  
  The controls are very simular to Gears of War. You run, gun, and take cover. Although the AI isn't 
 quite as steep as GOW, you still will see the "You are Dead" screen plenty and have to figure out 
 new ways of dispatching you enemies. It's not so much that they are difficult but the sheer number 
 that are thrown at you. There are also quite a few ingenious boss battles through out the game, 
 right on par with some of GOWs. The controls are responsive enough and they are set up faithfully 
 to that of GOWs so if you've played GOW then you should be all set. There is an upgrade system 
 that is taken directly from Resident Evil 4, even along with a pithy shop keeper. There you can 
 buy new weapons, upgrade old ones, and store other ones. Although through the game your main weapons 
 will be the pistol and the glaive. Really with all the cool things you can do with the glaive you 
 won't really want to change. 
  
  The graphics are top notch, right on par with GOW, and probably better the Halo 3s. The sounds 
 and music are pretty cool. Granted there may not be enough here for a soundtrack, but the sounds 
 and music don't feel out of place or annoying. The voice acting is pretty good too, although it 
 won't win any awards, it does work well with the plot. 
  
  I wouldn't suprise me if Dark Sector is the first of a trilogy and frankly it's a fun game that 
 is worth a look. The only real issue I had is that you use your main weapons, the glave and the 
 hand pistol a whole lot more then any other guns. Granted you upgrade all the other ones, but it 
 turns out that the one combo you stared with is the best way to go. If you aren't sure about the 
 game, it's still worth a rent. If you are a GOW fan or an RE4 fan you'll probably enjoy this game 
 for a little while. It's not too enganing that you will holdup for weeks on end in you room like 
 a Final Fantasy game, but the game does challenge you and you will want to play through it until 
 the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leekiboi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. It has great game play with solid controls, which truly make this 
 game an excellent experience. 
  
  The cover system is identical to that found in GEARS or Uncharted and so is the shooting system, 
 so instantly you have yourself a great cover and fire system which is easy to use. The main feature 
 of this game, however, is the glaive. This metal boomerang can be hurled at decapitating speeds 
 and will return straight back to you in a few seconds and that can be done whilst firing a pistol 
 as well. As you progress through the game you unlock abilities which make the game great fun and 
 offer many ways to tackle a combat situation. Another feature is the puzzles you face. These never 
 venture past an easy difficulty but offer a distraction between combat and introduces you to the 
 idea of combining your glaive with the elements. Finally a nice addition is the black market. Here 
 you can buy weapons that are not tagged, thus preventing them from blowing up in your hand like 
 the weapons from fallen soldiers, ( another way the developers have tried to encourage glaive- 
 based combat) .
  
  The graphics on this game are amazing and you really appreciate the detail put into them. Also 
 there are no worries with the frame rate which always keeps at a constant and smooth rate. The 
 sound is also very good- not top notch but still it is good enough for some recognition. 
  
  The story isn't particularly well developed, and whilst it explains some of the events that 
 happen within the game, many loose ends are presented and are not tied up by the end of the game. 
 This is a shame in a game which is spectacular in so many other areas.
  
  Online is a nice distraction but I personally didn't play it very often. You can play a tem death 
 match with one player on each team playing as an 'infected' thus granting them the abilities that 
 the stories protagonist has, or you can play a mode known as Infection. In this one player is infected 
 and the others have to try and take them down before their team is eliminated. Who ever kills the 
 infected player then becomes him the next round. 
  
  Overall this game is a fantastic experience with great game play which includes brutal finishers 
 and even some vehicle sections, but is sadly let down by a poor story. That aside, however, I strongly 
 recommend you get this game. You won't regret it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daman12369
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is one of the games that after you play you say WTF!? However this isn't a bad WTF, 
 but a good WTF. The game is very fun, and once you get to the third level, you get the good upgrades 
 and that when the game picks up. Now if you are looking for a story, i wouldn't look here, its 
 very confusing and weird in many sections. The Blade you use is very easy to control and can be 
 fun to use. However when faced with puzzles that need the blade, those puzzles are confusing and 
 boring. The weapons are the biggest disappointment in the game, seeing has the pistol is the best 
 weapon in the game. So the whole game will be spent using you're blade and pistol. The multilayer 
 is good, but is very off put. The campaign is a good length but is a little short if yoy are an 
 experienced player. The game is a rental at best and is very fun, however the game can get on your 
 nerves and will piss you off more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancoulon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The second I started to play Dark Sector I couldn't help but notice the graphics. Which makes for 
 the first category. The graphics in this game are really great. Next, the gameplay is pretty fun 
 just throwing your glaive at someone's head and watching them die. Next, the replay value is not 
 high. The really only reason why you would get back on Dark Sector is to finish the game on Brutal 
 Difficulty or to play on Xbox Live if you have it. Unless you want all the achievements in the 
 game to. All in all Dark Sector was an enjoyable experience in which I would go back to the game 
 one day to play the missions if I'm bored. Also Xbox Live is only two gameplay modes Epidemic and 
 Infection which are pretty good. Dark Sector is worth a rental if not a buy if you like the game 
 a lot which is why I give Dark Sector an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector. A game changed from the beginning. Although Dark Sector isnt what i expected it to 
 be, i know some people will love it, as its a combo or RE4 and GoW. I was disappointed because
 
  1: The stories not what I expected
  2: The gameplay was pretty bad
  3: It was extremly hard at some points.
  
  These points weren't terrible, but they did make 
 it worse. There is only one difficulty setting; if you cant beat that, too bad. The one part that 
 got me steaming was in "Moths To the Flame". The night part. People who played Dark Sector should 
 know what im talking about. To be honest, i wish i hadn't paid 65$ for it. If you want to buy Dark 
 Sector and you've never played it, remember this~don't. Rent it or borrow it or whatever, but don't 
 buy it. Wait
  for Gears 2 or Left 4 Dead, but do not buy this unless you've already played it and enjoyed it. 
 It is fun though at some points, like glaive killing. That never gets old. But that doesn't make 
 up for the amounts of suck in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok the control is difficult but the blade is awsome the story is that this one guy 
 is an action soldier hunting monsters and soldiers he has a blade that can throw around and into 
 the fire and cut the soldiers head off this game is pretty diffuclt and challenging but the graphics 
 are pretty good and the guns are supreme the good graphics and excellentstory
  :the bad stupid control and angle
  the medium the storyline is excellent and good action
  The 
 bosses oh boy there the biggest hardest bosses im still on the first level its not the best 3rd 
 person or the worst but it might be a good rental game and to my opion this game is the most hard 
 game out there than ninja gaiden i just played the demo but the game to me is a fair game the weapons 
 are pretty cool and i like the graphics alot but the only thing is dont buy it it is good for rental 
 but the best version is the 360 version so if you want to buy it get the 360 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cakolukia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector starts off with a surprisingly good premise, but finishes leaving you kind of confused. 
 The story wasn't all it was cracked up to be, and when the final credits roll you ask yourself, 
 "That's it?" Besides the lack of storyline depth, the action and fighting was done to near perfection. 
 I was a bit skeptical about the glaive when I first heard of this game, but wowit can really deal 
 some serious damage! I don't know how he learned to use it so fast after just acquiring its powers, 
 but it really packs a punch! 
  
  The online modes in this game are pretty fun, but only when you wield the glaive. So, if you aren't 
 really that good, or someone else is really quite good, you won't have too much fun dying every 
 second. If that is the case, you probably won't have much reason to continue the online modes and 
 will most likely stop all together.
  
  With no story, however, this third person sci-fi shooter relies fully on the action and nothing 
 else, and while the glaive is a magnificent weapon to wield, the fun-level simply can not last 
 the majority of the game, making Dark Sector a fun at first glance game, with no real payoff, and 
 no reason to keep you coming back for more.
  
  7.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  dark sector is a decent game to play. it has lots of action and an ok story to move things along, 
 but i think it just falls short of being a good game. this game is pretty much gears of war and 
 resident evil 4 combined, but dark sector falls way short of being as good a game as those two. 
 this is a pretty good shooter non the less and using the glaive to kill you're enemies is pretty 
 fun. 
  I give the gameplay in this game a 6 out of 10. pretty good gameplay. 8 out of 10 for the graphics. 
 great graphics. 9 out of 10 for the sound. the sound effects are sharp, the music is superb, and 
 the voice acting is top notch. 5 out of 10 for the value and replay value. there's not much replay 
 value to this game. I give 7 out of 10 for the tilt. the controlls are quite good. controlling 
 the main character is easy. overall i give this game a 6.5 out of 10. thus this is a pretty good 
 game. as i've said dark sector falls just short of being a good game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocturnalnym99
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  I don't often write reviews on games, with many varying opinions I tend to keep mine to myself 
 and try to enjoy the "game" at hand. I have waited almost 4 weeks to finish, replay as well as 
 think about this, because something prompted "my game testing and powers of critique" from the 
 start THE RATINGS. Thus more divided opinions. I am a little upset and I feel a lot of gamers feel 
 similar. With all the hype over Gears, Halo, GTA"X?", COD4, and a small handful of others (not 
 many thanks to the great development going on out there .. said with sarcasm) it is easy for a 
 game like this to be no.1: overlooked and no. 2: pigeonholed. Just as FYI, not for bloated head! 
 but because this is long and there some "beta" oriented issues here... I was hired by Adobe on 
 a special, big $$ panel for the testing and review for their investors prior to the initial launch 
 of the CS suite years ago, there were only six review groups I was alone. So credentials? You decide. 
 Anyway, onward) .
  
  Yes it definitely plays 90% like GEARS OF WAR which to my knowledge is an amazing technical and 
 artistic achievement... Not only an epic great story, best of the year, with all the characters 
 and action, but also marvelously addictive game mechanics (COOP IS BRILLIANT) and intense action 
 we had not seen since well... Ahh I guess that would be RESIDENT EVIL 4! Another absolute hands 
 down CLASSIC. Like most of the RE franchise it caters to the more desolate and macabre side of 
 horror I prefer. The kind that gets into your psyche. Where Dark Sector is a shallower dive into 
 a grim, sci-fi / action game. So here we have a game that continually is likened to its predecessors. 
 Which both standing at 9.6 is a significant consideration. Both awesome technical achievements 
 and an advancement in gaming (yet another platform/genre is born?) . Some say these similarities 
 are a weakness, I tend to prefer the original as well, but I also WANT MORE OF WHAT IS GOOD; give 
 me DARK SECTOR!!!!
  
  So what on earth is going on here?
  
  I'll give it that the story lacks the production value of the massive giants it is compared to 
 (see "similar games" to the right!   ) But also if you pay attention is not so horrible, as it 
 doesn't really try to take you much farther than the few decently animated cut scenes and some 
 artistic, atmospheric fun. When I was younger we were lucky if the video game "came" with a story, 
 you pretty much had to make it up along the way (Intellivision D&D yeah!) So to me, sit back and 
 make of it what you can. I've seen a lot of movies with less plot. 
  
  Anger Management Issues; if you simply do not like the "genre" of the game, and you don't even 
 take the time to research all angles. Don't make stupid statements and sweeping generalizations 
 about something you wouldn't like anyways. SERIOUSLY. Your basically just spreading undue negativity 
 over issues with either the retail price or your rental fee that has NOTHING TO DO WITH THE GAME, 
 so go away and don't waste everyone's time. Just state you shouldn't have been interested in the 
 first place. Read a review or take a look at the back of the box if you are not sure before you 
 play?! It is pretty straightforward.
  
  Developers & Publishers (TAKE HEED!) ; on some level's you asked for it. And I too am frustrated 
 by these "trends". Typically shortened campaign in order to compensate for an unnecessary and underdeveloped 
 multiplayer mode (no one is even playing) . There was plenty of room in there for a GREAT Cooperative 
 mode by simply adding a generic character to the "simple" story line, another blackops agent for 
 example. But of course after all of the other trimming and waste there is no room for that. 
  
  Speaking of room disc space... What in bloody'ell ever happened to the double disc epic's of 
 the past? 20-30 hr single player games have all boiled down to 5-7 hours generally (if played on 
 hard) . 7-10 "Levels". Please I beg of you all! Do not let this continue. And I guess that is why 
 if anything I would downgrade this game a point or so. 
  
  I say "But not a 7.5 Rating!". But the public has spoken. With the massivly overhyped GTA a perfect 
 10! What kind of popularity contest is this here? Let's be frank, and stop deceiving people who 
 are just trying to enjoy or see if they might enjoy the game. Also PS. someone dropped the ball 
 on the advertisement and marketing (should have called my company!) , again overall I'd say everyone 
 ran out of money. And it is sad because I think with a few more months polish and some added value 
 this could have been one WHOPPER of a game! Even without all the hype.
  
  Here is my breakdown, professionally speaking. (Again... like Gears) You've got awesome action 
 and control (9 - 10) , the GUNS ARE FUN!! and the upgrade system is a blast (I think I wasted more 
 time playing with gun options!) I really think BOTH cover and stealth are now standard game mechanics 
 that should not be ignored by any means (for both character and AI) . Did I not also mention the 
 graphics? (10) While the Gamma in the publication was so off that adjustments were in order, the 
 textures, level design and models were all as solid as the games it has been compared to. This 
 could have been compensated for by a simple filters or color profiles in the options such as The 
 Darkness and others, but there is a brightness slider. Sound is unremarkable, but decent as there 
 are reminiscent sounds of Escape From New York or John Carpenter in particular, maybe Romeroesque 
 as you'd expect. Good quality production. GUNS GO BOOM!! (9.0-9.5) . The game has weak replay value 
 overall but for the difficulty and achievements, although the guns will keep you restarting the 
 levels over and over. Again COOP could have made this much better. So tilt (stupid... er popularity) 
 7.0 at best and that is about what does it in.
  
  So that's all. The end of this tirade... at least for now. Like I said I won't often bother, but 
 I think it's worth it to stand up for this game (as well as the host of points listed here) I give 
 it a varying 8.5 - 9.0 Thanks for listening
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: streak000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is one of a few games with the dubious honour of having been banned in Australia. This 
 was undoubtedly due of its fetishistic love for casual decapitations and stylish amputations, which 
 are incredibly easy and intuitive to pull off. However, being banned would indicate that this is 
 a distinctly adult-only experience, but sadly, DS would be more appealing to young kids who don't 
 need a good story, or a whole lot of context to become immersed in a game. As it is, DS is simply 
 a nice-looking, but extremely derivative bloodbath, and not a whole lot more. At a time when the 
 industry is trying to shake off its image of being nothing more than a mindless hobby for children, 
 DS gives plenty of ammunition to the Jack Thompsons of this world. The storyline is just a flimsy 
 excuse to indulge in ultra-violent fantasies of joyfully separating thousands of heads and limbs 
 from their pixelated owners. Bioshock, this is not.
  
  The biggest problem, then, is the story. The plot, such as it is, is made up of garbled, confusing 
 cutscenes that hardly provide any context for the carnage. For a story-based campaign, DS provides 
 shockingly little story. You're aware that you're chasing an evil scientist across a fictional 
 Eastern European country, and that a lot of people have become infected with a virus that turns 
 them into zombies, which tend to rush at you mindlessly, or into mutants, which shoot retro-coloured 
 laser beams out of their hands. As to the nature of the virus, the motivation of the bad guys, 
 or even your own motives for mowing down thousands of generic soldiers and zombies, the plot remains 
 annoyingly vague. 
  
  Bits of backstory are introduced but then completely forgotten about, and none of the characters 
 (including the one you play as, Hayden) give you any reason whatsoever to care about what happens 
 to them. For example, a woman who appears in cut-scenes from time to time seemingly despises Hayden, 
 and refers to something that happened in the past as the reason for her hatred. The thing is, you 
 never find out just what happened in this all-mysterious past. The game seems happy to tell you 
 only that Hayden had killed some people because he thought they were "sick", and leaves it at that. 
 Riiiight, so that's why the woman hates me..... It's beyond a joke. I don't expect all games to 
 have Oscar-worthy scripts, but some context or explanation is essential. DS provides almost none 
 of either. Ultimately, It is possible to wrangle some sense out of the story by filling in the 
 gaps with your own imagination and assumptions, but this takes far too much effort over such an 
 unimaginative, uninteresting script. It's like reading every 30th page of a book. You may get the 
 general gist, but nothing more.
  
  Another problem is that DS is one of the most shamelessly derivative games I have ever played. 
 It's 75% Gears of War, 20% Resident Evil 4, with a bit of Half Life 2 thrown in for good measure. 
 The cover mechanics, the vault-and-run, and the aesthetics of the environment are lifted directly 
 out of GoW. The black-market where you purchase weapons, the mysterious virus, and the over-the-shoulder 
 shooting perspective are pure RE4. The only original thing is the glaive, but even that is a direct 
 copy of the bladed weapon seen in the 80s' movie Krull. Still, it's hard to be critical of the 
 glaive, as it's the only thing that differentiates DS from any other generic shooter released this 
 generation.
  
  It's incredibly fun to steer your bladed boomerang of death in slow motion, and amputate a soldier's 
 leg with surgical precision, before decapitating his friend in the same throw. It almost makes 
 the pittiful story forgivable, until you start wondering just why this virus causes a frisbee-like 
 bladed weapon to sprout out of Hayden's hand on your command. You also wonder how a single virus 
 could grant Hayden so many extremely useful super-powers, such as the ability to become invisible, 
 or to steer your glaive in flight. Then you just start wishing for answers again, but the game, 
 of course, never provides them.
  
  The graphics are very competently rendered, but because the game looks and feels so similar to 
 GoW, comparisons are inevitable. And sadly, it's a comparison that comes out firmly in GoW's favour. 
 Both games use a "destroyed beauty" motif, with lots of crumbling architecture and dingy corridors, 
 but DS simply feels less authentic, and therefore not as impressive as Epic's blockbuster. Nevertheless, 
 there was a moment early on in the game, when I put the controller down thinking I was watching 
 a cutscene, but it turned out to be a particularly gorgeous-looking passage of gameplay. A special 
 mention must also go to the impressive prologue mission, which is shown in black-and-white, and 
 provides an intriguing, noirish feel, which the game, unfortunately, completely abandons soon after.
 
  
  Having said all that, most things in DS work as they should. Melee combat is borderline broken, 
 but this doesn't detract from the overall experience significantly. The controls are very responsive 
 and intuitive. The game is mostly challenging, without ever becoming too frustrating. The cover-and-run 
 mechanic functions well, and the glaive remains fun to use for the duration. A handful of boss 
 battles, as well as a sequence in which you pilot a Mech-like robot, provide some much needed variety. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, the game never really gets into stride. It's all a bit formulaic, a bit dull. Repetitive 
 enemy encounters, unexciting set pieces, and a nonsensical plot conspire to completely destroy 
 the pacing, making certain parts of Dark Sector feel very monotonous. Furthermore, it simply lacks 
 character. It's missing that certain spark that separates great shooters from merely decent ones. 
 But if nothing else, it does provide a moderately enjoyable diversion overall. 
  
  The game should take you about 10 or so hours to finish, but there is next to no replay value, 
 so when you complete the story, you'll probably shelve DS, never to think about it again. In the 
 end, it's far from a bad game. It's just not a particularly memorable one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshuaM55
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a third person shooter for both the 360 and PS3. You play Hayden, a Special Forces 
 agent on a mission to kill an infected agent captured by Mezner, a scientist gone mad
  While planting the C4 to blow up the island Mezner is located on, and try to escape, he encounters 
 an infected beast that works with Mezner, and infects Hayden. (Are you still following this?)
 
  Now, with Hayden infected, super power are inadvertently at your whim, and you intend to use them 
 well.
  The gameplay in Dark Sector is a lot like that to gears of war. You play over the shoulder of Hayden, 
 any resident evil 4 players will be used to this, while being able to go in cover, run and roll 
 using only the A button. You use the left trigger to aim more precisely, which is both brilliant 
 for more long ranged attacks, and even up close when using the Glaive.
  The Glaive is one of the many aspects of this game that make it unique. This is a pinwheel-shaped 
 weapon attached to his arm through the infection, which allows you to throw it, and have it return 
 to you like a boomerang. The Glaive deals massive amounts of damage to the enemy, and is truly 
 fun to use! You can use it in many different ways, bash with it up close, throw it and slice your 
 enemies up, achieve power-ups with it (explained next) , deal quadruple damage with it by charging 
 the Glaive up, and control it while you move it through the air. (Takes breath)
  The power ups consist of 3 main types, fire, frost and shock. All of these give damage in that 
 form, so fire will cause the enemy to burn, allowing easier finisher moves and prolonged damage. 
 Frost will actually freeze them, allowing you to grab your trusty shotgun, and blow the enemy into 
 a million little shard of ice. My favourite, shock, sends many thousands of volts through the enemy 
 and get to watch the enemies corpse shake, shudder, and finally collapse to the ground in almost 
 a comical form. Truly Brilliant!
  
  To accompany the Glaive, you can do something called After Touch, a brilliant aspect of the game 
 that becomes available early in the game. It allows you to control the flight of the glaive by 
 compensating for how far you can throw it. This allows power ups to be obtained through gaps in 
 the walls (intentional not a glitch) , and means you can kill enemies quivering behind walls at 
 the mere thought of you
  If, you managed to not kill the enemies from range, or you are overcrowded by hordes of mutants, 
 you can do something called a finisher, which means you kill the enemy in style, while giving yourself 
 a breather from the other enemies. This is a nice add in to the games long range fighting style. 
 The up close combat/melee is unfortunately fairly weak, and the bashing with the Glaive or your 
 weapon is hit and miss, but the Finisher moves adds some certainty to finish off the pain in the 
 ass in front of you!
  
  You have a few other superhuman abilities to accompany the glaive, mainly two that you will use. 
 One is a shield, activated by pressing the Y button, which is used to deflect gun shots from bosses 
 most of the time. In normal combat, you probably will not use it, as it doesn't last very long, 
 and you could just get cover behind a box.
  The other more useful skill is invisibility, which like it sounds, sends you invisible for a short 
 amount of time. This means you can easily kill an enemy from behind, without worry of damage. Unfortunately, 
 this is not unlocked until the end of chapter 7, which is quite late, and therefore you do not 
 get to enjoy this skill as much as possible. This skill is really good in online, as you can disguise 
 yourself past the normal players, and go for the leader.
  
  You can also use normal style weapons, like any other shooter, such as machine guns, shotguns and 
 revolvers. All of these can be upgraded with countless briefcases you can pick up throughout the 
 game, which offer increased damage, more accuracy, the ability to shoot through enemies to hit 
 more then one at a time, and loads of others. As good as the weapons are, and they are highly effective, 
 you will find yourself getting bored while using them, and will finally just resort to using the 
 glaive again, which is so much more fun.
  
  There is an online mode, which is really unique, and fun to play. There are two modes you can pick 
 from, epidemic and infection. As I said, the invisibility is really good in online, and can be 
 used in either mode. The Epidemic style does take most advantage of it though, as when both superhumans 
 go invisible, they can just about see each other, making it an invisible fight, with just one mistakes 
 costing you your invisibility, with your opponent still creeping about
  Epidemic is the same sort of 4-v-4 style killing many gears of war players are used to. However, 
 only one of the players is superhuman on each team, everyone else is the simple enemies you have 
 to kill, who either carry machine guns or a shotgun. The objective is to kill the opposing enemy's 
 leader in anyway possible. Most of the time it will be leader on leader to finish the fight, but 
 sometimes you can get a kill if you are a normal player, from performing a Finisher from behind, 
 and man does it feel good, especially if it is a mate you can laugh at in the interval between 
 the rounds 
  The other mode is Infection, where one person is invisible, and up to eight other people are normal, 
 trying to kill the superhuman. Again, great with mates, and is fun for the superhuman as kills 
 can be quick, easy, and highly rewarding.
  
  However, and this is a big however, there are hardly any online matches at all. With no one online 
 in the ranked matches, it means online achievements are scarce, and even if you can find a game, 
 the amount of people in the match will be minimal, and not as enjoyable as 4-v-4 or 1-v-7. There 
 are a few more player matches being played, but these do not hold the achievements you may be missing.
 
  
  The achievements are actually surprisingly good, especially on the first play through. The achievements 
 are spread out throughout the levels, with your normal style complete a level for 10g, and complete 
 the game for 100g, but you also have kill certain bosses for a hefty amount of gamerscore, and 
 for killing people in a certain way. These are kills like incinerate 30 different enemies, shock 
 30 enemies, freeze 30 enemies, you get the idea
  There are also online achievements for both of the online modes, but as there is hardly anyone 
 playing ranked matches, the chances of you fulfilling these achievement are slim to none.
  
  If though, you are looking for a game with great gameplay, a fair bit of replay value (as hard 
 mode is unlocked after the first run through) and aren't so fussed about getting the full 1000 
 gamerscore, then this game is great for you, and a really good time filler while waiting for Gears 
 of War 2. And as they are planning a sequel, definitely one to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  dark sector is a very good game to be simple. it has a gameplay that is very new and makes you gripped 
 to your seat. great graphics, solid action, a whole new concept and story which tags well with the 
 new combat weapon, its moves and style, how the blade blends with fire, electricity and ways of using 
 them. its all plain fun and worth playing. it was more than what was expected from it. would have 
 been much better if it had a better story to say and had a bit more speed to it. the character and 
 his moves are excellent wherein the enemies lack the same. so a little misproportionate in a way 
 but it can be excused to what the game offers otherwise. would wait for a sequel to this game and 
 would like it if it offers the changes it needs to have. anyways to sum it up it is a must have 
 for it is different in everyway and is plain fun..' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chocobobilly123
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I liked Dark Sector, But only From A Few Levels In, After Checking The Achievements, the number 
 of levels was a let down as i'd had the game for no more than an hour and was already on the third 
 BUT, the levels DO get longer and more involving From there Forward, level four alone took a lot 
 of thinking and took me a good hour to get through. i Would say Gears Of War Fans would feel right 
 at home here with this game as alot of the controls are quite the same but in a "dark Sector" kind 
 of way. Weapons Changing, Commando Run, Cover, All Good Aspects Of A Nice Shoot Em Up Adventure 
 I Rated This 8.5 As The Only Thing I Can See Wrong Was Enemy A. I in Close Combat, Its A Little.......... Stupid. 
 But all In All I Would Recommend Dark Sector To anyone who has played Gears Of War And to Everyone 
 Who Likes A Challenge. The Brutal Difficulty Keeps you Playing For Hours More. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcrockjrbr
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 12, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I got knowledge about this game, and I was just waiting for it to come 
 out so I could buy it.
  
  Before buying it I read some reviews, and found that the game was not that interesting, though 
 I still bought it.
  
  The interesting point about the game is the mobility (though I think that the protagonist should 
 have a jump move) that our character has.
  
  It's true that you can do almost anything with the glaive, and it is much more powerful than any 
 weapon you can ever get.
  The moves are slightly slow to response, but that's not a real big problem. 
  
  The gaming 
 experience might seem a glimpse of Gears of War, at least I remembered a lot of it while playing, 
 the crouching, the running, and all stuff like that. But that is also where the similarity stops.
 
  
  The big point of it, and the one that makes me score the game in that grade, is that has no story, 
 if it has any, it is lost in the midst of all the blood around the game. It comes a time where 
 all you have to do is shoot, cut some heads, fight some enemies with the worst moves you can pull 
 up your sleeve and that is it!
  
  I mean, how can anyone write a game without a story??? Or at least an understandable story... I 
 know many games, and I really mean many, where the story is what saves the game from being the 
 worst ever! And that's not what happens here.
  
  Though there's no story, I'm sure that to pass some time it's a great game, but that's it, only 
 fun and enjoyment of cutting heads and enemies by the middle.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Tyrant
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector was a nnounced a long time ago, was even cancelled, but was brought back by D3 and 
 Digital Extremes. And that was a good decision! DS features some hot-blooded actiion, even though 
 the flat storyline takes a little out of the experience.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Dark Sector has nicely detailed graphics, from characters to environments, the only complaint may 
 be thai it is a bit hard to see sometimes, because of the darkness. Yes, I know it is the DARK 
 Sector, but I had to turn brightness up, and I don't like to do that a lot.
  
  Sound: 8.6/10
  The Voice Acting is good, nothing special, but fits the bill nicely. Sound Effects 
 are great, gunshots, glaive-throwing and exoplosions sound realistic. The rarely-present music 
 is good.
  
  Gampelay: 8.9/10
  Dark Sector is a lot of fun. The glaive is a fun gimmick, that you use to open doors, make your 
 way through, and, of course, rip enemies apart. There are also weapons, that are sold by the Black 
 Market, and upgrades through the game.
  
  Story: 7.0/10
  The weakest point of the game. Dark Sector really starts out promising, with Hayden Tenno, the 
 character you control, infiltrating a Soviet Base. Promising, if you knew what was going on. Little 
 details are given thoroughout the game, making the story a bit flat. Nonetheless, it is somewhat 
 compelling.
  
  Overall: 8.4/10
  Dark Sector really surprised me. Not overly long or short, a bare-bones online play, and the fun 
 action was enough to keep me playing this game, that every fan of third person shooters must own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 10, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Even on games I'm not too keen on or dont really see the greatness too well, I usually try to comment 
 on the good sides mostly unless the game gets me sooooo frustrated that I cant see any good sides 
 to it; Luckly this game didnt do that. 
  Dark Sector is a great game for those who loved Gears Of War and it's gameplay, The Glaive is not 
 only a great and addicitve weapon to use but it gives you that sense of 'I just kicked your ass' 
 like the chainsaw in Gears Of War.
  The story tells us of an agent that has been infected by a disease of some sort and discovers his 
 powers as he ventures through the gloomy levels, You will learn how to use the Glaive like never 
 before; Picking up weapons with it is a very nice technique!
  On my view of the game, The game can get a little hard in some bits with a mixture of guards with 
 explosives and guards with shields that take forever to kill and the military alarm on the guns 
 get a little frustrating when you desperately need it.
  Playing On-Line I have not tried yet but I'm sure loads will find it fun to play.
  Visual Effects 
 and Music are great and enjoyable, It doesnt hurt to stop and look around!
  Overall, I think Dark Sector is a great alternative to the Gears Of War fans that are still waiting 
 for the sequal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Yeah, it's true, the story is less than compelling. It's disjointed, hard to follow, and generally 
 lacking any type of good storytelling you might expect. However, the underlying game and everything 
 outside the story is brimming with greatness, and is a thrill-ride that is hard to put down, even 
 after having beaten it.
  
  I spent around 20+ hours playing this game before this review, and I have to say, I still want 
 to go back and play the game more. The brutal setting that unlocks is challenging beyond words, 
 and has drawn me back in. Dark Sector is without a doubt one the most underrated games in recent 
 memory. Outside of the story, this game deserves nothing but praise. Excellent graphics, great 
 controls, cool weaponry that you can upgrade, challenging AI, cool bosses, etc.
  
  Buy this game now if you liked Gears of War. The story isn't as good, but the gameplay is right 
 up there with Gears, and you'll get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a very fun game whenever you play through the campaign the first time. The glaive 
 was an amazing idea that could have made an incredible game if only say epic had that in their 
 hands insted of D3/Digital Extremes. The graphics in Dark Sector are pretty impressive at most 
 times, it is very similar to the graphics style of Gears of War, except they aren't as good. The 
 combat in Dark Sector is extremely lacking UNLESS you are using the glaive. The glaive is Dark 
 Sector and Dark Sector is the glaive. You need to use the glaive to have any fun with this game, 
 but when you do it is quite entertaining. The multi-player in Dark Sector is just a tacked on piece 
 of sh**. The lag is horrible and the game-types are extremely boring. A negative thing of Dark 
 Sector is its storyline. They make it seem as if they are going to make this amazing storyline, 
 but half way through you realize you don't care for any of the characters and the storyline is 
 non-existent. In the end Dark Sector is a one time roller-coaster ride that breaks down after you 
 finish so you can never go on it again. The glaive is fun while it lasts and once that fun ends 
 Dark Sector ends along with it. I would recommend to rent this game but save yourself $60.00 and 
 do not but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  The game happens in an alternative space/time where the Soviet Union was never torn apart and the 
 Cold War lingers on for years, the player will take control of North-American agaent Hayden. It's 
 clear that the guy is a black-ops operative, the guy who's sent to do the dirty work (killing captured 
 agents, etc.) . As the game begins we have a video of a submarine comming to surface and an old 
 man boarding another boat, this one with a hude hole on top of it, something's alive inside and 
 attacks the old man, right after the olayer takes control of Hayden as he infiltrates a soviet 
 base. This first "chapter" actually plays in black & white so that you're given a feeling of old 
 movies. The mission is about about killing a captive agent and a traitor that is now a kind of 
 terrorist. Your mission is unsuccesful: you are captured by a very strange "thing" and infected 
 with whichever virus your enemy plans to sell as a weapon, however you do manage to escape... for 
 a while. That's when, out-numbered and out-gunned by two soldiers, something awakes inside of you 
 and the "glaive" comes from inside your hand. The glaive is a manifestation of the virus in you, 
 it's a razorblade weapon that works like a boomerang, it's your main weapon and it can be charged 
 with ice, fire or electricity along the game.
  Graphics are what is expected of X360, nothing less nothing more, human enemies (soldiers) are 
 full of details, the zombies however don't look too good and are also the major negative point 
 of the game. Bosses however are what makes the game worth the price, they're simply great to fight 
 making you use most of your powers in order to bring them down.
  Your powers, other than the glaive, consist in a stealth ability that turns you invisible for a 
 while and a shild that deflects bullets to where your aim is facing (which is pretty good) . There 
 are many weapons in the game, but most come from enemies and their weapons have an auto-destruct 
 system that tears them apart after a few moments of use by an infected person, there's a black-market 
 in the game though, there you can buy new weapons, upgrade them and choose a handgun and a machine 
 gun to take with you.
  Gameplay is absurdly alike Gears of War, only you'll also get a chance of taking control of a few 
 vehicles (mechs actually) ; so yes, gameplay is consistent and not frustrating.
  The scenario is pretty good, mostly based on industrial ambience and the killing is pretty nasty 
 as well, you'll actually be cutting a lot of limbs away from people's body, a real blood bath.
 
  However the game is incredibly short and realatively easy, also, when it's over you'll open the 
 "Brutal Difficulty", but there's no real replay action here. since it'll NOT allow you to carry 
 on with the ammount of credits you had by the end of the game, for that you'd have to begin a new 
 game on the same difficulty. And it's quite impossible to get every gun available in only one gamethru, 
 so the developers didn't do a good job here.
  All in all it's a good game, any fan of Gears of War will like it. And different from what most 
 people say, the story might not be wonderful, but it's pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  So, I feel that I could spend a week talking about what this game does wrong and is missing, but 
 that would all really be beside the point of this decent, if not all that original action game.
 
  
  First, the best way to gage if you should play Dark Sector is by asking if you liked Gears of War, 
 but thought that it needed a touch of Half Life and Krull for good measure. Technically impressive 
 (visuals are nice and detailed, engine runs smooth, sounds are good, music is moody, controls are 
 fine) , Dark Sector manages to keep from being a complete "Me too" by offering the Glaive as a way 
 to spice up the action. I don't want to scoot around it: without the special throwing weapon, the 
 game would have fell flat. You often feel like you are moving from shoot out to shoot out until 
 you reach the next cut scene (story... not so great) until you get to a boss or set piece. Rinse, 
 repeat. Without the Glaive, it's slow-mo aftertouch, or other special abilities you gain throughout 
 the game, it would have been a painful shooter after level two. 
  
  Thankfully, the Glaive is really fun to use, and while the environmental upgrades/ puzzles feel 
 contrived, at least they are there to change things up a little. Aftertouch makes sending the blade 
 through some dude's head gruesome fun, and there is some challenge to be had from some tense boss 
 fights. Too bad I couldn't tell if I was doing damage half of the time... but hey! There's still 
 plenty to like here (if not love) , so if you are having trouble waiting for the next Gears of War, 
 and want something that plays a lot like it... but in a good way, give this one a try. As long as 
 you don't expect the world, you just might really enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmil315
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, it really ticks me off when they put all this hype on a game and gets everyone excited 
 they go to gamestop reserve the game then pick it up then they get home and realize they just wasted 
 60 bucks. this is exactly what dark sector was. i was excited to play it, the first mission was 
 good but then as i got further i realized the story was absolutely horrible if there was any and 
 the combat was WAAAAYYYYY to repeataive. And youd think that after being announced when the 360 
 was first released, that the developers would put more than 8 hours of gameplay. it makes me even 
 more angry that the graphics are awesome and they make it that crappy of a game. the developers 
 must have gotten lazy half way through and the writer must have no talent what so ever because 
 from the way it appeared it was like as if there was no writer. just a bunch of no talent @$$ clowns 
 sitting in a room brain storming lets make a game where you just kill a bunch of things with a 
 blade like a bunch of other games that have been already made. i only played this for about 3 hours 
 before hitting my head against the wall for being an idiot for putting my money towards a game 
 that i wouldnt spend money on nor would i even play it if i got for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvrenDawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector started out at the dawn of next gen gaming as a sci-fi game, but has slowly evolved 
 into what it is today: a bloody, dark, horroresqe game. The game has been compared to Gears of 
 War from as little as borrowing of ideas to blatant rip-offs. However, to say that it's just gears 
 with zombies is both insulting and shallow. The game is much, much more than that.
  
  Setting: The game takes place in present day Lasria (a fictional country) where an agent names 
 Hayden Tenno has been sent to stop a man named Mexner, who is planning to use a virus as a bioweapon. 
 Durring the mission, Hayden becomes infected himself but continues on his mission, fighting against 
 the soldiers occupying Lasria and the infected themselves. Here's the first unique game mechanic: 
 The Glaive. Haydens arm has been mutated and is now able to grow a triple bladed throwing weapon. 
 This becomes essential to combat from the moment he finds it (The first fight with it also has 
 Hayden stripped of ammo) . It's easy to use, rewards good throws with dismemberments and, once evolved, 
 can even be guided through the air. 
  
  Gears of War had a story as thin as water soup, Dark Sector is not much better. Most of the details 
 of Haydens past are obscurred to say the least, with encounters never really explaining themselves 
 and making the player feel left in the dark. Even an important fact that Hayden does not feel pain 
 because of a genetic condition is left out, even though this is the reason he does not go insane 
 from the pain of the infection. If you want my advice, don't bother trying to sort out the story.
 
  
  Graphics: Here the game shines. Textures and environments are detailed although a little bare as 
 the game takes place in an abandoned city. Effects like electricity and fire look very realistic, 
 and a very smooth framerate which stays high even when the action heats up. 
  
  Gameplay: Those who have played Gears of War will feel an obvious similarity, especialy with the 
 cover function. Hayden will take cover behind just about anything. Unfortunately, there is a glitch 
 when doing the Cover Slip move. Hayden will slip to the next cover spot, then exit cover when he 
 gets there, breaking up the otherwise good cover mechanics. 
  
  Durring fights, things stay simple. Hayden always has his glaive in his right hand and his pistol 
 in his left. So he can fire and throw at the same time. Using a rifle or other two handed weapon 
 means forgoing the use of your glaive. One low point is that your melee attack is so weak that 
 it's useless and your better off throwing your glaive. There are Finisher moves that will instantly 
 kill an enemy that has been stunned with the glaive, giving you some incentive to get up close 
 and personal.
  Where Gears focused on long fights from behind cover, Dark Sector requires a bit more than just 
 shoot and hide tactics. Not all enemies will be humans with guns, and even one human enemy hides 
 behind a thick shield, requiring some fast glaive work to take down before they kill you in one 
 hit. 
  On the subject of guns, you can take the guns from your enemies but the soldiers have fitted them 
 with "Governors" which destroys the weapon if picked up by someone who is infected. Taking a governed 
 weapon gives you about 20 seconds of use. Don't worry, there is a Lasrian underground where you 
 can purchase weapons permanently and upgrade them as well.
  
  Sound: The background music is not too memorable, with some exceptions. The sound effects are good 
 quality however, and the screams from dismembered enemeis sometimes a little too real. Like most 
 games, it suffers from the repetitive and often pointless enemy chatter.
  
  Length and Replay value. On your first time, Dark Sector will probably clock in around 8-9 hours. 
 An unlockable difficulty called "Brutal" will take about the same amount, since it is harder but 
 you wont be surprised. Moderate replay value.
  
  Multiplay: Sorry to say that I haven't played this online yet. Comments from others led me to believe 
 that it isn't too special.
  
  Breakdown
  +Combat is fun and Glaive controls well
  +Abilites gained are cool and useful
  +Graphics are of great quality
  +Sound effects are scary 
 realistic
  +A respectable length of 8 hours for a first time
  
  -Cover system need work
  -The Glaives hit detection sometimes is a little over sensitive
  -Music 
 is not very interesting. You don't notice much of it.
  -The Brutal difficulty is not very hard. 
  -Story is thin on the ground. Most of Haydens past 
 is obscured.
  
  Closing comments: It's at least worth renting. If you were looking forwards to it's release I don't 
 think you will be disappointed with your purchase. However, if all you had to say on the message 
 boards was "It's a Gears rip-off", you are not worthy enough to buy it. It's quality would be lost 
 on you anyway.
  
  -Evren 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  - great graphics
  - the glaive is an awesome weapon
  - starts out great
  
  NAYS
  - something happens mid-way and the game quality goes downhill
  - last couple of missions 
 are irritating
  
  Dark Sector is, without a doubt, a game with an enormous amount of potential. First revealed many 
 years ago with its cutting edge graphics, players were promised an out of the universe experience. 
 Despite out-of-the-universe games having come along before it, and despite it is no longer out-of-this-universe 
 in terms of gameplay, Dark Sectors still manages to deliver a unique experience thanks to a couple 
 of elements that set it apart from the crowd.
  
  From the get-go, it appears to be a different version of Gears of War, set in a different timeline 
 with different characters and story. You start the game as an operative infiltrating a base in 
 a great black and white (rather, muted colors) story sequence which shows you the ropes on the 
 control scheme. It should be familiar now since it does not set any new standard, but it feels 
 a bit loose when it comes to finding covers and sticking to it, but it isn't a pronounced issue.
 
  
  As per usual, something goes wrong in the mission which leaves you heavily wounded, and infected, 
 which suddenly makes you sprout a glaive from your right hand. The glaive is your primary weapon 
 which appears to be an enormous shuriken, and it is without a doubt one of the most awesome weapons 
 ever invented.
  
  The story starts out with a bang, and you get missing pieces of the mystery as you go along. Unfortunately, 
 at some point, things suddenly get messed up in the story department and it just breaks apart to 
 not make a lot of sense anymore. By the end of the game you would have gotten the jist of things, 
 but it is no way near as what is indicated by the story-heavy first two missions. There is a twist 
 or two but nothing epic. All these years in the making would have at least produced a good story.
 
  
  It is a good thing, then, that games like these don't REALLY need a story to get you going, because 
 Dark Sector does a great job in maintaining your excitement (for a while) through its inventive 
 use of the glaive.
  
  The glaive is basically a multi-purpose weapon. You can use it to snatch objects, destroy crates, 
 as well as heavily dismember enemies. The amount of entertainment derived from seeing limbs flying 
 is astronomical. As you progress, the glaive gains more powers, like the ability to be imbued with 
 electricity, fire, or ice, all of which are elements found in the environment. The imbued glaive 
 can be used to kill enemies creatively, solve environmental puzzles, and in some boss fights.
 
  
  While the environmental puzzle solving gets a bit repetitive, the use of the elemental glaive to 
 kill off enemies as well as boss fights is great. Boss fights are generally challenging, not in 
 the sense of you actually killing them but in figuring out what you need to do and how to use the 
 environment to finish them off. There are various boss fights in the game to keep you entertained 
 and are probably the highlight of the whole experience.
  
  The best part of the glaive is, however, is when you obtain the ability to actually control it 
 mid-flight. The game slows down into bullet time and the perspective changes to that of the glaive. 
 You then control it to go wherever you want it to go within its reach, and it will provide you 
 a first-hand experience of limbs flying off and what have you. It is something that never gets 
 boring but it slows down the pace considerably if you constantly use it.
  
  The game itself, for the first half, is challenging. Enemies are usually strategically positioned 
 to hamper your progress, and a different combination of enemy units is sent out to keep you on 
 your toes for strategy. In this department, the game doesn't disappoint. You'd be having fun trying 
 to find cover while gaining a good spot to finish off enemies in an order such that you can progress 
 forward.
  
  Something changes midway in the game and the gameplay elements begin to break apart. You can instantly 
 feel it, as though there was a change in the staff behind the game and a whole new team designed 
 the second part. Enemies are no longer "human", which isn't a bad thing, but instead of being tactical 
 they just keep swarming you from all directions, making the gameplay not only frustrating, but 
 much less tactical and enjoyable. You can still find cover and decapitate them from afar, but they 
 don't do anything strategic other than try to outnumber you. This comes clearly visible in the 
 later missions near the end where you go into open spaces with an almost infinite number of enemies 
 that keep sprouting out of nowhere.
  
  The problem is that you feel like the large amount of enemies in the later levels are there just 
 to make the game longer, because if you have not killed a specific number of enemies - or all enemies 
 - that keep coming then an event won't be triggered to open the door for you to progress. It defeats 
 the purpose of being tactical and defeats the purpose of using your glaive.
  
  All that said, the graphics are solid and detailed throughout, although the constantly dark atmosphere 
 and accompanying textures will tires your eyes and make you depressed. Some levels also go on for 
 a long while, traversing the same surroundings. It's great to look at but you would love to see 
 more variety in the art direction. The music is good and so is the voice acting. Not excellent 
 but never annoying - except for the screaming of some monsters which are just horrible to listen 
 to on loud volume.
  
  In the end, Dark Sector just falls a bit short on what it promised to deliver. For what it is, 
 it is a solid game. However, with all those years in the making, you would have hoped for a quality 
 story and a better pacing at the later levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a third-person shooter/horror/action video game for the Xbox 360, and PlayStation 
 3 produced by Digital Extremes.
  
  Set in the crumbling infrastructure of a fictional Soviet-bloc country in the near future, the 
 game features both single and multi-player action, with players working their way through a world 
 where biological weapons are a hellish nightmare, let loose on an unsuspecting populace.
  
  The game's main character is a man named Hayden Tenno a morally ambivalent clean-up man employed 
 by the CIA. He suffers from a real-life disease called congenital analgia that does not allow him 
 to feel pain. On a mission in a fictional former eastern bloc nation, he is exposed to a biological 
 compound which mutates him, dramatically changing his right arm, and giving him the ability to 
 spontaneously grow a three-bladed throwable weapon called a glaive. the glaive is a part of his 
 body, can be used to generate light, and can be controlled remotely by the player.
  
  During the game, Hayden encounters others that have been similarly mutated by the compound; however, 
 the mutation process is painful to the point that its victims go mad. Hayden's congenital analgia 
 inadvertently protects him from this aspect of the mutation.
  
  In Dark Sector, gameplay revolves around the use of the glaive. The glaive is a three-pronged boomerang-esque 
 weapon which zooms back to Hayden after every throw. The glaive can be used for long-distance dismemberment, 
 solving environmental puzzles, and picking up various items. When up close to an enemy, context-sensitive 
 actions may appear. Environmental puzzles in the game usually focus upon capturing various elements 
 (fire, electricity, ice, etc.) with the glaive. For example, a web that is blocking your path can 
 be bypassed by capturing fire with the glaive and then launching it at the web to burn it down. 
 The glaive is dual-wielded with a gun in Hayden's left hand. This allows for combos like stunning 
 an enemy at long-distance with the glaive, running up close, and then shooting them down. The glaive 
 can also be guided through the air, being able to kill multiple enemies. This feature is controlled 
 via the Six-axis on the Playstation 3 and by analog stick on the Xbox 360.
  
  Gunplay in Dark Sector is very similar to the duck-and-cover gameplay implemented in "Gears of 
 War". The player can duck-run towards cover (a wall, pillar, etc.) and attach themselves to it. 
 Hayden will be able to fire his gun and launch the glaive from this position while also being protected 
 from enemy-fire. The weapon upgrade system is also similar to that seen in "Resident Evil 4". Weapons 
 may be taken from enemies, however they will only work temporarily. There is also no blind-fire 
 capability in the game.
  
  Dark Sector also has an online multiplayer aspect. There are only two modes and they feature: One 
 randomly selected Hayden character in a deathmatch against many soldier characters. Another mode 
 involves two Hayden characters on separate teams; with one team attempting to kill the opposing 
 teams Hayden first. In both modes, Hayden will have superior powers compared to the soldiers. Hayden 
 will be able to become invisible, use the glaive, etc. whereas the soldiers cannot. The developer 
 of Dark Sector, Digital Extremes, has also developed the critically acclaimed Unreal Series, well-known 
 for their frantic and robust multiplayer.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ligerz76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a great game that introduces quite a few new things.
  
  Plot: 5/10-Pathetic, boring plot with some cliche elements that leaves many questions unanswered. 
 You play as Hayden, an American special forces agent who becomes infected with a zombie type virus 
 that's going around in which he gains special powers. Throughout the game you have to fight infected 
 and soldiers. Wanna hear more?; didn't think so.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10-This is what's so great about the game. You fight everything from zombies to invisible 
 monsters to human soldiers and the AI is pretty good. There are plenty of upgradeable weapons you 
 can buy from the black markets found on various levels (handguns, machine pistols, assault rifles, 
 shotguns, etc.) but the glaive is the star of the show here. It's basically a bladed boomerang 
 that can also be used for melee attacks (finishing moves can be used if the enemy is flashing red, 
 which comes in handy during boss battles) . It provides many satisfying, gory kills. Throw your 
 glaive at fire, electricity, or frost and you have that power to unleash upon your enemies or to 
 use to remove something in order to advance for a short period of time. It is one of the most original 
 weapons I've seen. As you progress through the game you gain special powers for you and the glaive (energy 
 shields, invisibility, power throws, etc.) . You move at a sort of slow speed so there is a sprint 
 button kind of like in Gears of War or Resident Evil 4. One of my favorite things about this game 
 are the boss battles. They are so fun to fight and each requires a unique strategy to defeat. Multiplayer 
 is decent but won't have you hooked.
  
  Controls: 9/10-The glaive and its abilities may be a tad confusing but the controls work great 
 and aren't difficult to master otherwise.
  
  Graphics: 9/10-Great. Lighting is one of the best things about this game. Character models look 
 really good and the physics make them fantastic. It does have a few glitches though. Though it 
 may not be one of the elite graphical games, Dark Sector has some of the best graphics out there.
 
  
  Difficulty: 10/10: Just right. Health regeneration is similar to Gears of War or Call of Duty 4: 
 Modern Warfare and enemies seem to do the right amount of damage on all difficulties. Boss fights 
 are challenging but at the same time don't feel impossible.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10-Dark Sector is great both graphically and gameplay wise. The glaive is one of the 
 most fun, original weapons I've used in a video game. The 9.5 is well deserved.
  
  ESRB: Rated M for Mature
  Blood and Gore-The game has a good amount of blood using just firearms 
 alone but with the glaive heads and limbs fly, bodies are bisected, and blood sprays everywhere.
 
  Intense Violence-The game has tons of guns and weapons that you fire at both creatures and humans. 
 It can get pretty intense at times.
  Strong Language-You do hear some pretty naughty words, mostly uttered by the soldiers you fight.
 
  
  ESRB recommended age: 17+
  My recommended age: 17+
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raylee93
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Well my review is not long at all for this game u know why? Because nethier was the game or the 
 time spand between when i got it and when it was back on the shelf with a sticker that said USED!!!
 
  this game had a lot of good things running for it a badass with a big blad gose aroud cutten people 
 up, What could go wrong .Well ill tell u...... you ready for this....... EVERY THING WENT WRONG!!!! 
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
           
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a bad game its actually really good! With Beautiful graphics and fun gameplay! 
 The online isnt that bad its actually similar to Gears of War. Not only the online but the controls 
 are almost the same so this is recommended for any Gears Of War fan. This isnt an easy game either 
 even on easy mode. What I mean is that the enemies are hard and the puzzles are hard to complete 
 so it should keep you occupied for a while. Overall this game should be appealing to any Gears 
 Of War fan, it has great graphics, good online, an engaging storyline and a long and hard campaign! 
 Oh yeah! One more thing, alot of people ask me about the blade (Glaive) and how you use it, well 
 I'll tell you how. The glaive works like a gun when you throw it except the range doesnt go on 
 forever, later in the game you get the power to control it making it easy to cut the legs, arms, 
 and heads off the enemies (fun) . You can also put it on fire, freeze it and use electricity. All 
 of these elements do different rolls in the game, like you can use it on the enemies to kill them 
 faster or help you solve obstacles. And thats it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun playing this game. I honestly thought this game was going to suck and I was 
 saying to myselfwhy did I buy this game. But I was wrong and I really enjoyed playing this game. 
 Game play was greatgraphics are goodbosses are alrightstory... uhhh lets say its a little confusing. 
 I really didn't like the story line that muchI felt lost at times. like how did the virus startedstill 
 lost on that one. The best part of the game is using the glaive and using different elements to 
 proceed throughout the level or kill your enemies. I mean all in all it's a good game you'll have 
 a great time playing it even tho the storyline 
 
  I had a lot of fun playing this game. I honestly thought this game was going to suck and I was 
 saying to myselfwhy did I buy this game. But I was wrong and I really enjoyed playing this game. 
 Game play was greatgraphics are goodbosses are alrightstory... uhhh lets say its a little confusing. 
 I really didn't like the story line that muchI felt lost at times. like how did the virus startedstill 
 lost on that one. The best part of the game is using the glaive and using different elements to 
 proceed throughout the level or kill your enemies. I mean all in all it's a good game you'll have 
 a great time playing it even tho the storyline sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  so many time you do not respect a game, in the matter of name or the makers; but the game kick you 
 out to sky with a perfect gameplay and a high graphic elements; the game is alike some others but 
 with a huge world of enjoy; you can find RE4, FS, HOD, GEARS OF WAR and somethings from the shadow 
 of the colossus;
  the way of fights are so great; you can find plenty way of fights in this game;
  when you repeat 
 a level you find deferent enemies with deferent weapons;
  a lot of enemy and types are explore everywhere, hunt you from behind, kill you darkly, can be killed 
 so darker, and at lat bosses are waiting for you at the time that your bullets ran out;
  the graphic is so perfect and superb; the shadows are so smooth and the bullet and water effects 
 are so real; the animations are shining; the models are so great and like the real ones;
  and the end; story; it is so good and like a film-story; turn the way when you do not notice and wait 
 for another thing; the best that you want; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Pro's:
  -Great Graphics
  -Great control setup
  -Decent gameplay (aside from melee)
  -Good customization options for weapons
  -Really good boss fights
  
  Con's:
  -Terrible 
 story 
  -Melee system is very frusterating
  -Very repetitive scenes
  -Multiplayer is very bland
  
  Overall Dark Sector is a lot of fun at face value. The game looks 
 great, has a really fun control setup, and the game brings bad the good old boss balttles that 
 you dont see much of anymore. Once you get deeper into the game its likely that you wont think 
 the game is as great as you initially thought. The story in this game is one of the worst ive seen, 
 it makes little sense and seems very lazy. The level settings in this game are exteremely repeatitive. 
 Most good games start out great, get a bit boring during the middle and finish strong... Dark Sector 
 starts great and goes downhill from there leaving you with a dissatisfied feeling. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Every so often, a game comes along that simply looks cool, but I don't make the jump to try it. 
 I stick to my familiar territories until the gnawing curiosity in me makes me give it a shot, and 
 it turns out to be completely awesome. Such is the story of how I came across Dark Sector. So far, 
 this could be the sleeper hit of 2008, if it sells. Which I sincerely hope it does.
  
  Dark Sector opens up in a black and white prologue level that explains how likeable but somewhat 
 stiff hero Hayden gains the superhuman abilities you'll enjoy through the game. It acts as a tutorial 
 which shows you the basics of cover (think Gears of War) , gunplay between you and your surprisingly 
 intelligent enemies, and the various mechanics of the game. It's executed very well, and you rarely 
 have that "What do I do now?" feeling.
  
  The best way to describe how it plays is a mix of Gears of War and Resident Evil 4, with a one-button 
 cover system and over-the-shoulder aiming. Also, the addition of the glaive makes what could have 
 easily been a game full of cookie-cutter shootouts into an unpredictable series of wildly intense 
 firefights. Undoubtedly, the glaive is the high point of the game and steals the show when you 
 gain all the crazy powers it has. By throwing it into fire, electricity, and liquid nitrogen, you 
 can freeze, incinerate, or electrocute them. Or maybe you would like to throw an elementally-charged 
 explosion their way? Or use the power throw to sever their various limbs? This is only a small 
 example of how the glaive can be used, and shows why it is such a compelling weapon. The combat 
 in Dark Sector remains engaging throughout the entire campaign, and the variety of gory ways to 
 dispatch your enemies really sets the game apart. Also, by finding money scattered around, you 
 can visit a black market to purchase new guns, from shotguns and SMGs to sniper rifles and more. 
 You can also apply various upgrades you find to any weapon. These range from increased damage and 
 bigger clips to more exotic choices like acid-laced bullets and penetration to cut through multiple 
 targets. This adds some welcome depth and a real sense of progression, and shows how well-executed 
 this game is.
  
  It doesn't hurt that the game is absolutely gorgeous, either. If you thought Gears looked good, 
 Dark Sector is its undisputed rival. Hayden in particular is meticulously detailed, down to the 
 fibers of his shirt and the subtle blue glow of the glaive. Combined with the incredibly detailed 
 environments, ambient effects like rain and blowing dirt, pools of water, burning flames, sparking 
 electricity and character models, this one looks very 360-worthy. The sound is adequate at times, 
 remarkable at others. The taunts and gunfire of your human enemies, along with the gutteral grunts 
 and roars of your non-human ones, makes an impact every time. The music is fitting, though somewhat 
 unimpressive. The overall audiovisual presentation here is above-average.
  
  All in all, I came away from Dark Sector very impressed. Digital Extremes really took their time 
 with this one, and it shows in every facet of gameplay. It's a really well done, highly entertaining 
 piece of software that shows that there is still a place in gaming for original games among all 
 the sequels and expansions we gobble up every year. If you're in the market for a good shooter, 
 here it is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by just stating what is already clear as daylight. Dark Sector is the most obvious Gears 
 of War ripoff there will ever be. Exacly everything controls like Gears but not as smoothly. The 
 camera works the exact same way, the shooting works the exact same way and the engine they are 
 using actually looks a whole lot like Unreal Engine 3 even tho its not. Gears took alot of influenses 
 from Resident Evil 4 and Dark Sector might be a bit more geared towards the RE4 parts of Gears 
 of War and almost trespasses over to be a RE4 clone at times. Anyways, this results in the game 
 feeling like exacly that, a ripoff of other kickass games, but it also results in it being extremely 
 satisfying. I feel like I play Gears with a new skin and so I am naturally enjoying it alot. There 
 is a unique twist to Dark Sector tho and you have probably seen it already. The glaive, wich you 
 can dual wield with 1 handed guns and use to decapitate enemies or solves puzzles. A battle often 
 resolves in you getting behind cover, popping up, throwing the glaive and firing a couple of rounds 
 with your gun and it works very nice. The game also feautures some really awesome finishing moves. 
 When you sometimes manage to stun your enemies you can run up and finish them off with a brutal 
 finishing move that triggers a very short cutscene of Hayden doing something awesome to finish 
 off his enemy. It never gets old and feels very satisfying.
  
  In the more RE4 heavy parts of the game you end up vs hordes of rushing zombies rather than soldiers 
 and the game switches on you completely making you rarely use cover and forces you to switch to 
 shotguns and using the glaive as a melee weapon. Both parts of the game comes together really well 
 and as I said, it comes together to form an actiongame that is, at its core, almost as satisfying 
 as both of the games it copies wich is a very good place to be in.
  
  The story of the game is a mess. You never really know who you are other than some "agent" named 
 Hayden that has an ungly face and that is sent to some eastern europe country to stop a man gone 
 crazy and the infection he is spreading through the population turning people into zombies. Hayden 
 very early on becomes infected by this and his right arm starts to change, giving him the glaive 
 and later on, more cool skills to play around with. The infection itself is very nicely done and 
 very seamless. Early on in the game when the infection is rapidly spreading over his arm you can 
 actually see it going through a level, crawling up your arm. 1 second your arm is only half way 
 infected, then you shoot some badguys and discover that the infection has climbed closer to your 
 shoulder. The infection keeps spreading thoughout the game and it results in both some cool storyelements 
 and some cool skills very late in the game. Hayden has to battle with his own mind as he also battles 
 the enemies. The infection is his enemy but also his weapon.
  Anyways, the story is extremely uninteresting as a whole and every character that they for wierd 
 reasons decide to throw in there are all boring and really have no personalities to speak of what 
 so ever. Even their faces feels like they just lack any kind of modelling and just look so forgettable.
 
  
  The personality problems is a pretty big problem overall. The game itself is a hybrid of 2 other 
 games and the leveldesign is very blend. The levels blend together to form generic streets, generic 
 tunnels, and textbook example A graveyards or apartment complexes. Except for 1 stage pretty late 
 on in the game (wich made me think I was in the Silent Hill 2 hospital for a while) all the levels 
 just mixes together without any structure to them. The same can be said for enemies. They lack 
 personality and appeal and come off looking like random zombies and random soldiers. I dont want 
 to sound like a broken record here so Ill just say you can apply this to most of the stuff in the 
 game.
  
  On the technical side tho the game actually looks really good. I would even go as far as to say 
 it looks stunning in some parts. Some levels really shine with technical feats and its really a 
 blessing to lay eyes on for the most part. Weather effects are used to great extent, wich I applaud. 
 Youll see many levels with heavy rain in this game and its mighty impressive every time. The same 
 cannot be said for the sound. Apply the personality problem to everything when it comes to sound 
 and lets move on.
  
  I would have liked to see some polish to the game. On occasion the camrea goes through the world, 
 the sound of rain is heard but the actual rain is glitching so its only visible in wierd angles, 
 enemies will spawn in their original no-animation positions and they will also sometimes lose their 
 AI and just stand there & bosses have no lifebars so you dont really know if you are doing any 
 damage to them. Stuff like this is what really separates Dark Sector from the big boys. Theres 
 not enough attention to detail and not enough polish for it to really rise up. When you start to 
 pick up skills like bullet reflecting, invisibility and start to mix in electricity, fire and ice 
 to your glaive throwing, and when you are switching between a sawed off shotgun to squash zombies 
 and getting into walker tanks for awesome shooting action the game feels so right. Sometimes I 
 dont really care at all about all of the polishing problems the game has. .
  
  Overall this IS really a great actiontitle that only sometimes feels more frustrating than fun 
 and that just steals from the best but totally gets away with it for some reason. Its great to 
 look at and mixes some really nice horror elements into the heavy action. The glaive is not just 
 a gimmick, it is actually really cool to use and I most certainly recommend the title to anyone 
 that has enjoyed coverbased action in this latest generation, not just gears fans. As long as you 
 dont expect that the story or characters will drive you on and as long as you can get through it 
 even tho it lacks polish and cool looking enemies, you will certainly have fun with Dark Sector. 
 Its to much of a carbon copy to completely stand on its own amongst the giants but if you want 
 a horror-action fix to tip you over between the really great titles Dark Sector is worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I remember first hearing of this game back in 2004 and was waiting for it since then. The concept 
 and story changed and makes me wonder what the original had in store. The weapon system is not 
 to be fan fared around especially since there isn't that much money in the game and you can only 
 hold a pistol and a rifle, in which some ammo is scarce. The gravel makes the game excellent, power 
 throw it and getting elementals on it are pretty cool. Like Resident Evil 4 there are hardly any 
 puzzles and the ones that are in it are elementary. Unique monsters and enemies hold strong for 
 this game and learning when to use your powers makes it worthy. Online play is horrid but is expected 
 from a unknown company such as Digital Extremes and D3. Playing it online can be straining as well 
 as fun. The sad is this game can be rented and easily completed on the first day. I'm not bragging 
 but I beat this game on normal and Brutal on the first day. If your wondering about carry overs 
 in this game, none! So the replay value is low and graphically It seemed to me playing it on the 
 PS3 seemed more smooth. The story (without ruining it) seemed like there were gaps and they expected 
 you to know something before hand. So to sum up Dark Sector at least worth trying if not buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller11
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  this game can be mistaken for gears and it is with the runing mechanic, cover and camera view, 
 but what makes this game intresting is the glaive.
  
  the glaive is what alot of people would use instead of guns well i did, the glaive can be used 
 in the from the enviroment like fire electric and ice, that are basically the same in combat except 
 for some bosses, and achievments but their are puzzles through the game not great puzzles just 
 getting a door open or melting this black barrier.
  
  the plot starts good and has a intresting plot till the end but its the way they directed it, you 
 don't know anything about the charaters and acting good with hayden's voice actor is a guy from 
 smallville (i don't watch it) . but the direction taht kills the story. this game can be completed 
 in 7 hours for me, with achievements to keep you coming back and online,
  
  the online you will love or hate, i love it but one thing that annoys me is the infected can become 
 invisible, and its very hard to see him you have to focus to get a faint outline of him even then 
 his most probably gone behind you to snap your neck, the maps are small and team based like gears. 
 their are two modes one is infected, and the rest trys to kill you the 1 that kills you in the 
 end is infected next round, most points of all rounds win. another is epidemic with a team deathmatch 
 with a twist, 1 person on each team is infected its your job to kill the other team's infected.
 
  
  overall this game is worth a rent at least and is good for fans of gory games aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zhaosuke
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Un-inspiring? Yes. Terrible? Yes. Worth The Rent? No.
  It's been quite a few months with the build up of this game, each new leaked video seemed to whet 
 my appetite more, for i was expecting a real gory, biohazard treat.
  
  Sadly, 'Hype' is usually the first step to disappointment. With the case of Dark Sector, it falls 
 ungracefully into this shameful catergory.
  The only plus side to this side was the visuals, since graphics should'nt really dictate how a 
 game plays, i guess it certainly helps none-the-less. Unfortunately, this games dark, atmospheric 
 visuals could not save the game itself from its own self destruction. What i focus mainly on, is 
 the controls, now i know its only a part of the game, but it is in fact, a very large part. If 
 i play a game, i want to be able to control it, as said on page 1 of the gamers guide on how to 
 play to game. The controls were clunky at best, sluggish, and out right awful, i felt i could'nt 
 play this game at all, though i managed to squeeze through into the 4th chapter, this game incited 
 a severe amount of rage that involved me taking the disc out and snapping it in two, call me immature, 
 i don't care, id rather save you all from this dreadful release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector has a new wepon that I haven't seen before - the disc blade, which is a blade that 
 has 3 blades attached to it. It works like a boomerang only much, much better. you throw it and 
 it flies at about 100 mph then comes flying back to you. It cerntaintly is amazing as you can litterally 
 chop some unlucky soldier in half. Another great thing with the blade is that you can throw it 
 into fire or an electrical area and the blade will light on fire or turn into an electricity blade. 
 Sometimes getting it in the fire takes some aiming which is why there is a button (RB) you can 
 use to slow-mo it and get close up right behind the blade. You steer the blade when this happens. 
 You can also use the slow-mo to hit your enemy on target which offers a close up of the enemy getting 
 sliced, which maybe to much for some, but not me.
  
  Moving on, the enemy AI is very smart it always seems to spot you when you are looking around, 
 and plus the enemys don't run into walls or act like idiots, they are serious and sometimes give 
 you a hard time - especially the bosses.
  
  The boss fights are some of the best out there. You always seem to be facing some huge pist off 
 creature or machine. It takes thinking to find out the way (s) to kill them.
  
  The game requires thinking, serious thinking. It may take you a half hour or more to figure out 
 what you have to do. Then you have to be able to execute it. For some people this maybe a fun challenge 
 but for guys like me it gets annoying and can easily get on your nerves. So I guess this could 
 be good or bad deppending on what kind of person you are.
  
  Overall Dark Sector is a lot of fun and the blade is probabaly going to be your main weapon and 
 not your guns. although its great sometimes it will get you mad or bored. But I reccomend this 
 game to gamers that like sword fighting or knives games because of the blade, but the guns are 
 also alright 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoneys_Rock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector, acclaimed gears of war and resident evil 4 clone, to be honest I don't see it anywhere, 
 sure there is a cover system but its hardly like Gears of War and the merchant? To be honest I 
 don't see who would honestly care about the merchant but people obviously do so I'll just leave 
 it at that.
  
  The combat in this game is really good, I really do like it alot, especially that glaive it is 
 really inventive and sending a blade then using after-touch to chop off limbs or heads ever gets 
 old.
  
  The weapons are abit pointless in this game most of them you pick up will have to leave your hands 
 in about 20 seconds or so and render themselves unusable. I think the guns are overpowered, once 
 you go get a shotgun for example you can long-range kill people in one or two shots which is pretty 
 fun but just abit too much.
  
  There's not much in that merchant so you'll really just see yourself with the pistol for the most 
 part of the game. There's a few bosses in this game they are rather easy even on normal they feel 
 abit too easy for they're own good.
  
  The plot in this game is rather non existent all I understood that he was some special agent and 
 had to destroy some chemical which was turning him metal. Nothing really much to say on that. 
 
  
  I also find it annoying where the game doesn't always gear you in the right direction. For example 
 there is a tank where you have to stop it moving with a shot and get in to it. The game won't tell 
 you this your expected to just do it. Whereas most of people will keep shooting it and post on 
 a foum its way too hard.
  
  There is some puzzle action with your glaive but its hardly inventive and sometimes just too annoying 
 for its own good.
  
  Online is okay I guess it requires abit of co-ordination which is seems to be non existent most 
 of the time ad the two game modes is very limiting but then I think its just intended to be a bonus.
 
  
  I think that this is a good game if you want to slice and dice people but it could have used abit 
 more plot and some more direction in some of its approach to the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammytza
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  can't put my finger on it. great idea. good potential for a great storyline but doesn't explain 
 enough in the beginning. here's an idea. since he's evolving, maybe he could "sense" someone behind 
 him. or how about something less than 10 shots to the chest to kill a guy.
  
  just a few
  
  i know what the response would be. "they're trying to make it as realistic as possible" my 
 response: why would you give a guy standing behind a riot shield a machete instead of a gun?
  
  the thing the writers think aren't a big deal, we the players pick up subconsciously as "something 
 missing"
  
  my advise: leave nothing out or at least give out the cheat codes. 
  
  don't get me wrong, you guys (the creators) are gods to me. you have helped maintain my sanity. 
 but i feel i owe it to you to give you my opinion in relation to my perspective NOT my knowledge 
 of game creation. after all, it's me you created for.
  
  ultimately, it playable. but it's no (insert game title here) .
  
  SAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iFragMuffinMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  At first, dark sector appears to be a Gem shining, but then you realize that that gem is a cheap 
 ripoff. Sure the game is great AT FIRST, but then it just starts to repeat itself a little to much. 
 Bosses will become a regular enemy, puzzles pop up a little to frequently and become a plain annoyance. 
 While the game does shine for being a total bloodbath, it can't entertain you forever. 
  
  The storyline is so bad it makes me sad sometimes, it leaves so many holes open for you to wonder 
 WTF? It also does a terrible job of telling the story, which does not help in the least.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, unless your hayden because then it's a plain lagfest. Most games you wont 
 even see the glaive leave your hand when you throw it, you just hear the sound of it leaving and 
 coming back.
  
  Rent the game first, if your a casual gamer and your looking for a good 10 to 12 hour storyline, 
 then i would reccomend this to you, hardcore gamers however should look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a game that throws you into an extraordinary situation without any real explanation 
 other than stop this guy and we know nothing about the lead hero other than, He doesnt want to 
 be there." Between the beginning and end there is a very predictable twist and the ending is borderline 
 horrible. Its seriously just Hayden walking away with a voice over saying that the disease was 
 his savior. 
  On to the meat of the game now which is the combat. Very early in the game he gets contaminated 
 and spawns a glave weapon that takes on certain elements like fire and ice to kill or solve puzzles. 
 From there he gets mutations that add to his powers until the credits roll. All of them are really 
 cool and fun like the after touch and ghost ability. But i couldnt help feel too overpowered as 
 i was steamrolling wave after wave of enemies and only dieing twice. Turning invisible and having 
 a shield seemed to be a little too much but they are still fun to use. The guns were a huge let 
 down for me because they seemed so unaccessible with their ridiculous price tags. I know Russia's 
 economy isnt that great but come on.
  Nothing about this game is really memorable at all. The characters all have the personalities of 
 a plank of wood. Even Michael Rosenbaum delivers a shallow performance because he seems to always 
 sound like hes on valium and not at all excited to be there. 
  This may sound impossible but believe or not cutting off mutants heads and limbs gets really old 
 after a while and once you get past that, the lackluster gun play wont be enough to really make 
 you have fun.
  I cant really recommend this game for anything but a rental. It offers no incentive to play it 
 through other than some mindless killing and when youre done chances are you wont be rushing to 
 play it through again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link222
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this very short. This game is amazingly similar to Gears of War, except for some 
 reason, your character has a harder time ducking for cover. He just won't do it at times. This 
 is important to know because the controls for the most part are the same, and they throw you right 
 into the game with no explanation. 
  
  The enemies take a ton of bullets to kill, but that doesn't matter seeing as once you become infected, 
 you can only hold an enemies gun for about 30 seconds before it self destructs. The guns you can 
 carry, you can give 3 upgrades that will improve fire power, fire rate, or reload time. Or just 
 add a cool effect like going through someone and hitting the person behind them. For the most part, 
 you're throwing your kick ass blade around. 
  
  This blade gets more and more abilities the more you play. Soon into the game, you will be able 
 to control it, the problem with that is that it's in slow motion, so it slows down the action (especially 
 if you do it to kill every enemy) and you are no longer hiding from bullets. 
  
  The game leaves you confused and wanting to know more of the story line, the one that it provides 
 is pretty lame. Mostly the game is about the action, that soon becomes repetitive. Throw blade, 
 shoot, duck, throw blade shoot duck. Occasionally, you can light the blade on fire or electrify 
 it or something, but those are not permanent. 
  
  The enemies get progressively harder, as every good game should, and because of this, the game 
 is not insanely easy. Not amazingly hard, but not easy. If you die trying to fight some enemies 
 or something, you will definitly get it the second time around. 
  
  
  In the end, I became bored with the game and decided to move on to something else, thinking maybe 
 if I went back again later, I would be amused once more. 
  
  Overall, I say rent this game first to see if it keeps your attention.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  This is the game when you have seen everything else! Find yourself in a game where someone would 
 walk in and say whats that looks like sus or so then this is the one to play . 
  
  Looks can be deceiving ,do not adjust your set the first mission is in black and white, just so 
 you can get a feel for the controls, It feels like Gears of you know.
  
  It has the best boomarang you have ever seen all the ausies are saying aaaaw why didnt we think 
 of that mate.
  
  Its brutal its bloodthirsty if you like that sort of a game this is for you, not much to say about 
 the story but this new style never gets old.
  
  If you are tired of the been there done that and need something new and fresh give it a try. I 
 am not to sure about the online play but I am sure there are lots of other reviews that can help 
 with that.
  
  Rock on D3, VIVA Dark Sector 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoidbergUK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector
  
  
  
  
  Developed By: Digital Extremes
  Published By: D3 Publisher of America
  Release Date: US - Mar 25th, 2008 JP - Mar 27th, 2008 
 UK - Apr 4th, 2008
  
  Rated M for Mature by the ESRB
  
  
  Overview
  
  Take the idea of a crazy mutating virus out of Resident Evil, the graphics and controls from Gears 
 of War and completely rip off the idea of The Glaive from the movie Krull and you've got the newly 
 released third-person shooter, Dark Sector. While on a mission CIA Agent Hayden Tenno becomes infected 
 with a devastating virus that warps a person's body and normally drives them mad from the pain. 
 However, because he was born with a condition rendering him unable to feel pain he is unaffected 
 by the madness and is able to use the abilities gained from the virus. The plot is relatively unimportant 
 and certainly isn't conveyed very well to gamers over the course of the game.
  
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  If you've ever played Gears of War, from the onset of the game you will immediately 
 be able to see and feel striking similarities. Both DS and GoW are third-person shooters that utilize 
 a "duck and cover" system to great affect. Roadie run (although not called such, it looks EXACTLY 
 the same) ? Check. Attaching yourself to cover? Check. Vaulting over obstacles? Check. Firing from 
 behind cover? Check. Ability to heal by staying out of fire? Check. It's not really a bad thing, 
 but while playing the game you may get a sense of deja vu and wonder if a Locust hole is going 
 to open behind you any moment.
  
  Dark Sector's "gimmick" is Hayden's ability to use the Glaive, which is basically a three-bladed 
 boomerang of sorts that he can generate at will from his infected arm. Players can throw the Glaive 
 at enemies, but more importantly they can hold down the RB to adjust it's direction slow motion 
 in midflight to hit multiple enemies or aim for headshots. The Glaive can also become frozen, on 
 fire, or electrically charged to do more damage to enemies, but also these functions are used to 
 solve various environmental puzzles.
  
  Hayden also has access to the use of various guns, such as pistols, rifles and shotguns. A black 
 market dealer is also located at various places throughout the game, allowing Hayden to purchase 
 new weapons or upgrade existing ones. Hayden may also pick up and use enemy weapons against them, 
 however these will explode after a few moments because they can detect when used by an "infected 
 person", forcing you to rely primarily on your own arsenal and Glaive.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Again the comparisons to Gears of War need to be drawn here. The whole style of graphics, with 
 dark drab grey tones and the behind-the back third person perspective just screams GoW. Steve Sinclair, 
 the project lead for Dark Sector has denied using the Unreal technology, instead opting to use 
 a proprietary graphics engine from Digital Extremes.
  
  Overall though the whole game looks very polished with character models and environments rendered 
 beautifully and combat looking sweet with decapitations, dismemberments and loads of blood.
  
  
  Controls
  
  Ummm, Gears of War again? Sorry, I hate to do this in every section but 
 the controls are like a mirror. Holding down the A button will cause Hayden to "roadie run", L 
 trigger zooms just like GoW, and about the only difference I found was you can't active reload 
 with the bumper button... it's X..... without the active reload part of course.
  
  One thing I did notice, and I'm not sure if it was my controller or not (it doesn't happen with 
 any other game though) was that occasionally my character would continue moving in a direction 
 slowly even though I was not pressing any analog stick. Again, I'm unsure if this is controller 
 related or a game issue.
  
  
  Sound
  
  Pretty spooky and appropriately atmospheric. It's quite unnerving to play this game with the surround 
 sound up and the lights off because of the moans and groans of the infected. The voice acting also 
 isn't too bad, with Hayden being voiced by Michael Rosenbaum.
  
  My only complaint was that I felt at certain points in the game the voiceovers were almost completely 
 drowned out by the ambient music which is definitely a problem and may cause you to miss important 
 bits of the storyline.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Dark Sector features two modes of multiplayer, Epidemic and Infection. Neither of them are really 
 inspired, offering for up to 10 players to thrown down on five maps.
  
  Epidemic tasks two teams against each other with one player on each side assuming the role of Hayden, 
 with both sides attempting to eliminate the other team's Hayden character. Infection on the other 
 hand allows for a free-for-all battle with one player assuming Hayden's role. When a player kills 
 the Hayden character they will become Hayden next and the process continues.
  
  In both gametypes the Hayden character has maxed out abilities while other players run around as 
 generic soldiers with only a firearm and some explosives to use.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Zoidberg says 7.5 out of 10!
  
  Well, I hate to do it, but I'm actually giving the game the 
 same score as Gamespot. Dark Sector is one of those games that is certainly fun to play and enjoyable 
 to experience, but you walk away from it unsatisfied by the story and abysmally lame ending. The 
 combat is visually appeasing due to the bloody dismemberments and interesting uses for the Glaive, 
 the graphics are crisp and the sound is great but in the long run I can't really recommend a purchase 
 due to the fact that the multiplayer will get old quickly as well as the campaign storyline being 
 so short. Expect to finish the game in under 10 hours on the normal setting, and easily scoring 
 around 665 gamerscore (775 if you play through on Brutal difficulty) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Overall the story and character concept is a good idea but they were so busy making the game pretty 
 that they forgot one thing... the game. It supposed to be fun, I seriously wonder if they even 
 play tested this with a third party and not some in house group who only give out zombie nods that 
 the game is great.
  
  There are many aspects where Dark Sector could have been great and there are moments where it all 
 comes together but unfortunately those are few and far between.
  
  The interface is horrible press and hold A and you run but it is also the same command to stick 
 to cover such as a wall etc. Even better the camera angle drops down and blocks you left view. 
 So there you go careening down the hallway and pop you stick on a wall you never intended to, and 
 the guy you were running form promptly skewers you now with ease. Beautiful, very rewarding experience 
 as you stare at the screen trying to figure out what the hell happened. There are other interface/button 
 issues as well such as throwing your glave and getting the slow mo control up and many more headaches.
 
  
  Lets add more pain shall we? Save games - congrats! They are out of your control, you are now to 
 be drilled with mini challenges each and every step of the way, if you fail to cross over the invisible 
 line or kill all the bad guys you LOSE and shall now receive the full joy of doing it all over 
 again.
  
  Still not enough, still want to play? Hey how about the story, how hard can that be to mess up? 
 Yup Success! They screwed that up as well, the conversations are so disjointed that they almost 
 feel like you need a decoder ring to figure out what the secret messages mean.
  
  For example the main character keeps asking his female friend to run and get out while she can... 
 her response "I hate you" Main character: fails to comprehend what she just says and then goes 
 back to his original position, "you must escape, blah blah blah." The story is not lame, its broken.... 
 completely. So next time you have a foreign web page and you need google to translate it.... yeah, 
 it looks like that bad translation - you sorta get the jist of what is being said but then again... 
 it can be completely wrong.
  
  Take a look at your right, Gamespot likely shows Gears of War and Crackdown as Similar Games - 
 at least it did during this review. Save your hard earned $$$ for games that matter and are worth 
 your time. 
  
  GET THOSE GAMES instead. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gHoStLyEyEs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game took a little while to get into. The powers take a little while to actually get there. 
 I personaly think the glave was a little overrated though, it's no the craziest weapon in the world.
 
  
  This game has a really good atmosphere though, Sometimes when your looking around for money and 
 weapon upgrades you feel like your gonna get jumped. Speaking about that, the fact that an enemy 
 can just jump on you and you have to rapidly tap the button on screen adds a cool twist to the 
 action.
  
  The multiplayer is a little stale though. Basicly it just revolves around you killing Hayden. But 
 when your playing Hayden it's more fun. It's when you get to kill your friends with a big sharp 
 object.
  
  This game does have the cons though, the vehicle sections are just a teaser compared to what they 
 could really be. The story was a little bland. And why is Hayden such a whiny baby??? don't you 
 think having a metal like arm and blade that could come out be cool??? Plus for the worst the difficulty 
 just all of the sudden ramps up to the point of "Oh, I died... again."
  
  Overall this game is pretty good it has its own good ideas but steals alot too. I wouldn't mind 
 to see a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothcrmnl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector scared me at first when I read the reviews but then I picked up the game and started 
 to play it. It's GOW type gameplay pleased me considerably and the glaive is a great weapon.. If 
 I could have I would have used it alone throughout the whole game. The graphics are superb and 
 even with the occaisional glitch with the movement of the enemy it did not take away from the game. 
 The main story is pretty straight forward but doesn't really go into any detail with the secondary 
 characters which may just be because they plan on making a second. The one problem is the multiplayer. 
 There are only two game types and they both offer little enjoyment. Maybe something like a Team 
 Deathmatch might spruce it up a bit or even a co-op mode. Hopefully more will be added in the near 
 future. All in all I think Dark Sector should get an B+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebladinieres
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  You already know the storyplot in this game.
  The gameplay is very smooth, and the glaive adds a lot of fun to it.
  Many people say it is a 
 Gears of war rip off, but i think it's not, at all. It reminded me more of the gameplay found on 
 Resident Evil 4. Except you can hide behind objects and walls, and of course the glaive, and the 
 powers you get by beating each level.
  I had so much fun playing it. 
  The game looks great, and even as the story is not perfectly told, it is good enough for me. 
 
  For my taste the game deserves a better review than the one Gamespot gave it.
  There are worse games that get better reviews.
  I gave up Gamespot reviews, and now i look for 
 the users review to find out if a game is for me or not.
  The bosses are great, not too hard, but they challenge you to find a way of beating them, instead 
 of just gun and slash them.
  The single player campaign is short but, then again, all action games lately are this short.
 
  The multiplayer is not that good, mainly because you have to play as a soldier almost every time, 
 instead of playing as the main character Hayden.
  I live in Mexico so please excuse my bad english.
  Hope this helps.
  Regards
  Eduardo Bladinieres 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beasterxxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  I can't add much to Gamespots review. The Glaive is an awesome weapon, fun to kill with, and controlling 
 the flight is exceptional. The rest of the weapons are very vanilla but useful, and the "Black 
 Market" approach to buying weapons is sorta ridiculous. The powers you get as you advance are really 
 very fun, shields, invisibility etc. Achievements are rather easy, but the puzzle solving can be 
 a little challenging. I think some of this games play platform seems like it was rushed to finish. 
 (after 4 years since announcing this title I think thats absurd.) Overall though it's a very playable 
 game with some twists in play and a storyline that keeps you involved. Bosses aren't so hard that 
 you throw the controller. Multiplayer is forgettable. with 2 game modes and small maps that are 
 symmetrical on both sides for the most part. And for those of you that have Aussies on your friends 
 list.... don't expect to see them online with Dark Sector Multiplayer anytime soon, this game has 
 been censored by their government for "excessive violence" ( but Gears Of War isn't!..... right!) 
 A "censored" version is supposed to be available for them, but I couldn't tell you when, if ever! 
 I give this game 8.5 could have been more if some care was taken in developing the Multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcondemned
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  the 5 Bad things (not multiplayer included)
  
  1: The character cannot lift his legs off the ground (except for cinematic reasons, dodging, or 
 get knocked over) a. k. a he can't jump.
  2: The character can't duck (neither in gears of war, u couldn't but at least there you could choose 
 to duck or not when you were behind tall cover objects, but here the only times the character will 
 duck is either if the objects you use for cover are short, or for cinematic reasons) .
  3: Fighting monsters from a point on? I mean common! it's really cool fighting real human beings 
 and cutting them in pieces..! It's not the same killing metal-organic sking like creatures as killing 
 hardcore people with meat on their bones..! (at least gears of war's monsters where big and ugly 
 (and more human like..) ) .
  4: When it comes to hand to hand combat.. the damage you do with your Glaive/or hands/or weapons 
 is minimal! It basically dissoriantates (make him dizzy) the enemy rather than killing him!
  5: And the last part is that the character's face is pathetic! Way too rounded head! A face more 
 like the Resident Evil 4 would do it.. or like MGS series! or other games! but not a face like 
 that!
  
  but don't let me bring you down with those things! on the other hand Dark Sector is a really nice 
 game! The idea of making a game with the main weapon a glaive deadlier than Zena's ( :P ) is a 
 really good.. thought!
  Nicelly done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southp777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for months now. Watching endless videos of the gameplay and trailers 
 (You should see my favorite list) . But I played this game and wasn't completely disappointed.
 
  
  The gameplay here is fun and addicting. Using the glaive is one of the biggest plusses of this 
 game. Along with the glaive you can get many powers such as a shield or invisibility to pull off 
 some amazing finishers.
  
  But along with this is some what of a story line. Every once in a while you'll be reminded that 
 there is a point to your madness. These cutscenes are played out relatively well, but sometimes 
 you wonder what happened before this... It feels like this is the second game in the series and 
 it just skims over what happened in the first.
  
  Though I did enjoy playing this game's hot action. I found the story to be extremely lacking and 
 disappointing. But I gotta say... I like the cutscene where your guys come out and you just get 
 to kill your general. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  When I first seen this game I thought man this is probably gonna be a cool game. I like Gears Of 
 War and Resident Evil, so I thought it would be impossible for me not to like this. Then I saw 
 the reviews and thought alright maybe it isn't so good. I decided to take a chance and buy it and 
 am very glad I did. At first it's pretty slow and had me thinking alright this game is ALRIGHT. 
 Then as you progress you gain new abilities-all which are very fun to use. The glaive never gets 
 old. You can even put it in slow motion and guide it through your enemies neck and watch their 
 head fly off. It's something new and VERY cool. The boss battles are fun. The controls work very 
 well. One second your shooting at a group of enemies, then the next slicing through another enemy's 
 throat. You can even launch the glaive at them while shooting them at the same time! I can't believe 
 people are giving this game low scores. I'm having a lot more fun with it than I did with Gears 
 Of War - mostly because of the glaive. I think people might have just played 20 minutes of this 
 and then put it down or something. I think it's amazing and deserves a way better score than 7.5. 
 The only thing I thought could've been better was the level design. The levels are kinda "boring" 
 and the same. A bunch of rooms with yellow bags and a few boxes... not much. Otherwise, if you're 
 into shooters DO NOT miss out on this game. Trust me. It's VERY good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Using the glaive never gets old, awesome graphics, satisfying finishers
  
  The Bad: Spotty story, lame multiplayer, gets repetitive after awhile
  
  I was so excited for 
 Dark Sector after hearing about it years ago. I finally get to play it and I wonder what took so 
 damn long. The story is about something along the lines of a government experiment in Russia to 
 make money and something like that, and you're a guinea pig in the experiment... and yeah. The story 
 is almost non existent, but who cares?! It's all about the gameplay. The graphics and audio are 
 astounding so don't worry. The game plays, feels, and looks like a mix of Resident Evil 4 and Gears 
 of War. You have the over-the-shoulder view point like RE4, and the  
 move like in GoW. The game is based around the glaive that Hayden gets in the game. You can slice 
 enemies up (which looks killer) by slicing off heads, chopping off arms and watching enemies clutch 
 their stump and scream, slice them in half etc. The game slowly introduces things for your glaive 
 throughout the game. You can charge your glaive with elements like electricity, ice, and fire and 
 go figure on what those do. You can also do "Aftertouch" (was that stolen from Burnout?) which 
 lets you control the glaive in slow motion. You can also shoot things, but the gunplay is kind 
 of weak. You can upgrade your weapons adding things to them such as extra firepower, higher accuracy, 
 and stopping power through suitcases that you pick up throughout the game. The multiplayer is really 
 bad though. The game is always lagging and cutting out, and it's just boring. You have to types 
 Infection and something else (yeah it's so dull I forgot what I was playing) and it's just boring. 
 Dark Sector is an awesome rental and will fill 8-9 hours of your weekend up with gory fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave809
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say that im am not a fan boy of anything. and with that out of the way, review 
 of dark sector. In dark sector, i think, they were trying to go for GoW cover style and RE4 and 
 personally i think they did well. The cover system can be a bit choppy at times where enemies are 
 heavy. The GLAIVE IS QUITE POSSIBLY THE BEST WEAPON IVE HAVE PLAYED WITH. I love using aftertouch 
 to just mow down anything in my way, so you probably wont be using the guns at all. And another 
 thing STORY HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE GAME. I hate when people are like" the story is too nonexistent" 
 well they wouldn't call it a game if it actually was about story or graphics i mean super Mario 
 bros still brings us joy even though its 8- bit. and the multiplayer is bad its just............ for 
 a select few. and hearing the glaive just go though someones arm and hearing them just yell in 
 agony gives Dark sector a sense of realism i mean if you got your arm or leg cut off would you 
 be like "i can still fight ill just have to use my other arm." anything that has graphics is good 
 in my book. 
  I would rate this a ten, except for the cover problem so 9.5 it is. it is defiantly a great game 
 if you love action and "shot now, and keep on shooting" type games. it could be as good as gears, 
 so hopefully they will fix any problems i have and you have for the sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Intro: Let me start by saying that D3 and Digital Extreme have a lot of brass releasing an "original" 
 Action game on the 360. I use original loosely at best; I think it's safe to say that the Action 
 genre as a whole is pretty competitive on Microsoft's little giant. Unfortunately, this game amounts 
 to be nothing more than a one trick pony that sadly had huge potential to exceed conventional action 
 games. Digital Extreme took the easy way out and opted to create a game that blatantly rips mechanics 
 from two extremely popular games: Resident Evil 4 and Gears of war. Now, as a side note, I don't 
 have a problem with studios ripping off ideas; I mean thats how innovation gets created; like Socrates 
 said, anything under the Sun isn't original. I agree full-heartedly; every form of media rips off 
 some other media. The problem in Dark Sector is they make it so painfully obvious that they're 
 ripping these games off and furthermore they don't in anyway innovate let allow contribute new 
 ideas. It was if the designers at DE said to themselves: "Hey, wouldn't it be cool to combine the 
 covering system of Gears with the shooting mechanics of RE4!!" "Yea,.. that would be awesome!! 
 But lets not improve on any of those mechanics. Instead lets just rip them off and call it a day!!" 
 
  
  Graphics: Technically this game is a marvel; lighting effects look great, most of the environments 
 have a gritty horror movie type feel and the overall experience is relatively good on the visuals. 
 Character models look extremely detailed; the problem is for every amazing character and environment 
 setting you get a vehicle that looks straight out of the N64 era. The best part of the technical 
 feat is the game never seems to lag. Everything is usually pretty smooth which is great when you're 
 trying to kill multiple enemies at a time. I'd say the most impressive graphical aspect is the 
 main character Hadden. Though his hair is super shiny; his "infected" side looks badass.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay mechanics are all stolen from two major league games: RE4 and Gears. Hadden 
 doesn't only barrel row and roadie run like Marcus but also moves and shoots like Leon. Again, 
 I don't have a problem with developers ripping on other massive games I just hate when they use 
 mechanics but don't innovate. There is nothing new in this game that you wouldn't find in Gears 
 or War or Resident Evil. In fact, each game does their respected mechanics better than Dark Sector. 
 The problem I have isn't in the mechanics they all function relatively well; no, my beef lies with 
 the design. This game excels when the user sits at a medium to long distance; shooting and throwing 
 the glaive which is basically a massive ninja star of death! Before I continue with the negative 
 aspects let me explain the beauty of the glaive. This unique weapon provides two great mechanics; 
 the ability to cut off an enemies head/arms/legs and after touch. The latter isn't as obvious so 
 I'll elaborate. Basically, early on the user has the ability to control the glaive after it leaves 
 your hand. This ability allows for some quality kills and really adds another layer to the already 
 awesome mechanic. Back to the negatives: the design of this game breaks down as the nonexistent 
 story continues. These zombie type creatures have one objective: to run straight at you and hit 
 you with any blunt object they have. This wouldn't be such a problem if the melee detection wasn't 
 so horrible. Besides that technical problem, hitting someone with the glaive isn't as satisfying 
 as it being thrown. Why in the world the designers decided to continue these zombie type chapters 
 wrecks my mind. The biggest problem with the gameplay lies in pacing. Nothing ruins gameplay like 
 doing something an hour to long. Lets take Half Life 2 one the greatest paced games ever. Gordan 
 always seems to partake in an activity that never out stays it welcome. Each chapter in DS last 
 a bit to long; which begins to feel tedious and boring. The line between boredom and entertainment 
 is pretty clear for video games. This game is horribly paced and doesn't stick with its good formula 
 long enough. Once you starting getting into killing the different enemy soldiers your thrown into 
 a zombie driven chapter for far to long. I'm hoping that the potential sequel will learn from this 
 games mistakes because the gameplay is fundamental there the problem is there isn't anything new 
 and exciting. The final gameplay mechanic that I haven't touched is the Store which is a dumbed 
 down version of RE4 merchant. 
  
  Story: The story in DS is essentially any Resident evil game every made. Evil dude wants to release 
 a biological weapon which turns people into flesh eating creatures. Nothing new is added to this 
 story arch and its shamelessly back story adds nothing in the "drive the player to the conclusion" 
 scheme that most videos game have. The only cool aspect is in the story is the narrative since 
 the voice acting is well done; problem is the script is horrible. 
  
  Features: Aside from the single player this game also has two online types. Infected which pins 
 one infected character with all the problems from the game and the glaive against enemy soldiers. 
 The second has two infected characters and the rest are soldiers. Though the game types are fun 
 there isn't enough variety to keep it going.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are pretty lame; the background music is just as generic as the overall experience. 
 Again, the only good sound aspect is he voice acting.
  
  Conclusions: The biggest problem with Dark Sector is the generic feel this game emits. Nothing 
 about it feels original or relatively inspired; Hadden looks cools but has absolutely no back story 
 which gives zero incentive to care about him. The overall feel is just to generic; instead of focusing 
 on Hadden and his mission they simply go 6-9 hours without mention anything about whats going on 
 until the very last boss fight which is ridiculously lame. Overall, if you liked Resident Evil 
 4 and Gears of War and have always wondered what it would be like if they had a child; Dark Sector 
 would be worth a rent at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKX8
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This review is fairly long, so here's the conclusion before I even get started with the details: 
 
  ~
  DarkSector is an engaging sci-fi dark-toned horror-action third-person-shooter game with superb 
 graphics, gorgeous settings, gory gameplay, and unique particulars not seen in other games. However, 
 at the same time, some of these unique features are ridiculously limited, the gameplay will often 
 feel worn, the graphics come at the price of ocassional but prominent glitches, and boss battles 
 can be frequently tiring. 
  ~
  Now the only thing I'm going to asess, in a line of details, is the single-player campaign, since 
 I don't have Xbox Live. Thus, focusing on the story mode, I'll rate certain qualities below out 
 of 10.
  
  Design: 9.5
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Graphics: 10
  Controls: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  Voice-Acting: 7.5
  Character Believability: 6.0
  Difficulty Tilt: 8.0
  Length: 6.5
  
 
  Now, while the single-player took me about two days of infrequent though solid gaming -- since I 
 won't beat a game in one sitting -- I will have to say it was fun while it lasted. Throwing your 
 three-bladed boomerang 'Glaive' at people and mutants, steering it to decapitate them or severing 
 their limbs during a bloody 'finishing move' never gets boring, nor does the borrowing of fire, 
 electricity, and ice with your Glaive to blaze, electrocute, or freeze your enemies. Additional 
 fundamentals of the game are the PowerThrow, which takes precise timing to execute a powerful hurl 
 of the Glaive to brake strong locks, inflict more damage, or even halve a man in one sling. Given, 
 in the heat of battle this sort of timing might be difficult, but you have plenty of time to perfect 
 it and it will definitely come in handy later. Moreover are the abilities to turn invisible and/or 
 activate a shield for a short time, making you undetectable and invincible, respectively, for that 
 significant brevity.
  
  Other unique features in DarkSector are the exploration tasks you'll need to complete throughout 
 the game's environments in order to obtain Rubles (money) , weapon upgrades, and ammunition. Since 
 you start out with your Tekka, a USP .40-like pistol associated with the Glaive, and all weapons 
 you retrieve from enemy corpses will become useless after about 20 seconds [they have 'governors' 
 on them, devices which sense your infection and thus detonate after a brief time, rendering them 
 inoperable] , it is more than imperative that you obtain money and upgrades to improve your arsenal. 
 This adds a slight RPG-style to the gaming, though I wouldn't go too far in that direction.
  
  DarkSector is a plot-driven over-the-shoulder action game that relies more on firearms than 
 you may think. And while the Glaive will be used more time than you could imagine for opening doors 
 and solving a few often unclear puzzles, due to its ridiculously limited range you're left using 
 your guns at distances in hopes of a lucky headshot. To say the least, DarkSector needs improvement 
 on this style of gameplay. Sure, CQC via special finishing moves (kinda like in Turok, but where 
 the dinos are mutated humans) is enthralling, but when you lash out at someone with a three-bladed 
 Glaive that's twice the size of their head, you'd expect to at least see some blood. Hell, sometimes 
 it took me up to ten melee attacks with the Glaive to eliminate a single infected while 5 shots 
 from the Tekka worked just as effectively. I was WTF is this!?
  
  This is certainly a point that can be avoided -- melee attacking -- but only if you are equipped with 
 a purchased shotgun or AK, will it be alright. Otherwise, you're screwed.
  
  As far as the story itself goes, I think it's pretty compelling IMO. And despite all the gritty 
 environments, horror-clad sci-fi creatures including yourself, it's nice to know this doesn't take 
 place in some extraterrestrial planet but on Earth, in an eastern european city called Lasria. 
 Also notable is the health system, which is a basic version of CoD4, whence your screen turns redder 
 by the second upon getting hit too many times, you can hear your heartbeat quite audibly, and your 
 aim worsens; so, find cover and let it gradually regenerate, as there is no health bar. Also to 
 be taken into minor consideration are the menus, loading times, and saving system: menus are as 
 rudimentary as they come, although everything is joined into one word like DarkSector, whence it's 
 really Dark Sector (so you'll have singlePlayer, xboxLive, systemLink, etc.) ; loading times are 
 surprisngly fast -- after you've died, there IS no loading time, you just respawn; the saving system 
 is via checpoints in the game which are adequately spaced and usually don't leave you hanging [except 
 for in the midst of boss battles] . Lastly, and this is exceptionally insignificant to most of you 
 though IMO it stood out for me, are the curtscenes. First off, the graphics cinematically are just 
 as nice as they are in-game, which is astoundingly nice; but as you watch a cut-scene, you can 
 pull the right trigger and give it a blurry sepia effect and the left trigger will zoom in, while 
 the right analog stick can look around a little as if you were actually watching the scene unfold 
 -- just a lil' something I thought unique unlike other widescreen-format games.
  
  Now, lemme make this quick-but-helpful for you hopeful-buyers out there: for as short, though fun, 
 and sometimes aggravating as it is, RENT IT FIRST. I doubt the eight bucks will leave you disappointed; 
 besides, Achievement points are amazing in this game. After 15 out of its total 38 possible Achievements, 
 I had about 300 points, and I hadn't even beaten the game yet (you get 10 per level, then a single 
 award of 100 after you've completed the tenth and final level) .
  
  So, please, rent this game. You'll be glad you played it, but I assure you that if you buy it you'll 
 be left wanting a lil' more than just its multiplayer option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfirpsyko7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty great it isnt quite as good as gears multiplayer but the single player is much 
 better in my opinion. when i got the game in the mail (i do gamefly :] ) i was extremely excited 
 i had been waiting on this title for months. and as soon as i started i was kinda iffy on the first 
 mission (prologue) but i decided to carry on with it and see where it went. and i have to tell 
 you i was pretty impressed! once you get the glaive its just nonstop fun but what i love personally 
 is the AK haha a classic favorite weapon of choice for me :] 
  
  but if your into sc-ifi, GoW or anything remotely close then you should like this game. 
  
  
 in my opinion its got top of line graphics one of the best ive ever seen in A game! but there are 
 some flaws...
  
  my only complaints i have with this gamne are that for one they made the A. I. terribly your enemies 
 are just to dumb, they dont react enough they duck and shoot and thats about it, except for a grenade 
 or two... 
  
  but overral i think this is a magnificent title 
  
  my score
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a game that manages to pluck a chord with fans of the Gears of War style third-person 
 shooter with that familiar over-right-shoulder camera viewpoint. Unfortunately, being a clone often 
 means that doing something new is out of the question. Dark Sector manages to take an old style, 
 bring new game-play to it, but fails to do much more than that.
  
  Immediately after putting the game in, one will notice the breathtaking graphics of what you can 
 only assume is the latest build of the Unreal Engine. The prologue takes place entirely in black 
 and white, just like an old film. Adding context to the feeling of it being non-color is the fact 
 the series of events takes place in an alternate reality Russia in the 1980's. During a deep-sea 
 excavation a mysterious, yet highly infectious plague has come back with the naval team and has 
 infected most of what we would consider the Soviet Union.
  
  Since the game struggles so hard to be the new Gears of War, you'll find that all the cover mechanics 
 work pretty much the same, just less elegantly. Instead of being able to run directly into cover 
 you have to stop and hit up on the analog stick + A, this just slows things down and can cost you 
 a life or two when playing on the harder difficulties. The other controls are borrowed from other 
 places and there's no real issue with any single one of them apart from the cover system.
  
  The new idea that Dark Sector uses to set itself apart from the (now) highly over-mentioned 
 Gears of War is a weapon called "The Glaive." This is a cross between a boomerang and a knife. 
 Curved into a circle this highly destructive weapon can cut limbs off of enemies as well as retrieve 
 distant items and power-ups. After a while your character gains the ability to control the Glaive 
 in mid-flight. This can be useful for hitting specific points on a boss creature or decapitating 
 an enemy for a quick kill. Unfortunately, in the night levels, the overuse of blur effects makes 
 hitting a target near impossible.
  
  The worst part about Dark Sector's controls is that apart from the Glaive, there is no tutorial 
 telling you which buttons do what, so for the first part of the game if you didn't know better, 
 you wouldn't know there was even a cover system in place. This can be highly annoying once you 
 realize you have to test every button and figure it out. This isn't to say there aren't sequences 
 later on when you acquire new powers, there is just nothing upfront in the first level like you 
 would expect to find in a Gears of War or similar title.
  
  For the moments you can't hit targets with the Glaive, there are guns in Dark Sector that you can 
 use. These are armed with a device called "governors" which will destroy the weapon within around 
 30 seconds after you pick them up. This is because at some point during the game you become infected 
 and the device prevents the use of weapons by infected people. You can buy guns without governors 
 in the black market (for a price of course) but most of the time if this happens you'll be trying 
 to melee the enemies. Due to the inclusion of a finishing system you can pull off brutal kills 
 in short cinematics after you damage an enemy a certain amount. The bad part is that it is never 
 quite clear how much damage is required until an enemy turns red indicating you can do a finisher. 
 Most of the time you'll simply kill off the attacker in your attempts.
  
  However, usually when these annoyances occur you'll be overwhelmed by a sense of immersion and 
 anticipation because the graphics carry this title a long way. Unreal Engine 3's latest update 
 contains some of the best visuals ever seen on consoles. It doesn't make the same leap as the original 
 Gears of War did, but it certainly makes vast and noticeable differences right from the first level. 
 Color correction and particle effects are all highly elegant and realistic. During the game you 
 can add elements to your Glaive by running it through fire or an open electrical field to get the 
 desired effect. In fact, some of the fun of Dark Sector is taking these new elements like ice and 
 fire and using it on enemies and the environment just to see how it looks and affects other things 
 around it.
  
  The game's real flaw isn't where it copies from or where it tries to go. It's the complete lack 
 of a story coupled with waves of enemies over and over again in every level. Mainly the waves of 
 enemies are controlled and not completely ridiculous, but the lack of story really gets in the 
 way, and when new characters are introduced it is almost never clear who they are, why they are 
 important, and where they belong in the back-story. In fact, the story is so lacking, that if there 
 was one the game would've enjoyed a ton more success and been a really interesting place to explore.
 
  
  Overall Dark Sector isn't a bad game, but if you're looking for a really new experience or an interesting 
 story you won't find it here. Instead of being a blatant copy, this title manages to introduce 
 a lot of new elements that, if you're a fan of third-person shooters and you don't mind a bit of 
 repetition, is definitely worth a look at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Dark Sector is an odd beast. The game allows you to use a "glaive", which is a three bladed boomerang 
 used to slice enemies. 
  
  This "stop and pop" game, akin to Gears of War, has all those requisite strengths of Gears of War: 
 intense fire-fights, emphasis on tactical placement and plenty of blood flowing all over.
  
  However, one of the weaknesses in the game happens to be the one thing that differentiates 
 the game from the rest: the glaive.
  
  Although the game seems to emphasize the use of the glaive as your main waepon, the implimentation 
 seems like an after thought at best. The weapon is not only weird in physics (why doesn't it slice 
 enemies back like a boomerang?) , but it's also a fairly weak weapon as well.
  
  The saving grace, however, are the weapons. The game is incredibly satifsying to shoot people, 
 whether it is the pistor or the shotgun or assautl rifle. However, this causes a problem when the 
 game forces you to discard a two-hand weapon 30 seconds after you picked it up.
  
  If it wasn't for the glaive, Dark Sector would actually be a very competent Gears of War clone 
 that wins on it's great gunfights. As it stands, it's a decent game with a gimmick that only half 
 works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioShockOwnz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story of Dark Sector focuses around the main character, Hayden Tenno. He is a man that has 
 done many unjust things in the past, but ends up becoming a savior through his actions. Dark Sector 
 is a superhero tale. To get to the nitty gritty, Hayden has to stop a virus from spreading. I won't 
 go too deep into it, because I don't want to spoil much, but there's really not that much to spoil. 
 Dark Sector's main problem is its storytelling. It's paper thin. The player will have to piece 
 together everything if they want to know the what's going on, which can be annoying. 
  
  Digital Extremes really needs to learn how to do storytelling better. Pariah had the same problem 
 and failed ultimately because of it. It's not that the stories bad, it's that the storytelling 
 is weak and will leave gamers wondering just what's going on.
  
  Design:
  The level design is very solid. The environments are mapped out perfectly for the gameplay in Dark 
 Sector. I hate to compare it to Gears of War, because that's been happening far too often, but 
 the level design is very similar. The cover spots on the maps are placed in all the right spots, 
 so that Hayden can take cover and become a more efficient killer. 
  
  The character designs are also one of the games positives. Hayden is a very well created main character, 
 and he's not the typical hero. Although, his animations look odd and Chucky-like in some of the 
 cinematics. It's a small complaint, but I hope they get rid of that in a sequel. The enemies are 
 all top notch and there's a varied selection of them. You'll never feel like you're fighting the 
 same foe, because they'll constantly be switching it up. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Dark Sector is a 3rd person shooter/action game. The gameplay is the best part of Dark Sector. 
 Hayden is easy to control and using cover is very simple. In Dark Sector, when you sprint towards 
 something, you won't automatically stick to it and get locked in a cover position. You'll have 
 to press the sprint/roll button again when close to the object you want to use as cover. 
  
  Throwing your Glaive, or using one of the many weapons you have in your arsenal is the real 
 joy in Dark Sector. The guns feel right and the Glaive controls very well, even when in Aftertouch 
 mode. On the 360, you'll control the Glaive in Aftertouch mode with your analog stick, but on the 
 PS3 you have the option to use the SIXAXIS motion controls. The motion controls work well, but 
 I still found the analog stick to be easier when gliding the Glaive through a more complicating 
 obstacle. It'll all be down to player preference when choosing which way you'd like to use the 
 Aftertouch feature.
  
  You can also use your Glaive to snatch an enemies weapon, but his weapon will notice that you're 
 infected, then you won't be able to use it. It'll work for a good 20 seconds before this happens, 
 though.
  
  Also, there is a weapon shop, which you can enter throughout the game. From the cash you collect 
 in the game, you'll be able to buy and upgrade your weapons. You can also sell your weapons.
  
  You'll also come across a lot of elemental puzzles and boss fights throughout Dark Sector. 
 They all use the Glaive in an inventive way and make you think about how you're approaching the 
 foe.
  
  Both versions have Achievements, while the PS3's "Achievements" are actually called "Entitlements", 
 but they work the same way, minus being tied to a gamer score number. Overall, I don't have many 
 negatives on the gameplay front. All the gameplay mechanics work well.
  
  Presentation:
  Dark Sector is a gorgeous game. From the great bump mapping of the textures, to the excellent lighting, 
 to the great looking character models, it's all eye candy. 
  
  Some clipping will happen and some enemies will become glitched in the environment. It only happened 
 to me about 2 or 3 times, so it's not a buggy game at all. It's actually quite polished.
  
  The framerate is at a consistent 30fps and I didn't notice any dips in performance on the PS3 version, 
 which I must congratulate Digital Extremes for. It shows they really tried hard and learned the 
 complicated architecture of the PS3 hardware. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Dark Sector only includes 2 multiplayer modes, Infection and Epidemic. The first mode, Infection, 
 will have one player playing as a fully powered and evolved Hayden Tenno. The other players will 
 have to work together as Hazmat Troopers to take down Hayden. The player who takes out Hayden will 
 then become the "infected" and will be playing as the fully powered and evolved Hayden. The cycle 
 goes on and on. It's a fun mode, but it won't become your multiplayer addiction. The fun is short 
 lived.
  
  The second mode, Epidemic, will have 2 teams fighting each other, but this time, both teams will 
 have their own fully powered and evolved Hayden Tenno. The teams main goal is to take out each 
 others Hayden. This is a fun mode, but it's short lived, also.
  
  As you can see, the online is nothing to write home about and it definitely won't keep you entertained 
 for long.
  
  Overall:
  Dark Sector is a very good single player experience, but it's a shame the story and multiplayer 
 portions weren't as strong as the gameplay and graphics. Dark Sector is definitely Digital Extremes 
 most ambitious title to date. It's also their best title to date. But the game could have used 
 better storytelling and a richer multiplayer offering. 
  
  If you're looking for a very rewarding and fun single player experience, then give Dark Sector 
 a look. But if you're looking for your next online multiplayer addiction, look elsewhere, Dark 
 Sector is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  With the release of Dark Sector marks the end of a story that has been going on for almost three 
 years now. Back then, it was a sci-fi horror-shooter set on a mysterious spaceship. Now, its a 
 story about an epidemic-infected world as told through the character Hayden, an infectee who grows 
 a metallic arm and boomerang-like glaive to kill his enimies. Then, in late 2006, the same story 
 was moved to Earth in a mysterious Gears of War look a like. Seriously, the box should have just 
 said "welcome to Sera." what a bunch of stealers.
  
  Good things: The finishing moves are a great thing to look at as well, the game overall is pretty 
 sweet to look at and the game runs fairly smoothly.
  
  However, Frequent, annoying, gimmicky boss fight and puzzles take the top spots as the games biggest 
 flaws.
  
  Overall, the game is nothing more than a shamless Gears of War ripoff that should be avoided at 
 all cost! Wait till November for GoW2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllBOOMSTICK
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I rented this game from a local store and was expecting it to be somewhat badass. I got it home 
 and played for about an hour. I made it through "Baggage claim" when all of a sudden the reality 
 of what I was playing set in. The weapons you pick up have some kind of expiration date on them 
 and you will drop them after about 10 shots with shotgun or 30 shots with AK. The glaive controls 
 like a 3rd person view RC helicopter from GTA Vice City (Craptastic.) The aiming in this game by 
 default is super fast, yet blocky feel takes away from precision. Headshots are hard to pull off 
 and the enemies just keep coming. You can "Elementise" your weapon with fire, ice, and electricity 
 yet, feels like this effect doesnt last long enough either. The story so far is boring and the 
 main character never makes a sound in combat. The graphics are beautiful, yet crappy gameplay take 
 away from the overall experience. The enemies are a who's who of this genre zombies, monsters, 
 and naziesque no names who you have to take down using a clunky cover system. The cut scenes are 
 like a cliffnotes version of what I guess the story is supposed to be. Michael Rosenbaum is the 
 voice actor for the main character and I gotta love him because he is a local boy. All the others 
 seem like they are bad 80's versions of Russian Yakov Smirnoff. I cant make myself play through 
 this. I am trying to just bank the little achievements here and there but I am ultimately not impressed. 
 If you are on the fence with this game I say rent it and play further than Baggage Claim. Maybe 
 the gameplay gets more fun and things start to smooth out, but I do not see this happening. This 
 game really lacks polish and wouldnt be found in my collection at a discount rate of $4.99. I had 
 high hopes for this game, yet I feel let down and confused about some of the crap that is passable 
 thru quality control at these companies. Do you need testers? Do you need someone that will say 
 no to mediocrity? D3 who dropped the ball here? Who said at the end of the day this game is worthy 
 of sale? Who invested so heavily that you had to meet some kind of financial Q2 profit selling 
 poop shaped like a DVD? Next time flesh out these weaknesses. Look at games like Bioshock, the 
 original Halo, hell take a page from Hitman Blood Money. Look at this Turd Person shooter and ask 
 would you buy this crap and play thru to completion? Is it sad that I want my money back for a 
 rental? I payed 6 bucks for 5 days and I cant even be interested in this longer than 5 mins! For 
 those of you who bought this game I am genuinely sorry. I wish you could get your money back. They 
 should give you back $30 for a half finished "game." Microsoft, did you open the floodgates for 
 mediocrity.......... wait a second....... VISTA! Thanks again for saving me $60 Family Video! Come 
 on guys a black market that sells 4 weapons is a WHACK MARKET!
  
  Its kinda like that....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elann2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Hello folks. I just completed Dark Sector the other night and I have to say, this is one incredible 
 game. Gears of War clone? I beg to differ. Sure, it's in the third-person perspective, it sports 
 the dark and dull colors, and it features the duck and cover system. But Dark Sector, does so many 
 things differently from other video games. For one, the glaive is the primary weapon featured in 
 Dark Sector, that spawns from Hayden Tenno's hand. The glaive is a force to be reckoned with. It 
 can sever limbs, torsos, and rip off heads. That's right. You can even add some electricity, fire, 
 or ice to the glaive for some extra "umph." But seriously, these game elements are important for 
 defeating certain bosses and enemies as well as solve puzzles throughout the game. A cool feature 
 about the glaive is called, the aftertouch. What it does is allow the player to zoom into a third-person 
 view of the glaive. Mind you, all this is in slow motion, and you can fast foward it and go back 
 in slow motion again. This allows for precise head slicin' fun. You can even take out two to three 
 mobs in one throw. 
  
  Another awesome feature in Dark Sector are the finishers. There are a good number of finishers 
 that keeps the game action-packed and fresh. You have your neck-slitting behind the back finisher, 
 neckbreaker, trip and strike, necksnapper, and a few others depending on which enemies you go up 
 against. These finishers are done in slow motion, which gives it a more dramatic feel and look. 
 It's amazing. It's especially nice when you're a bit frustrated with enemies that dont go down 
 so easily, and you just run up to them and finish them off. It never gets old. 
  
  One of the most memorable things about Dark Sector were the boss fights. Boss fights felt like 
 big boss fights. And every single boss provided for a different tactic or strategy in order to 
 beat them. This brought back memories of the big boss fights in Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. 
 If you know what I'm talking about, you'll suddenly feel a slight chill or goosebumps, perhaps. 
 Some bosses warrant you to use fire on your glaive to defeat them, while as others require electricity, 
 or both as well as other tactics. Not only are the levels challenging in some instances, the bosses 
 are even more challenging, yet it remains fun. 
  
  As some of you have already read in recent reviews, there is the black market which is basically 
 a merchant that lets you buy, sell, upgrade, or store items in a locker. They could have done without 
 this feature but since it's there, you could mess around with the weapons and upgrades just for 
 kicks. While playing Dark Sector, I found myself using only one handgun and the glaive, the entire 
 time. It wasnt until later in the game that I started using a shotgun for faster zombie ownage. 
 The downside of the weapons and upgrades in this game is that they're way too expensive. You find 
 cash lying around throughout each level. You pocket the cash and purchase weapons and upgrades 
 when you come across the black market (sewer lid) . Even if you avidly collect all the cash throughout 
 the game, you barely have enough for one gun with full upgrades, or maybe two. By then, you wouldnt 
 even need them because all you really need is your glaive. 
  
  As for the ending, I was a bit disappointed. It was short. The storyline was decent. The plot isnt 
 Dark Sector's strong point by any means. Storytelling was average. Although I would have loved 
 for DS to have more cutscenes and dialogue between each character. This left the story to be a 
 bit confusing and uninspiring. Voice acting was great, but too bad, the story was lacking. 
  
  If you're looking for a fun, action-packed video game, with very impressive visuals, tight 
 controls, with a decent storyline to match, this game is for you. Big boss fights will leave you 
 hanging on to your seats and enemy encounters are brutally fun. Once I picked up Dark Sector, I 
 couldnt put the controller down. Ignore reviews on these so-called websites we trust and try out 
 one of this year's sleeper hits. If you enjoyed Gears of War, you'll love Dark Sector. I rate Dark 
 Sector a 9.0. 
  
  Gameplay length - About 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XIG4METIM3IX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short seeing that I dont have a lot of time here, so here it is. Dark Sector is 
 an anticipated Xbox 360 game that combines 3rd person shooting, a cover system, and of course the 
 infamous blade of death (glavie) . When you first start out, you will immediately see that it seems 
 like a mix between GoW, and RE: 4. The story is basically there is an infection going around, and 
 you have been sent in, bladah bladah, not to ruin it. The stories alright so far, not anything 
 amazing though. Some of the good parts about the game is that you have a lot of features at your 
 disposal, such as throwing the glavie, and then pressing the throw button again while its flying 
 and you can direct where it flies with a third person camera thing that follows behind the blade, 
 you direct it with the RS. Good graphical features dont subtract from the games goodness either. 
 Some cons however, are that the controls seems like they couldve been worked on some more, with 
 very little auto-aim, youll find yourself shifting your reticule for your gun, back and forth over 
 an enemy while trying to get it on him. (They have a look sensitivety option which helps with this 
 however) Also, the cover system seems like a under-funded GoW system. Overall, this game is not 
 a must have by far, but if you liked GoW, and you liked RE: 4, you might want to see about getting 
 this as a sidestep, since GoW2 doesnt come out till November (as it stands from now: 4/1/08) and 
 RE: 5 doesnt come out till sometime in 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgh0lx
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why but I really didn't like this game that much. It looks good and controls good 
 but I just didn't have fun playing it. Maybe my hopes were too high, maybe I've come to expect 
 more, but this game just seemed empty. With as much time as it's had to come together there is 
 no reason for it to be like this, the story is lame and predictable. The combat is a rip off of 
 so many other games, most of which did it better. I don't get why people think the glaive is such 
 an awesome weapon. It's just a bladed boomerang. It's not that new or original and doesn't make 
 the game worth playing at all. Despite any lack of glaring problems this game just didn't hold 
 my interest and I ended up just stopping because I got bored and went back to play gears of war 
 because the game rips it off so much it made me want to play it again. Which is a far better game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdog75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review because I believe this game was very underrated by the game sites. Dark 
 sector is an awesome game that shouldn't be missed. The game obviously barrows from other games 
 like we all have heard and that's a good thing. The game is not perfect but with more polish in 
 some areas it could have contended with the big guns like Gears. The graphics are beautiful, and 
 the controls are solid. The finishers and the shotguns make you feel like a juggernaut. The Glaive 
 is the best thing since the chainsaw bayonet. I guess what I am trying to say is that if you like 
 action, if you like GOW, RE4, and games like condemned than I guarantee your going to like Dark 
 Sector I agree that the story was not fleshed out, but like in Gears its most likely set up that 
 way for a sequel that I am looking forward too.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalkiel666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what the critic's reviewed this game at.
  
  This game is Heart poundingly intense. Sickly is another word. Put to a good way. I haven't sat 
 on the edge of my set in anticipation as to what's gonna jump out at me next since Resident Evil 
 2. At least not that I can remember. 
  The graphics are sharp and crystal clear, at least on my viewing unit. The boss's however are obnoxiously 
 hard. Especially if you don't have the guide, hint's, cheat's, or any help what so ever. As of 
 posting date, I am stuck on the "This one is very old" boss, but then I am not able to sit around 
 and play games for 19 hours a day like some gamers can. Wish I could, but I can't. 
  But I freaking love this game. I am having alot of fun with it. I pretty much sit on the edge of 
 my seat and my hands pretty much sweat do to the "what the hell is gonna get me next" haha.
  And his weapon so reminds me of the weapon from "KRULL". I wanna go watch the movie again.
  I 
 love the up close and personal weapon view. I love throwing my weapon and doing the slow-mo view 
 as it slice's through there heads or slices off there leg and so forth and so on.
  I bought it, its mine, and i'm keeping it.
  If you don't like the game, that's a bummer for you. 
 But everyone in the world is different and enjoys different things.
  
  Although I may be a little disapponted if word of mouth is true. Game only takes about 10 hours 
 or so to beat. I like games that take weeks even months to beat. That way the money is more then 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omni88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  This will be an in depth review of the game Dark Sector for the Xbox 360.
  
  The game pits you off on a mission to discover the Island's infectious disturbance. The beginning 
 mission introduces you to the game's mechanics and capability, at this point it feels much like 
 any other 3rd-person shooter. D3 introduces a black & white film style to the game to enforce this. 
 The graphics (although black & white) appears smooth and slick with rarely any clipping of graphics. 
 Controls are basic from this point onwards.
  
  At the point of infection, Hayden changes and so does the game. The introduction of the glaive 
 separates DS from GoW or any other shooter out there today. The mechanics of the glaive are fluent 
 and smooth. Reinforced by the simple controls, it just feels right. Enemy weapons become a secondary 
 asset at this point due to the various powers and capabilities with the glaive-pistol combo. Waves 
 of enemies rush behind cover and pop up to shoot, although repetitive, it never seems to get old, 
 the glaive keeps everything flowy and fresh from start to finish. 
  
  The environments seems to be dark and smooth. Very few texture clipping such as shadows occur. 
 The appearance are shiny and very much realistic. Light reflecting off the glaive and Hayden's 
 metal arm shows D3's stressed importance on Hayden. There are very few destructible elements in 
 the environment but there are some which keep the game interesting. No one wants to fight on solids 
 for 10 chapters. You are faces with puzzles throughout the game which are as simple as ABC, some 
 difficulties is just a matter f figuring out where the fire or electricity is located. Boss fights 
 are amazingly interesting and the zombie infected add some "zest" to the game.
  
  There have been many complaints of the Black Market in reviews I have read and I don't seem to 
 find any problem with it. Some have said that items are too expensive and variety is limited. I 
 collected every ruby and cases of power-ups and cost is not a problem. I was able to purchase all 
 the items by the end of chapter 5. It is best if you sell your grenades since they are the last 
 thing you reach for in combat. The Black Market and weapon upgrades is an excellent addition to 
 the game.
  
  DS remains smooth with the new glaive abilities you gain throughout, controls remain simple and 
 every button seems to work in concert with each other. The brutal difficulty is worth playing because 
 the AI is boosted and enemies tend to be more aggressive rather than passive on the normal difficulty; 
 enemies tend to shoot at walls or crouch behind a wall when you're right behind them, it isn't 
 plenty, but it is disappointing at times. DS is worth the money, the story is compelling from start 
 to finish, the transformation of Hayden is worth seeing and the action never ends. This is definitely 
 worth picking up if you're a shooter fan. D3 has got something going here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgmann16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The 360 has had some rough times since Halo 3 came out. While there have been many anticipated 
 games, there have also been a pretty good amount of crappy ones. Dark Sector does well enough to 
 stand out as good but not quite great. 
  
  If you like games for story don't touch Dark Sector. It hinted at having a rather deep story line, 
 but in the end what you get is an excuse to use a rather innovative weapon. The Glaive has long 
 been the focus of this game's advertising, and it certainly doesn't disappoint. I was skeptical 
 as to whether a boomerang capable of decapitating people could really remain fun to use throughout 
 the game, however it actually did. While you do add quite a few unique and useful abilities to 
 your "glaive arsenal" as it were, it never gets complex enough to stray from the straight forward 
 throw and catch that you use to decimate your foes. The abilities that you do gain are useful, 
 but still remain largely optional. If anything they add to the overpowered feeling of the protagonist. 
 Even with just the glaive and a pistol, you'll manage to rip through masses of enemies very quickly 
 once you've adapted to the control scheme. 
  
  My disappointment with this game comes largely from how shallow it is. The story is rather weak, 
 and there is certainly more that could be done with the characters, the enemies, and the glaive 
 itself. Thankfully, the awesome combat, immersing boss fights, and the beauty of the game managed 
 to keep me occupied for the 12 hours it took to beat. It might have benefited from more than just 
 the standard and brutal difficulty settings, but overall I did enjoy playing through the single 
 player twice. Hopefully we'll see a sequel that manages to expand upon some of the very cool concepts 
 in this first effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marsbar188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Frist off i seen the G-4 Scoring on T. v. 2 stars out of five awful scoring for such a Great Game, 
 Also i dont know why Darksector is scored a lot based on Gears of War Game, Darksector is not Gears 
 of War are should the Game be scored using that Game, This is DarkSector a new Game nothing to 
 do with Gears of War. DarkSector the main guy uses a blade for a weapon and guns, DarkSector is 
 a breath of fresh air with all the other war shooters that are out there. With his blade you can 
 get diffrent powers like fire and ice and Electric power to use on your foes in the Game. Darksector 
 starts off slow so you will have to give the Game sometime to grow on you, But when you get all 
 the powers and get the controlls down this Game is Great fun. Look my Friends Video Games are about 
 fun that is the main goal. Are you having fun with the Video Game you bought. Dont worry is the 
 game as good as Gears of War. Darksector is worth a buy, Buy the Game and play it through and have 
 fun and enjoy what the Game does best and that is his blade weapon - new and diffrent plus you 
 gain powers from the bosses you beat in the game and this is great fun, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigmanthegreat
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I would say just about everything besides the melee combat in this game is good. but the melee 
 is so terrible that it's just discraceful for a next-gen game. The graphics are superb, the glaive 
 can be fun, the shooting is actually very good, well not the sniper, but oh well. other wise it's 
 over all an enjoyable third person game. not much of a third person experience though.
  la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la lala la la la la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  As for this game being something you will want to add to your collection, I say no. As for a game 
 you should play, yes. The reviews make sense to me now. The hard part about this game is that it 
 has huge potential but did not use it.
  
  One example is the weapons upgrades. First you have only a very small choice in weapons to buy 
 and a small basic choice of upgrades. You search for these upgrades throughout the game but there 
 is no challenge to it at all. You really have no need to actually search around the environments. 
 The glaive is one of the best weapons ever in a video-game. They did not fully use the potential 
 of this weapon. This weapon is killer. You can shoot ammo boxes from across the room and grab the 
 ammo with it, which is really cool in a gun fight and you run out of ammo. It can really pick up 
 the pace in action of this game but there is rarely a need. The AI in the game does not even make 
 a real attempt to be offensive when it comes to the soldiers which would be the perfect place to 
 do this. It is insane to throw the glaive at somebody and then start to plug them with bullets 
 at the same time. That is great, I mean it is really great. This technique is really only good 
 for the creatures in the game, since they are the only things that may attack you or come after 
 you. It works great in that case but the soldiers are where the greatest potential comes into play 
 it lacks hard. The soldiers are always on defense except for shielded ones. They will give you 
 a chance to do this. Now when I say the "greatest potential" I mean since the soldiers are on defense 
 you can just sit there and hit them with the glaive why run around. If the soldiers were a bit 
 more on the offense to a point to where you would have to run around from cover to cover and use 
 the glaive to get ammo or other weapons while fighting it would have been OFF THE HOOK.
  
  All of these things are kept at a minimum to the point of playing guns as a kid and pretending 
 to be a army man rather than the danger of being killed. The use of different guns is not as important 
 as how bad @$$ the guns feel to use. They really are great but limited choices and not so important 
 upgrades. The upgrade thing is nice in general but lacks substance. All the upgrades are the same 
 for every gun, and you get multiples of the same thing the whole game. It would be cool for a arcade 
 game but it feels half right at most for this game. You do get a shield in this game but it really 
 lacks purpose. You only need it to get a achievement. It could have been a great feature but almost 
 unnecessary. Back to the glaive. Great weapon. Used very well in this game but again not to potential. 
 You can grab ammo, weapons and elements from across the room which is nice. You can also search 
 around corners to see what lies ahead. you can throw it through tight spots to hit somebody or 
 grab something. All of this is sweet. I just would have liked to see more depth with it. Like using 
 it to go through tunnels to hit levers to open doors or find hidden treasures. All of this stuff 
 is right there in front of you. There is no reason to search or figure out how to advance to the 
 next level in a serious way. They do this in a very minimal way though and it feels watered down. 
 The element aspect of the glaive is great not too much there to complain about.
  
  The enemies in this game are alright. It is on par with most good games. There are times where 
 there are seemingly never ending single file lines of them. There are multiple styles of AI which 
 is great although there it becomes boring to shoot things that stay in the same place and dont 
 move around.
  
  The sound in this game is really good. They tell you this in the other reviews. Very true, it sounds 
 very good. Actually the sound and the glaive are the greatest part of this game and they are really 
 great. The graphics and environments are very good also. Like in other reviews they do get a little 
 monotonous. There are great effects throughout the game and the colors are nice, the characters 
 are very good looking especially in the cut scenes. As for being dark, Dark Sector is dark, real 
 dark. Not as in evil as much as lack of light. You do get a flashlight but it is good for nothing. 
 You will need it if you want to see where you are going at times, but other than that nothing. 
 The items you collect throughout the game flash like a arcade game. Again no need to search, they 
 blink.
  
  So The infamous story. There is none. It is true the story is nothing but a vague insert to break 
 the action. The breaks look good and are well placed though, I have to give it that. Another great 
 thing about the game is it actually has some boss fights. They are pretty good also. There are 
 certain ways to kill each one and a few are really cool. So the boss fights are a plus. 
  
  One last aspect of the game that is really important is the game-play. The game play is very good 
 but it needs to be fine tuned. You have cover and can hug walls but can only do it if you are walking 
 up to it not if you are right in front of it already. When switching cover you dont hug the next 
 cover, which is fine except to have to back up and walk up to it to take cover. Walking up to ammo 
 and weapons to pick them up is a problem. You are much better off stopping and shooting your glaive 
 at them to pick them up. Otherwise you are trying to line yourself up to hold down the x button 
 until you pick it up. There is no blind fire. Finishing moves, not as great as they say but not 
 bad. They are pretty cool for the most point but I would like to choose which one I want to use. 
 All of that said, and I hope it helps, It is a good game to play once. A broken game that has insane 
 potential to be incredible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHO_ONE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  
  The STORY starts off with you infiltrating a base on what seemed to be an island. It's at this 
 point that the trailers and dev diaries about the black and white intro make sense. It's also at 
 this point were I wouldn't expect to know much about what I'm to do or what the heck is going on 
 however; I wish I could say that by the end of the game you find out. Not saying there isn't a 
 story here but there isn't one really worth mentioning, I played through the game twice (in order 
 to get the achievement for beating the game on brutal) thinking maybe the story would open up better, 
 but alas no. What story there is, is revealed to you via CGI cut scene and verbal hallucinations, 
 neither of which help put the puzzle of this game together. At the end of the day you know that 
 this game won't be winning any awards for ground breaking story telling. My Score a 7.25 / 10 - 
 needs improvement.
  
  Lacking Story aside, the CONTROL SCHEME takes only moments to adapt to and once you're good you're 
 good! The duck and cover system of gears in my opinion was better then the advent of sliced bread 
 and the aim system feels just slightly off, but agreed with me since Hayden uses his off hand to 
 shoot allowing for smoother game play since you don't lose any time in weapon changing screens. 
 The camera work and character movement all feels right. Dark Sector, feels familiar thanks to it's 
 borrowed mechanics, but in no way are you board or disappointed because of this, but instead grateful 
 for the complete control you have over Hayden and his abilities. As the game progresses your given 
 / develop new powers and each arrive at just the right time allowing you to fully understand the 
 power and implement its use with surgical precision, Power Throw + After touch = Pure Satisfaction 
 squared. However a quick word on the games mechanics. The only issue wasn't a lacking "A. I" but 
 the fact that your enemies would get stuck in door ways or stop acting all together. The Zombies 
 and Bosses became almost too predictable, but this fact never took away from the game play itself. 
 They used what works, could have taken a chance at something original but hey when something works 
 it works! My Score is 8.5 / 10 - The game play, A. I and mechanics all worked; however those moments 
 it didn't would take you out of the atmosphere.
  
  When it comes to the GRAPHICS, darkSector gets a gold star. The textures on all the chem. suits, 
 zombies and all the other bosses and what not are just incredibly good! At no point do I look at 
 any object and feel that it could have been redone! I actually was amazed at how clean and polished 
 everything looked, even when turning the camera to look around, felt like I was there looking at 
 what Hayden was seeing through his eyes. The frame rate was never an issue regardless of how much 
 was going on scene. 8.75 / 10 - I loved everything, nothing looked bland or thrown together! The 
 levels however seemed too familiar, now borrowing the controls of GoW is one this but to almost 
 feel like the levels were almost borrowed is another!
  
  The SOUND in dark Sector simply adds to the feel of the Game, the voice over's are done well and 
 the effects of everything from the eerie voices in your head to the monster sounds that come from 
 this hallway, or was it this hallway.... However to all that have played and witnessed the sound 
 of the headshot up close will agree that the crunch that makes is the most satisfying. Dark Sector 
 Delivers on the sound and you feel fully surrounded by the environments atmosphere and feel, something 
 that seems lacking in todays would be great games! - 9 / 10 - you feel there! Owning surround sound 
 is a must, get immersed!
  
  All in all I'd say this game is what I expected to play as a matter a fact its more. If you haven't 
 played this, you're missing moments that no gamer should be without! I urge you to not only play 
 this but give it a second go with the brutal difficulty the 110 achievment points at the end are 
 truly worth the play! The multiplayer, it would seem is actually fun and doesn't feel tacked on, 
 I actually find myself enjoying that as well, although like GoW again the Achievement points are 
 based on a million kills and hours to achieve you points! Have fun, don't miss out on darkSector, 
 I hope for a part two sooner than later!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandstream
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, the black-and-white opening tutorial introduces us to Hayden Tenno, 
 a man who can't handle his line of work for much longer. Not having much choice, he continues his 
 operation into a compound, placing C4 explosives and moving cautiously through to avoid any entanglements, 
 which cannot be avoided despite his efforts. When he emerges through the compound, he is met by 
 Mesner, a madman with apparent control over a unique strain of an organism known as Technocyte, 
 which turns another organism upon infection into a mutated form of itself, pending excruciating 
 pain. Fortunately for our hero, who becomes infected, he finds himself enduring the pain due to 
 an (unnoted) genetic defect, which is referred to more as Hayden's body being 'so broken'...
  
  He wakes up and gets orders to explore the coastline, navigating until he relocates Mesner 
 and calls in the cavalry. In the meantime, he realizes his entire left arm has become metallicized 
 and has transmuted a triple bladed glaive. From there, it goes into RE4 fashion (by throwing hoards 
 of intelligent enemies at you in controlled areas) and Gears of War combat (third person, fighting 
 from behind cover and utilizing a combination of guns and melee combat) . The real fun comes from 
 the glaive. As you progress through the game, baring beautiful graphics and dark scenery for the 
 main background, your glaive gains access to additional powers and strengths. One innovation is 
 utilizing elemental properties such as electricity, fire, and ice to gain an advantage in combat 
 over powerful foes.
  
  The combat, graphics, and gameplay seem so exciting, but the real drawback lies in the story. We 
 learn that Hayden is sent on a recon mission to investigate and is ordered to kill Mesner upon 
 discovery. But the game keeps lax about many things that pop out of nowhere. He has history with 
 characters he associates himself with throughout the story, but the history isn't explained. And 
 as much as it looks like a game where you go on a murderous rampage against foe and monster alike, 
 the story is what waters down the game. But I found this to be a minor problem, as I knew the story 
 of what the game was about and what to expect. Otherwise, I found the game to be pretty enjoyable 
 combatwise... for only a few hours. Yes, like Gears of War, it also has a short gameplay of a few 
 hours, along with 2 difficulty modes and a multiplayer that offers 3 gameplay options.
  
  Otherwise, this game is for those who want a pure action experience and does not disappoint.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  So after about four years and a total revamp of the concept, Dark Sector finally comes out, with 
 mixed results. Dark Sector follows a CIA black-ops agent named Hayden Tenno sent to a fictional 
 former Soviet Bloc nation called Lasria. Lasria has sent the military in to clean up an area infected 
 with a mysterious disease that turns the infected into aggressive monsters. It is Hayden's job 
 to gather some intelligence and see what he can do about all of this. Soon afterward, he himself 
 becomes infected, transforming his arm and giving him the ability to spawn a three-bladed weapon 
 called the Glaive. 
  
  I'll tell you right now, the story gets pretty convoluted and hard to follow, full of plot holes 
 and unanswered questions. Beyond the overall story, trying to decipher the details will be rather 
 difficult. 
  
  Luckily, the game is actually fun to play. The controls and core gameplay are nearly identical 
 to Gears of War, right down to the cover system, while the atmosphere is more akin to Resident 
 Evil 4. In Dark Sector, you have several weapons at any given time: Your glaive, a secondary weapon 
 that is wielded in your off-hand while using your glaive, a primary weapon, and grenades. The disease 
 also grants you other special powers that you acquire over the course of the game. 
  
  I'll start with your glaive and powers. The glaive is a three-bladed throwing weapon that works 
 much like a boomerang of death. You throw it at an enemy and it returns a moment later. It can 
 also be used to grab a distance object, and is the focus of most the game's puzzles. The glaive 
 can be thrown at elements like fire, holding that element for several seconds. It can then be used 
 to cause heavy damage to enemies or, more often than not, solve some sort of puzzle. For example, 
 throwing the glaive at a broken light will cause it to carry electricity. Throwing the glaive at 
 the electronic lock of a door will open it. 
  
  Some other powers include the ability to guide your glaive in slow motion, deploying an energy 
 shield that stops projectiles, and cloaking. 
  
  The glaive is a weapon you'll be using quite a bit during the game, and it helps that it's up there 
 with God of War's chain blades and Gears of War's Lancer in terms of awesome weaponry. Decapitating 
 and cutting enemies in half with the glaive is one of the more satisfying ways of killing in any 
 recent action game. 
  
  That isn't to say the guns don't have their uses. The glaive has a limited range, so you'll need 
 to use guns to hit the targets that are further away. There is a decent variety of guns, all of 
 which may be upgraded at the Black Market. The Black Market acts much like The Merchant in RE4. 
 It is a place to buy and sell weapons and to attach upgrades. Upgrades range from increasing a 
 gun's accuracy to higher capacity magazines. 
  
  The main problem is that there is no way to test weapons before you buy, nor is there any way to 
 test upgrades before you apply them. This is further complicated by one of several asinine gameplay 
 mechanics. See, when you kill an enemy and pick up their weapon, you are only given a few seconds 
 to use it because each gun used by the Lasrian soldiers has a "infection detection mechanism" that 
 prevents an infected human from using them. Worse yet, you can't even test most the weapons by 
 using them within those precious seconds because the Lasrian soldiers you fight only carry two 
 of the ten or so weapons in the game.
  
  Another thing about the guns is that, while they all have their uses in some point or situation, 
 all of them are pretty much pointless after you can buy the double-barreled, secondary shotgun 
 and the last assault rifle (Which looks like a G36C knock-off) . The sniper rifle is particularly 
 pointless, as the vast majority of the game's encounters occur within shotgun range while going 
 down confined corridors. 
  
  Which brings me to another gripe about a stupid game mechanic: Why does your flashlight randomly 
 turn off after a short time? I never understood this mechanic in survival horror games. Is it to 
 simulate the idea that flashlights can run out of batteries? If so, it defeats the purpose when 
 you can turn it back on the second after it goes out. This mechanic serves no purpose other than 
 to frustrate you, especially when it happens as you are fending off zombies in a pitch black hallway. 
 Secondly, why can the flashlight only be used when wielding the glaive/secondary weapon? The flashlight 
 is attached to Hayden's suit, yet it magically only works when I have my glaive out. Why can't 
 it work when I have my primary weapon out?
  
  Graphically, Dark Sector is up there with the better looking next-gen games. The game does a good 
 job at making a creepy atmosphere, with lots of dark areas. I just wish the flashlight issue wasn't 
 an issue. The music is also always placed well, with the creepy, haunting music playing when walking 
 down dark hallways and faster music playing during the combat. 
  
  Likewise, the voice acting and sound effects are all great. The decapitations have a nice and satisfying 
 sound effect that was actually created by smashing various fruit with a hammer, if you watch the 
 video up on Gametrailers. 
  
  The single player is the real meat of the game and will take you roughly 9-10 hours. There is also 
 multiplayer for up to 10 people. However, the multiplayer has mixed results. There are only two 
 modes and they focus on Hayden. So if you get to play Hayden, you'll likely have a lot of fun. 
 But, if you aren't Hayden, the experience will be a bit disappointing. 
  
  The two modes are Epidemic and Infection. In Epidemic, two teams of five fight to assassinate the 
 "leader" of the other team, who plays as a fully upgraded Hayden. Everyone else is playing as the 
 soldiers from the single player. Meanwhile, in Infection, one player plays as Hayden and everyone 
 else is playing as the soldiers. The soldiers must hunt down and kill Hayden. The player who kills 
 him then becomes "infected" and turns into Hayden. 
  
  While the multiplayer will add a few more hours to the game, it isn't anything to really write 
 home about. It ends up feeling sorta thrown on. 
  
  This review might sound rather negative, but Dark Sector really is a good survival horror/third-person 
 action game that any fan of the genres should take the time to check out. It makes for an excellent 
 rental and a great buy if you hold back a little while and let it drop about $20. In the end, Dark 
 Sector is held back by underwhelming multiplayer, several outright dumb design choices, and a rather 
 convoluted story. Even with it's flaws, I highly recommend that anyone interested in this sort 
 of game at least give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox_units_1st
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: 
  Remember The fist time you used your lightsaber in Jedi Outkast? Slicing stormtroopers left and 
 right, pulling blasters right out of their hands, then finishing off that last guy with force choke. 
 Dark Sector is a game all about that "Badass" feeling we all remember from games like Outcast or 
 Psi Ops. It just feels awesome to shoot a couple baddies down, take off a head or two with the 
 glave, throw up a physic mind shield, and proceed to tear through the survivors, glave to face. 
 
  Things get only get better when you add a solid cover system, a la Gears, and clever gunplay, reminiscent 
 of Resident Evil 4. There's a lot here to like, plus, the gameplay actually gets better the more 
 you play it thanks to a robust gun upgrade system, and abilities that progressively g become both 
 more well rounded and powerful. Aftertouch is fu@&ing awsome.
  some small problems do pop up, such at some screen tearing, occasional glitches, and some ugly 
 textures . I also have some issues with the games use of space. Systems for collecting goods and 
 money in the game are ripped from Resident Evil, but the levels are much bigger and more wide open 
 in Dark Sector, so collection leads to a fair bit of running around, a non-issue in the tight, 
 enclosed corridor type of environment that dominated RE4.
  Overall though, my gameplay experience with Dark Sector was overwhelmingly positive.
  Solid.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  Dark Sector is, at a glance, pretty slick. Hayden in particular, looks fantastic. The game's graphics 
 department certainly didn't waste it's time throughout the project's 4 year development cycle. 
 Details like Hayden's arm becoming increasingly alien as his infection spreads really helps the 
 feeling of immersion. However, there are a few noticeable problems here.
  The most obvious is level design, which comes off as extremely derivative, as well as pretty bland 
 looking to boot. That's not to say the levels are "bad," they certainly get the job done, they 
 just seem like levels you've already explored in other games, especially Gears of War. I suspect 
 it's a product of designing the levels around a cover system. Still it's disappointing though, 
 especially when games like Drakes Fortune have produced levels based around the same cover concept 
 with much more vibrant, original, and in the end enjoyable results.
  
  
  Sound: 
  Dark Sector even sounds badass. Gunshots are potent in this game, blasting a guy with a shotgun 
 gives off a pretty epic blast, and splitting torsos in two apparently agrees with my stereo, because 
 it sounds Fu*#ing sweet.
  Dark Sector features all kinds of gory combat, and it all sounds awesome, shooting people in the 
 face is fun, and part of the reason is because it always sounds appropriately gross when their 
 head explodes.
  Voice acting is also good, especially Michael Rosenbaum as Hayden, and gets the point across without 
 sounding loony. *cough*Lost PLanet*cough*
  
  Narrative: 
  Here's where the game starts to really show it's chinks. The story here isn't very good or interesting, 
 and there there's not very much of it, so quantity won't be making up for quality. Hayden's the 
 shining light here, he's pretty engaging and voiced very well by Rosenbaum. Unfortunately he's 
 severely underdeveloped, with developers spending very little time spent on his backstory, or any 
 of the characters for that matter. 
  Beyond that, the pacing in really horribly; cutscenes occur seemingly at random, and time spent 
 playing rarely feels interconnected with story development.
  It's too bad, Hayden's not a bad leading man, but there's just not enough of him save this already 
 hopelessly lost adventure. This could have had a good narrative with a great lead, instead it dives 
 headfirst into mediocrity.
  
  Closing:
  Dark Sector fun factor is as solid as anything else on the market. The game is really all about 
 providing the player with a toyset of destruction, and in that regard, it delivers, completely. 
 It dishes out heavy douses of badassness, and manages to stay fresh throughout. There's something 
 to be said about the satisfaction in the complete domination of one's AI opponents, and The multiplayer 
 is fun as well, if a little underdeveloped. Just don't come looking for the next Metal Gear Solid, 
 there's neither a complex or a compelling narrative to be found here, just a whole lot of ass-kicking.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I havent posted on the forums in ages, but I still take the time to troll them garnering insight 
 from fellow gamers on the newest releases. Ill keep this short, the game is eerily similar to Gears 
 of War in almost every aspect. They share pov, play mechanics, graphics/ artistic style to a certain 
 degree and even down to the lack of a strong story/narrative. For those of you out there wondering 
 if you should pick this up, I can whole heartedly recommend it. After playing through 3 chapters 
 of the game, I jumped online thinking this game would get stellar reviews only to find mediocre 
 ones. Im pretty surprised by this, considering how much fun it was so far. Anyone else find it 
 surprising, just curious myself. I usually see eye to eye with the majority of the reviews on sites 
 like gamespot but feel it this ones off by a bit. Any thoughts, id like to hear them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachilee123
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Why is every one giving this game bad ratings! It deserves much better! First off, it has amazing 
 graphics, it also has the glaive, it never gets old. The game also gives you numerous powers, so 
 the game isn't the same al the way through. I don't know what people are talking about with bad 
 controlls and control issue or cover issues. I have never had a problem. Now, about the multiplayer. 
 Although it only has 2 modes, they are extremely fun and you should give it a try. Just remember 
 that this is on the 360 and that they can fix any glitches AND add multiplayer modes. I honestly 
 have no complaints except for the puzzles, they can get pretty annoying sometimes. I would call 
 this a sleeper hit and a must buy for shooter fans. The most fun I have had in a while. About the 
 story, it Is a good story. Not an amazing one, but a good one I can't really say I don't like it. 
 I know that it gets inspiration from RE and GoW but its its own game and highly original. The only 
 downside is the boss battles, they are just not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGreenMachine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  What a strong start, it started off with a bang, but once you learn the coolest of the cool moves, 
 and the most useful attacks the game almost changes it's pace to a stale slug. but i must say, 
 if you're good at 3rd person shooters and can pick up strategies to take down annoyingly spontanious 
 enemies, then you won't find some of the games low points too unbearable. Once i hit one of these 
 points where the cheapest way to eliminate multiple targets was the only way to get it done, i 
 felt a little upset... actually i was downright cursing, the glaive is such a genius way to spruce 
 up an almost stale genre, yet they throw enemies that you cannot defeat with the glaive easily 
 and almost HAVE to use a weapon to move past them. This nearly spoiled the game for me, but then 
 i reached a couple awesome boss fights, and i'm not talking about some incredible display of great 
 game engineering, but I'm saying these boss fights left with a very different taste in my mouth, 
 trying so hard to defeat an enemy only to die a couple times, get lost in frustration only to figure 
 it out and really kick their ass, is a great feeling. You'll either ruin a boss very quickly or 
 struggle with it for a bit, only to really ruin a boss later on. But the boss fights are just a 
 small chunk of the game, what really shocked me was the delay and obvious waves of enemies they 
 were throwing at me, just to make sure i didn't blow through the game too fast. Why would I be 
 watching someone on a security cam being tortured and almost run for what seemed like 5km to get 
 to him... what purpose does this security cam have? story structure?? the game really is plagued 
 with moments like this, but the cool gameplay ideas and great weapons and upgrade abilities really 
 do fix what you may feel is broken. i felt the glaive should have had more of the spotlight, but 
 it was good to see that not every situation was solvable by chopping people in half. Great game 
 overall, high potential for a great series, but it's going to have to work on some story set up? 
 Army of Two got story prep right (for a series) i think a game as rich in potential should have 
 been able to do the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok, the single player can be frustrating... where u are stuck at one part for an hour 
 searching for the smallest things... i hate those and this game has it where u have to search for 
 some tiny thing in a big area and u cant go to the next without finding it... The single player 
 is boring after 30 minutes and you dont even know why you are there, bad story...
  
  Multiplayer is horrible theres 2 modes Infection and Epidemic... Theres only 2 types of weapons.. 
 1 Rifle and 1 Shotgun u get a random one everytime u spawn and theres no choice... The infected 
 gets a pistol and his glaive.. thats the only fun part but its really boring after a while it can 
 get really repetative..
  
  Graphics And Settings are really good the dark areas and graphics are really amazing and thats 
 what makes this game pretty good, also no motion sickness for sicky ppl so its good..
  
  Overall its a 7.0... D+
  Fun for a few days then it can get really repetative with frustrating 
 story puzzles and no idea what you are there for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyteams
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a game where its scary but just the perfect amount of scariness even im not a big 
 fan of horror games but i think this is one great game.
  
  the boss fights are just right difficulty u even get to use a boss as a vehicle later in the game. 
 this is definately a sleeper game. the blade that grows out of the main characters arm never gets 
 old and another thing thats great about this game is that u dont have the same weapons all the 
 time u can upgrade them at the black market!!!!!!!! 
  
  the story of the game is that the main character kayden is a secret black ops agent that goes to 
 a infected part of (probably Russian) city. and his objective is to blow it all up and end the 
 terrible zombie infected city but i dont want to give away the whole story so thats pretty much 
 the summary of the story.
  
  and if you want to know about multiplayer its pretty good but it can be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I remeber hearing about Dark Sector way before the Xbox 360 was realesed and it sounded awesome, 
 I saw the trailer and it looked awesome. I really wanted this game along time ago and I decided 
 to buy the first day it came out befor the review (which is something I never do) . So, two or three 
 days later and heres my review.
  
  Gameplay: Most of you have probley already known that the first level starts in balck and white 
 and your pratically on a "undercover' mission which gets you familiar with the gun mechanic and 
 controls. You can already tell that if they didn't have a glaive fetured in this game it would 
 have been a decnt third-person shooter, but they do have a glaive and it brings with it an amazing 
 overall gaming expierince. So, on to the glaive. When you first get the glaive, and after you watch 
 one of the coolest cut-secenes I've seen in a long time, you feel like the game just got flipped 
 upside down and now your playing a Gears of War esque game instead of James Bond. You see the potential 
 in the glavie and the finishing moves will wow you. Of course of do get power-ups a lot and that 
 really makes you feel a varity in the game, which saves it frm sheer bordem. 
  
  Story: The story in Dark Sector isn't magnificent, but I diffently see potentil for an awsome sequal 
 to tie in all the loose ends. You are a undercover agent trying to take down this evel genius from 
 spreading harmful chemicals everywhere, there are some side stories that tie into the big one but 
 you should diffently just pay real close attention to everything to get a sense of what's going 
 on.
  
  Graphics: This game is gorgeous from the distugsting textures to Hayden's arm you will see some 
 amazing graphics that are on par with todays leading video games.
  
  Sound: The sound in Dark Sector will blow you away, from the distusting sounds of a guys intestines 
 getting ripped out to the overall voice acting you are in for a treat.
  
  Overall: Many other reviews claim this game as having an awful story line and how the glaive gets 
 repetitve. I for one think that the glaive is a welcome new comer to the third-person genre and 
 it gets no more repetive than a gun in other games. The story is pretty weak, but like I said before, 
 the story might be amazing in the sequal if they tie all the loose ends and make sense of everything. 
 I also think that the gameplay, sound, and graphics fully make up for one of the most unique and 
 enjoyable expiernces around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumo915
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games i have played this year the glaive is awesome. i would say this is 
 the best game i played all year. it s not really like gears besides the duck and cover gameplay. 
 you play as hayden tenno a black ops operative sent to assasinate these two guys who are infected. 
 while in the process you get infected too. the rest of the story starts to get a little sketchy 
 though and you really start to get lost about what the story is really about but other than that 
 the game play is amazing. as you get further into the game you start to fight the infected . thats 
 about chapter 3. then they just keep getting more complicated like the chromas. the infection also 
 grants you powers like the after touch , for me it never gets old or the power throw, and invisibility. 
 this game also has those scary moments like in Resident and evil 4 and weapon upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel185
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i knew i was gonna like it. But deep inside i knew there was something 
 about the game that was going to leave me disappointed and i found out what that was 30 minutes 
 into the game. 
  The games concept was something new i think and it was a good idea and the combat was pretty top 
 notch, BUT the games crafty story and combat were destroyed by the HORRIFIC I REPEAT HORRIFIC way 
 the story was told. Most of the time i was just running around doing random things. It alsmost 
 never made sense and certain characters are never explained. This was bad enough but theres worse. 
 There were more times than not where i couldnt even here what the people in the game were saying 
 because the music in the game was higher than the voice dialogue. EXSPECIALLY at the end of the 
 game i couldnt hear anything the guy was saying. 
  All this aside the online combat was pretty cool but still lacking in some elements. And you will 
 have fun playing the game i guarentee that. The combat is original and always satisfying when you 
 kill a guy by beheading him with the gavel. I actually loved the combat system and thought it was 
 real fun. But like i said if your willing to look over the poorly told story then you will enjoy 
 the game alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbazabba1977
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  So as I was unwrapping this game I couldn't help think to myself how long it would be before I 
 was yearning to play some other game. I must say I had lowered expectations for this game. Very 
 low honestly. I was pleasantly surprised after the first two levels at how much fun I was having 
 playing this game. The graphics are eye candy to say the least. The storyline not quite insipiring 
 but engaging none the less. The main weapon (the glaive) is a blast to use. The mutliplayer is 
 fun to an extent but I don't see long term replay value there.
  
  All in all this game is worthy of buying. My only gripe is the controls at times. The bosses are 
 challenging. The levels are thoughtfully laid out. The new weapon is innovative and a blast to 
 use. Pick this game up it won't dissapoint.
  
  I rate this game:
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_Vanish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Im sooo disappointed! It seems like every body is comparing this game to Gears of War and there 
 rating it OFF THAT! This is a great game with great weapons, great graphics, BOSS BATTLES!!! and 
 a cool story to go with it... Yeah! it dosent have Co-op or a great Multi player.. But you cant 
 give it bad ratings because of that. theres more here to appreciate than that. 8.5 PEOPLE! ..........8.5! 
 The Glave in this game is a breathe of fresh air from all the guns in Halo, Gears. COD, Splinter Cell, 
 and Rainbow Six. It's a cool boomerang like weapon that slices and dices. You can even harness 
 fire, electricity, and ice. SWEET! and you got COVER MODE! dam peoples! they really need to start 
 making more games with cover mode. theres just somthing about using the enviorment to your advantage. 
 Look at Halo 3! Yeah! I love that game, but it's just run and gun! and that gets old fast and thats 
 what happen to Halo 3 it got old fast! this game at least offers cover-mode and Gears of war like 
 game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  this game was a very good rental game it took me about twelve hours to beat it 
  with fun new abilites coming to you every 20 minuetes of game play some stuff the gut in the black 
 market sais is funny and the boss batles can be frusturating but very fun there are some parts 
 were something will jump out at you and the glaive is an awsome way to dispatch of youre enimies 
 and it never gets boring wether you rip off thair arm leg body of the head or just finish them 
 with the finisher if youre a bloodthirsty person you will love the gore thaire is olny 10 missions 
 but some of them are really long and some are really short. also the elemental powers are pretty 
 cool you can get fire ice and electicity powers and last ly the achaifvents this may not be important 
 for some people but the achaifments are really fun to try to get like kkill 30 enimies by using 
 the elemental abilities thank you for reading my review
  
  P. S this game has some things that make it like the game bullet witch 
  just alot better and 
 im a big fan of bullet witch i know it got bad ratings but its really fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  There's no doubt this game isn't perfect. It won't get nominated for game of the year nor will 
 it overwhelm you with innovation. but this game does offer you something different. It features 
 2 enemy tpes which include the humans and the infected. Both are a blast to kill with the Glaive 
 and melee attacks are especially satisfying. Kind of feels like the WWE with real weapons. Shooting 
 is really fun and spot on and hit detection is great. When you pick up weapons from enemies you 
 kill you only get about 30 seconds to use it because they have a security on the weapons taht let 
 only uninfected ppl to use it. You can purchase weapons from the black market though, and you'll 
 be able to use that gun the whole time. 
  
  The glaive features abilities such as throwing it to chop off the limbs of enemies, slicing their 
 throats and heads off. Fun eh? Yes, very fun. You gain ablities throughout the game such as aftertouch ---where 
 you press rb then press and hold down again to guide the glaive in flight) --- also you gain the 
 ability to throw the glaive with full stregneth by simply holding down RB until the glaive aim 
 sight turns yellow and you release. You can also put fire onto the glaive or electricity and that 
 gives u different abilities for solving puzzles and simply killing enemies in a faster way. The 
 glaive also is good for stealing items from a distance. It never gets old to use and it really 
 makes the game what it is.
  
  Graphics are amazing overall and up to par with any other next gen game to date. There are a few 
 low res textures on the walls here and there, but overall the water is pretty and shadows/reflections 
 are gorgeous. Player models are also fantastic to look at.
  
  Controls are sometimes a little clunky because ur character doesn't necessarily move the fastest 
 and sprinting is a little hard to steer. At first when you start playing, you'll notice that aiming 
 is a little fast. You can downtone the sensitivity though in the options at any point in the game. 
 
  
  As i said in the title, this game does have elements of horror in it. A lot of the environments 
 you will explore can be downright creepy especially with the infected jogging to attack you. They 
 are not ur typical zombie though because they use weapons or their hands to kill you. So i would 
 not put them in the same boat as a zombie. 
  
  Sound is great and the music really goes well with the current situations. Never once will you 
 feel bored in this game because the sound effects and music really keep you on ur toes.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, it really is a fun experience. Although, one that only can last for 
 so long unless they add more game modes. Only 2 game modes is kind of ridiculous because the ones 
 they offered were really fun. A team deathmatch where everyone plays as hayden would be tremendous 
 and I don't see why they couldn't include something like that in the multiplayer. Lag is a slight 
 issue though because sometimes you will be kicked out of games and sometimes you see ppl moving 
 in one place and it will just freeze all together. Grenades will freeze mid-air even if there isn't 
 any lag at all which is kind of irritating. 
  
  This game really is a good one and something different since GoW. It has decent replay value as 
 long as they add more features to multiplayer. Single player is really fun and I can see many ppl 
 playing through it again and again. I reccomend this title to anyone that wants to play something 
 different or ppl who just like 3rd person shooters. Too bad multiplayer is too shallow currently 
 and there isn't a splitscreen/coop option which would've have made this game ultimate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDOM13x
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Giving it a 7.5 mainly because of the story? Are you kidding me, thats BS
 
  
  You wont be dissapointed if you pick this game up. Heres what I like about it. (I have the 360 
 version mind you)
  
  Graphics and Lighting are awesome, built on Evolution Engine which looks very similar to UE3. Im 
 playing this and hearing this on a 50" Samsung 1080p Plasma and a 1000watt 5.1 Samsung SS. Its 
 ridiculous.
  
  Voicework, music, and sound effects are great. Escpecially the Glaive. Kill animations are really 
 nice as well.
  
  The framerate is buttery smooth. Im pretty sure its at 60fps and might dip a little under that 
 but definatly higher framerate than GoW's 30fps.
  
  Special effects look great like when the glaive is on fire or has electricity.
  
  Huge Bosses 
 and battles.
  
  The story is good and moves along nicely, Im on the 5th level and so far so good.
  
  All in 
 all I would say this game reminds me more of a Resident Evil game than Gears. The only Gears resemblence 
 is the cover mechanic which it does really well IMO. Not once while I was playing did I say to 
 myself "oh this is Gears." Also theres no blind fire but seriously I never use that option in any 
 of my shooting games. Anybody that was on the fence should really check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolspikes
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Dark sector is one of those games that you just pick up, play and say damn this is a great game, 
 the story is a lil on the where is it side, but who cares you get to throw a freakin blade at enemies 
 and dismember there body from limb to limb, yet another game that is better then halo all the way 
 around. Dark sector is very original in every way and just cuz its not halo it isnt seen as a good 
 game to most critiques, screw halo and screw master chief, im happy the sob died so i will never 
 have to see another halo game come out. Play a game that hasnt been done before like dark sector 
 where there is more to do then to just run around and shoot aliens with your gun. In dark sector 
 you have to buy your weapons from a black market and in the process upgrade your weapons by finding 
 or buying upgrades. All in all a great game maybe rent if first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychomentalx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I read the Gamespot review of this game and I have to disagree. I've only played this game for 
 an hour or two and I love it! The story isn't crazy and complicated like some goofy Japanese themed 
 game, but it still has a decent story. It's very similar to that of Resident Evil 4. Some crazy 
 guy has a virus he unleashes to control the world, or at least his part of it and it's your job 
 to stop him... do you need more than that?
  
  I love games with lots of atmosphere and this game has plenty of it. To me it felt like a combination 
 of Splinter Cell and Resident Evil 4 as far as the tone and atmosphere of the game went. Creepy 
 locations, music, and enemies - the works!
  
  Gameplay controls are pretty straight forward. There is not tutorial, but you don't need one.
 
  
  The graphics are INSANE!!! I am playing this game on an xbox 360 connected to a 47" HD TV. I would 
 agree with some of the other reviewers in that the graphics and character movement are very similar 
 to Gear of War... but why reinvent the wheel. It worked in Gears of War and it works in this game.
 
  
  The glaive (which is a three-bladed throwing disc) is awesome! The developers came up with some 
 pretty unique gameplay aspects with regards to this weapon. At one point you can guide the glaive 
 from it's point of view and watch as you hack off the limbs of your enemies... INSANE fun!!!
  
  I haven't checked out the multiplayer aspect yet, but that doesn't really matter to me. In 
 my opinion that fact that they have ANY multiplayer option for this game is impressive. Resident 
 Evil 4 didn't have multiplayer or even really that great of graphics, but it was still an awesome 
 game.
  
  Not every game is for everyone. Here's a list of games that I thought were awesome. And if you 
 like these games as well, chances are you will like Dark Sector. Some of my favorite games that 
 are similar to Dark Sector are Splinter Cell, Resident Evil 4, and Gears of War. I would give these 
 games each a 10. If you agree, then chances are you will like Dark Sector.
  
  Just remember game critics are just like movie critics. You may read a movie is terrible only to 
 watch it later and think it's awesome. Gamespot is usually on the money in my opinion. But in this 
 case I disagree, that's why I had to voice my opinion.
  
  I don't think they could have done anything better on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Dark Sector is a game with alot of blood, gore, violence, and amazing graphics. It is almost comparable 
 to gears of war in alot of ways but gun play is a bit loose, when your running you can't control 
 the camera, the story mode is very short, the story isn't good at all but the gameplay makes up 
 for that. This game is the kind of game you buy just to kill stuff in crazy ways. I find it fun 
 but I am lost with the story. The Single player is great but multiplayer is pretty sad because 
 if the online was amazing then gears would have some compatition. This game is good but not amazing, 
 it is about even overall. give this game a try if you want some mindless fun but you don't know 
 what you are doing. Buy this now if you love gears or you like violence and alot of it!!! Buy this 
 game, buy this game, buy this game buy this game, maybe or at least until I fill the words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is really fun to play. The glaive is really fun to use, multiplayer isnt too bad but 
 they could have added more.
  
  Graphics are quite amazing, pretty close to gears of war. Some might even say better than gears.
 
  
  Im glad this game was not hyped up because it helped make this a better game. Multiplayer is alright 
 but the lack of any kind of co-op, online or local, kinda sucks. The 2 online modes are not as 
 great as most games but its somewhat entertaining.
  
  I also feel like they could have added more weapons. And maybe other types of granades. Maybe some 
 nightvision for those dark places, etc. 
  I think the shotgun in this game is way too accurate from a long distance.
  
  Overall im satisfied 
 with my purchase. I would recommend this if you like shooters. Dont expect an amazing game but 
 its definitely not a bad game.
  At least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I've seen the review for this game on Ign and i don't buy into it. This game is a nice mix of Resident 
 evil meets gears of war as many have said. The Glaive is by far one of the most unique weapons 
 in a game, just as the "Krull" movie seems to have inspired it and its use. The longer you play 
 the game, the more powerful it and you becomes. I love this title for the gameplay mechanics, the 
 smooth visuals, and the so far engaging story. I'm glad i bought this title, and if your an action 
 game fan you owe it to yourself to pick this up. Hayden is a workwhile hero and keeps you interested 
 and wanting more as the game progresses. I am a huge action game fan and this one surely is worth 
 the wait of nearly 4 years in development. In closing don't listen to the reviews, they have completely 
 played down this games true value, though we will all have to wait and see what gamespot has to 
 say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a great game to pass the time with so you need to play dark sector.... If 
 you like shooters so you need to play dark sector and if you want a great game with great gameplay 
 you still need to play dark sector.........
  
  The game is great..... it's really fun to kill infected people..... some guy wrote in hes review 
 that the game have a lot of blood! well I think the blood is really cool and if you ask me it's 
 really fun to see your enemies blood when you kill them....
  
  The gameplay in this game is really good and it's really fun to play the game.... the graphics are 
 very good as well...... And great sound effecs can make a great game even better, like dark sector......
 
  
  Anyway I'm sure most gamers will love this game, I did.....
  P. S killing zombies and monsters was never been better, and the powers thing is awesome... it woth 
 your money!!
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antrosg24
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Dark sector is a vey fun game to play but its not perfect. First of the game was a lot of blood!!! 
 You slice and kill all the zombies , bad guys and bosses through out the game. Through the game 
 you get updates of your weapons through the black market and in addition with the new powers you 
 get keeps things interesting. However during the last stages of the games when the rather the repetitive 
 look of the levels gets to you and it feels as if the game is out of moves and just throwing enemies 
 at you to make the experience last longer. One cool feature is the aftertouch, a bit hard at the 
 begginig but vert coool. 
  
  If you want a deep story you want find it here. Dark sector offers more action through its gameplay 
 rather than the story. 
  
  Graphically is both impressesive and average at times.
  
  The multiplayer is not everyones cup of tea. I personally like it but i thing that many gamers 
 willl not.
  Finally the influence this game had from gears of war is obvious. Like any other third person shooter 
 that game after GOW.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  Gameplay 7/10
  Online 6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesMIDNA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Very fun, awesome upgrades and black market and the glaive kicks ass, especially with power throw, 
 aftertouch and elemental abilities. You constantly get new powers every 15 or so minutes, changing 
 up the gameplay and the in-engine cinematics really rock. Solid frame rates and top notch graphics 
 make for a really nicely rounded experience. Hope you have as much fun as I did playing it. The 
 story kept me going as well. I've heard people mention this is a sleeper hit and I can't agree 
 more.
  
  The boss fights were very cool. I loved the fact that you fight one of the bosses early on and 
 then get to use that boss as a vehicle later on.
  
  I finished the game in about 11 hours. Not sure what else to say other than it's a great game and 
 I'm now playing the multiplayer since I've finished the single player. I hope there is a sequel 
 and that it doesn't take as long to make as the first game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
