-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Messiah of Might and Magic: Elements
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/darkmessiahofmightmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No role-playing depth at all.
 Mindless, repetitive combat.
 Awkward controls during combat and jumping challenges.
 Ugly, murky visuals and cheesy sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 601 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Annecy
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date: Feb 12, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nearly two years after its buggy debut on the PC, Dark Messiah of Might and Magic comes to the Xbox 
 360 with even more problems. 

  Adding a subtitle hasn't improved Dark Messiah of Might and Magic. This tardy Xbox 360 port of 
 the first-person action RPG that premiered on the PC in late 2006 remains solidly third-rate even 
 with the word "Elements" strangely appended to the original name. Arkane Studios and Ubisoft may 
 have taken well beyond a year to presumably spit-shine everything for the game's console debut, 
 but the mind-numbingly repetitive combat, bland story, and awkward level design haven't been changed 
 much at all. Only revamped multiplayer modes of play offer anything new, and they're pretty weak 
 and offset by control and visual issues that make this 360 version of the game much worse than 
 its PC predecessor.  

           You'll be killing plenty of these blackguard goons in Elements.      

  At its heart, 
 Elements is a straight rehashing of the PC edition of the game. The solo campaign again tells the 
 tale of Sareth, who is wandering the lands of Ashan trying to find the long-lost Skull of Shadows 
 for his mage master, a rather sinister piece of work named Phenrig. And also once again, this story 
 is so poorly told that you can't summon up the will to care about any of the characters or particulars. 
 Everything is hacked together, from the ludicrous goo-goo eyes made between Sareth and his sidekick 
 Leanna to the capital-E evil of bad guys such as Arantir. The only interesting conceit is your 
 attachment to a demonic entity called Xana, and she's such a dumb caricature of a jealous woman 
 that her catty comments will offend even the most hardcore chauvinist. Furthermore, all of the 
 dialogue is delivered in hammy drive-in movie tones (why exactly are medieval knights calling you 
 "pal"?) , and the bare bones of the plot are so poorly presented that it's hard to figure out what 
 you're supposed to be doing. You get the feeling that Arkane Studios was going for a grim swords-and-sorcery 
 saga  la Conan but could never settle on taking the whole thing seriously or playing it up for 
 laughs.  

  At any rate, you likely won't be doing any chuckling while toiling through the campaign's nine 
 chapters. Although they're mercifully brief and let you save Ashan from dark, stinky demons in 
 about 10 hours, they're also so tedious that it seems as if you've been stuck on the couch for 
 more like a solid week. The biggest problem is, again, Elements' schizophrenic identity. This isn't 
 really an RPG or an action game. Role-playing fundamentals have been tossed in seemingly just to 
 lure elf aficionados, considering that they don't add anything to gameplay. So even though you 
 choose from the usual warrior, archer, mage, and assassin character classes at the start of your 
 adventure, and then proceed to level up and collect the usual ever-cooler swords, armor, scrolls, 
 and potions, there isn't any depth. A single class skill is dished out automatically every time 
 you gain a level, and most of these are autopilot buffs to core stats such as strength and stamina. 
 This is actually a step down from the skill system in the PC version of the game, which at least 
 let you spend skill points in strength, magic, and stealth categories, and somewhat personalize 
 Sareth.  

  Combat is equally undercooked, so you can't simply forget about the RPG omissions in favor of just 
 hack-and-slashing it up. How you fight varies somewhat depending on class, but repetition is a 
 huge annoyance regardless of whether you're slinging fireballs or twirling a sword. All you ever 
 seem to do is pull the right trigger to attack until bad guys explode in spouts of blood. Warriors 
 and assassins have access to a trio of combos with the downward blow, charge, and whirlwind melee-attack 
 skills, although you really don't need to ever bother using them. The number of enemies never reaches 
 true action RPG proportions, either, which means that you steadily slog your way through tiny groups 
 of mostly unthreatening goons. Even the odd boss monster is pretty easy to handle, due to the presence 
 of some gimmick or other that enables you to take down the big foozle in no more than a couple 
 of minutes. Lack of enemy variety is another problem, in that the game throws the same foes at 
 you over and over again. The first few levels are so stuffed with dark-armored blackguards that 
 you feel like you've interrupted some kind of convention, and even when new blood arrives, you 
 get nothing but fantasy-ghetto archetypes such as goblins, orcs, zombies, and spiders.  

  Virtually all of the changes made to Elements for its new life on the 360 only compound the game's 
 existing flaws. Controls are extremely awkward. You lumber around like a dump truck, turning and 
 backing up so slowly that these maneuvers should be accompanied by beeps. Distances are skewed 
 so badly that it seems as if your sword is a good 10 feet long, given that you can pretty much 
 hit enemies from across rooms. Jumping is even more of an annoyance because this distance distortion 
 makes it impossible to tell exactly where you are. Good luck getting through the third chapter's 
 chase sequence -- where you leap across rooftops -- without getting incredibly frustrated.  

           And here come the zombies. Again. Yawn.      

  Technical issues are another story. 
 The original PC version of the game was no looker, but this may be the ugliest game powered by 
 Half-Life 2's physics-heavy Source-engine ever produced. Textures are flat, and every setting is 
 so dark and murky that it's hard to pick out any details. You can adjust only the brightness and 
 contrast, too, not the gamma, so you're really given a choice between scenes so muddy brown that 
 you can't see the hand in front of your face or scenes so washed-out that you might as well be 
 looking at your TV through cataracts. Loading times are another pain. The only saving grace here 
 is that you don't get killed often enough in most levels for these 30-second loads to be a serious 
 irritant. Finally, the game is a bit buggy. During our time with the game, the primary control 
 buttons froze up at least three times, a situation in which you could freely move Sareth but couldn't 
 access any functions or even retreat to the main menu to save the game. You have to drop out to 
 the dashboard and restart the game to bring these functions back.  

  Multiplayer modes are being billed as the biggest additions to the 360 version of Elements, but 
 they're just as disappointing as the rest of the game. Virtually nobody is playing the game online, 
 as can be witnessed by the pitiful leaderboard scores. Of the multiplayer modes of play, only crusade 
 has any promise, considering that the other deathmatch and blitz options are just as dull and dated 
 as you might imagine. At any rate, nobody seems to be playing crusade anyhow, even though it has 
 some appealing ideas; you can battle over multiple maps and reduce respawn tickets by holding control 
 points similar to the Battlefield series on PC.  

  Its unfortunate that despite the poor reception that the PC version received, the Xbox 360 version 
 of the game didnt turn out any better, and is actually worse in several ways. If youre looking 
 for an action-packed hack-and-slash game, you may just want to move on to a different game worthier 
 of your time and money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  WHAT THE HELL!!!??? This is a good game!!!??? It may have bugs (a few) buf fable II was as bugged 
 as hell and that got 8/10 (at least at gamestation it got the score it deserved 2/5 and many bad 
 reviews at amazon.)
  
  Anyway this game is really good and it only got called one of the best games on PC by PC mag. So 
 the xbox 360 is really the same.. how could it be called a bad game?
  
  It has good combat, fun levels to mess around in, and it has at least 40 hours of play.
  
  
 Sure the graphics aren't the best.. but hey they are alright.. tombs and the cyrpts ingame have a 
 good feel too them and it feels as if your in ARX FATAILS all over again!
  
  At least rent the game first and it's only going for a fiver so it's not like you will lose anything.
 
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Voice acting: 7/10
  
  combat: 10/10
  
  Enviroments: 8/10
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Having played several games in the might & magic series and being new to the Xbox 360 I felt inclined 
 to give this game a try.
  It was not particularly expensive; around 10.
  
  First of all, the graphics did not appear to be that of the standard shown on the back of the game 
 case. 
  You would require a high-definiton television to really bring out the pure, fleshed out textures.
 
  Despite not having an HD tv, the environments do look rather spectacular but nothing new to the 
 360.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the 'Might & Magic' series, it is a series of first-person fantasy-adventure 
 games, not to be confused with the 'Heroes of Might & Magic' series. The games of which are turn 
 based strategy games.
  
  In the game, after picking a character class (eg: archer, warrior, etc) you start off in a wild 
 location by a great waterfall and a large cliff.
  In this point of the game the controls are introduced to you and you are given several easy objectives 
 which will get you used to the gameplay.
  You will continue your journey by entering this dark, creepy temple.
  In there you get to practise 
 combat which is, while quite pleasing at first, quite simplistic. By simplistic, I mean there isn't 
 much variety in what you are doing and if you get bored of it earlier on... chances are that you 
 are going to be bored for the rest of the game because simply, this game is combat-based and you 
 will kill pretty much the same few kinds of enemies over and over throughout it! 
  This issue is resolved by the choice of different classes, so if you want to avoid hacking zombies 
 and black guards with a sword over and over, you could choose to be a mage and cast spells on your 
 foes or choose to be an archer and attack them from a long distance or choose to be an assassin 
 to stealthily get behind them and cut their throats!
  
  Surprisingly, gameplay offers quite a bit of variety.
  Apart from combat there's also interaction 
 with objects lying around and NPCs and also action; in one particular chapter/quest you are sent 
 onto some rooftops to chase down some strange creature. 
  You get to jump from building to buildng, climb across boards/planks, climb up chains and ropes, 
 climb into houses, etc.
  You are often given other quests such as killing a giant spider (to do so, you must switch on some 
 levers which activate a fire trap) , kicking a man off the edge of a cliff, attacking a cyclops 
 with a ballista in a stronghold and even searching for particular people.
  It does offer a bit more than you would expect from this genre of game but the problem is that 
 it's just not all that fun. It could have been produced in a far more enjoyable manner.
  
  As I've already pointed out, the environments look great. There is huge differences in each locations, 
 scenery-wise and atmosphere-wise.
  In fact, scenery is well adapted to it's location.
  
  I noticed one or two bugs. They were nothing particularly bad but I did notice a few irritating 
 but minor issues in this game and these were:
  Npcs have a set trail to walk and they will NOT compromise. You could be standing right in front 
 of them and while on most games they would avoid or walk around you... not on this game. Instead, 
 they will keep walking into you until the screen shudders so much that you have to move out the 
 way!
  Another annoying thing was when you interact with a character, sometimes the game will skip a few 
 frames or just react a little late. One example is when I kicked a guard who was standing by an 
 open window. His reaction was a jolty disappearance from the inside to the outside with no noticable 
 transition (but that was before he very pleasingly plumetted towards to the low ground to a very 
 painful death) . This brings me to say that there are actually some very nice mechanics in this 
 game but they are spoiled by a few little processing issues.
  
  There is nothing much I can say about the music of this game. When there is any music at all it's 
 un-memorable and unwelcomed because of its ill-fitting timing.
  Sound effects aren't particularly great either. Some sound effects work well, such as the clumpy 
 sounding effect which arises when you slice your weapon into a wooden object but your foes speech 
 is all too predictable and gets too repetetive when you hear the same few lines over and over which 
 have no doubt all been done by the same voice actor.
  Sound is definately not the prize winner here.
  
  The controls are a little awkward because 
 usually you would a more in-reach button to jump but in this you are made to use Y which proves 
 to be difficult at times.
  B opens up the inventory/backpack screen which is not too bad but at first you may open that screen 
 up by accident quite frequently.
  The rest of the controls are quite predictable and are really not much of a problem.
  
  On 
 the whole, this game certainly isn't going to be anyone's favourite but it's an average game with 
 a bit of variety in it's gameplay, it plays a bit like oblivion and has it's fun moments.
  I would say rent it first because it's clearly not a game everyone can enjoy.
  My total score 
 for it is 6.6/10 which I rounded down to 6.5 due to Gamespots rating limitations.
  
  Thank you for reading my review. Please check out my others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Most people compare this game to Oblivion before they even play it, then when they do play Dark 
 Messiah they get a total let down and will see that neither of them have anything in common, only 
 the First Person View, so don't go playing this game thinking its gonna be like Oblivion, cause 
 it's not.
  
  This game could have been SO MUCH BETTER THAN WHAT IT WAS. But, for what it is, it is not too bad. 
 I bought this game thinking it was gonna suck so much cause of the reviews I had read, but its 
 not too bad. Yeah the story is kinda no suprise and there are things that you see coming before 
 they actually happen. But overall the gameplay was fun (as the warrior) , kinda got repetitve but 
 not too bad. What is also cool with the fighting is that you can do combos using the left analog 
 stick, say if you want to slash to the left, you move the analog stick to the left as you attack, 
 and you can also do jump attacks, coming down with hard blows. 
  
  It's actually a good game really, but its not great. If you get your hopes up for a Oblivion type 
 game and play this, you will be let down like most people. I think that is why this game got such 
 a bad score is cause all the players was hoping for a 2nd Oblivion, they didn't rate this game 
 for what it itself is which is Dark Messiah. If you can get this game cheap like for $20 or lower, 
 I would suggest it, or rent it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Potts1350
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  So there have been a lot of complaints about this game in terms of well... everything. For some 
 parts I must agree this game is terrible but for others I would argue that the game is good even 
 though unintentional. 
  
  In terms of gameplay Dark Messiah has some major flaws including many glitches that put you into 
 dark voids and many repetitive combat scenarios. I've jumped from one place to another only to 
 find myself trapped somewhere where I have to reload the game. In one sequence, during a battle 
 with a troll, I was hit with a club and fell through the floor and ended up falling down from the 
 ceiling back down to the floor again. There are also not many enemies and combat becomes repetitive 
 because of class restraints. The main enemies you fight are dark knights/guards, spiders, goblins, 
 orcs, and the undead and all the enemies in these categories look the same. In my game as a warrior 
 the moves are always the same with some differences in power moves that may seem to be selected 
 at random.
  Even though game play may seem bad there are some good qualities. With the amount of blood this 
 game has (even though it falls through the floor) , it makes the combat more fun. My favorite parts 
 of the game are kicking enemies off ledges and cliffs where they scream in a way that never ceases 
 to make me laugh. Also being able to jump 10 feet straight out from a rope that you may be able 
 to create with a rope bow is fun for jumping all over the place. These three seemingly insignificant 
 things made this game worth playing for me.
  
  In terms of story this game is simple. Listen to whoever talks to you and do what they say. Basically 
 throughout the game the main character listens anyone and does what they say to do. He seems very 
 easily influenced and you always know what's coming next. Anyway the story is that your an orphan 
 who was raised and trained by a powerful mage and he sends you to collect an artifact that holds 
 a lot of importance. There are some surprises but not many and the game has you going around doing 
 this and that. 
  
  A quality of the game thats good is the voice acting because the things enemies say are just plain 
 funny. All enemies insult you in different ways and the most funny are the goblins, who may call 
 you ugly and then run away because you've killed all their friends as well as other funny phrases. 
 In a serious review the voice acting would be considered mediocre but from a casual gamer the voice 
 acting is funny and helps make it worth the rent.
  
  The RPG element of this game has nearly no relevance and leveling up means nothing besides getting 
 new skills, meaning more health or strength, and the number of weapons that can be used is limited 
 and even more limited for armor and rings. I would not consider this an RPG but a FPS with medieval 
 weapons but this did not matter much to me. 
  
  In conclusion, this game is bad from a serious or strict standpoint but from a standpoint of a 
 casual or even serious gamer looking for some simple fun, Dark Messiah is a good laugh and is definitely 
 worth a rent. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing it was alright I thought It's just a tutorial It'll get better and 
 I didn't say much or complain about anything or the gameplay
  execept for those artrocious graphics I finally finished the level it took about 6 minutes to load 
 1 pathetic level when your going through the front of the city at the level I thought yes the Free 
 roaming has come into it I can explore
  well no there is no exploring in this total let-down game It is level based
  and is so repetative 
 you face the same enemy over and over again you will kill about 500 blackguards then look you're 
 versing orks a new enemy. Well your gonna be killing 1000 of them buddy before you get to verse 
 the black guards again you can not buy weapons only find them which is pathetic
  
  There is a ton of bugs and crashes in this terrible game and the worst part is that there is no 
 RPG in it what so ever leveling up is pathetic because you can not choose what skill you want it's 
 just the higher your level you then automaticly get the skil you want which is crap as for the 
 usual choice in an RPG this game has none that even change the game at all the only chice there 
 is , is well say prevent a fight or some crap like that there is a
  lack of weapons and clothing for this game which is just bad
  
  as for the graphics they are 
 so ugly they are Morrowind graphics they it looks like it came out in 1999 or something and the 
 textures are so ugly its like a mesh of crap and colours that don't mix
  as for the A. I absolute idiots all they do is follow you in a stupendous way running around doing 
 nothing and they can't really even block
  
  there are so many bad things in this game I cant even think of any good things The button layout 
 is horrible they are very hard to get used toand are complicated leaving you to bash the controller 
 or snapping the disc I just can't see how anybody could rate this game good enemys take forever 
 to kill all you do is either shoot your bow cast magic of hack and slash over and over and over 
 and over again there is no strategy to this game at all
  just as I said level based crap and These annoying stupid little jumping challenges you play as 
 an idiot anyway so why ruin this already wrecked game anymore who loves jumping in games unless 
 it's assassins creed
  but jumping in this game is annoying and needs to be perfect otherwise death is rather certain
 
  
  Overall: this is not a RPG game it would be more in action there is no depth or replay value at 
 all it's as if this game is still a prototype and still in it's early stages all I can say to Ubisoft 
 is Don't you test your games before you
  play them or what or you think that just because it's created by you and you think it is great 
 just because you made it, it's like when people cook horrible food and like the taste of it because 
 they cooked it but it is actually terrible
  make sure you get a proper game tester for your game and not a drunk off the street to test out 
 games before you release them
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkprince_78
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  First, let me preface this review by saying that I am a sucker for hack and slash fantasy games (also, 
 I'm a little rusty with my writing, but I always like to read what other gamers think of games 
 (besides the "professional reviewers", so I thought I'd give back to the gaming community... just 
 bare with me...*laughs) . 
  . Dark Messiah is far from being special or innovative,; however, it has that D&D type atmosphere 
 that I find extremely immersive. It's basically King's Field put into a linear game. Every stage 
 is go from point a to point b format. Even in it's linearity though, there is a good sense of exploration 
 due to secret areas and hidden items. Your character also gets stronger as the game progressives 
 by way of leveling up and finding new weapons and armor (though as you level, you gain a preset 
 pattern of skills based on the class you chose, you can't select various skills to upgrade) . All 
 in all, it's lite on the RPG features, but the fact that it has some helps. It definitely would 
 have been nice to have more of a choice in how the hero grows.
  The graphics are sharp and detailed with some good lighting effects. The textures for the most 
 part are good and the animation is decent enough (pretty cool physics engine.. there are a variety 
 of ways to kill the enemies... this helps add variety to the combat.... use the environment to your 
 advantage!) . The blood could have been a little darker. Oh well. 
  The sound is overall adequate. The music is standard symphonic fantasy stuff.... it definitely suits 
 the game but I doubt you'll find your self humming it during the day. The bangs and clanks are 
 loud and have a strong prescence. What hurts the sound the most is the voice acting (and the content 
 of the dialog) . It's cheesy... but I've pretty much come to expect that from just about every fantasy 
 game now., so it really doesn't annoy me. It's funny and does tend to distract from the direness 
 of the situation, but it's not such a major part of the game that it would ruin it. 
  The controls work... they are not broken in my opinion. You can jump, swing your weapon, block, crouch, 
 sprint, etc.... so you have several ways to manipulate the hero. The "head first, body second" turning 
 is kind of awkward at first, but I adjusted to it quickly. My biggest complaint about the game, 
 however, in directly involves the controls. I really hate some of the platforming sequences... they 
 are frustrating and unecessary. I hate platforming games in general though, so I am a bit biased. 
 
  All in all, I really do enjoy this game. As previously stated, it doesn't take much for a fantasy 
 game to draw me in, so I was hooked from the beginning. It definitely doesn't compare to Oblivion, 
 but genre wise, it really is a different style game (fantasy FPS with light roleplaying elements) , 
 so it's not fair to compare the two. I honestly don't understand why this game has received such 
 low ratings, but to each their own. If you like Dungeons and Dragons/Lord of the Rings type material, 
 then you should definitely like this. Don't expect much character building and customization, but 
 do expect some fast paced ass kicking with swords and magic and you'll be alright. Take it easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 3, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Dark Messiah for those of you not in the know, is an action heavy game which couples lots of combat 
 with a highly simplistic RPG style levelling up system. The 360 version subtitled "Elements" has 
 a few additions over the PC original, none of them special and this may as well be the same game 
 released quite a while ago albeit for the cost of a new game. It recived an awful review here on 
 Gamespot and while it's not quite deserving of the criticism it recieved, it's hardly a perfect 
 game. Fortunately it can be an entertaining one.
  
  Story & Characters
  Oddly enough for essentially what is an FPS with swords the characters themselves are one of the 
 games strongest points, although possibly for the wrong reasons. In Dark Messiah you take the role 
 of Sareth a generic lead who has one hilarious flaw. He dosen't seem to notice that the people 
 he's fighting for aren't really the good guys, in fact his master is a demon summoning evil mage 
 of the highest order and has inserted a wise cracking succubus like creature called Xana inside 
 his body to keep an eye on him. Sareth seems to fail to be suspicious of the fact he has a demon 
 woman living inside him and her constant urges to kill and sarcastic comments seem to fall on deaf 
 ears and he generically saves the day time and time again on his adventures. Xana is undoubtedly 
 what makes the game more interesting as she always has some commentry to pass on everything going 
 on around them whether its her gloating over the death of an enemy or being spectacularly unimpressed 
 with the generic heroine Leanna gazing dreamily at Sareth. Rounding off the cast are Leanna and 
 a bunch of really bad baddies all equally fitting in with generic RPG conventions, but fortunately 
 Sareth's mind bogglingly stupidity and Xana's comments make things unintentionally and intentionally 
 hilarious in equal measures and carry the game.
  
  Story wise theres nothing sepcial here. Beat the evil guy, save the day blah, blah, blah...
  
 
  Gameplay
  Killing enemies and solving very generic puzzles is the name of the game here, with the main focus 
 on killing. You can dispatch enemies in a variety of ways like kicking them into spiked walls, 
 setting them on fire, using collapsable source engine scenary to smack them in the face or if your 
 a more "hands on" person decapiting them in melee. One of the games most fun attributes is maiming 
 enemies and seeing them die in entertaining ways and the games bugs can often add to the hilarity 
 in the death animations. 
  
  Unfortunately the bugs can detract from the gameplay heavily in other ways, monsters can get stuck 
 in walls, you can get stuck in walls, and climbing ropes can result in some bizarre graphic bugs 
 too all of which can result in a reload and are detrimental to the gameplay. Fortunately you can 
 save where you like or this would have been even more annoying.
  
  The main problem with Dark Messiah's gameplay is quite frankly after about 6 hours or so it gets 
 VERY boring. This is the games biggest flaw. 
  
  Graphics And Sound
  Ooooh boy, this is where things don't go well either. The game is hideous and the voice acting 
 is Z list awful. I can't really say much more than that, other than don't expect much from either 
 of these aspects of the game.
  
  Lastability
  This isn't a long game, depending on how well you take to it and how long you can play it theres 
 maybe about 10-12 hours here. But not all of that time will be that enjoyable.
  
  Overall
  Dark Messiah is fun, but the fun is shortlived and dosen't last for the games full lifespan 
 and the hideous graphics, bad sound and eventually repetative combat just don't work that well. 
 What you have here is a game that is essentially very mediocre, but not diabolically awful as enjoyment 
 can be found.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson336
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me of 2 previous games I have played, Thief for the PC and King's Field for the 
 Playstation. It has a similar, slow 1st person feel. The game world is fairly boring and bland, 
 with set paths for you to explore. It is very linear.... no sandbox here.
  
  You get to choose 1 of 4 diiferent classes to start the game, but really it seems to make little 
 difference if you are an assassin, warrior or archer. You end up slashing everything in front of 
 you. Only the mage varies a little. As you set out and gain levels, you acquire one new, pre-determined 
 skill each level. You also get to collect weapons that you can't use. What it really means isthe 
 developers left the weapons in for every class type. If arethe wrong class type then that weapon 
 beomes a collectible. It's the same with mana potions. My assassin did not use mana, but the potions 
 were inside secret areas I found and chests I would open. I could not use them, and there is no 
 shop in the game to sell or trade them.
  
  The game has a few very simple puzzle type rooms that you can get through by walking around and 
 trying to interact with everything. All in all, however, you get the feeling this game was designed 
 for someone around 10 years old that does not want to bother with in-depth strategy or depth, but 
 just wants to plow through and see what's next.
  
  The graphics are just ok, about a step above ps2 quality. There are some bugs, such as idiots standing 
 in doorways, and 2 gamestoppers I found. Once I picked up a book in a keep, just thumb through 
 it. Suddeny I was dead.... no explanation. Another time I had just held off an attack on a ship. 
 All I had to do was follow a girl into a room and turn a crank to lift anchor. The girl stopped 
 just inside the room and closed the door, locking it. I could not get in to turn the crank and 
 could not progress without restarting. Annoying errors that should have been seen and fixed before 
 release.
  
  All in all, it's ok for $30, but really should just be a rental when you just want to slash things 
 in 1st person view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badtziscool
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  I was REALLY hoping this game was going to be much better. All the physics-based gameplay was a 
 set-up for hours of hilarity. But after trying to play the game for a couple of hours, it didn't 
 happen. My first and foremost gripe is that you can't invert the y-axis. When I'm rotating among 
 games that have the y-axis inverted and then have to switch, it justs makes the game overly frustrating. 
 My next gripe is that the game graphics are a bit unpolished. I can overlook this with better gameplay 
 but it's certainly a distraction. The lack of character customization is in my opinion the biggest 
 downfall. For example, if you're playing as warrior and find a bow, you can't use it. I can understand 
 that, but when I find a quiver of arrows in just about every supply box, it gets a bit annoying. 
 The game is playable but there are much better games out there. Maybe the PC version is better? 
 In all fairness, I only played the game for a couple of hours. If the game makes a miraculous turnaround, 
 my apologies. From what I've heard, it doesn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I feel sometimes a game is up against it all, were reviewers comparing this to Oblivion? Were they 
 judging it as an RPG? When you first start your game the difficulty choice is judged by your competence 
 at FPS games so obviously the makers view it as an action FPS type game not an elaborate RPG. The 
 game had RPG lite features which I feel worked in an action game setting.
  I feel your choice of character has a huge bearing on the gameplay, I choose a Mage and found the 
 spellcasting very much like an FPS.
  The graphics were competent, at least. The plot and acting were cheesy but I am partial to a slice 
 of cheddar at times. Environmental kills were fun but by far my most enjoyable part of the game 
 was making goblin bonfires!! In the caves where they dwelt were bonfires and if you carried the 
 bodies to the bonfires and threw them on they caught light and the bonfires grew. I never grew 
 tired of this. Fun and environmentally sound.
  Yes the game had some stupid mistakes, like my Mage could wield the swords he forged himself on 
 the games forges yet could not use the ones he picked up, he could fire the rope bow but not the 
 bows he found.
  Also the night vision effect was odd, it grew on me but it could have been better. It had a certain 
 appeal.
  In summary I found this game more than acceptable and realise it has been nearly universally panned 
 by critics. I think they are wrong. Yes it could have been a classic and clearly isn't but this 
 came out the same week as Turok and I know which I feel was the better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong -- DMMM was engaging enough for me to finish it. But just barely. And I'm an 
 RPG fanatic. DMMM epitomizes how good intentions AND poor execution do NOT a good gaming experience 
 make. The story is solid enough -- a quest, a relic, magicians, dungeons, temples, an imprisoned 
 demon, etc. One can't assign DMMM as the scapegoat for yet another uninspiring plot in this genre 
 since many offerings (with notable exceptions) be they novels, films or games -- are often guilty 
 of the same. In fact the romantic interest portion of the story line was at times intriguing. So 
 while there were good intentions with story telling, the execution at almost every level of the 
 game was suboptimal. This included but was probably not limited to the voice-acting (sometimes 
 overly dramatic, sometimes absolutely barren of any emotion whatsoever) , your journal entries (which 
 sound like they were written by a middle schooler) , the intriguingly high frequency of twins and 
 triplets in some areas, the unrealistic AI, the buggy mechanics, and the incredibly annoying anachronisms 
 throughout the game. If I'm in the middle of a battle in a fantasy RPG, I want the enemy to address 
 me as "scum" or a "vagabond" or "traitor". In this game, they say things like "Come here, buddy,". 
 It made me feel like I was a bad guy from a Three Stooges episode -- perhaps they were about to 
 "give me the works" or "squeeze the cider out of my adam's apple". This may just be a pet peeve 
 of mine, but anachronisms in dialogue seem to approximate an unpardonable sin in any fantasy RPG.
 
  
  If I have to come up with positives, the opportunities for innovative destruction using the Valve 
 Source engine were fun... but since I needed to kill enemies with a variety of weapons for achievements 
 (of which I'm always cognizant) , I didn't take full advantage of the innovative destruction possibilities 
 until the latter half of the game. And I will admit that there are some really fun ways to dispose 
 of opponents in this game. In addition, the targeted spell casting and archery were pretty well 
 done. The exterior graphics approached Oblivion-quality in a few areas (mostly outside in towns, 
 where you spent very little time) but interior graphics were fairly minimalistic and typically 
 very dark. The night vision spell wasn't very 'illuminating' so when you were in the dark, you 
 were blind whether you could cast the spell or not.
  
  Overall, I tolerated the ride, picked up a few achievements, followed a mediocre storyline and 
 put up with innumerable annoying issues along the way. If you're a hard-core RPG fan, you may want 
 to give it a try... but I discourage anyone who's trying to give RPGs a chance from using DMMM 
 as your trial run... or you'll most likely never come back again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riku478
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  the multi-player is okay but the storyline and high ai they could of done more with the character 
 development and more combat moves but over all its a good game with some bugs but once you beat 
 it you'll be begging for a number 2 just for the game-play experience and another good story-line 
 but going back to number one the help from the npc is limited but it gives you a challenge to try 
 to keep them alive and there is only 2 big choices you can make they are if you want to kill xana 
 (a spirit that enters you) or kill leana (the neice of lord menelag a powerfull wizard) the armor 
 is cool but you cant realy see it on you so it looks good only on the npc's and their isn't realy 
 a choice in armor expecialy if your an assassain, but warriors only get the plate or the chainmail 
 that you will see on the stonehelm guards, if you dont like the prolouge wait until chapter 1 it 
 gets intense after about five minutes into it so if your going to buy you should but not for single 
 player but for multi-player expecialy for the crusade version and hopefully they will make a second 
 dark messiah cant wait if they do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sSleepy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Ok, so Dark Messiah does have quite a few low points. The frame rate is horrible, the cut scenes 
 are short, the game is short, dialogue is really bad in this one. The game is very choppy. I also 
 found this game to be very dark and hard to see the environment at times. When attacking enemies 
 sometimes their damage would not go down at all. Now there are some bright spots. I enjoyed playing 
 through the game the plot was interesting, the characters looked cool and had a nice feel to them. 
 The magic and weapons are descent. Some parts to this game really require some thinking. The bosses 
 were the best part of this game because they looked good and were at times hard to beat. I recommend 
 this game to people who like first person shooters and don't mind some problems here and there 
 through out the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  IT got downgraded because they didn't upgrade the graphic via the pc. so it use the same as the 
 old pc graphic making it automatic give a 4.0 and lower
  but i arte it 6.5 storyline & the thing u can do with the bow of rope is uncommon
  people will 
 say i have bad taste but it refffer only to 3d0 veteran i belive
  and some fantasy lover if you hate star wars & Other fantasy probaly not for you
  but the story 
 plot if u like fantasy and played 3d0 games in past
  heroes of might and magic Series Like I - II - III & Expansion & chronicle
  & IV & V the story 
 keep a part of it. I liked All heroes of might and magic turn based game from the old one when 
 i was 7 year old 1996 and
  the recent V But V as a Big Default it doesn't use cinematic for Scene
  it use in-game cinematic 
 instead like C&C general & Wc3 75% of time
  Series Based also on heroes of * Might & magic 
  which is why it as might & magic in it it related 
 to that universe
  as well which i wasn't playing to but this made might & magic story a bit interesting as it started 
 to use cinematic unlikely old might & magic series 1992-2000 
  which was barely only fighting evil monster and keep ur character alive
  with some story plot 
 that doesn't alway link wit other thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STARS_Splinter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way to start with: This is not the Might & Magic you may remember. It's 
 certainly a far cry from the original Might & Magic games, where your hapless adventurer was ambushed 
 by legions of Wizard's Apprentices as soon as he left the nearby town. Neither is this Heroes of 
 Might & Magic; theres no turn-based strategy to be found here, or even much roleplaying, come to 
 that.
  
  No, what we have here is a new breed entirely; a genre that has been attempted once or twice before 
 (Hexen being perhaps the closest approximation) but never with quite the success it needed. Dark 
 Messiah of Might & Magic: Elements (or DMMM: E) is a first person hack-em-up. Don't be fooled into 
 thinking it is anything more than this. It might have some roleplay trappings, but at the end of 
 the day, it neither wants to be nor tries to be anything else, and where most people go wrong is 
 in expecting DMMM: E to offer an Oblivion-alike roleplaying experience. It doesn't. It never tried 
 to.
  
  So, with that out of the way, on to the review. 
  DMMM: E casts you as Sareth, the young apprentice of the wizard Phenrig, who is searching for certain 
 artefacts for an unknown purpose. Sareth himself comes from uncertain origins, having never known 
 his parents and spending his life under Phenrig's tutelage. Without spoiling too much, it's all 
 tied into an item called the Skull of Shadows, and has something to do with Sareth's enigmatic 
 past. Sareth's not alone in his quest, however; he shares his body with a sultry demoness, Xana, 
 who offers snippets of advice as well as some exposition. He'll also meet the niece of another 
 wizard, Leanna, and much of the latter part of the game can change depending on Sareth's relationship 
 with the two women. 
  The opening section of the game sees the novice recovering an item called the Shantiri crystal, 
 with the disembodied voice of Phenrig offering guidance in a tutorial of sorts which introduces 
 you to the game's various elements. No pun intended.
  
  This basically boils down to a few key abilities that Sareth has, although many of the abilities 
 are restricted until you gain enough experience to unlock them. Before the game begins, you select 
 a character class, which sets a predetermined series of abilities for you to unlock as you progress. 
 It would have been nice to see an option to customise these or have free development as the PC 
 version has, but the choices are sensible and work fairly well without being too intrusive.
  
  Regardless of which class you chose, you'll always have a few common skills. Sareth can strike 
 with his melee weapon of choice (sword for warrior, staff for mage, etc) with the right trigger, 
 or unleash a power strike by holding the button down. You can block with the left trigger, or hold 
 both triggers to lash out with a kick. There's also a familiar radial menu that can hold skills, 
 spells, and inventory items by using the D-pad. Oh, you can also pick up and throw various objects 
 as well, for varying effects.
  
  The real key to understanding the game is in the use of the kick and throw abilities. They might 
 sound like simple, throwaway additions for solving a few puzzles, but actually that's not their 
 intent at all. Rather, they are designed to be used in conjunction with your spells and melee attacks- 
 to give you a host of different ways to take out your opponents. Standing near a cliff edge? Why 
 not kick your opponent off? Picked up a jar of oil? Hurl it at your foe and sling a firebolt to 
 ignite it. The game is riddled with these kind of environmental hazards which you can make use 
 of; heavy crates will damage your foes, shelves can be toppled onto your opponents, and theres 
 always a handy spike wall or smouldering fire that you can use to your advantage. Many of the spells 
 available even encourage you to utilise the environment- the Mage's Freeze spell, for instance, 
 can be used to freeze an enemy in place, or you can use it to smear the floor with slippery ice 
 to make your opponents fall over- absolutely hilarious if used, for example, on a narrow ledge. 
 Many have criticised the game for its limited combat moves, consisting of the same sword swings 
 and power strikes. If you're using the game environment properly, however, you'll find no signs 
 of boredom. Yes, the combat mechanics are a little simplistic, but when fighting your opponents 
 is this much fun, it's easy to overlook.
  
  Talking of looks, though, we ought to mention to game's graphics. Don't get me wrong: DMMM: E is 
 not an ugly game, but it's far from the next-gen splendour we've come to expect. Decent models 
 and textures look serviceable, if not impressive, and the game can be rather overzealous with its 
 implementation of high dynamic range lighting effects. Still, the game world is nicely designed 
 and has its charms, with decent variety in creatures and locales serving to spice up the visuals. 
 The framerate is mostly consistent, but it can nosedive at times.
  
  Audio-wise the game fares better, with a good orchestral soundtrack and some sufficiently meaty 
 sound effects accompanying the action. The voice acting can be a little amateurish, but its rarely 
 bad, although the translation to English could have used a little more work. Sareth himself is 
 voiced well enough, as are cohorts Leanna and Xana, but other characters don't fare so well.
  
  DMMM: E also has a multiplayer component, with basic deathmatch and team modes on offer as well 
 as a more interesting, objective-based Crusade mode where your character gains experience as he 
 or she fights. The multiplayer is actually surprisingly good fun, though the ranked servers at 
 least are fairly sparsely populated and it's not likely to keep you interested longer than it takes 
 to accrue a couple of the achievements.
  
  In terms of achievements, the game is actually pretty well served- each character class has their 
 own set of achievements for killing X enemies with a certain weapon, finding all weapons of a certain 
 kind, and so on. There's also the general ones for going through the game on various difficulty 
 settings, as well as the multiplayer achievements. Overall, they're a good selection, and offer 
 some encouragement to replay the game.
  
  Unfortunately, its encouragement you might need. At 8-10 hours, the single player campaign isn't 
 long, and it isn't of consistently good enough quality to make such a short adventure easy to swallow. 
 For every great set piece and interestingly designed area, there is a corresponding dreary section 
 that can break the enjoyment of the game. The spider cavern and tomb sections are particularly 
 annoying, and really detract from what the game can be when at its best. That said, however, the 
 game does reward perseverance, as the final chapter of the game is quite engrossing, offering some 
 surprising plot developments and choices that belie the rather generic storyline, and give rise 
 to around 6 different endings depending on how you those to resolve matters.
  
  This is a shame, as many people might be put off by the slow start and tepid third quarter of the 
 game and never get to these more interesting parts. Certainly DMMM: E is not a game for everyone; 
 it is an action game primarily, and those after a roleplaying experience will be bitterly disappointed 
 by the linear progression and confined gameplay. For those who can look past these aspects, however, 
 Dark Messiah offers an interesting game that, while far from great, at least offers a good deal 
 of fun for a dozen or so hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiousHeresy
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? I bought the PC version of Dark Messiah when it came out and I must say, it was 
 unbelievable. For ridiculously fun, innovative combat, Dark Messiah (for PC) was my own personal 
 savior. 
  
  So, when a new version came to 360, I thought: Why not try it?
  
  It seems I was completely wrong. This xbox 360 version of the game is so twisted and convoluted 
 from the original it can hardly be presented as the same game.
  
  1) The graphics are terrible: absolutely terrible. In the PC version they were comparable to the 
 visuals of Oblivion, but in this version not so much. And this also includes the effects 
 and animations. They are awful.
  
  2) The gameplay is not even close to what it was in the PC version. The lock-on mechanic makes 
 melee combat totally mindless, rather than challenging. Beyond that, it seems that every single 
 good aspect of the PC version has been completely nerfed.
  
  3) The skill progression has been totally destroyed. Unlike the PC version, you do not get to choose 
 which skills to level up!! WTF!?
  
  So if youve already played the PC version of this game dont waste your time 
 on this; for that matter dont even bother with the demo itll just depress 
 you.
  
  And if you havent played the PC version STILL dont waste your time. It is 
 honestly not even worth the $3 to rent it. Your money would be better spent on the dollar menu 
 at McDonalds. SERIOUSLY! If Gamespot would let me rate this game lower than a 1, I would, because 
 thats what it deserves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efielret
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  So, you're this guy that you choose from preset classes, Archer, Assassin, Warrior, and Mage, it 
 reminded me about Enclave. I only played as a warrior and archer. This game is pretty fun, even 
 with all its flaws. The graphics I believe don't live up to the 360's potential. The bugs aren't 
 all that bad, you'll live with it, you just have to! If you haven't played this on PC or if you 
 don't have a computer (What are you doing on here with no PC?) or, your PC can't run this smoothly, 
 pick this game up when it drops the price. I know it wasn't worth the $65 that I spent.
  
  The story.. You're basically just the dark messiah and are out to destroy the enemy, blah blah 
 blah. You encounter a little romance plot, but don't expect to see a Mass Effect style deep kind. 
 You'll just face this like any other part of the story, which you have no control over.
  
  Multi-player.. I did not understand it at all. But it was entertaining, don't expect anything great 
 of it or buy it for the multi-player, I believe the community will die soon.
  
  The preset classed and skills aren't many (again from what I've tried.) Also, the game isn't that 
 long. Each level brings you closer to your Dark Messiah-ish-ness, as you gain new abilities well, 
 just a few... Like one... I'll start off some more about the graphics now. The blood affects remind 
 me of playing the original Mortal Kombat. The character models aren't too bad, but I mentioned 
 Enclave, which for me was on of my favorite original Xbox games. Also the animations aren't so 
 great either. Learn to live with it... 
  
  Any signs of RPG elements are stripped from the game, leaving it with only action, I'm not saying 
 that it's that bad. I'll try to ramble on about the combat system, I might get caught in something 
 else and ramble about that, but oh well. The combat is not so good, but actually entertaining on 
 how you can kill the enemy with wall spikes, fire, of ledges, dropping boxes, and basically just 
 using everything at your disposal. The combat gets annoying after a while through the game. You 
 can easily kill an enemy with a head shot as it should be in most games. Again, if you played Enclave, 
 you can see the similarities. It does get repetitive.
  
  Now with the sounds, I think we have a problem here. The swords and daggers sound just plain awful 
 as are some other spells that you can use. The voices are somewhat fine, not as bad as other games 
 like, everyone's favorite, Two Worlds. The also could have picked better dialog for enemies. Now 
 that I mentioned Two Worlds.. Yes, yes.. Well no not really, but I noticed that some spells sound 
 exactly the same. I'll just end this now and let's sum up this game.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 5/10
  Scenery: 7/10
  Story: 7/10
  Controls: 10/10
  Sound: 
 4/10
  Multi-player: 4/10
  Length: 9 Stages: 7/10
  Replay Value: 6/10
  
  Again, this is a very entertaining game. But I would much rather have waited to buy a real action 
 game like Viking: Battle For Asgard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Since the 80's, gaming developers have been creating legendary franchises that still flourish strong 
 till this very day. Some would assume this as a lack of creative skill; while others praise such 
 longevity as a perfect example of "unbroken greatness". Swords and sorcery is one of those long 
 running themes that continues to cash in on fantasy and adventure. At the head of the ship, you 
 have only a few elites sitting pretty, one in particular is Might and Magic. After years of success 
 and NUMEROUS iterations of RPG/strategy games, Dark Messiah rises from its PC ashes only to disappoint 
 the few remaining fans craving a console adventure within the M&M universe.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Hailing from a 2 year old PC port, DM was revered as a decent FPS adventure utilizing the same 
 gaming mechanics that helped propel other stellar titles. At the start screen, you can instantly 
 tell no such thing has followed this shoddy production. Kicking off the single player story, you 
 choose from 4 character classes: the Archer, Mage, Warrior, and Assassin. Due to the obvious weapon 
 layout, the method in dispatching baddies is all despressingly the same. There are some cool moments 
 where you can sneak up (as the Assassin) on goons and perform context sensitive actions or simply 
 mash them until they are weak enough for finishing moves. Once you cross this small threshold of 
 entertainment, the rest becomes a simple grind of 9 chapters taking you to all sorts of locales 
 that end up all looking the same. 
  Some areas you can explore off the beaten path which is highly encouraged since secrets and items 
 are always around. Some are more apparent and mandatory than others, but they add a nice distraction 
 from the linear story that does very little to stimulate. When it does come to intensity, DM can 
 barely hold its own as the controls feel like a tank simulator. No matter what character or path 
 you choose, every step of the way is a struggle, and jumping is no better. Comabt is never a chore 
 thanks to the power of button mashing, yet if the urge prevails you can set up some awesome environmental 
 deaths which always invoke a devilish smile. 
  
  VISUALS
  Any game that is released from a 2 year old version and looks worse than a 4 year old title should 
 be brought out back and "taken care of". No excuses for DM when it comes to graphics, which are 
 at times so horrid you can't even distinguish objects in the environment that help progress the 
 story. You could justify a few things being that the source material was already subpar at best, 
 but its the small things that add up to one huge cluster yuck of shame. Repetitive character models 
 and rigid animations for males and females alike -- extremely poor texture management on objects 
 and explorable areas -- ludicrous cut sceens and cinemas that make PS1 games look outstanding -- 
 and my least favorite thing to pick on that sums up DM in a nutshell, the atrocious 8 second ending! 
 
  
  AUDIO
  If everything up till this point was not enough to completely turn you off to this shameful game, 
 here's the golden ticket: there is NO music! Plenty of NPC chatter, decent audio effects, hammy 
 monologue galore, but no musical track to speak of. There is the ocassional ambience of gothic 
 hums and bellows that can be some what heard when turned up to full volume, other than that, you're 
 better off taking in all the balderdash DM has to offer with firm conviction.
  
  EXTRAS
  What was the PC version missing? Besides substance, I'd have to say a worth while online component. 
 One of my biggest anticipation's for DM was the ability to use single player skills from a fantasy 
 adventure game in a online arena. Sadly, I was deflated all over again! The chances of enjoying 
 DM are slim, but at least you can rest assured that it will be a lonely process. Online match making 
 is nonexistent in player or ranked matches simply because nobody owns of plays the game. There 
 are a few modes that encourage team efforts, but the basic gist is about raking in the most points 
 and winning. Speaking of which, how about those achievements!
  For starters, you can easily play straight till the end and scoop up a measly 300 with no hold 
 up's. Endure a few extra minutes in each level and search out for every secret location that holds 
 weapons, armor, items and accumulate rewards for curiousity. After sampling each character, the 
 Assassin seems like the best bet for netting the most hard to get points. As for the rest, prepare 
 for absolute disgust when you realize the broken online is the ONLY way to acquire some odd 500 
 points. Unless you have 8 other friends interested in playing ranked games or even touching DM, 
 good luck!
  
  OVERALL
  Personally, I'm not very proud of favored franchises taking a dip in the pitiful pool. In no way 
 did I help create Dark Messiah, but I have followed the Might and Magic series with dollars in 
 hand since its early beginnings and truly adore what they've done for the interactive fantasy realm. 
 Like any true fan, you have to take the good with the bad, and DM is a LOT of bad! 
  Ubisoft may be working on something more important than a mediocre 360 title, yet that doesn't 
 excuse this piss poor over-priced disrespect to M&M fans. After two desperate attempts in trying 
 to find something worth praising this once cherished franchise, its almost official that Might 
 and Magic under Ubisoft contol is dead! If you wish to enjoy true cl@ssics in fantasy fan-fare, 
 check out the older versions on the PC developed by studio dinosaur, 3DO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Sure the PC version is better but the game was origionaly PC! Kicking people off cliffs, stabbing 
 them, SLICING THEIR HEADS OFF! WHAT"S NOT TO LOVE! heres the scoop, people don't usually care about 
 how glitchy the game is, only how much you can PUSh those glitches. Take Oblivion for example, 
 look on youtube and you'll see that it has more than 1,000 mods, but how do you mod a game? YOU 
 FIND A GLITCH AND PUSH IT! Exactly, so why has the gaming comunity forget the masterpeice of Oblivion 
 mods? THEY HAVEN'T!!!! I bet if you google dark messiah mods, there will be a few results! So who 
 cares about if the mods don't go on the xbox360!! Just about everyone... but has your trusty Halo 
 have any mods for the 360? NO! So drop the mods on this topic! Using your enviorment is a feature 
 that obviously hasn't cought on with this dumb generation! Heres a hint: Put on your thinking cap 
 DM haters! what's moe fun than watching someone fall to their own death with you NOT ACUALLY SLICING 
 HIM! GREAT EXPERIENCE! LOL! Still I don't care much for bugs because THEY make your trusty mods 
 and "downloadable content" on live. do you think Bethedsa really thought you would be serving a 
 crazy dude in oblivion for a WHOLE new mainquest! Face it, mods come from glitches! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagasue
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  I am so disappointed with this game that I almost ditched it on the first day. The only thing that 
 is keeping me going is the fact that I paid so much for it. Hopefully I will complete it quickly 
 and it can then go to another poor soul on ebay!
  The first HUGE disappointment is the lack of control over choosing the character/skills etc. Then 
 there are the awful controls. How are you expected to complete a timed sequence when there is no 
 skill involved in executing something as simple as a jump?
  I suppose I was expecting too much after just completing Assassin's Creed and also playing Oblivion 
 and Tomb Raider Anniversary recently. 
  I don't mind waiting ages for a game to be released if it has the qualities of these other games; 
 but this one fails on every front.
  A plea to the developers.......... please read the reviews and do something spectacular next time. 
 There are enough examples out there to give you some pointers. 
  I'm sorry to say it, but I even enjoyed it less than 'Eragon'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trogdor_twogdoe
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  wow where to begin. what this game lacks in fun it makes up for with predictable storyline and 
 lack of wanting to play. hell i put it in tried for a little while then i said well I'll do a little 
 Rock Band. well i beat rock band on hard and medium for both guitar and drums before i tried DMMME 
 again. and wow, I'm a mage, so what do i end up doing? either kicking guys into water, or kicking 
 guys into oh-so conveniently placed spikes which are EVERYWHERE. like what the hell did the enemies 
 say, hey, lets put a million walls of spikes everywhere. and the adrenaline system was just lame. 
 it reminded me of a really really really bad knock off of oblivion. it was so... constraining. 
 it made me feel claustrophobic. i tried exploring a town and i went past some bench, then it said 
 "You lose" and when i went to reload, you know it's like the developers never heard of an auto 
 save. and one part the audio didn't play over the imps screaming so i had no idea how to get past 
 a gate. so i saw a small cliff edge, which i jumped on to and somehow you weren't supposed to go 
 there. so i found a glitch which was really annoying. so while i wasn't running around through 
 the air or looking at walls wondering why whats supposed to be a rock wall has a reflectivity of 
 20% i was lost. turns out you have to go back the way you came. duh. thats great game play. never 
 moving forward.
  
  all in all. i hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgsbgruntmaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the terrible reviews! Yes this is a PC game so its not quite as good on the 
 360! SO WHAT! I found this game to be quite entertaining. Bugs slow it down but the story and graphics 
 keep it going. The gameplay is sound if a tad repeptive but if you can get past that it is a solid 
 game. Nothing keeps it back. Secret areas and multiple endings give this game a nice boost. The 
 only tough thing about this game is the lack of player customization. But if you have an issue 
 with that go out and buy the PC version. It's still in my disc drive now. For people who don't 
 have super gaming computers (I have a mac. GO MAC!) this is a good alternative to play the big 
 hype PC games. Nobody had large gripes with the orange box and it was the same games that the PC 
 had. GAME INFORMER WAS RIGHT! Not the internet sites! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  
  
  In my thirst for RPG's or anything even close to looking or playing like an RPG, I picked up Dark 
 Messiah of Might and Magic: Elements. About the only thing that impressed me with the game was 
 the level designs and the physics. Everything else was bland or even worse.
  
  The story is the average prophecy-coming-true tale with a twist that is more see through than scotch 
 tape. It's a shame too because I was at least looking for a story that kept me entertained for 
 the duration of the game. DMMM: E just left it up to the game play to keep my interest.
  
  Even then, it wasn't able to accommodate my needs. I played as an assassin and to my dismay; I 
 found the stealth aspect leaving much to be desired. At first stealth was too easy or down right 
 impossible because of the things that triggered the enemies but as my skills in stealth increased, 
 the ease of sneaking did too. I was pretty much able to walk right in front of characters despite 
 the slight mood lighting in the environment without the slightest notice from any of the characters. 
 Dark Messiah makes it far too easy to be an effective assassin.
  
  Combat proved to be a little more engaging than that of Oblivion's but never seemed impressive 
 or as visceral as a game like Riddick's melee. In fact the majority of the game suffered from being 
 below mediocre.
  
  I guess I can hit on the high points before I got back to beating the game up. For the most part, 
 the level design looked nice and you could fully explore every nook and cranny of a level to find 
 hidden chests, relics and items. Also the physics of this game where top notch and every level 
 was littered with enemies to kick off things or things to knock down on enemies' heads.
  
  Now back to the badI'll just lump them together. It's silly that each level was littered with 
 things to knock on enemies' heads. Shelving was just stacked with dozens of boxes, there were just 
 tons and tons of spiked racks sitting around and just things like that that made the decoration 
 of the environment a bit improbable. 
  
  The AI only knew how to charge or run away. There were dozens of weapons and armor but unless you 
 were a class that can use them, they did nothing but check off that you found the item in a check 
 list.
  
  The voice acting was done in a hammy fashion and the main girl that talks the most throughout the 
 story sounds like a bad acting porn star. Just having the volume up could be embarrassing should 
 some people listen to what's going on in the game. 
  
  There were bugs such as when you throw barrels, they simply disappear most of the times, and there 
 are some traps that suffered from terrible collision detection seeing as I fell through a wall 
 and then got crushed by the trap. Creatures could get stuck in walls.
  
  All in all DMMM: E is just a terrible port of a game that was buggy to begin with. The game doesn't 
 even try to be mediocre. The last things I can say good about the game is that it isn't totally 
 broken and the game is pretty short so beating it isn't torture.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  DMMM: Elements is not actually like Oblivion..... at all. It is actually almost identical to Half 
 Life 2 with swords. The story is okay the gameplay can be pretty cool, BUT. Oh yeah, that is a 
 big but! The game is mechanically unsound. As in partially broken. It falls just short of causing 
 women to give birth to flipper babies. 
  
  As I said the gameplay is a lot like Half Life, but instead of a gravity gun you have a cross bow 
 that shoots ropes to swing on, which is cool. It also has decent combat and many cool throw downs 
 with giant creatures and such. The problem is that the game freezes up, or just forgets to let 
 you move on to the next level leaving you wondering what you did wrong. If your lucky you can reload 
 a previous save. If you only kept one save then you must start completely over because there is 
 no restart mission or mission select. Also you will get trapped partially in walls while on ropes 
 and get tripped up on door ways, and anything else with in a mile of your characters feet. Let's 
 just say any bug you have EVER seen is probably in this game. The game is also online........... but, 
 you could also just slam you family jewels in a car door, so, yeah.
  
  Graphically the game is just not very good. Cool effects like real time wounds and beheadings are 
 entertaining but all in all the game is just below par. Like I've said in other reviews, if this 
 downgrade of graphics allowed the game to run smoother and faster that would be okay, but this 
 is never true. DMMM was in need of a major overhaul when it was being ported from the PC, and that 
 just was not done. 
  
  In the end DMMM is only better then Two Worlds, and that is not saying much. Hold on to your money 
 and prey Oblivion has some more Downloadable content soon.
  
  Value: $10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyan_Flame
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Well I never played the PC version but let's discuss the 360 version.....
  
  Gameplay- It's pretty OK but during some platforming sequences it gets frustrating as your character 
 does a hop instead of a jump. Based on your class you get different abilities.... as this is an 
 RPG. However it goes down one line.... meaning you get no option to pick different abilities, every 
 level up you automatically gain one ability and that's that. No stats, races, or any of that here. 
 Basic.... BASIC RPG elements. Speaking of which you only get 4 classes, warrior, mage, archer, assassin. 
 Warriors and assassins play pretty much the same.... Little to no variety in the game based on what 
 class you chose.
  
  Music- Pretty bland... nothing special.
  
  Controls- Awkward but at the same time smooth. Combat is awkward and so is jumping but walking 
 and running work fine :P
  
  Multiplayer- Haven't tried it but from what I hear... no-one plays....
  
  Replay Value- Zilch.... sure 
 maybe you'll play through two times but there really is no incentive to.
  
  All in all it's a BASIC action RPG.... good for a rental but not good for a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lance5555
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Where to start, well first of all don't buy this game. This is such a poor game. Just like walking 
 trough a point and click. The game basically wants you to do specific thins and continually puts 
 you in these run through scenarios. Along with that the graphics are weak and at times it is hard 
 to see things making you miss where to go or what to do. Weapons and equipment is extremely weak. 
 Only having the ability to chose three character types is horrible, the game does not even adjust 
 items you find for the character you play, so you end up getting tons of equipment that goes no 
 where, you can't even sell it. This game reminds me of more of a first version of wolfenstein. 
 I would recommend not even renting. This game is a total waste of your time and the designers should 
 be ashamed to sell it for more than 20 bucks. 
  
  Only good thing is story line is not bad. Again this is just a enginer quick turn out game with 
 no real action. What a bust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid visuals thanks to the Source Engine, cool ideas for first person sword combat, 
 interesting environments, fairly well executed online multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: Story is confusing and fairly generic, there are very few enemy types, easy to get lost, 
 multiplayer consists of basic FPS style deathmatch and capture the flag modes, movement is a bit 
 clanky.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Back in 2006, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion set the benchmark for how dungeon crawling style role 
 playing games should be. It was one of and still is one of the best games on the 360, and amazed 
 gamers with it's graphics and gameplay. Now, in 2008, along comes Ubisoft's Dark Messiah of Might 
 and Magic: Elements, which is a port of a 2006 PC game of the same name. The original Dark Messiah 
 didn't do so well, mostly because it came out right after Oblivion. This version, which is supposively 
 very different from the PC original has it's fair share of problems, but is still enjoyable in 
 it's on right.
  
  You play as a hero who goes on quests to save the world from evil and all that jazz. At one point, 
 a really hot demon chick is placed inside your head, and she is constantly saying innuendos and 
 confusing you as you progress in the story. The storyline isn't very easy to follow, which is disappointing, 
 but the combat for the most part makes up for that. Introduced are some interesting ideas such 
 as easily being able to kick an enemy and/or using quick or strong attacks by holding down the 
 trigger. You are also able to equip shields, which are used in battle to block enemy attacks. 
 
  
  There isn't a complicated inventory system in Dark Messiah. Instead, you have a limited inventory 
 and are able to assign items to your hot buttons, which is a nice touch from the PC. Your character's 
 class, which you choose at the begining of the game, limits what items you can and cannot use. 
 What you cannot use will still be collected as a collection item, which will unlock an achievement 
 should you collect all types of weapons. 
  
  Unfortunately, Dark Messiah has a fair share of problems. First, there are very few different enemy 
 types, so you see the same enemies throughout the game, which is just lazy from the developer's 
 part. Second, although the combat is enjoyable, there really isn't much depth to it. It's a really 
 simple system for the most part, but it can get repetitive. Third, the story is pretty confusing 
 as well as generic. 
  
  There are online multiplayer modes in Dark Messiah, which is something that was missing from Oblivion. 
 These are extremely basic FPS style multiplayer modes such as deathmatch and capture the flag, 
 but the fact that you use a sword or bow does give them a bit of flavor. It's not a huge draw, 
 but it is something that gives the game some extra appeal.
  
  Overall, Dark Messiah is a decent role playing game that, dispite it's share of problems, manages 
 to be enjoyable enough to at least rent.
  
  Gameplay: First person hack and slash with solid combat, but some querks along the way.
  
  
 Graphics: Decent thanks to the source engine, but not as pretty as Oblivion.
  
  Sound: Decent voice acting and sound effects, but combat sounds can be annoying.
  
  Value: 
 I'd say if you really want another first person RPG, this isn't too bad of a choice. It sure beats 
 Two Worlds any day...
  
  Final Thoughts: If you died, your father would be most displeased... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beatnizzle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit taken back by the 3.5 score here on gamespot. Beowulf got 5.0, Pimp my ride got 4.5 
 and Dark Messiah gets a 3.5? That doesn't add up.
  
  The combat is fun. I think it can get dull and repetitive depending on the class you play because 
 as an assassin I was bored with the way the daggers worked. however playing as a warrior, chopping 
 heads off and brutalizing enemies didn't get boring at all. One thing I noticed that irked me was 
 the fact that you cannot remove limbs. In the PC version you could target an arm or a leg and take 
 that off but in elements you only take peoples head's off. Other than that though, the combat will 
 keep you entertained.
  
  One thing I saw heavily focused on was bugs. I played through the game and ran across to bugs. 
 Thats it. Neither were game ruining and so horrible that I had to vomit in rage. The only real 
 knock is the frame rate. Certain parts of the game, the frame rate drops and it really has no excuse 
 considering the games age and the system that it is on.
  
  Multi-player is what it is. It can be fun or it can be just frustrating. It really depends on your 
 team and class (It sucks to be a melee warrior when your entire team wants to be an archer) . Its 
 a shame there is rarely people online to play otherwise I could see it being fairly entertaining.
 
  
  Overall, it really is a game worth checking out and playing. If you never played the PC version 
 I do suggest it. If you have played the PC version or own it, I wouldn't buy this game, theres 
 not enough differences to really make you want to buy it. My only hope is that anyone browses this 
 game's review will not just assume that it is a 3.5 game, it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  It gets old people saying a game sucks because it isn't like Oblivion, just because the screen 
 shots look similar, doesn't mean that its an RPG like Oblivion. This is a first person adventure 
 action game, kind of like Tomb Raider in a way, but with more RPG elements too it.
  The best part of the game are really the areas you explore look really cool, they did a great job 
 on that part of the game. The fighting is kind of fun, but nothing too in depth. You can throw 
 stuff, kick them, and the usual hack and slash, magic, bow, depending on your class. On normal 
 I never had much problem beating most enemies.
  The bad part of the game is there are a few game ending bugs. I myself wasn't able to finish past 
 Chapter 6 because some how my quest log got reset even though I had all the items, and I wasn't 
 able to get the game to continue without loading a old save and going way back through a large 
 area again. Maybe it was a hardware problem with my DVD drive failing to load at one point that 
 caused it, I don't know, but since I just rented the game I had others I'd rather play at that 
 point.
  
  Overall this game is a solid rent, but wouldn't buy it myself. If you like fantasy world stuff 
 with cool areas to explore then you should have some fun with this.
  3.5 is way too low Gamespot, this game isn't even close to being that bad!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I am quite annoyed, no, make that very angry, this game harks back to the bad old days of ports, 
 when bugs got worse and newer more powerful platforms were never really utilized.
  
  The textures are poor, the character models look 4 or more years old, the "combat" is repetitive 
 and dull, and the voice acting and dialogue just plain bad bad bad- and not even in a funny way. 
 Cwikey Mairwee poppins!!
  
  
  I'm quite partial to a bit of hacknslash rpg-loved E. S 4 oblivion- even two worlds had me for a 
 wee while, but I am seriously re-considering this position due in no small way to this atrocious 
 game. It seems that the programmers couldnt make their minds up about whether to make a straight 
 rpg or something not taking itself entirely seriously (Overlord is fab btw!) and I just cannot-you 
 know what, I can't even be bothered to hammer these words anymore, basically avoid.
  
  Online play is barely available due to lack of punters and this game has no redeeming features, 
 aside from everything my 360 crashed loads, and I
  had 3 moments when I got stuck on scenery and had to reload a savepoint. God I hate this game..
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnstraight003
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Well, while I would agree with most that it's not worth spending 60 bucks on, Dark Messiah for 
 the XBox 360 deserves better than a 3.5.
  
  The game's story is not as boring as Brett would have you believe. Character development throughout 
 the tale is a little lacking, but not completely non-existent. Given the length of the single-player 
 campaign, the developers did alright with the characters. The actual gameplay does get dry after 
 a while, but the four different character classes should keep you interested for at least 4 playthroughs 
 of a third of the story, if you're really impatient.
  
  As of this review, I have only tried playing the game as the Assassin class, which utilizes dual 
 daggers (which can also be thrown when the situation is right) and stealth to fell his enemies. 
 I was a little put off at one point in the game when a single thrown dagger unrealistically killed 
 an undead dragon, but on the other hand I didn't have a decent bow that I could use instead. The 
 other three classes in the game are Warrior, Archer, and Mage. All the classes get to play around 
 with spellcraft via the various scrolls you come across in your adventures, but to really use spells 
 fully you need to play a mage. Why? Because as a mage you can activate your adrenaline before casting 
 a spell to amplify its effects. Depending on the spell, this can permanently freeze opponents, 
 or triple the number of fireballs you unleash.
  
  The graphics, and more importantly, the physics in the game are less than perfect, but still deliver 
 a fun experience. There's nothing more satisfying than kicking your opponent in the face and watching 
 him tumble down a flight of stairs and off a cliff. In some moments the kick mechanic is a little 
 broken, such as when you kick a foe into a corner and the engine seemingly doesn't know what to 
 do, and decides to do the same thing it would if your enemy had fallen off a cliff.
  
  Speaking of enemies, you'll be seeing a lot of the same guys throughout the game. Perhaps because 
 of this, the single-player campaign is mercifully short. And, back to the story, for anyone who 
 knows anything about the Might and Magic universe, the story of the game will make a heck of a 
 lot more sense.
  
  As for multiplayer content, the game's multiplayer lobbies are really not that empty, though it 
 comes nowhere near rivalling the thousands of players online in Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4 at any 
 given time. The game has 5 online modes: Training, Blitz, Crusade, Team Deatmatch, and Deathmatch. 
 Training is an interesting gamemode that lets players get a feel for the class they want to play 
 in multiplayer by giving everyone in the game only one skill to get used to. Otherwise it works 
 like the Crusade game mode. In Crusade, two teams are trying to capture control points scattered 
 about the map. The multiplayer maps, by the way, are very cool and I commend whoever designed them. 
 Blitz mode is basically like a very very small Crusade in which the maps are symmetrical and players 
 cannot respawn. In Team Deathmatch the objective is not control points, but kills. And Deathmatch 
 is the same as Team Deathmatch, but without teams, and in Deathmatch there are 'pick-ups' strewn 
 about the battlefield that each grant different bonuses.
  
  In multiplayer gameplay, there is no Assassin class. It is instead replaced by the Priestess class, 
 a support class with various buff, debuff, and healing skills. Speaking of which, the skills in 
 multiplayer for the Archer, Warrior and Mage are different from the skills you acquire in single 
 player. In single player most of the skills are passive, but in multiplayer almost every skill 
 must be activated. Also, every class gets one 'Heroic' skill that is more useful or powerful than 
 that class's other skills.
  
  So in conclusion, rent the game and give it a chance, maybe you'll decide like I have to wait until 
 the price comes down and actually purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgh0lx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't write reviews, but after reading how gamespot trashed this title it's hard not 
 to!
  
  Now this game isn't perfect, but it's fun and easy to play. I've had no problems with long load 
 times (they're shorter than oblivions load times for sure!) , poor controls, or poor sense of reach 
 in combat, or jumps. I never fell one time on chapter three when chasing the ghoul. It makes me 
 think that whoever played this game has never played a first person game before because I have 
 not had any problems with this game what so ever and find it quiet entertaining and fun.
  
  It's basically oblvion minus all role playing and exploration elements. But it's entertaining and 
 will keep you playing if you like first person hack and slash adventere games. Granted the graphics 
 aren't great but I've seen worse on xbox 360 games If you go in expecting the next oblivion you 
 will more than likely be let down. But if you just want a fun adventure that doesn't require a 
 lot of thought or role playing it's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay but the thing is this came out on the pc years back and now they're selling it 
 on the 360 but it's at full price. I got this game and it's fairly good but it was a total ripoff 
 seeing as the pc version costs only 9.99 (I'm from the UK) . Well I'm almost done already and I'd 
 say this game would've been the perfect rent, would've gone great with popcorn and coca cola too... 
 Anyway summary;
  
  
  Graphics - 7/10 The same as they were when it originally released, good thing it didn't originally 
 release in 1990.
  
  Sound - 6.5/10 Better than Two Worlds, at least it's better than nothing. P. S, Two Worlds sucks 
 ass.
  
  Story - 7/10 It's an RPG, gotta have a decent story in RPGs right?
  
  Gameplay - 7.5/10 It's always a lot of fun but if you already have the pc version you won't buy 
 it again for the same first person mashing.
  
  Replay/ Multiplay/ Value - 5/10 I'm not the type that argues about a remake edition but selling 
 a game for way more than the original is just feels like a scam, no multiplay - one replay at most.
 
  
  Overall - 6.5/10 This game will make a crappy weekend a happy weekend, just don't forget to send 
 me a bowl of popcorn and a glass of coke, oh c'mon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travism0714
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't ground breaking or going to appeal to a large group of people. But a 3.5, gamespot? 
 Please. I've been playing it for about 10 or so hours and am enjoying it. It is nothing like Elder 
 Scrolls, so if you are looking for an quest filled, dialogue heavy game with skills progressions, 
 you are looking in the wrong place. If you're looking for an old school fantasy game in a FPS style 
 then have a go. 
  
  Would it be better adding stats, including some buying/selling and other character intereactions? 
 Definitely. But that isn't what this game is trying to do. If you go into it expecting that, then 
 you are going to be extremely dissapointed and start dropping 1.0's. 
  
  If you've played this game before or are looking for the traditional deep rpg elements that most 
 games in the genre have, then don't bother. But if you want to have some fun in the old school 
 Might and Magic universe with some fast paced action and dungeon crawling, give it a shot.
  
  PS. For all the people have joystick inversion issues, go to your Xbox profile and change the 
 default! It works like a charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srgtfury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Yes the graphics aren't quite next gen, but the gameplay more than makes up for that (remember 
 FEAR?) . I'm about 8 levels into this title so far and am having an absolute blast with it . I am 
 also already looking forward to subsequent playthroughs as the other available classes. This game 
 really only falls short in a couple areas, As I mentioned, the graphics which also lead to some 
 clipping issues. And the voice acting by Xana got to be a bit much after a while. Otherwise quite 
 enjoyable.
  
  The addictive combat and compelling story more than make up for these shortcomings however. I also 
 like how you can approach a situation and plan your attack to see if there are aspects of the environment 
 that you can use to your favor.
  
  At the very least I would say that this is a good weekend rental for anyone looking for an enjoyable 
 break from the onslaught of FPS games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  i like these games; this gener is so perfect for me and i like it; i do not know maybe you hate, but 
 i love it;
  poeple who play this game are two group, one who live it, the other hate it so much;
  the gameplay 
 is so advance and the story is so strong, but the narration is so weak; the physic and the graphic 
 is not so good but will attract you; all the components of the game is good but the sum is not so 
 good; the first part of the game is about you, who you are, where you be, what had gone on you and 
 more; the second one is about the foreseen that is about you; it is so huge in sometime but so bad 
 in most times; but i love it so much;
  the enemies and the foes are so smart to hunt you but so fool in chasing; in the long way tunnels 
 they lost you so many;
  in the end i must mention that if you like this gener you must play it, if you are not rent it first 
 and then make the choice;
  at last play it and find the way how can you defeat the red big guy in the black-castel; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeMusic05
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  While it is a little repetative and linear I still had fun with the magic combat. Also the gome 
 differs quite a bit from the PC version (which I also played) . There are new levels and new areas 
 to levels, also the control scheme and artifacts have been completely revamped. For example the 
 first level of the game is completely different from the PC version and there is even a mini boss 
 battle at the end of the first level that was not present in the PC version. Did the reviewer even 
 play the PC version? I did not notice frame rate issues which plauged the PC version and overall 
 I had a fun time with this game. I am not sure if the extremely negative review from gamespot is 
 trying to prove a point (hey look guys I can give a really bad review and keep my job) . Or just 
 that the reviewer is trying to fill some big shoes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CimaronD
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  3.5 is really harsh for this game. Sure, it is not something most people will spend 300 hours playing. 
 I found it to be quite enjoyable, and have not encountered any of the bugs yet. That stupid ghoul 
 chase in Chapter 3 is not one of the finer moments, but in my experience most FPS games have at 
 least one really frustrating situation.
  I would describe the game as more of a casual FPS. There are a lot of interesting ways to kill 
 enemies with physics. I am playing a warrior, and the deaths you get with the weapon combos are 
 quite satisfying. Some of the puzzles are fun and challenging. If you give the game a little time, 
 you probably won't be disappointed.
  I have not tried multi player yet, so I can't comment on that aspect of the game.
  Kudos to the 
 GS reviewer for making me laugh out loud with that dump truck comment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon0932
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to say i had alot of fun playing this game, so here are my thoughts:
  
  Graphics: not the best you have ever seen, yet not as bad as some people think cough (GameSpot) cough. 
 It seems that for every good texture or effect this game has, there is always an ugly one that 
 rears it's head. an example of this incosistency would be how enemies look really realistic, yet 
 the floor textures are generally ugly 
  
  Gameplay: Best part of the game, it simply rocks. you will be stabbing, beheading, and utterly 
 destroying enemies, and having alot of fun doing it. There is also a very innovative kick move 
 that lets you kick enemies into spikes and fires, which is lots of fun. the most innovative part 
 of the combat is the Source physics, and being able to throw any object you find at a enemies, 
 and making stuff fall on them. The most dissapointing thing (and the worst part about the entire 
 game) is that you are restricted to four classes, warrior, assassin, archer, and mage. What class 
 you are affects the skills you have and what weapons you can have, and how you play the game. This 
 system makes mages horribly unbalanced (staffs will get you killed) and makes assassins boring 
 (no bow) It sucks, but does give it a lot of replay value.
  
  Story: the story is wierd because most of the time you don't know what the hell is going on, yet 
 it feels pretty epic with some cool cutscenes and voice acting. you play as Sereth, a young apprentice 
 of master Phenrig. You begin by giving a crystal to Menelag, a powerfal wizard, and eventually 
 go to to a mysterious orc island. Overall i would say its decent, but has its moments.
  
  Sound: Everything sounds really great, and is a + for the game. you will a sick SPLACK!! when you 
 cut off a head, and planty of other cool combat sounds. voice acting is, as i said earlier, good. 
 there are some annoyences, like leanna's whiny voice and Xana's constant sex references, but they 
 wont bother you much.
  
  Overall: DM is a really fun, somtimes flashy, sometimes ugly rpg that is worth at least a rental 
 by everyone (p. s the full game is much better than the demo!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silence5150
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  i was looking forward to playing this game and when i recieved it i found that it can only be played 
 non-inverted. sometimes i can adjust to this but was still shocked that the producers of this game 
 did not add this feature. It does not cater to all gamers and i find that very sad. its like telling 
 a pro baseball player he can't play because he is left handed. or telling a pro skater he cant 
 compete because he is goofy footed. i don't know how to rate it because i did not get to play it. 
 so i am giving it a very low score since i paid money to play and then found that it was not made 
 for people who play inverted such as myself. it was on its way back to the online rental store 
 5 minutes after i had recieved it.
  upon reading other reviews online i found hundreds of dissapointed people with the same inversion 
 problem and also read that the game is an Oblivion rip-off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minghui94
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  The good - Gory action is fun ; many thing can be interact ; fighting can be fun sometime ; kicking 
 a enemy is just plain fun ; Can be buy at a price of only $59.90 singapore dollar , which is very 
 cheap for a new game .
  
  
  The bad - teribble and horrible graphic that is not up to the 360 standard ; Dumb artificial intelligence 
 !!! it will be good if there is freedom
  
  
  
  Dark Messiah is a FPS game from Ubisot , it was first release on the PC , a few years later , it 
 was release on the 360 . It looks more like a port over than a 360 exclusive .
  
  
  This game is gory , which are obviously not suitable for people who are scare of blood . Mature 
 player may like this game . some people say gory game ain't good , but they are wrong !
  
  
  Fighting an enemy can be fun , but it is a bit too easy , you just need to face an enemy and 
 block , or use the environment .
  
  
  You can kick enemy , kick a enemy to let him hit into traps , fire or watch him fall down from 
 high place .
  
  
  Now the bad 
  
  
  The graphic .... is the worst thing in this game , it is very very bad , even a PS2 graphic can 
 compare with this !!!! 
  
  The AI is extremely dumb , i was just standing beside him and he did not see me , i wonder if it 
 was the game problem , or it is too realistic that he got bad eye sight !!!
  
  If this game is add with freedom like Elder Scroll IV Oblivion , it will be the best FPS ever made 
 !
  
  
  You can try buying this game if you are new to it , don't buy if you have played the PC version 
 before , it is almost the same !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysozymes2
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  As an old-time Might and Magic strategy player and RPG enthusiast I was really looking forward 
 to this game. Unfortunately it was a dissappointment.
  
  Game engine is choppy, and the light falling on texture is often wrong (direct sunlight on woodenbeams 
 when you're indoors) .
  I have played games on the old x-box with better graphics than Dark Messiah. It's plain and not 
 very attractive.
  
  The play mechanics is booring. Almost no RPG element at all. Very linear character development. 
 I should have guessed that when you only get to choose 3 classes... Equipment and spells are also 
 very meager.
  
  Storyline was actually well thought out, but it's nothing to keep you in suspense. Reminds me of 
 Elder Scrolls, but without the richness of that game.
  
  So, in summary. It's a first person RPG with no RPG elements based on a classical turn-based strategy 
 game... But with absolutely no strategy involved. Boss fights are simple and the few puzzles are 
 easily solved.
  
  I have no idea what the production team had in mind when they wrote the project outline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhoffnee1985
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Hey yo. I got Dark Messiah: Elements on Friday and I've been playing it ever since. It's a fun 
 game! It doesn't do anything too amazing and I've come across some glitches but it's just plain 
 fun!!
  
  Firstly, I've heard some say that the game is not good just because it's not open ended. Well, 
 open ended is not always the best thing. I like that it gives you a path to go and sticks to it. 
 It helps you gauge your progress more then anything!! Anyway!!..
  
  When you start you get a choice of 4 classes - Mage, Warrior, Battlemage and Assassin. Now I must 
 admit I've only played Warrior (but I have dabbled with the others) but so far so good! It's just 
 your basic hack and slash- with some rope climbing chucked in for good measure.
  
  I'd reccomend this game to anybody who likes Oblivion but also appreciates the more basic side 
 of gaming! Don't expect a complex levelling up process here- but shockingly, some us like it that 
 way :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I played the PC version of this game a year ago, and it was terrible. It was chock-full of technical 
 issues (bugs...) , and just felt hollow and weak. It was released amidst a slew of weak PC RPGs 
 that were all labeled "Oblivion style RPGs" (read: Gothic 3) . 
  
  However, this release for the 360 is a solid action RPG. They've fixed most/all of the bugs from 
 the PC edition, and it provides a very well polished action RPG experience. Don't go in expecting 
 either Oblivion on the RPG end, or Half-life on the first-person action game end. This game accomplishes 
 what it's trying to be: a simple, light, hack-n-slash, loot-grabbing "dungeon crawler". 
  
  The visuals and sounds are both well done, though neither is cutting-edge. NPC AI is not great, 
 but workable. 
  
  The game is well worth a go for any action RPG fans.
  
  The good:
  * Easy to jump into and play, lots of basic platforming, lots of little hidden goodies to locate 
 in the game world
  * Sold and well done throughout -- I haven't experienced any of the graphical frame rate issues 
 mentioned in some reviews
  
  The bad:
  * VERY lightweight -- to call it an "RPG" is more to do so because it's a swords-and-sorcery game 
 than because it's really trying to be "role playing".
  * Enemy AI is weak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  Dark Messiah is a graphically recharged port of the PC game released for source. And while graphically 
 its nicer, it suffers from the same flaws that plagued it on the PC.
  
  The game is broken, the dialogue cuts in and out, the missions are linear and unenjoyable, and 
 the combat is weak. Its as if someone took the less enjoyable parts of Oblivion and put them into 
 a point to point adventure game.
  
  Valve banks on players being so enamored that they can "kick" things that they didn't bother making 
 the rest of the game fun. The multiplayer component is back again, but once more, the problems 
 that plague the PC version plague the 360 version, with certain classes being obviously better 
 than others. Plus the lack of real dedicated servers hinder any of the fun continuity servers seen 
 on the PC side. 
  
  This game is maybe worth the $5 for PC users, but as a full, $60 retail game, its thirty times 
 too expensive for the weak, buggy product you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is an awesome fps that is completely awesome and origonal compared to the other first 
 person shooters out there. You get cool armor, awesome spells, and amazing attacks that give you 
 a highly satysfying kill. It took me about 20 hours to beat withought looking at its great graphics. This 
 game also has an amazing physics system as well. it uses the source engine that half life 2 used 
 that gives awesome gameplay. almost anything in this game is destructible. A cool feature you can 
 do in this game is you can kick people and impale them on spikes and also kick them into fires. You 
 watch and laugh as you completely devour your enemy. This game can be quite difficult at times but 
 other than that its a quite medium difficulty game. If you liked oblivions 1st person mideival 
 perspective then im sure you might get a kick out of this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
