-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead Rising
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/deadrising/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Thousands and thousands of zombies to kill in a myriad of ridiculous ways.
 tons of things to see and try throughout the mall.
 great sense of style.
 a plot that manages to be intriguing without intruding too much on the action.
 fantastic sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Save system and real-time game structure are frequently at odds with one another.
 copious number of escort missions start to wear thin after a while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.5, 101 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 16,536 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Aug 8, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dead Rising's gory, ridiculous, and entertaining action, coupled with its real-time structure and 
 campy stylistic touches, make it one of the most unique games currently available for the Xbox 
 360. 

  When it comes to zombies, few publishers have more experience with them than Capcom. The company 
 has made a mint in recent years off various iterations of the Resident Evil series, and that franchise 
 shows no signs of slowing any time soon. So, it is with some curiosity that we now find ourselves 
 with Dead Rising, an Xbox 360 zombie game produced by Capcom that has exactly zero to do with anything 
 Resident Evil. Where Resident Evil was a series all about horror, tension, and frequent jump scares, 
 Dead Rising goes in the other direction, creating a pure action experience with zombies that are 
 much easier to kill but travel in higher numbers -- much  higher numbers, actually, with groupings 
 numbering in the hundreds. As a departure from the zombie games of old, Dead Rising is a great 
 success, wonderfully blending campy undertones and visceral, zombie-killing action into something 
 highly playable. It suffers from structural faults, and the game does find itself leaning heavier 
 on repetition than you'd probably like, but Dead Rising overcomes these shortcomings by being a 
 lot of fun to play.  

          Meet Frank West, wartime photojournalist, and zombie slayer extraordinaire.     

  The 
 main protagonist of this zombie nightmare is Frank West, a freelance photojournalist that has made 
 his career covering wars and atrocities. In the sleepy little town of Willamette, Colorado, things 
 seem to have gone terribly wrong. Military convoys block off all roads leading into the town, and 
 all communication devices have been jammed. After being tipped off about the events unfolding, 
 Frank charters a helicopter and flies into town to get what potentially could be the story of his 
 career. What he finds is a whole mess of zombies laying waste to the town and its citizens. After 
 snapping away a number of pictures of the carnage, Frank instructs the pilot to drop him off on 
 the roof of the local shopping mall -- a huge, decadent shopping emporium that almost seems bigger 
 than the town itself. Frank tells the pilot to return in three days to pick him up, and from there, 
 Frank is seemingly on his own.  

  Frank's journey through the Willamette Park View Mall is a fairly complicated one. The basic premise 
 of the game is that Frank has 72 game hours to get his story and get the heck out, and how you 
 go about doing so is laid out in a rigid, linear fashion, though also, at least somewhat, left 
 up to you to decide for yourself. Essentially, from the moment Frank first hooks up with some of 
 the key survivor characters in the game, he finds himself on a path to the truth. This path is 
 laid out in a series of case files, which are the game's equivalent of story missions. Each case 
 file takes place at a certain time on a specific day, and it's up to you to get to where those 
 missions take place in at the specific time designated. However, there are also a number of side 
 missions that pop up during the course of the game. These missions are entirely optional but doing 
 them nets you more information about what's going on, as well as some point bonuses for Frank. 

  The real-time structuring of Dead Rising has its unique qualities, but it doesn't always work particularly 
 well. Specifically, the mission structure and the game's rather punishing save system simply don't 
 get along with one another. Save points are scattered in a few specific spots throughout the mall, 
 and you only get one save per storage device on the Xbox 360. Considering most people probably 
 only have one storage device, that means one save for the whole game. The inherent problem with 
 this is that because the game revolves so heavily on a rigid schedule for the case files, if you 
 save yourself into a corner where you can't feasibly get to that next case file in time, you're 
 screwed. All the case files are connected, and if you fail to get to one on time, the trail goes 
 cold and you're unable to pick up any of the other story missions.  

  Interestingly enough, if this nightmare scenario happens, you can opt to save the game with Frank's 
 current level and abilities intact and start the whole story over (which you'll basically have 
 to do if you find yourself in this position anyway) . Doing this does make it easier to bust through 
 the parts you've already played, but it's still an obnoxious thing to have to deal with. By nature, 
 having to be places on time is not an inherently fun thing. It's especially frustrating when the 
 penalty for not being somewhere on time is the whole story mode ending and you having to start 
 over from  hopefully  a close enough spot to eventually make it. Thankfully, Dead Rising turns 
 out to be a game you'll want to play through multiple times. But potentially forcing players to 
 replay sections because of an overly punishing save system is the polar opposite of fun.  

          You'll meet a wide variety of survivors over the course of the game. Some of them are friendly, 
 and some of them aren't.     

  As frustrating as the save system can be, it shouldn't dissuade you from playing what's otherwise 
 a uniquely entertaining game. You can avoid running into snafus with the save system if you play 
 carefully enough and don't go running off doing every single side mission available before ambling 
 toward a case file. The fact is, there's simply no way to see every mission and pull off all the 
 game's various (and largely difficult) achievements in one shot through the story mode. And one 
 shot will likely take you anywhere from 15 to 20 hours the first time around, so that's quite a 
 bit of content to mess with. There are also some unlockable modes, an online leaderboard, and multiple 
 endings to take into account, as well. Of course, games based within free-roaming environments 
 always work this way, providing so many little Easter eggs and side ventures that you simply can't 
 get it all in one shot. However, Dead Rising's main appeal is less in the sheer volume of content; 
 rather, it's in the ridiculous variety of it all.     

  The Willamette Park View Mall is a veritable playground for the average, workaday consumer, spanning 
 a huge amount of real estate and including every type of good and service one could possibly hope 
 for. However, given the current situation, the mall has gone from playground to war zone, and the 
 various consumer products contained within have gone from useless bric-a-brac to weapons of zombie 
 destruction. Frank can use just about every conceivable object he comes into contact with as some 
 kind of weapon. We say "just about" because there are a number of areas that look like they have 
 weapons you can use, but in actuality don't. But what is there is awesome. There's plenty of obvious 
 stuff, like guns and blades of various strengths, as well as typical blunt objects like lead pipes 
 and baseball bats. But it doesn't stop there. Mannequins, potted plants, frying pans, CDs, soda 
 cans, lawn mowers, chainsaws, free weights, park benches, tasers... these are just a sampling of 
 the day-to-day objects you can use to put a stop to the hordes of zombies that have infested the 
 mall.  

          The photography aspect of the game feels kind of superfluous, but you can take some really 
 bizarre pictures.     

  What's more, there are tons of bizarre and hilarious ways to use these objects. Say, for instance, 
 you find a novelty mask inside a toy store. Rather than simply bludgeon a zombie to death with 
 it, you can put it over its head and watch it stumble around blindly, completely unable to detect 
 you. Find a jar of cooking oil inside a mall diner, and explode it onto the floor. Then toss a 
 nearby severed arm into the thick of it, and watch the zombies slip and slide all over the place 
 as they struggle for their meal. Frank's also got a number of truly insane hand-to-hand combat 
 moves he can gain throughout the course of the game. From punching a zombie in the gut and disemboweling 
 it with a single thrust to wacky wrestling moves like German suplexes and giant swings, odds are 
 you've never combated the undead quite like this. It's very entertaining, and the combat controls 
 make it a breeze to pull most all these moves off. The moves themselves are simplistic, and there 
 are no combos or other complications to worry about. It's just about getting a weapon into your 
 hand and pressing the right attack buttons to bludgeon, stab, or shoot away.  

  Another unique quality of the gameplay is the item system -- specifically, health items and skill 
 items. Health items come in the form of food and drink, which are scattered about the mall's various 
 diners and food courts. By themselves, these foods can be potent -- however, the game gives you the 
 option of upgrading these items in some cool ways. Cold foods that are meant to be eaten hot can 
 be cooked in an oven or microwave and made significantly more effective that way. You can also 
 blend multiple things together to create new concoctions that give you any number of health boosts, 
 as well as special abilities. Some give you invincibility; others turn you into walking zombie 
 bait (or "zombait") , making it easier to keep other survivors alive while the zombies focus on 
 you.  

  There are also skill items -- namely, books littered about the place that teach you new skills in 
 things varying from combat to vehicle use. Yes, Dead Rising lets you do everything from killing 
 zombies to riding a skateboard, or a bike, or even drive a car in a few instances. And you can 
 get better at these things by acquiring these books, which do things like increase the amount of 
 time you can use a bladed weapon before it breaks or let you pull tricks while riding a skateboard. 
 Some are even mission specific, such as when you have to learn Japanese to coax a couple of Japanese 
 tourists to join up with you. The book system and mixed-food items are something you could very 
 well get through most of Dead Rising barely using, but you get a lot more bang for your buck when 
 you do.  

  Frank starts out as a slow, generally weak guy. He doesn't have much combat experience, so that's 
 not altogether surprising. However, the game affords you plenty of opportunities to earn prestige 
 points, which work toward increasing Frank's abilities. Points come from a variety of things, including 
 completing missions, getting survivors to join up with you, killing lots and lots of zombies, and 
 even taking pictures. As Frank is a photojournalist, you can simply pick up your camera and take 
 pictures of any number of things, from dramatic scenes to scenes of horror to periodically "erotic" 
 moments. It's a weird mechanic, in that it's not something you really need to mess with unless 
 you want to. Much like the food-mixing and book systems, you could probably go the entire course 
 of the game just taking a handful of pictures and get by just fine. But as a side venture, it's 
 a worthwhile one for the point bonuses you accrue, and the inherent weirdness of many of the photos 
 you can take.  

          In this rescue mission, you will escort survivors from point A to point B... just like all 
 the other rescue missions.     

  All this is indicative of Dead Rising's overall tone, which shirks the typical dread-based style 
 of your average survival horror game and goes for something decidedly more like American horror 
 cinema. The game is campy without ever venturing into parody territory. Characters don't constantly 
 crack jokes, and the missions aren't made up of a series of sight gags. Rather, the characters 
 take the admittedly crazy plotline completely seriously, and the missions do imbue you with a legitimate 
 sense of danger and peril. But that danger and peril isn't based on jump scares or things that 
 go bump in the night. It's based on the sheer difficulty of some of the missions, as well as the 
 absurd number of zombies that the game tosses at you. There are also some subtle in-jokes toward 
 other zombie games and movies, as well as a few pointed and amusing commentaries on American culture 
 at large. Heck, the whole setting of the game is like a big tribute to George Romero's classic 
 zombie thriller  Dawn of the Dead , in which its characters also find themselves trapped in a mall 
 filled with zombies. Dead Rising is decidedly lighter on the subtext than its inspirations, but 
 there is some to be found.     

  What is perhaps even more interesting about Dead Rising is that its zombie killing is almost incidental 
 in the grand scheme of the storyline. There really aren't any missions where you find yourself 
 having to kill a certain number of zombies in a certain amount of time or anything like that. Rather, 
 the focus of the game's missions is on the people still alive within the mall. Side missions frequently 
 involve rescuing survivors from various areas of the mall and taking them to the safe house in 
 the mall's security room. You'll also frequently bump up against opponent survivors, or "psychopaths," 
 as the game calls them. These boss characters are residents of the town and employees of the mall 
 who have been driven insane by the zombie epidemic and now are dangerous foes in their own right. 
 As for the main case files, these follow a similar pattern, with rescue missions, combat sequences 
 against enemy survivors, and a few fetch quests stitched together to keep the plot moving.  

          If Dead Rising does one thing exceptionally well, it's that it never ceases to throw 
 lots and lots of zombies at you, and always finds a way to make zombie death immensely entertaining. 
     

  All the while, you'll be trying to circumvent the zombie hordes as you perform these various tasks. 
 The zombies in this game aren't overly aggressive. They're mostly slow and will mainly just lunge 
 at you if you get too close. There are a few distinctly different artificial intelligence routines 
 for the zombies (some are faster and more aggressive than others) , and at night, zombies become 
 noticeably more aggressive as a whole, but more than anything else, the zombies in Dead Rising 
 are there to provide a roadblock. They're there to prevent you from getting from point A to point 
 B. Their sheer numbers will impede your progress in such a way that the mall essentially becomes 
 a zombie obstacle course. This means you will  have  to kill thousands of zombies as the game progresses 
 but without the caveat of being forced to kill them for tacked-on reasons.  

  By this design, Dead Rising keeps things moving quite nicely and manages also to keep the zombie 
 combat from degenerating into a repetitive rut. Between the ticking clock and the amount of mission 
 work you'll be doing, there isn't a ton of downtime (save for a few specific periods) for you to 
 wander around, killing zombies for no reason. You can certainly do this in short bursts between 
 most any mission, but you can't really pull a Grand Theft Auto and mill about the mall aimlessly 
 for endless periods of time, killing indiscriminately for as long as you please -- unless, of course, 
 you simply don't care if the case-file timer runs out and are willing to reload your last save 
 after getting your necrocide on. Then you've got all the time in the world.  

  That's not to say that Dead Rising completely avoids the sensation of repetitiveness. The zombie 
 combat remains engaging throughout the entirety of the experience, but some of the missions do 
 start to drag after a while. Specifically, the copious number of escort missions the game tosses 
 at you gets old. The game does try to change things up a bit by setting up specific and unique 
 scenarios for these missions. Some survivors can handle weapons and will fight alongside you, while 
 others are too frightened and literally must have their hand held to get anywhere. Some even have 
 to be carried due to injury (these are, by far, the most frustrating missions in the game) . But 
 it all boils down to you getting one person from harm to safety, over and over again. Fortunately, 
 there are enough psychopath missions and other tasks to break up some of the monotony, and the 
 majority of these missions are optional, so you could conceivably skip a lot of them. It'd be nice 
 if there was more variety in the act of rescuing these survivors in itself, though.  

  One of the best things about Dead Rising is its style. This game goes for the polar opposite of 
 what zombie games like the Resident Evil series go for, trading dark, dank, moody landscapes for 
 bright, colorful, almost painfully pleasant-looking environments. This is a shopping mall, after 
 all, and you'll find things like an in-mall amusement center for kids; a huge, picturesque outdoor 
 park area; and a cheesy, Western-themed food court; as well as plenty of ridiculously themed shops 
 all over the place. It's a delightfully contrasting world to the death and destruction that's so 
 prevalent throughout the game. It all looks great, too. The environments are particularly sharp, 
 as are the scads and scads of items contained within them. The character models are less impressive. 
 Main characters like Frank and a few others in the central storyline are nicely detailed and look 
 excellent during cutscenes, but the zombies and ancillary characters are blander and lower in overall 
 quality. Still, the sheer number of characters onscreen at once in Dead Rising is an achievement 
 by itself, and the game runs exceptionally smooth despite the numbers. The frame rate only really 
 seems to hitch up when you're using particularly massive weapons against particularly big groupings 
 of zombies, but otherwise, you'll never encounter a problem.  

          The Willamette Park View Mall is a wonderfully contrasting setting for a zombie invasion. 
     

  The audio in Dead Rising is even more impressive, thanks largely to the fantastic sound effects. 
 The weapons in particular are top notch. Guns are appropriately booming and blades slice and dice 
 through zombie flesh with a sickeningly awesome gushing sound. However, it's really the blunt objects 
 that are the star of the show. Every weapon makes a totally different sound, and each one sounds 
 exactly  right . The hollow thunk made by smacking a zombie with a mannequin torso sounds just 
 as excellent as the silly  sound of an electric guitar connecting 
 with a zombie's skull. It's simply some of the best Foley work we've ever heard. The voice acting 
 is also of high-quality. No actors of note play the characters, but they're each played with the 
 right level of camp. The psychopaths are particularly amazing in their over-the-top performances. 
 The one weak area of the audio presentation is the soundtrack, which never stands out at any point 
 during the game. There are some appropriately tension-building bits and pieces here and there, 
 but most of it is generic and quickly fades into the background. The sole exception to this is 
 the random moments of goofy mall Muzak that play in certain areas, which are picture perfect for 
 the mall atmosphere. It's just too bad there isn't more of it.  

  While not everything Dead Rising takes a stab at works to its benefit, it's still one of the more 
 unique and enjoyable games on the Xbox 360. There aren't many games that give you the level of 
 pure, bizarre variety that this game does, and its splendidly brutal yet entirely silly brand of 
 action is too much fun to ignore. Some people are undoubtedly going to be severely put off by the 
 constant battle between the game structure and save system, but no amount of structural missteps 
 manage to derail this ride. It's zombie action for people who want zombie  action , and it's simply 
 a great piece of entertainment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1547 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics
  They are very nice and put together. Every store you go to is detailed and there something to look 
 at and take. All the zombies are different and its hard to tell if some are the same when they 
 try to come out and attack you in different directions. Frank West the main character looks normal 
 BUT! everyone else especially the chicks look like Frank West. They were all manly and it looked 
 gross as ****
  
  The Story
  A mysterious virus??? disease??? no its a bug, kind of a spoiler but you learn that like right 
 away. Any who so an epidemic spread through out the small city of Willamette, Colorado and the 
 towns people has turned into zombies. Frank West a photojournalist, goes to investigate the small 
 city and ends up in the mall. The pilot of the helicopter tells Frank that he has 72 hours til 
 he comes back or Frank will get left behind. So the people have gathered in front of the mall where 
 they have barricaded the front entrance where zombies are getting ready to pour through. But this 
 old **** worried about her dog and let all the zombies in and now its up to you to fend them off. 
 Heres where it sorta fails. Its a free roam sort of thing. I played through it a couple times and 
 got different stories based on the time. You only have three days to do whatever and if you miss 
 the first story plot you gotta wait and kill zombies I guess.
  
  The Gameplay
  This game controls nicely and its very easy to pick up. Not every single thing is a weapon like 
 they say but you have a decent amount of weapons to choose from. But some are just a comical weapon 
 like the toy laser sword that doesnt kill. You'll find some favorites that really help you destroy 
 the zombies. One thing i dont like is that the guns are better if they shot freely instead of aiming 
 cause its really slow and zombies like to run in groups. Theres a nice inventory system even if 
 theres only like 4 slots. The surviors can lend a hand but some are really annoying and I dont 
 wanna get involved with them but I cant read what they say cause the subtitles are too small and 
 capcom hasn't fixed that.
  
  Final Word
  It's an ok game but theres flaws and it can get really boring doing nothing and thats what happens 
 sometimes and it's just not worth it sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sonnenschein-
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  For who this game is for people who:
  - love to kill thousands of zombies
  - love to search around for the real weapons
  - have enough time to level your character in order 
 to be able to survive
  - have enough patience to die A LOT
  - can bear horrible gameplay
  - love blood and freaking awesome moves and weapons
  - can actually do the moves
  - love flawed 
 escort missions
  
  This game is not for people who:
  - hate dying over and over again
  - jump right into a game and play through the game on easy and then increase diffulty level (as 
 far as I remember that game does not have difficulty levels)
  - hate to only have one saving slot and just a few saving spots
  - are perfectionists and who 
 want all achievements: it's going to be a pain in the neck
  - hate to forfeit one playthrough just to get a really strong weapon which you desperately need
 
  - hate flawed escort missions and a dumb AI
  - hate doing the same thing over and over again for 3 hours just to get an achievement (and I mean 
 literally do the same things again: get in a car - run over zombies - get into the next car cuz 
 yours just broke down - repeat process --  to get a strong weapon and an achievement) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  "Dead Rising" is like Capcom's "Resident Evil" combined with Rockstar's "Grand Theft Auto III". 
 It takes the scenario of George A. Romero's "Dawn of the Dead" and gives it a campy spin. Unfortunately, 
 the game can be quite frustrating due to a lackluster save system and unreliable friendly A. I. 
 The game is composed as a time run. You are given 72 hours (in game time, not real time) to investigate 
 the mystery of the zombie apocalypse by going through story missions and side missions. Side-missions 
 upgrade your character's abilities. Like "Fatal Frame", you're given points for taking pictures 
 and just like GTA, you can customize Frank West's visual look. 
  
  The best part of the game is how everything in the huge mall is weapon. Everything from lawn mowers 
 to squirt guns and cars to Mega Man's trademark weapon can be used to kill zombies. It's all rather 
 fun, but the frustrating comes in completing some missions due to the computer's inability to give 
 your fellow survivors good brains. They die because they can fend for themselves not because you 
 couldn't protect them. 
  
  Still, the game is a blast and encourages multiple playthroughs. It may not be as great as "Resident 
 Evil", but Capcom knows the zombie genre and blends it well with the Rockstar formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjamin191
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Describir un juego asi es medio dificil. Por donde comenzar... bueno es increible, creo que ni 
 un juego antes havia mostrado tantos personajes en una pantalla (bueno zombies jajajajaja) , que 
 pueden ser cortados, aplastados masacrados por la manos de nuestro fotografo. La calidad de los 
 graficos, sonido, brillos, sombras y practicamente todo me impresiono mucho ademas para la epoca 
 que fue lanzado. Es extremamente divertido, pero muchas personas se pueden desinteresar pues, si 
 uno se queda jugando, matando sin sentido, las horas se pasan y nuestras misiones tambien (para 
 quien quiera conseguir el objetivo final) , ese yo veo que es un punto negativo pero bueno al mismo 
 tiempo. Pues la tension por acabarse el tiempo te pone a adrenalina pura, pero te puede frustrar 
 algunas vezes porque volver a repetir todo lo que hiciste ir de un lugar a otro de nuevo, se queda 
 un poco complicado. Pero es algo pequeo para un juego como este. Ademas de posuir una cantidad 
 de armas enorme (practicamente todo es una arma desde diamantes a cortadores de pasto) , y varias 
 misiones, jefes y finales distintos.
  Un juego que vale la pena jugarlo.
  Por enquanto espero por el lanzamiento de Dead Rising 2.
  
  Un Abrazo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnoutKarnege
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  This game, is great it has a huge variety of weapons, the world is fairly large and it has Zombies (obviously) . 
 Most everything you can think of is a weapon and some unorthodox weapons turn out to be really 
 good weapons. Don't listen to everyone who says the save system is broken, while it is unforgiving, 
 it works very well. You can actually use it to your advantage if you know how. The level system 
 works well, but i would have like to have been able to buy the skills instead of randomly earning 
 them, however this adds challenge to the gameplay. The photo system is weird at first but once 
 you get the hang of it this actually becomes a fun way to earn PP. I go around trying to find the 
 highest scoring pictures i can. You have to play through multiple times, there is so much to see 
 and do that it requires more than one playthrough. The main thing you have to remeber is not to 
 take the game too seriously, this game is very parodic in its nature, but, if you are a fan of 
 zombies than definitely pick this up, if you like action sandbox type games at least give it a 
 rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilsham1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  A game with such wonderful promise and such great ideas should be so much more fun to play. 
  
  Awkward controls aside as I started hacking away at zombie heads with the awesome array of 
 weaponry, i was really enjoying myself.
  The whole experience is ruined by the terrible idea the developers had to limit the game with a 
 time limit system that is way beyond restrictive, and a "one death and your game is over , but 
 oh wait you can restart as well!" awful-choice mechanic. 
  
  The level idea is a good one, i like that you can play back through the game once you have achieved 
 awesomeness - not that i have managed to get that far yet. The fact that I die every time i go 
 off exploring and trying to have some fun in the game world means that i can either go back and 
 start again and again over and over, or go back to my save game with low level scores and plod 
 through to the next challenge.
  If I choose to play safe i need to wait in the game, actually wait, for the next mission to start, 
 or i can run about risking my in-game neck and my in-game invested time to save some of the random 
 extra characters. I would normally jump at the side missions available in a big old sand box of 
 a game like this, but hell no I don't want my little zombie killer to get dragged down whilst rescuing 
 some dude.
  
  Also let me change my clothes when i want, instead of hunting down a shop that sells hats so i 
 can get rid of the horses head i accidentally put on earlier.. 
  and stop with the incredibly annoying tiny text radio communication updates! so annoying..
  
 
  This game could have been so great, but so far i just find it annoying and disappointing. I hope 
 the sequel fixes some of these issues, for now I will see if i have enough patience to go back 
 and finish this hopelessly flawed title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backinthekrak
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  Yes, as has been said many times here, it's A LOT of fun to pick up random objects in a mall and 
  your way through a pack of zombie punks. However, the fun ends 
 when you realize that the save system is the SINGLE MOST RETARDED IDEA EVER PUT INTO PRACTICE IN 
 THE HISTORY OF VIDEO GAMES. There, I said it. Why do I have just a couple of places in an enormous 
 mall to save my game? Why do I have to repeat the same sequences around 50 times just because they 
 thought it would be 'cool' to make me stagger through another zombie horde almost dead with no 
 health packs around to a save point about ten miles away? Why do I have to do things in the order 
 that these irritating 'case files' tell me to? Great ideas, but actually making progress and finishing 
 this game - if that's even possible - will put a lot of stress on your heart, believe me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the start of the zombie franchise that seems to be everywhere these days. Much to 
 do, much to see, and much to kill.
  
  Story: 6.5
  You are Frank West, a photographer just looking for a story. You here about something going on 
 in Willamette, Colorado. The story he find here is a nightmare. You are trapped in a mall in the 
 middle of town that is surrounded and infested with zombies. Yea it isn't original, and you don't 
 really care for the story once you start actually playing the game, but it works. Can you guess 
 the movie this sounds like?
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The gameplay is excellent. Virtually everything in the mall can be used as a weapon to kill all 
 the zombies. There is a unlimited supply of zombies to dismember, shoot, punch, and blow up. There 
 are so many things to do in the mall, but when you think of it, it is pretty much the same thing. 
 Get a weapon, kill the zombies. Luckily it works.
  
  Characters: 8.5
  There are many fun people to meet in the mall. Most of which you will be saving. As you probably 
 know, most of which are insane or just freaked out and won't trust anyone. There are a few sane 
 people in the mall, mostly you and your other 3 friends that you meet in the beginning of the game. 
 Everyone looks great and are very detailed.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  The graphics are great. I've noticed something with 360 games lately. If you remember, when the 
 360 was first coming out, they were promising that every game was going to look fantastic and beautiful. 
 Dead Rising is one of the few games that live up to that promise. Most other games have worse graphics 
 then the first 360 game out. Anyway, as I said, the graphics are great. The biggest problem though 
 is that the subtitles are so small and almost impossible to read. I have learned to just listen 
 to the game instead of reading it. This little problem stops it from being a score of 10.
  
  Sound: 8
  The sound is well done in this game. The sweet sound of smashing a shovel on a 
 zombies head has never been so pleasing.
  
  Multiplayer: 0
  Sadly, there is no multiplayer.
  
  This is a game that you shouldn't miss the opportunity of 
 buying. There may be a few flaws in the game but most are small and you don't really notice them 
 and can just avoid them. Multiplayer would have been a great addition to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshMiester
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  If you think Resident Evil and Call of Duty 5 consist of the best Zombie Pwnage! You haven't played 
 Dead Rising.
  
  Capcom, loves Zombies, and this proves how much they do. As I remember there are supposed to be 
 able to be a little over ONE HUNDRED zombies on the screen at one time!!!! 
  
  You have three days to fight off zombies and save normal survivors. Not only do you have to fight 
 zombies, you have to fight zombies who have gone crazy, like Adam the Clown and Cletus (the owner 
 of the gunshop) .
  
  Like the review deck says, almost everything is a weapon, you can use a shower head, when you stick 
 the shower head in a zombies head, blood will come out as if it is a shower. You can throw a pie 
 and it will stick to the zombies face. You can even hit golfballs and kick soccerballs at the zombies. 
 That is always f**kin fun!!!
  
  If you want to have days and days of fun. Play Dead Rising
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a gem for Capcom. It's so much fun to kill Zombies. Capcom took the idea of Resident 
 Evil but they made it GTA style. That's pretty cool if you ask me. Here is the story for Dead Rising. You 
 play as Frank West a jorunalist who has been sent to investigate a Zombie infestation in a mall. Frank 
 is in a helicopter and he see's that Zombies are all over the place. So he lands at the Willament 
 mall to see what's is happening. When he is inside he see's a man named Carlos at the heliport. He 
 tells him that hell is coming. But Frank ingnore's Carlos and then Frank head's inside. When he see's 
 that Zombies are all outside the mall. But then the door blocking Zombies opens and Frank barely 
 escapes with his life. So now he has 3 days to survive in the mall. Now in the mall you have a choice 
 to either follow the story or go around the mall killing Zombies. First I followed the story then 
 I did whatever I felt like doing. Now in the mall you have many places to explore like the Food 
 Court, A small park, A garage and many other places. You also get many weapons like Katana's, Guns, Baseball 
 Bats, Guitar's and even a Lawn mower. There are also some Capcom cameo's in this game. There is also 
 a Mega Man X coustume and even some moves to learn which can be found in Street Fighter. Overall 
 Dead Rising is a good game and anyone who loves Zombies and GTA will love it! The only bad sides 
 are that The controlls take some to get used to, Graphics dont look really that detallied and the 
 Mall could have been slighty more bigger. Other than that Dead Rising is awesome! Also there's a 
 version out for the Wii as well. So check out that version if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HELLFIRExREBORN
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is an amazing game. A mall full of zombies using almost anything as a weapon? Pure 
 win. While most zombie games only give you guns, this game puts the others to shame by using water 
 guns and teddy bears, to shotguns and katanas. Many people complain about the 72 hour mode, but 
 screw them. It's one of the coolest things about this game, it makes it more difficult, restraining 
 you from just doing everything possible in one game. The amount of ways you can go about doing 
 things in this game is amazing. While the AI is a little slow compared to other games, it's not 
 so bad that I would give the rating anything less. The achivements are very difficult which makes 
 this game so fun and replayable, and I do very hope that number 2 will be as difficult. Overall, 
 even though I think this game is so great, different people have different opinions, so rent it 
 for a week, and if you really like it, buy it used because it's not that much since it's from 2006. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buck_Hotep
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Capcom's Dead Rising stands as one of the most fun titles to come out for the Xbox 360 since its 
 initial release in late 2005. From the makers of the Resident Evil series for past console systems, 
 Capcom has taken a new approach in adding to their growing library of zombie titles. Dead Rising 
 is a semi-freeroaming action-horror game which takes the classic premise of George A. Romero's 
 Dawn of the Dead --- survivors trapped in the mall teeming with flesh-eating zombies --- and makes 
 a fun and exciting game.
  
  The game takes place Willamette, Colorado, population 53,594 where nothing exciting happens in 
 town outside of visiting the local mega-mall which seems to dominate the entire town. Dead Rising 
 uses a time-based mission system and the intro cutscene in the beginning of the game hints at this. 
 You play as freelance photojournalist Frank West, who never fails to mention that he's covered 
 riots, wars, and all sorts of dangerous events, who gets a tip from an unknown source that something 
 big is happening in little old Willamette. The intro both introduces Frank West, flying over the 
 town to bypass the military blockade and cordon of the town, and the controls for the photography 
 mechanics of the gameplay. It's in this hands-on tutorial part of the intro that we see a bird's 
 eye view of the crisis that has befallen Willamette. From there you're dropped onto the roof of 
 the Willamette Mall where you meet one of the few survivors of the town. The rest of the game moves 
 on from there at a very frantic pace.
  
  It's the game itself that shines for Dead Rising. Despite a save system that could've been done 
 much better (more on that later) , Dead Rising's gameplay mechanics has quite abit in common with 
 Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto games. From the get-go the player as Frank can just go down into the 
 mall and begin killing zombies left and right, and everyway from Monday through Sunday. All manner 
 of items stocked in the mall walkways and stores can be picked up and used either as a weapon, 
 a change in clothing attire, and/or food. This is where Dead Rising will get most of its mention 
 for being fun. When Capcom programmers decided to allow the player to use anything that could be 
 picked up as a weapon they meant it. It's been reported in many sites and gaming publications that 
 there's over 250 useable items to be picked up as a weapon. These items range from the gore-inducing 
 lawnmower (an homage to Peter Jackson's Dead Alive zombie film) , chainsaws, and excavators (a garden 
 tool that has one of the bloodiest and funniest killing animation) to the ridiculously funny use 
 for CDs, shower-heads, novelty masks, teddy bears and skateboards. There's also the more traditional 
 weapons such as a pistol, shotgun, submachine gun, machine-gun, swords and axes. Being a game developed 
 by Capcom, Dead Rising has more than a few wink-wink acknowledgement to other Capcom games such 
 as Mega Man and Resident Evil.
  
  One could spend all their time just killing zombies, but the strict time-based missions in the 
 game might make zombie-killing take a backseat to actually solving the mystery of whats caused 
 the zombie outbreak in the town. There's two types of missions Frank could try solving. There's 
 the mandatory Case missions which deal directly with him trying to solve the mystery with-in the 
 72-hour time limit. Each case mission must be solved in a linear order to open up the next case. 
 The second set of missions are named Scoops and act more as sub-missions that can be taken on and 
 accomplished or ignored. They really don't affect the availability of further case missions. What 
 they do give Frank are prestige points that can go a long way to levelling him up to gain more 
 skills and abilities. Most scoop missions usually entail finding scattered survivors within the 
 mall and leading them back to the safety of the security office near the roof. Some survivors could 
 be armed with extra weapons Frank carries and defend themselves when attacked, and some survivors 
 are so incapacitated that Frank must carry them to safety. While carrying a survivor Frank will 
 be unable to use a weapon so this type of mission usually takes several tries before the player 
 figures out the best path to safety. Like most game AI, the survivors need abit of constant attention 
 from the player to make sure they're actually following you and not stopping every second to fight 
 the closest zombie. It's not a gamebreaker but the survivor AI could've used abit more tweaking 
 to make them follow much better.
  
  As mentioned above Frank can level up to a level cap of 50 by acquiring prestige points (called 
 PP in the game) . Prestige points can be acquired through many different ways within the game. Taking 
 pictures of different nature and quality will give Frank prestige points as high as several tens 
 of thousand. Shots with poses that follow a certain genre gives more points than those that are 
 just generic poses. Such genres that shots can be taken of are shots of burtality, horror, outtakes, 
 drama and erotica. Erotica shots are pretty much just photographs taken of survivors and zombies 
 (abit creepy) in sexually-suggestive poses. Brutality shots are usually pictures where extreme 
 violence and fighting poses are framed and photographed. Horror is pretty much self-explanatory. 
 Drama shots usually involve pictures with survivors and main npc characters in dramatic poses. 
 Outtakes usually entail photographs taken of survivors and zombies involved in any sort of funny 
 situations. Usually them slipping and falling down or wandering around aimlessly with novelty masks 
 over their heads.
  
  Other ways to gain prestige points will be to finish case missions and scoop missions. The PP reward 
 for finishing part or all of each mission usually range from several thousand to as high as 50,000 
 PP. The high amount of PP reward for taking on and accomplishing these two types of missions go 
 a long way to levelling up Frank. The most fun way of getting PP, though not as much and takes 
 a long time, will be to kill zombies. For every 50 zombies killed Frank gets 500 PP and everytime 
 Frank reaches 1000 zombies killed he gains 20,000 PP. It's a much slower path to gaining PP but 
 it's surely the most fun of the three ways.
  
  The main storyline in Dead Rising was actually a very good one. Like most games outside of the 
 role-playing game genre, storylines were usually the weakest of all the games had to offer. In 
 Dead Rising, Capcom was able to create an intriguing storyline that didn't rip-off the Dawn of 
 the Dead story that the game was usually compared to. There's conspiracies, betrayals and just 
 outright weirdness to help tie together the mystery of why Willamette, Colorado has suddenly gone 
 zombiefied and why the U. S. military and government were quick to quarantine the whole area. There's 
 not much that could be said as scary about Dead Rising. The game itself leans more towards comedic 
 horror than outright horror. There were some cutscenes and plot developments that were downright 
 creepy and scary, but most of the time you'll just laugh in glee at all the carnage you're causing 
 within the mall. The characters of Frank West and those npcs he has to deal with in the context 
 of the case missions were pretty well drawn both in animation and personality. As the game progressed 
 and certain characters were put in danger it was hard not to feel saddened by such tragic events. 
 It helps that the voice-acting in Dead Rising was pretty high quality. The spoken dialogue during 
 the cutscenes were pretty well done and one could sense that Capcom wanted to really capture the 
 cinematic tone they were going for with Dead Rising.
  
  Now to the one glaring negative in Dead Rising. The save system in this game could be called unforgiving 
 and that's saying it lightly. The game only allows for one save per memory unit. This means that 
 you can only save the game once if you only have the 360 HDD as your memory unit. This means that 
 once you save over a previous save then thats it. If you're current save doesn't give you the chance 
 to finish your current case mission then you pretty much have to start the game over. This would 
 sound terrible if not for one saving grace. Dead Rising allows the player to start the game over 
 with all skills, abilities, levels and PP acquired to be transferred over to the new game. This 
 lessens the impact of having to start the game over. It also helps in power-levelling Frank to 
 a level high enough that you can breeze through the case missions. Starting the game over and over 
 with stats and skills included also gives the player a chance to try different methods of solving 
 a case until finding the one thats easiest to do. I know of players who have done nothing but just 
 kill zombies and try on a few case and scoop missions to gain PP to level up then start the game 
 over then repeat the cycle again. This makes the game much easier in the long run, but also takes 
 time.
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising is top-notch and really makes use of the 360's graphical power to put 
 as many zombies on the screen as possible. There's barely any slowdown in frame-rate as the action 
 on the screen gets heavy and crowded. The animation is not on the same level as Bethesda's Oblivion 
 and Tecmo's Dead or Alive 4, but what lacks in near, photorealistic graphics it more than makes 
 up for the high level of figures on-screen. The look of the mall itself was also well done. Each 
 store and utilitarian room has their own unique look with most items rendered with enough detail 
 to be recognized as either weapon, sustenance, etc... Dead Rising looks great when played on a HDTV-capable 
 TV or computer monitor. The game itself utilizes Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound and each sound 
 has a distinct quality to them that you can tell the difference between an acoustic guitar smashing 
 noisily a zombies head into pulp to one where you use an electric guitar instead. The sound effects 
 of zombie-killing makes great use of all the squishy, gooey, and splatter noise effects horror 
 movies have been well-known for.
  
  Overall, Capcom has created a great game with their action-horror/comedy Dead Rising. With a choice 
 to either play the game in the free-roaming style of Grand Theft Auto to a more time-based, linear 
 mission-style of an action game this game more than makes up for unforgiving save system its developers 
 decided to give it. Dead Rising is a great and fun game that should remain fun to pick up long 
 after the player has finished its main mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say that I haven't finished this game. I actually started playing it 2 times. 
 First time on Xbox 360, the other time on Wii. But both times I stopped playing after 30 minutes 
 at about the same points. It just doesn't matter what console you are playing on, what controls 
 you use or what graphic you have. This game is seriously weird.
  
  For on the one side, you have the opportunity to freely move around the market, picking up WHATEVER 
 you want and throw it on the zombies, hit them with it, knock them down or whatever. This game 
 is unbelievably fun that way because it reminds you of a mix of Dawn of the Dead and Shaun of the 
 Dead :)
  
  On the other hand there are these small things that turn the whole thing upside down: The stupid 
 story intro. Stupid main character. Stupid minor characters. Stupid controlls. Stupid animations. 
 Stupid graphics. Stupid dialog. And everytime you talk to someone, instead of a speak sequence, 
 a text box opens like the ones in really old Nintendo games. And the letters are so tiny and small, 
 you don't even bother to identify these mystical hieroglyphs.
  
  *Sigh*. No no, this game actually had potential. The concept, the core is totally awesome and is 
 extremely fun. 
  But if everything else would have been done as well as the concept, this game would have received 
 a higher rating. It's a pity. 
  
  Hopefully Dead Rising 2 will be better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rschsan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Great time around Willamette killing zombies! Great Sense of humor! Acceptable graphics! Great 
 pictures taken! Cool figurines! Different things to do! Cool achievements!! Lots of zombies attacking 
 at he same time! Notable number of weapons that we can find in the mall and use against the zombies! 
 Great experience gain system!
  
  Too much time loading! Too short game! Little place!!
  
  But I loved it... hope another one comes for my xbox!!! Maybe with problems corrected. As I 
 said I think its the first step for a kind of zombie GTA!!! I don't understand why we dont have 
 one already.
  The main objective of the game is to remain alive inside the zombie-infested mall for at least 
 three days. It's incredibly cool to get all the things of the shopping to kill the living deads! 
 Megaman blaster an plastic light saber are very cool. Certain books from the mall's bookstores 
 will increase the durability of a weapon or the effectiveness of a health item in the player's 
 inventory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flip4910
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is just amazing! I love it, I think its a first of its kind I mean in what other 
 game are you in a mall with thousands of zombies and can shop in all the stores, use hockey sticks 
 to chainsaws, even dumbells to bowling balls. The story is great you get you start off flying in 
 to cover a story and get dropped off at the mall to investigate, you run into some survivors and 
 zombies bust in and flood the mall you get to safety and the game starts. Throughout the game you 
 get lots of scoops which a like game missions to advance the story or save civilians. Every scoop 
 or person you save gives you PP points to level up for new moves, better health, more carry space, 
 etc. Theres like 5 different endings so the replay value is really great, spend hours saving and 
 helping people or spend hours killing zombies with the 100's of different weapons do choose from. 
 Plus all the achievements are really cool and fun and some are pretty challenging. The graphics 
 are okay the gameplay isn't revelutionary but the story and idea are in my opinion, only in this 
 game and you do some of the things listed. I would say this is a must have game not to mention 
 its only like $17 perfect for this crappy economy right now. Get this game I promise you won't 
 be disapointed, you'll love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  I now that im late reviewing this because its almost 3 years since its release, but i think that 
 -  This games deserves a 9.0 instead of a 8.4... i Tell you why:
  
  
  *Gameplay: You're a Journalist killing zombies and psycophats with a great variety of weapons 
 and running through the mall saving people?, seriously it never gets old, the game has a good story 
 and an infinite "replay-value". I Still don't know how the xbox has the capacity to has almost 
 250 zombies moving around in a small room, and it stills run fast-paced. 
  
  *Graphics: After almost 3 years, i see this game very wonderfull about graphics, the model of each 
 zombie and character are good detailed, the fade effect when you jump or "roll in the floor" like 
 in Lost Planet, but really the environment has it owns better that make the game clear, a very 
 well made far range and anti-aliasing, so the game looks realistic. (The bad... very little words, 
 you can't read them)
  
  *Sound: I don't know how to describe it, it just rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  +Good idea for a zombie game.
  +Mildly sharp controls.
  +Occasionally funny sound effects.
  +Watching zombies eat survivors can be entertaining sometimes.
 
  +Tons of acheivments to unlock.
  
  -Weak storyline follows the blueprint of RE.
  -Absoulutly lacks any challange at all.
  -Poorly-executed sexual content is immature and dumb.
 
  -Odd mouns and sound effects.
  -Terribly washed-out graphics engine.
  -Unlikable main characters.
  -Devoid of any depth.
  -No online multiplayer.
  ---
  What 
 makes Capcom skyrocket to one of the best video game comapanies, I will never know. Sometimes I 
 feel like I'm the only one that notices that RE's storyline is weak, Lost Planet has horrible look 
 controls, Mega Man is almost always the same as the last, and just about every game from Capcom 
 is disapointing. Dead Rising, of which I've worked my school studies and completed my math exams 
 so hard for, has finnally proved me right that Capcom and I are not best friends.
  
  
  Dead Rising plays as a sideprodject from capcom's series RE; From looking at the back of the box, 
 it says "You have 72 hours". At first, this might seem pretty intense to be trapped in a zombie-infested 
 mall for 72 hours. Let me make it quite clear that it is NOT. The main point of Dead Rising is 
 TIME. There is never a gameplay momment where your not timed to some limit. 72 hours isn't just 
 the text. You litterly have 72 game hours (6 real hours) to play a single player "run" before the 
 game ends. Your score is then ranked on the leaderboards with the many other people who are mind 
 pocessed into thinking Capcom rocks.
  
  
  
  In Dead Rising, you play as Frank West, who is a Photographer. He isn't a particualarly likeable 
 character either, given for his rude and over-outgoing personality. He disembarks from a helicopter 
 at a local mall in Wilomette Colorado to get a scoop of the mysterious event there. That event 
 is a huge mob of protesters, whom you soon realize are bloodythirsty zombies seiging a heavy barricaded 
 mall. Before Frank can take a few photos for news ads and figure out what the heck in going on, 
 an old lady spots her dog outside the heavy barricade. She, of course, wants to retreive her dog, 
 so she rips down the entire barracaide, letting a bunch of poorly textured zombies access to the 
 mall to feast on their human prey. This leaves Frank fleeing everywhere around the mall, picking 
 up weapons of all types to beat off the zombie horde, finding stranded survivors to help, and complete 
 a few Grand Theft Auto-like tasks along the way until his helicopter returns to pick him up in 
 3 days. Basically, its a 72 hour zombie-killing marathon.......... or so as Capcom would have you 
 to believe.
  
  
  
  Dead Rising's story unfolds mildly. Appearantly the zombies are too numberous to even think of 
 trying to escape from the mall, so your pretty much trapped doing stuff inside. Your eventually 
 treated to 2 secret agents in an attempt to take down the terrorist who put Colorado in this mess. 
 Saying more would spoil the whole thing, but its not exactly an impressive story and follows up 
 a little too much like the RE series. When you start a game, you get to play it for 6 hours until 
 it ends and you have to start all over again. You can spend the 6 hours anyway you like: kill the 
 zombies with any weapon you can find, try to look for stranded survivors, try to complete the storyline, 
 or do a combination of the 3. You see, since Dead Rising is based around time, you have to complete 
 a task within a certain ammount of time. Much like Grand Theft Auto; if you complete a task quickly, 
 you are unable to finish another task until the next day, which gives you some free time to run 
 around and do whatever you like. But if you wait too long and complete the task at the last minute, 
 this absoulutly ruins the rest of the tasks left to be triggered, thus making the game impossible 
 to complete (correctly) . This can get really hurtful.
  
  
  Frank runs at a panic-pace, which is pretty normal for a zombie outbreak, and starts to run a bit 
 faster as he gets stronger and more used to zombies wondering around. If you don't want to finish 
 the storyline, that fine; you luckily don't have to. You can just run around beating zombies with 
 a slightly lengthy arsenal of weapons. Weapons like crowbars and shopping carts, to giant stuffed 
 teddy bears and chainsaws, to lawnmowers and store signs, to katanas and skateboards, to soccer 
 balls and a few other weapons can be used to comically beat up the zombies. You also find food 
 laying around the mall to eat to replenish your health... or throw it at the zombies as well. These 
 weapons also have comical appeal to them. If you have a bucket, you can shove it over a zombie's 
 head, leaving them blindly walking around and knocking into one another. You can throw marbles 
 or grease at the ground and watch them slip and fall down. You can torso-stab a zombie with a giant 
 rotating construction drill, leaving their guts flying and spinning off goofily. You can also throw 
 a pie that cartoonishly lands dead-on a zombie's face. There is even an easter egg that lets you 
 grab hold of Mega Man's Megabuster, which can fry zombies to a crisp. Frank also has the ability 
 to run into different stores and change his clothes to 70's style catsuits to kiddie show hotpants, 
 and some goofy clothes like that. Later in the game, you also get to mix certain food ingredients 
 via blenders and microwaves in cooking ladens for goofy effects, like speed increases or power 
 duables for a short period of time.
  
  
  This game probably sounds awesome already. The sad thing is that I've practially stated almost 
 every weapon in the game. The back of the box lies to you that "Everything and Anything is a weapon!". 
 Let me state to you that this isn't true. There are only about 23 weapons in the entire mall, not 
 including food. It doesn't help that you can pick up stupid weapons like teddy bears or watergun, 
 but you can't pick up something worthwhile, like a fire axe or a hook? Sure, you can pick up some 
 useful weapons, like sledgehammers and crowbars, but it still doesn't feel that deep. Why would 
 Capcom put so much effort to make a weapon as useless as throwing cds at zombies, but couldn't 
 take the time to be able to let you grab nearly everything else on the selves that could be quite 
 useful, like rifles, books, maybe just a random toy box? Its nice Capcom was going for the comical 
 theme more than the realistic theme, but it just doesn't feel right for a zombie game. The clothes 
 don't look too aweful, but Frank's limited hairstyles make it just as bad.
  
  
  
  Frank, as a photographer, is always carrying his camera wherever you go, which means you can take 
 mildly cool pictures of zombies, save only about 9 of them to your hard disk, and post the points 
 you earned onto the leaderboards. Although since the zombies have only a few different models, 
 and that they all look poorly textured up close, the camera won't be much use. Furthermore, a level 
 system is included in the game. By killing zombies, taking pictures, or saving survivors, you can 
 try to increase your level, which increases your overrall strengh and health. The level system 
 mysteriously only limits to 50, so once you reach 50 (around 3 weeks of playing) there really isn't 
 no reason to take pictures, let alone play the game unless your connected to xbox live and want 
 to be poplualar on the leaderboards.
  
  
  Dead Rising may seem overrwelming at first to see millions of zombies all out to get anything that 
 is alive, but once you get used to it, the gameplay gets a little arcadish. You have a health bar, 
 with orange blocks to represent health. You can fill these bars by eating foods, or by killing 
 enough zombies to level up your stats and health. (Which as I said before limits to lvl 50) . The 
 phyics, however, are completly jumpy. If you were to pick up a shopping cart and throw it at a 
 zombie, both of them would be flying everywhere. Frank has superhuman abilities to survive multiple 
 explosions, flying in the sky, and falling down, while losing one block of health. And keeping 
 with the Arcade feel the rest of the game is trying to build up, the zombies aren't half as scary 
 as they appear in cutscenes. Dead Rising tries not to annoy you by throwing zombies at you, and 
 it should. Dead Rising's zombies absoulutly lack any challange. Although zombies can easily tear 
 your stupid survivors to shreds, you can simply shake one off of you if it grabs onto you by rolling 
 the thumbstick, or pressing 1 or 2 lame buttons. However, Capcom can't even get that concept right. 
 The only time you have to worry about zombies mauling you is when your purposly running towards 
 a zombie or fall into an unusual group of zombies, stupidly unarmed. Sometimes, you don't even 
 lose a block of health when you get bitten. Obviously this makes the game pretty easy. Too easy.
 
  
  The entire point of Dead Rising isn't to "Do anything to survive!" like the back of the box says. 
 Its just to have a bunch of zombies stand completly still while you smack them away with a goofy 
 weapon like a sign or shopping cart, and then rack up your points on a giant leaderboard. The zombies 
 will stumble, and occasionally sprint towards you, but when they get close, they almost always 
 stop and stand still, waiting to die. This really gets in your way, because zombies just stop in 
 front of you randomly, and in your enthusiasim of the game. You can feel how "hard it is to survive 
 the exciting zombie outbreak!" to have one zombie maul you, and another (Who looks like he's gonna 
 help out) just stand right next to you and watch you get kill by his companion. Sometimes, falling 
 into a crowd of zombies will just have one zombie trying to kiss you while the rest of them just 
 crowd around, watching with their eyes ripped out of their sockets. Such a poor excuse to make 
 zombie A. I. isn't fun. It fusteratingly makes the game way-too-easy.
  
  
  
  
  It doesn't get much better with the audio. Frank usually make some odd mouns and geastures when 
 he eats a food, looks at a zombie, putting on a new outfit, or just run for a breif period of time. 
 Sometimes, he just makes an odd moun when he's just standing in one place. The character diolouge 
 doesn't have any sound outside of the fairly good voice-acting in the cutscenes. When you talk 
 to a stranded survivor, you have to wait and watch the non-skipable text of him speaking, so a 
 lack of voice work is definetly noticeable here. And the survivors, like Frank, also making odd 
 grunts and sounds randomly. The zombies occasionally moun pretty funny, but that all the sound 
 can get credit.
  
  
  
  
  The whole "Timed" element really ruins the entire game. Like I said, way up, up, up, up, up above, 
 6 hours of playing is all you have til the game restarts. That means although your stats are saved, 
 you have to restart the entire game again with the same cutscenes, the same goals, the same survivors, 
 and the same events. If you managed to complete the storyline within that 6 hour period, you are 
 treated to "Infinety" mode. "Infinety" mode says that you get to play for as long as you want, 
 but that is a pure lie. "Infinety" mode just tests your skill to survive as long as possible, before 
 all the food in the mall runs out. And considering if you run out of food and you stave, it feels 
 like you are once again, timed. The reason why Capcom has a tendecy to put a Time Limit in most 
 of their games is a complete mystery.
  
  
  
  Dead Rising also features an ever-present element of sexual content, although its never, ever appealing. 
 You'll come across some slightly dumb stuff, like naked manoquins, teenagers wearing thongs, survivors 
 with wet shirts, but it doesn't even have the slightest breast physic. You also get extra points 
 for taking pictures of this erotic content, but unlike Mortal Kombat or Duke Nukem, Dead Rising 
 just doesn't do it in an appealing, nor likeable way.
  
  Dead Rising has little more to offer than points to post on leaderboards and several acheivements 
 to earn for its replay value. Supposedly on purpose, there really isn't a replay value because 
 Dead Rising is practically a side project to RE. That's not to say Dead Rising is an entirely bad 
 game, but it obivously will not be your number 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  Disagree with my score or the following review? PM me why, or reply to my blog about how game devs 
 create games that punish gamers.
  
  I'm a casual gamer who likes to play games for fun. Dead Rising should be renamed Blood Pressure 
 Rising, because that's the effect it had on me. I wanted to enjoy this game so much, and it has 
 the potential to be a lot of fun. Except that Capcom decided to punish players instead with some 
 poor design decisions. So instead of having fun, I've become so frustrated that I may never complete 
 the game.
  
  Let's talk about what's good first. I have only been able to get about a day and a half into the 
 three day story before the game decided I wasn't good enough to let me see the rest of the story. 
 More on that later. Wreaking havoc on zombies can be a load of fun. There are so many different 
 weapons to choose from, namely anything you can pick up, Stacks of CDs, soda cans, benches and 
 TVs, and more common items like baseball bats, knives, etc. to name but a few. Splattering zombies 
 never gets old, and plowing through them with an umbrella as a ram, or firing up a lawnmower and 
 pushing it into a crowd always elicits a chuckle. If Dead Rising were just an open-ended zombie 
 killing game, it would be nearly perfect.
  
  But in the end, Dead Rising is like a Ferrari with the seats in backwards and an engine made of 
 cheese. It looks like a lot of fun, but instead it is fundamentally broken. The photography aspect 
 doesn't seem to integrate well, and is more of an inconvenience trying to take pictures when you'd 
 rather just dish out zombie justice at the end of a lead pipe. What Capcom did wrong can be summed 
 up in three areas. First, the save system is the worst I've seen in any game. Second, the controls 
 are difficult and non-intuitive. And third, the pacing and layout of the game means you will miss 
 a lot, and probably screw up your chances at completing the story.
  
  The save system, or lack thereof consists of a single save slot. So if you screw something up, 
 there is no going back to a previous save to try it again. This is what happened to me. I finished 
 one mission, or case file as the game calls them, and went off to the next case file. When I completed 
 it, I was horrified that the timer on the remaining case files had expired so the rest of the story 
 was inaccessible. Since I had already saved after it was "too late", my only option was to start 
 the whole game over! But that's not all. This draconian save system gets worse. You can only save 
 at a few locations scattered around this huge mall. It's possible to forgive a game with a poor 
 save system if it is not very difficult and you don't die often. Unfortunately, that's not the 
 case here. I was often spending 5 minutes trying to get somewhere only be killed on the way, or 
 as soon as I got there, condemned to do it all over again. And over, and over again.
  
  Making matters worse is the horrible control scheme. Normal running around is fine. You use your 
 left stick to run, and right stick to move the camera. The ABXY buttons perform your attack, jump, 
 and other functions like most games do. The trouble starts when you try to use a ranged weapon. 
 Now you need to pull the right trigger to aim, and suddenly the left stick becomes the camera control 
 instead. Oh, and you can't move when aiming a weapon, which is death sentence in this game. In 
 each boss battle I encountered, they had guns and could locate you, aim, and score a hit which 
 knocks you down in about 1 second. The clumsy control system made it incredibly frustrating and 
 time consuming to finally beat them. Oh, and don't try to use melee attacks on bosses, as they 
 always hit and knock you down, while you might be lucky to get a hit on them. The game has so many 
 great melee weapon choices which are satisfying to use, yet at these critical boss battles, you 
 are forced to use guns which have a difficult and aggravating control setup.
  
  As I mentioned above, I was cut off from finishing the story arc with no recourse other than restarting 
 the game. This happened because everything follows a strict timeline in the game that when missed, 
 the opportunity is lost. The story follows a progression of case files which have a set schedule. 
 In my situation, I took so long defeating the psychopaths in two case files, that the following 
 case file had expired. additionally, there are tons of "scoops" which are side missions for all 
 intents and purposes. These scoops involve saving survivors or killing psychopaths. But since everything 
 follows this strict timeline, you will find it impossible to get to each of them. So the game's 
 pacing basically requires you to play perfectly to see the story unfold, and then several repeat 
 play-through attempts to accomplish everything else. And since most of the achievements must be 
 completed on a single play-through, all but the most hardcore gamers are going to find themselves 
 frustrated.
  
  In the end, Dead Rising sits on my shelf unfinished. I don't know if I will ever be able to complete 
 it due to the level of frustration it causes me. And the problem is, with a save system that doesn't 
 punish the player, and a little tweaking of the control scheme, this game could have been a load 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Senpaisama
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  Ever been stuck in a shopping mall with thousands upon thousands of crazed flesh eaters just outside, 
 only to be released into the confines of the mall by an equally crazed dog lover? Well prepare 
 for the worst, which is ironically the best, because you'll enjoy finding inventive ways to dispatch 
 your would be dispatchers. The storyline progresses, and as it would seem the zombies are the least 
 of your problems. It's literally a constant battle against time in which if you're not at the right 
 place at the right time, you automatically have abandoned all hope of achieveing the final ending. 
 This is by far the biggest drag in the game, and it is a big one.
  Despite that, there's nothing more satisfying that cracking an undead mans skull open with a bowling 
 ball. OH! Or a sitting bench..... Oh, or a hockey stick! The list doesn't end there, turn pretty 
 much any trinket into an embodiment of zombie doom. The zombies however are, once again, the least 
 of your problems. During the game you'll encounter psychopaths, and they prove far more formidable 
 that any zombie. You'll end up playing through the beginning of the game several times just to 
 level up enough and learn where the weapons are to be able to beat them.
  All in all, you could really enjoy this game just standing anywhere in the mall and killing stuff. 
 An overall inventive zombie game that's just fun anyway you look at it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhacker02
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a 2006 game for the Xbox 360. The game is about a reporter named Frank West, who 
 goes to a small town in the U. S. which has recently been infected with Zombies. As a reporter, 
 in order to get the big scoop about what happened to the town and why there are military forces 
 surrounding it, he has to survive 72 hours in the town mall until his transportation returns. The 
 game looks extremely well done, with decent voice acting and models. The environment has a very 
 authenticMall" feel to it, with all types of stores located in the game, including bathrooms 
 and employee-only areas. Zombies will NOT be the only threat to you in this game. there are Psychopaths 
 as well who have broken down from the attack, and will want to kill you just because you're in 
 the same room as them. The controls and animations are very good for this game, however my only 
 disappointment is the game difficulty. There is no way to adjust it and the game can be very hard 
 and annoying at times, especially when you start a new game. you WILL die a lot on the first play-though, 
 but the experience will keep you coming back for more. This game in my opinion is a definite must 
 have for a 360 owner, as it is one of the best games for the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkXXVI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising was one of the first games I ever played on the current generation of consoles and 
 boy was I impressed. The gameplay itself offers a very interactive enviornment that offers you 
 countless weapons in which you can fight off hordes of zombies, who while slow can definately be 
 challenging, especially when they gather in large numbers and tight places. On top of that you 
 can customize your wardroe to your likeing, though I wish people on YouTube would stop using the 
 Lego outfit as it's not really that cool once you get past 5 seconds of wearing it. 
  
  Anyway the game has you balance accomplishing objectives that further the story and rescuing survivors. 
 Which even though it can be frustrating at times, however it's still rewarding once you find a 
 way to lead your comrades to safety. If I remember right theres around 50 or sosurvivors but you 
 won't have enough time to save them all unless you decide not to further the story. 
  
  The funny this is you would think Capcom would just take the Resident Evil idea and put it in a 
 new game for mass consumption. However with Dead Rising thats definately not the case. I won't 
 go into detail but the circumstances leading up to the infection are definately unique, though 
 a little odd, still it works and the good news is the story itself is very entertaining, but it 
 still ends with a nice cliffhanger that definately sets up a sequel. 
  
  The graphics themselves are beautiful though you kind of lose that sense when hordes of zombies 
 gather as the camera doesn't always provide a nice dramatic effect, opting for function over substance. 
 Still when you take close up shots and view the cutscenes you'll really get an idea of how beautiful 
 this game really is. 
  
  One of my favorite elements of the game is something Capcom hasn't done in depth since the first 
 Resident Evil and thats multiple endings. If I remember right theres about 5 different endings 
 you get and about 3 of them are pretty good. However the best one allows you to view one of them 
 along the way should you choose to prioritize the story over survivors. 
  
  Now for the bad. Not really a whole lot hear but sometimes the survivors are absolutely hopeless, 
 and more then once you'll likely find your patience tested. Especially in one part of the game 
 where you have to save around 5 or 6 survivors at once. On top of that a man named Otis who gives 
 you the lowdown of where survivors are via walkie talkie will ring you like the overly needy friend 
 who's calls your trying to dodge. And if you get cut off because you're getting attacked by zombies 
 then you'll get yet another call from Otis who has the gaul to call you rude for hanging up on 
 him. I don't know what Capcom was thinking with the whole Otis aspect but luckily they made a game 
 that more then makes up for it.
  
  Either way I definately recomend this game as it's easily a great combination of gameplay and story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzarrohead
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  I know this game came out a while ago but if you are reading this obviously you care
  my other point is that I disliked this game so much that by the second time i sat down and played 
 this game i had the urge never to play it again.
  
  Dead Rising is not the kind of game you can play casually, it forces you to do something every
 
  time you turn a corner someone with a chainsaw or a gun will force you to take them on
  this would not be so bad but in the worst game save system ever created (you either love it or 
 hate it, i hate it) this doesn't work as it is way too easy for them to kill you and there you 
 are 
  1 hour back 1 hour lost because you wanted to do something a little calm and relaxed instead of 
 escorting someone god knows where with the risk of failing, losing a "scoop" the annoying system 
 that makes you figure out the supposed "truth" about why there are zombies but i don't care. I JUST 
 WANT TO KILL SOME ZOMBIES. By the way the save system lets save in the bathroom and the first room
 
  
  To say something good about this horrid game is that it is now pretty cheap i got it at Gamestop
 
  for say $17 and i was really excited to play it since i hadn't before. THE GAMEPLAY IS GREAT
 
  it lets you pick up everything from teddy bears to a chainsaw and when you hit a zombie they fall 
 back like a real person would (if they were a zombie) And there is variety when you do certain 
 things it may effect what happens when you go somewhere else, this can also be sort of challenging 
 for a new or amateur player (not me)
  
  Overall This game failed for me but if you can handle this ambitious save system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrixx
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very unique game in all sense. Capcom remodeled an old idea and came up with a 
 game that did not have a look-a-like any where else. But even though Dead Rising looks like a good 
 game on paper, Campcom has failed to represent the fun part of the game and yet managed to have 
 fans who are welling to try one more zombie game.
  
  Zombies, lots and lots of zombies. That was the theme of Dead Rising. Of course there was more 
 in some places than others, but there would always be enough for zombie lovers. Also, the story 
 was very captivating and would keep you at the edge of your seat. Last good thing was the open 
 world, It was only a mall, but a huge one. You would have to know where all the shops, weapons, 
 and food were. But unfortunately, this idea was good only on paper.
  
  First, are on your own. If you for any reason ended up in the middle of huge amount of zombies 
 and you are of weapons, then you only had your hands. They kill zombies are about 20 punches but 
 that was all you have. Also, Loading screens were just too long. There were loading screens for 
 movies -even when you did not want to watch them-, others for loading a saved game, moving from 
 a part of the mall to another, and sometimes before starting missions. Each one of these load screens 
 take about 7-15 seconds, that grew old very quickly. One thing that would made the loading screens 
 look even worse was the one-save-system. When you died, you had to go back to an earlier stage 
 and go through all the loading screens. Not mentioning that if you saved at the wrong place, you 
 had to repeat the whole game again. That was what killed the game for me.
  
  In conclusion, this game was beautiful, but the system Capcom used for it ruined everything. It 
 also killed the chance for a Dead Rising 2. Zombie games were meant to be quick and full of guns 
 and various gory weapons. This game neglected to implement the fun part about slaying zombies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumprecht
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  To start things off, put yourself in my shoes in November 2006. I wasn't a fan of horror games, 
 Resident Evil and it's "turn left to go right" control irritated me and I lost the illusion of 
 horror and just thought it was stupid watching my face getting eaten while I was trying to go down 
 a hall. So, November 2006, I was twelve, I was living in England. My mother would get me the Official 
 Xbox Magazine every other month, and she got me the "Nov. 2006" issue of OXM. Lookng at it, I saw 
 the free demo disc cover with all the Zombies trying to grab you on the cover and wondered, "Did 
 a new Resident Evil come out, and me not pay attention to the news ?", then looking at the top 
 "DEAD RISING INSIDE" and looking even further, "MADE BY CAPCOM". I couldn't beleive it. Capcom 
 making a zombie game and not having it be a Resident Evil, or even a spin-off. So, My curiosity 
 over grew my fear of the un-dead and I plopped it in. I wasn't dissapointed at all. even the demo 
 version that limits you to Paradise plaza, has a limited play time of 20 minutes, and gives you 
 a default inventory of a Shotgun (20 shots) , a Sledgehammer, and Sythe. I loved it. My best friends 
 Shaun Frasier and Damien Chavez, did nothing but play that demo all damn month. Then in January 
 2007, I moved into a new house in england that was closer to damiens house, 1 block instead of 
 2, we only played occasionally, until he moved in February. Then In August 2007, I moved to Florida, 
 and somehow all my games made it and were fine, I lost the "NOV. 2006" OXM demo disc but still 
 had the case, to this day I still have the case but haven't seen hide nor hare of the disc. Fast 
 forward to January 1st 2008. To celebrate the New Year, my parents took me to our local mall. I 
 went into the Gamestop with 70 bucks in my pocket, and on the used 360 rack, sat a mint condition, 
 manual and inserts (whole 9-yards) , copy of Dead Rising for a fair price of "$29.99". Well, I can 
 tell you for a fact that for the next seven days (went back to school Jan 8.) , I did nothing but 
 eat, sleep, play Dead Rising and miss the good old days of Lakenheath England.
  
  At first, You load the game and are instantly greeted with a few nice cutscenes that set the whole 
 plot into motion. You are Frank West a Photo Journalist set to discover what the hell happened 
 to a small town in Colorado. He is told that a riot is happening at the center of the town, at 
 the local shopping mall. Frank is being dropped off in via helicopter, because the roads surrounding 
 the town are being blocked off by various forms of the military. Along the way, to kill time, Frank 
 watches survivors on the street run, struggle or ultimatly die from "rioters". Near the end of 
 the ride, Frank is being dropped off on top of the mall but the military has discovered his helicopter 
 is in the town and the location has recently been established as a "No Fly Zone". Frank jumps off 
 the helicopter onto the mall's heli-pad/roof because his escort chopper is now forced to land outside 
 of the city before the military opens fire. On his way to the Heli-pad's staircase, he runs into 
 a hispanic man named Carlito. He lets Frank downstairs but keeps to himself by staying on the roof. 
 Frank is now in the security room that is connected to the mall's main entrance. Before he leaves 
 to the Main entrance, he spots something happening on the security monitors. There's a man getting 
 ripped to pieces by people in this "riot". Frank just trys to think that his eyes are playing tricks 
 on him or he thought "Maybe it wasn't really what I thought I saw.", So he heads down to the main 
 entrance. At the mall's front doors, he meets a bunch of survivors, making a barricade to stop 
 the undead from entering. He soon discovers that this so-called "riot" really wasn't a riot at 
 all. The over whelming majority of the town, that were once people, are now zombies. That's right, 
 your average, garden variety, flesh munching, brain eaters. The barricade is holding up, and all 
 is well until an elderly woman sets sight on here beloved dog behind the barricade blocking the 
 zombies. She cracks the door to let the dog in, but that crack was all it took to unleash a Shoulder-to-shoulder 
 wave of zombies, shuffling through the front of the mall. As Frank grabs weapons to defend himself, 
 a man named of Brad instructs him back to the Security room. Frank rushes there, he meets Jessie, 
 Brad and Otis. Brad goes out to the mall to search for survivors, Jessie operates the Control room, 
 Otis welds the security room's door shut, stays with Jessie and informs Frank on the position of 
 survivors. This is just the first 20 minutes of the game, and the plot escalates into a really 
 well put together story. If you were to watch all the cutscenes in order, one after the other, 
 You would get a great CG zombie horror movie with good acting and sympathetic characters. Also, 
 I don't want to say these type of things often, but Frank West is one of the best main characters 
 for games in 2006. He is a normal, realistic, beleivable man like you or me, He isn't the stereotype 
 of beauty, and he tries to be friendly to everyone he meets. He has a good sensible head on his 
 shoulders, and After playing through the whole story and watching the cutscenes, progressively, 
 I felt very sympathetic for Frank. He gets hurt, He disagrees with Brad, He argues with disrespectful 
 survivors, and He has his own opinions but will listen to both sides of a story. He isn't a superman 
 type of character and his imperfections make him perfect. Also, I'm not going to spoil the story 
 but for instance, When Frank gets put in inconvieniant positions or when something unfair or unimaginally 
 bad happens to Frank, you feel bad for him. It almost makes you want to comfort him but you feel 
 even worse because you can't. I haven't had emotions like this for a fictional character since 
 Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid or Carl Johnson from Grand Theft Auto : San Andreas. It's a really 
 great story with a really great protagonist.
  
  So, The story is grade "A" horror movie material, and so is the gameplay. Take any screenshot of 
 Dead Rising gameplay off the internet. Chances are there are 3 questions you'll have about it, 
 so I'll answer them. #1) Yes, there are 600 (or more) real-time zombies onscreen at once. Yes, 
 the ones in the distance are also being rendered and are full funtioning enemies. They aren't at 
 all draw-distance decoration giving the illusion of numerous enemies, like how Dynasty warriors 
 2,3, and 4 do. (#2) Yes you can go anywhere at any given moment, just as long as you finish your 
 missions on time, go where you need to go, and meet who you need to meet, The mall is you playground. 
 You can run up the down escalators, you can jump off a second story balcony and land on top of 
 a palm trees, or railings. If it's big enough, you can stand on it, and be able to get to it somehow. 
 There are no such things as invisible walls in Dead Rising. (#3) Yes, Everything is a weapon, Everything 
 in stores, baseball bats, knives, swords, shotguns, hangers, screw drivers, shopping carts, shovels, 
 benches, trash cans, potted plants, forks, knives, skateboards, waterguns, hedge clippers, Uzi 
 (gun) , sniper rifles, golf clubs, bowling balls, Ketchup, you can even spit. If you don't have 
 anything equipped, hold the left trigger to aim, aim at whatever and press the right trigger to 
 spit. Plus there are dozens and dozens and dozens of things I'm forgetting to mention. If it ain't 
 nailed to the floor, pick it up. If it's food, or anything drinkable, or edible, eat it because 
 It's health. On the topic of food for health, in any cafe or restaurant, look for a blender, get 
 ANY food item. Then put in any combination of two food items, it'll unlock a special power. I don't 
 remember any specific combinations but I know what powers there are. There is Spitfire, which makes 
 your spit as damaging as pistol bullets. There is Untouchable, you become invincable. There is 
 Zombait, it draws zombies toward you. Then there are some others that aren't on the top of my head 
 but they are very important. With each blender drink, you can carry it any where like all other 
 food, it never spoils, you can use it in any situation, and it recharges your health immensely. 
 Okay, outside of all the "everything is a weapon" innovation, The Awesome story also plays into 
 the gameplay. Remember I told you Otis radio's you on survivors where-a-bouts. Yeah, you can save 
 survivors and bring them to the security room (and by saving them you level up) or not, or you 
 can recruit them and then lead them into a shoulder-to-shoulder crowd over zombies that'll eat 
 their face. Some survivors are side-mission bosses. Like Adam the Clown who is a mental insane 
 clown with two hand-chainsaws that he juggles. Each boss has a signifigant perk when you kill them. 
 When you kill adam you level up and you get his two chainsaws, and unlike normal chainsaws that 
 you HAVE to drop and leave behind if you need another item, you can keep adam's chainsaws in your 
 inventory. Also, there is a gunshop and there is a really hard boss, that uses the guns to get 
 you out of the shop, and you have to use the kiosks to hide behind and flank him, when you kill 
 him, you level up, and get to use of the gun shop that contains, Shotguns, Pistols, and Sniper 
 Rifles. Now, I need to discuss the level up system. Every 100 zombies you kill, every picture you 
 take, every survivor you save, every boss you kill, you get a set number of "PP points". These 
 points add up in a blue bar under you health count, and when you level up one level (50 is the 
 MAX.) , you get a special move, an extra count for health, your walking speed increases, your throw 
 distance lengthens, and a few other stats can be effected. All of these stats gradually progress 
 as you progress through the game. You'll get a random stat each progression level. Like maybe this 
 time I'll get a spin kick, maybe I'll be faster, maybe etc, etc. 
  
  Now I am going to say, right now, even by modern 360 game standards. Dead Rising is impressive. 
 There are around 400-600 zombies on-screen. EACH ONE IS DIFFERENT. It's not like Grand Theft Auto 
 on Ps2/xbox (which I'll discuss here later) where there are up to 30 NPCs are on screen but in-reality 
 there are only 5 or 6 different character models so it looks like a bunch of clones walking around. 
 How Dead Rising's engine works is There are about 10 different torsos, 10 different sets of legs, 
 15 different pairs of cloths, 3 different weight classes, and about 10 to 15 different heads, and 
 and Dead Rising's "randomizer engine" frankensteins together hundreds of totally and phisically 
 different zombies at once by taking random body parts, throwing them together, and putting them 
 into the game. So that way, character models can be randomized and not set in stone. The Reason 
 GTA on PS2/Xbox can't have many different NPC's (outside of technology constraints at the time 
 of GTA 3 to San Andreas) is because they don't have a type of "randomizer engine". GTA (PS2/Xbox) 
 have pre-made character models that take up a lot of RAM memory space, more so then D. R's random 
 engine, and that leads to only being able to show 6 to 9 different character models at once (amongst 
 the 30 possible on-screen NPCs) . Plus in GTA, you have to give all of those NPC's good, realistic 
 artificial intelligence which takes up even more memory, because in GTA NPC's are supposed to be 
 realistic people you interact with, In Dead Rising, all NPCs are is Zombies, and Zombies have the 
 A. I. of a Pac-man ghost (They run at you and bite you) . Long story short, Dead Rising's engine is 
 great at what it does. It takes about 15 to 20 minutes before you see the same zombie. Moving on, 
 all the textures look like if I acctually touched them, they'd feel like they do in real life. 
 Like, for instance, Frank has a nice leather jacket. It's so textured to the point where it looks 
 like if I were to put my hand in the screen and bump frank, his jacket would feel the way it looks. 
 Like in a part of the mall thats under construction, you can see the dry wall, woodwork, ceiling 
 tiles, cracked paint, ladders, ropes, dangling electrical wires, misplaced or rolled up sections 
 of carpet, some missing floor tiles, and it all adds up to look like an actual place that was in 
 the process of being built. Little things like fire effects and water fountain effects look really 
 cool and it's fun to watch as something gets wet or explodes. Some more little details are, around 
 the mall during the day, You can see the reflection on the floor tiles through the sun roof. Outside, 
 Frank's Jacket is shinnier, and the Zombies' cloths are more vibrant and brighter. At night, there 
 are Convicts that escape and drive around the courtyard, and you can locate them and avoid them 
 by watching their headlights move across the courtyard walls. If you look outside anywhere, you 
 can watch the day progress. Like in the early morning, it's a faint blue, that then fades to a 
 pinkish yellowish, then the sun is out until around 4, then it gets progressivly more orange then 
 it fades to blue or black. Also, at night Zombies are more powerful. Long story short, Everythings 
 top notch and graphically great. 
  
  The Voice acting is absolutly fantastic. The flow of conversations is beleivable and realistic. 
 Everyone has their own personality and It's simply perfect. Outside of the terrific voice-work, 
 there's not much else to say. The Zombies hiss. Which was a smart idea because if they moaned, 
 it would've sounded stupid and annoying and repetitive. All the weapons and sound effects sound 
 real. One big point I have to mention, You have been warned. The mall music will get stuck in your 
 FOREVER. Every time I hear the mall music and close my eyes, I'm back in Lakenheath England in 
 November 2006. Go on youtube and search, "Dead Rising Mall Music" to see what I mean. So Bottom 
 line. It's great sound-wise.
  
  If you own a 360 and like compelling, intelligent horror movies and games, or even if you don't 
 like horror, You owe it to yourself to own this piece of software. It's great. If you are one of 
 those people who don't want to buy a new game to find out that its really short and has no replayability, 
 know this, I've been playing Dead Rising for a little over 2 years. I have yet to get bored with 
 it. I haven't even finished all the side-missions. I have great nostalgia for this game and I bet 
 if you pick it up and have a few friends over to enjoy the experience of killing zombies with a 
 toaster, you'll make some great memories. Plus, If you can find it in good condition, you can get 
 it used for $29.99 like I did. Even though Dead Rising didn't do this type of gameplay first, it 
 did it perfect, and perfection without originality is rare. 
  
  - Addison Gumprecht- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppersfan2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is great game that will charm many and frustrate some.
  
  The good
  -lots of charm and great gameplay. Highly detailed subtle design and asthetic direction. Fun combat 
 and sound effects. Spot on controls. Great characters fun missions and funny dark villians. A blast 
 to play and very rewarding. Mall is huge and full of many secrets. Decent graphics. Intersesting 
 achievments and rewards. 
  
  
  
  The bad
  -combat sometimes frustrating especially when going hand to hand. Save system sometimes discourages 
 exploration.
  
  
  
  
  The ugly
  -Time system may alienate some but getting all the survivors is nothing short of rewarding abiet 
 frustrating. Rescue missions are sometimes repetitive. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassimoMoretti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising can be described as an alternative to Resident Evil or a homage to the horror classic 
 Dawn Of The Dead. You play as Frank West a bad acting photojournalist who wants to discover the 
 horrors of what has come to Willamette, Colorado. He has three days to get his scoop and learn 
 as much as he can from survivors and Phycos of the "Willamette Parkview Mall". So you start the 
 game and you meet a large group of survivors as zombies break into the mall. You have to fight 
 your way to the security room of the mall, then from there on you are given "Case Files" that let 
 you uncover what's really going on in Willamette. The only bad thing about these case files are 
 you have a time limit to when you have to get these case files. So you never really get to run 
 around for as long as you want and kill zombies. You do unlock "OverTime Mode" and "Infinity Mode" 
 but they are not as they sound. Overtime mode continues the story and in infinity mode you can 
 run around with no time limit but your health is constantly going down. A great thing about the 
 story is there are 5 endings that lead to a lot of great replay value. When you complete the game 
 you can carry your status over to the next game, kinda like Resident Evil 4. Which would make sense 
 considering they are made by the same people. There are side missions you can catch where there 
 are survivors you can talk to and Escort back to the security room to keep safe and get them out 
 of the mall alive. That's fine, but the AI is horrible and when you shout for them to follow you 
 they normally stop to fight zombies. Which makes the Escorts virtually unplayable. Some times the 
 case files you have to attend will lead you to a Psychopath AKA Boss Fight. These boss fights are 
 one of the greatest things in the game since they are so fun. You will find a clown that is sort 
 of like the joker...... but with chainsaws. There is a man with a bloody machete and even a man 
 with a shopping cart with knives attached to them. In other words there are a lot of crazies in 
 this game. Xbox Live is not what you think, it is just a score "Leaderboard" used with Infinity 
 Mode. Overall This is one game you will not want to miss and if you do. Your Loss. (9.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingedHero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story starts with Frank West, a freelance photo journalist working on a tip that something 
 bad is happening in rural Colorado. Desperate to get news on the things happening, he then rents 
 a helicopter and lands on the roof of a mall. He then finds that humans have turned into zombies, 
 he then investigates the bizzare happenings in the mall.
  
  He instructs the pilot of the helicopter to come back in 72 hours, he finds out that he isn't the 
 only human in the mall, it seems that there are also human survivors fending for themselves in 
 the zombie infested mall. Frank learns that there is alot more to the zombie outbreak than meets 
 the eye. You have 72 hours to investigate before the helicopter leaves.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay involves surviving in the mall while investigating the zombie infested place. You 
 can use almost anything as a weapon in the mall. You can also try to save survivors, although, 
 you still don't need to save them, it is optional. Frank will also go toe to toe with alot of bosses 
 who have gone into a state of psychosis learning that there is a zombie outbreak.
  
  All in all, Dead Rising is worth the buy. If you love mashing and slashing zombies then this game 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headcrabsrule
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  OK OK
  I have only had about 50 hours to play this game, and i would have to say that it beats every other 
 zombie based video game out there.
  I like for it's shock factor (YOU CAN PUT A SHOWER HEAD IN A ZOMBIES HEAD! AND THEN THE BLOOD COME 
 OUT OF THE TOP!)
  seriously if you get sick of disemboweling zombies you got problems!
  It was my kind of game! Main reasons being:
  BLOOD!
  ZOMBIES!
  Well i guess it covers it! 
 But now i am not playing it as much for two reasons. I let a friend borrow it and also my TV isn't 
 HD anymore (i had to change rooms) seeing as the game was only made for small TVs i can't see the 
 writing!
  So really i think this game deserves the 10/10 i gave it!
  If you like Blood in games (in which in Australia most Extremely gory games never make it through 
 the boarder cause our laws are some what strict) This is you game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slagbag496
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game since it has came out in 2006, I think its well worth the price even though 
 i bought it at 49.99. I think the possibilities are endless if you have the imagination for it.... You 
 can build barricades with all sorts of things you can do the missions. All in all its worth the 
 19.99 so if you see this game anywhere be sure to pick it up. Also the storyline is fantastic the 
 characters voices aren't corny. If i had to Give this game a mark I would give it an A not an A+ 
 because you should be able to use "anything". Hmm I must put something else to fill the 800 characters. 
 My favorite weapon is the shotgun because of the fact if you shoot it into a group of zombies all 
 there heads come off and if you can quickly take a picture you will Rack up the points!!! PSN Network 
 name-Slagbag496 add me if you have the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Malls, a place where people can hang out, a place that fulfills everyone's shopping needs, a place 
 where one can grab a BITE to eat, hahaha bad pun. In Willamette, Colorado the citizens are changing, 
 and no I'm not talking about puberty. The lust for meat is arising within the people's minds, and 
 the citizens have begun feasting on each other. You play as Frank West, a photo journalist who's 
 determined to uncover the truth about what's happening in the area, and why the government is trying 
 so hard to keep everything concealed. What better place to find information than Willamette Mall. 
 I found the in-game story interesting yet dull. I've heard/seen many zombie flicks and Dead Rising 
 isn't any different. It does a good job telling a good tale, but as far as the level of uniqueness 
 of its plot, well. it's as lifeless as the zombies themselves. 
  
  Anything and everything in the mall can be used as a weapon. From pots and pans, to lawn mowers 
 and trash cans (whoa I just made a rhyme) everything is zombie killing material. Dead Rising can 
 best be described as a sandbox game. You can choose to complete the main missions, and/or side 
 quests. The side quests usually involve escorting survivors to the security room where they can 
 live another day and avoid becoming zombie meat. As easy as escorting sounds it can be very difficult 
 at times. The survivor's AI is about as bright as a dying light bulb on the verge of going out. 
 Don't be surprised if you notice a survivor running towards a wall, getting stuck behind a zombie, 
 or simply just standing there like a free piece of steak. They also have a tendency to attack you 
 when you're trying to protect them from a zombie swarm. One time I gave my partner AI a katana, 
 and they ended up hacking and slashing me when I went near them. They weren't trying to hurt me 
 they were just trying to defend themselves from the zombies, and every time I was near a zombie 
 they would freakin' hit me like a piata. Their AI can and will bring death upon you and themselves. 
 Other side quests involve taking down psychos, and when I say psychos I mean complete freaks with 
 no sense of humanity. I found it entertaining fighting these freaks of nature, but at the same 
 time it was a little creepy. There was something that prevented me from enjoying the game down 
 to the last pixel: the real time system. You have 72 hours (in-game time moves faster) to uncover 
 the truth and get your butt out of the mall. It may sound like a lot of time to you, but trust 
 me, it isn't. I'm one of those gamers who love to complete side quests as well as the main missions, 
 but I wasn't able to that in Dead Rising. By the time I finished a side quest another quest would 
 have closed and the only way I would be able to play it would be starting the game over again. 
 This really ticked me off. I wanted to explore the mall, and find new ways to kill the zombies, 
 but instead I spent most of my time running from quest to quest trying to fit everything within 
 72 hours. 
  
  The in-game graphics were absolutely spectacular. I've never seen so many zombies on one screen; 
 it was really overwhelming and sometimes nerve wrecking. Over hundreds of zombies could appear 
 at once. There were times where I felt hopeless and doomed. Running down a long corridor with one 
 life left while zombies breathe down your neck is freakin' terrifying, but it's also an awesome 
 adrenaline rush. You can't get that feeling anywhere else than Dead Rising. The character designs 
 were varied greatly, and each one had their own unique look and feel to them. The mall itself was 
 incredibly detailed inside and out, I could tell Capcom paid close attention to making the mall 
 as interactive as it is beautiful. I would also like to make a note about the in-game text. Those 
 of you who have a standard definition TV will find it extremely difficult to read what's on the 
 screen. Dead Rising was made for high definition TVs, you can still play on a SD TV but expect 
 a lot of squinting and tons of blurry writing. 
  
  The sound design was stunning. I felt a shiver down my spine as I heard the pathetic yet delightful 
 moaning of the approaching zombies. Sure you may have heard many zombie moans, but I don't think 
 you've ever heard hundreds and hundreds of zombies moaning at the same time, now that's just creepy. 
 The voice acting was nicely done, but sometimes the in-game dialogue just sounded awkward. The 
 music the mall plays matches each store and area perfectly. I actually thought I was in a real 
 mall, with zombies of course. 
  
  Overall: Dead Rising is a GOOD game but the real time system, terrible AI, and ridiculously tiny 
 text prevents it from being a GREAT game. Those of you who can surpass these problems will end 
 up having a bloody zombie fest of a good time. If Dead Rising ever receives a sequel, hopefully 
 Capcom will fix these issues. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacantspace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Capcom, Zombies, Small-Town America...
  
  No, not Resident Evil but Willamette? How far is that from Raccoon City?
  
  *Spoilers*
  
 
  Frank West, 'Photojournalist' (He's covered wars, you know?) is on a mission!
  
  An uncredited lead to small-town Willamette where civil disobedience is going down with the National 
 Guard, and the only way into the story is via chartered chopper...
  
  Frank hits the town mall with a 3 day window to get his Pulitzer scoop before his ride out, and 
 walks into the Dawn of the Dead!
  
  Zombies stalk the mall, restless and relentless: passive in daylight, aggressive and red-eyed when 
 the sun goes down... but, they're just a wall in the way to get your scoop - you need to chase 
 down the protagonists in this epidemic, save some of them - eliminate others; your targets are 
 still alive!
  
  Run up your game score by saving hapless survivors (and some well armed helpful ones as well!) , 
 and take down those psychpaths, driven mad; that have denied the inevitable and would wind up as 
 zombie food if you didn't wind them up yourself!
  
  There's a main game mode here, then an extended ending which is well worth getting! Then an Infinite, 
 health-depleting bonus...
  
  Then there's going back, replaying, and again, and again...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SawtoothDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game indeed. A different type of zombie game from that of the Resident Evil series and 
 Left 4 Dead, but it doesn't disappoint. The Resident Evil series games always have gotten great 
 reviews, as have Left 4 Dead and Dead Rising. Dead Rising takes place at Willamette Mall, somewhere 
 in Colorado. It's swarming with zombies and it's up to Frank West, a hard-edged photojournalist 
 to investigate the mystery inside the mall. He has 72 hours until the helicopter arrives, which 
 ends the game. Whenever you die, you can either save your progress (level, skills, life, inventory 
 slots are all saved) , or you can load your game from your last save point. Throughout the game, 
 you will eventually have to save your progress to get higher in level. Level 50 is the max level 
 so use your progress wisely!
  
  
  HAPPY ZOMBIE HUNTING!!!!
  
  Frank West: Zombies!! Prepare to meet your doom!! 
  Zombies: BRAINS... BRAINS... BRAINS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is all that people say it is: it ridiculously hard, but very satisfying. How so? Well, 
 basically it gets really good on two essential levels:
  
  a) chop till you drop: there are hoards and hoards of zombies for you to mutilate. Run them over 
 by car, or chop them with a chainsaw. Or use a katana and sledgehammer. Throw discs at their faces 
 (no really) . This alone will appeal to many
  b) the story and immersion: no really, this game actually has a decent story, with good voice acting. 
 I was very surprised to find this much 'depth' in a game of this genre. The story is actually compelling, 
 and you actually want to know what comes next.
  
  Take these and combine it with stellar music, good sound effects/voice acting all around, and characters 
 that are actually respectable (Frank FTW) . Once again, the sheer depth of this game really really 
 impressed me, especially since I was expecting anything but depth in a zombie game.
  
  This said, however, you could wonder why this wouldn't be a 9.0 game. Well, its .... because there 
 are a few problems with the game. One of them being that an ulcer will build in your stomach.
 
  
  Make no mistake, this game is HARD. In fact, its SO hard that I wholeheartedly recommend everyone 
 to read a FAQ or walkthrough before playing it. The reason being that AFTER you basically learn 
 all the basics, learn all the tricks, know which weapons are stronger, and familiarize yourself 
 with the mall, you can actually then start kicking butt. If you DON'T do this, prepare to be frustrated. 
 I mean really frustrated.
  
  The game knows how to make you 'work' for your satisfaction. Save points are rare and hard to get 
 to. Dying is incredibly unforgiving, and escorts can drive you insane (due to a weak computer AI) . 
 Also, text is VERY small, and hard to read. In short, Dead Rising does everything it can to give 
 you a hard time. Never a free lunch EVER in this game.
  
  However, it is for that same reason that I enjoyed it so much. AFTER you learn the ropes and starts 
 leveling up/owning the game, it feels just that much better. There is nothing more satisfying than 
 starting out as a weakling, and then ending as a hero. Zombie guts and mutilating violence doesn't 
 hurt either. 
  
  Dead Rising also, unfortunately, has an ending that begs for more. It was, IMO, a really unsatisfying 
 ending, especially for the amount of work you put into it. It really surprised me too because of 
 how good the storyline was overall.
  
  But altogether, Dead Rising isn't just about an ending. It's about the process, and the INFINITE 
 replay value that the game possesses. Which also means an infinite supply of zombie guts. Despite 
 some horrific (no pun intended) design choices, Dead Rising is a GREAT game. It's just a shame 
 it couldn't have been phenomenal. Without a doubt, if there is a Dead Rising 2, it may just cross 
 that 9.0 line. Very much worth playing if you have the stomach to do some hardcore playing. Both 
 on the difficulty side, and also the violence/gore side! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  pros: great graphics, absolutely hilarious, everythings a weapon, good gore, you get to keep your 
 level and all your abilities a second time through.
  bad: save system sucks
  
  alright so deadrising is set in a mall and everythings a weapon you can use fish, milk, water guns 
 everything as a weapon you play as frank a photo journalist and zombie massacrer the graphics are 
 very good and detailed this one is so funny you can put legos on zombies heads you can make frank 
 wear kids clothes make him look like mega man this has rpg aspects you level up and stuff the pproblem 
 about this being in real time is that when you save sometimes you cant get to a location in time 
 and its game over its a easy game exsept for the physcopaths wich are fairl hard but this is very 
 good and you should buy it and you will probaly love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun one of the most unique games Ive ever played and I really like the movie 
 dawn of the dead so I had to play this game even though it has a few flaws this game works past 
 that and it strays away from reppetitive game play which is a good thing the best part about this 
 game would be the creativity having to do with the many weapons in the game like the ice hogger 
 and the scythe and the lawn mower was really fun but the thing they could have inproved on alot 
 would be the guns the aiming system is just flawd basically you draw it and your in a free aim 
 mode this can be frustrating because the guns are probebly one of the most powerful weapons in 
 the game but to use them effectivly you have to take advantage of the long range because if you 
 just pull one out in a crowd of zombies your just asking to be eaten and if your just shoot randomly 
 without aming your not going to hit anything the shotgun and uzi are better but the game should 
 have a more grand theft auto aiming system if they are going to use guns the game is pretty creative 
 in its storyline and the additional ending and modes are great additions to the game but one thing 
 they should have worked on would be the save system totally messed up I hope they make a sequel 
 and I really cant wait until they make a survival horror zombie video game in a big city sandbox 
 style 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2steak2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  OK i know some people have been saying bad things about this game making it look like a really 
 bad game but there wrong !!! its a really good game theirs is a couple of ways you can finish the 
 game and once u have finished it you unlock a different mode to play the game in and if you last 
 the right amount of days in survival mode you unlock a light saber and mega man blaster witch is 
 just for pure fun. 
  you also can freely roam around a massive mall theirs a massive courtyard like thing in the middle 
 and you can get cars trucks and motor bikes so for the people that like driving games you can enjoy 
 this to but the main thing about the game is smashing zombies :D
  so its really for almost for anyone so if you have spare 20 bucks lying around why don't you go 
 down to your local game shop and buy it its worth it trust me. 
  
  
  P. S if you are going to buy this because its got cars and you like driving games and not really 
 any other games don't because the handling is pretty bad but its still fun running the zombies 
 over :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomZaW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is a game from capcom. That company is usually known for the Resident evil series, 
 and being the God of zombie games, and Dead rising shows their talent with so much strength that 
 all other games are blown away.
  
  You are Frank West, a freelance journalist that got a tip that something big is going on in a small 
 town called Willamette in Colorado. When you finally arrive at the town, you find out the millitary 
 has quarantined the entire area, so no one will ever get in or out. Fortuneatly you are in a helicopter 
 and manage to get in. You soon find out that something is turning people into zombies, and you 
 decide to take cover in a mall for 72 hours until your helicopter comes back to pick you up. While 
 in the mall, you have to survive from the thousands and yet thousands of zombies that are flooding 
 the entire town, while trying to find out what happend and helping survivors.
  
  Graphics ain't exactly the best, but considering it is from 2006, i'd say its very good. The sound 
 you get awarded with when smashing a zombies head with a bat is priceless, but it doesn't necessarily 
 has to be a bat. Anything in the mall that ain't boltet to the ground, can be picked up and used 
 to fend off the zombie hordes. From 2x4's and regular baseball bats to chainsaws and lawnmowers 
 and even waterguns or giant teddybears, it is all there to ensure a hilariously, good, gory and 
 enjoyable time in willamette mall.
  Of course killing zombies ain't what dead rising is all about. So lets talk something more crucial 
 : Time. Being on time constantly might sound frustrating, but in fact it is a good way to remind 
 you when a scoop is about to run out. A scoop is basically a mission in Dead Rising, it is all 
 about survivors needing rescue, but along the way you are bound to run into more than the regular 
 zombie and probably here comes the best part of the game : The psychopaths. The psychopaths are 
 plain and simple ordinary people who has gone crazy from seeing their friends and families butchered, 
 or is simply using the zombieinvasion as a chance to practice some socially inacceptable hobbies. 
 They are tough and some harder than other, but they are the sole hardpoints in deadrising that 
 provides a tough fight and are bound to require alot planning before engaging them wheither to 
 risk alot and bring alot of weapons at the cost of healthitems, or vice versa.
  
  Now you might be wondering why i gave this game all this prestige, but it is simply because it 
 is hampered by two simple things, and they are called Savesystem and A. I
  The savesystem isn't good as far as i can tell you. you only get one saveslot per profile, and 
 there are extremely few autosavespots savespot and you will often die at some psychopath and having 
 to load a save game from 6 hours earlier.
  The other thing is the A. I, of course the zombies are supposed to be braindead and they function 
 well, but the problem is the survivor/psychopath A. I that simply is dumb that you often will be 
 having to give one them a smash with a baseball bat because they are running into eachother constantly.
 
  
  But overall if you have the slightest passion for zombiegames, or just need to blow off some steam, 
 Dead Rising is an absolute must
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobie2games
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is good game, let me just get that out the way. If you're looking to buy this game 
 don't think twice because now it's $17.99 used and it is worth it. Killing hundreds and hundreds 
 of zombies is fun to do with the varity of objects the mall carries. You can use anything from 
 guns, shopping carts, benches, soccer balls, golf clubs, cash registers, really so much different 
 things you can kill a zombie with. You play as a journalist who's trying to get a good story and 
 you come with a camera and you can use it to get neat little pictures. Such as putting another 
 zombie's hand through another zombie's face I always liked taking a pictures of. Or after using 
 a lawn mower to cripple zombies and watch them crawl on the floor also made a good picture. I didn't 
 get too far into the game though because there was this one part where I always kept dying and 
 save system just sucks so much that I got frusturated and gave up on the game. I'm thinking about 
 restarting the game now though because it was fun up to this point, but the save system just punishes 
 you if you die because you go back so far. Overall though with that exception its a fun game and 
 worth the now $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellyrd88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  This was the first game that I picked up for my 360. I see people saying this game is hard, and 
 it can be if your are trying to do to much at once. It's almost impossible to get everything on 
 one play through, but if you want everything you should go to the parking garage and spend the 
 first part of the game running over 53,594 zombies to obtain the Mega Man blaster. This keeps the 
 game fresh, at least in my opinion, and you can go and get some of those achievements that you 
 are looking for. This game has the perfect mix of fun, but not to time consuming that it takes 
 forever to get through a time or two. I'm only missing a couple achievements now and I should be 
 able to get them in my next play through or two. I think this is a really enjoyable game and I 
 hope you guys have/had as much fun playing it as I did.
  
  PS Let's all hope together that we get a sequel. :-p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  Story- You play as some photographer (i forgot the guys name because i ant played the game in so 
 long) and you've gone to a mall to take pictures to or something like that, your dropped off at 
 the helicopter, but your unaware that the mall is infested with zombies, unfortunately you told 
 the helicopter driver to come back in a few days so until then the task is to save people in the 
 mall and defeat bosses bascially.
  
  Gameplay- (8.6) The gameplay is really fun. For the first 30 mins the game takes a while to get 
 started, but when the game does get started your free to explore the mall and trying new ways to 
 kill zombies, and trust theirs a lot of ways. Dead Rising is like a zombie sand box, its just so 
 fun, the only bad thing is that while your busy roaming the mall and doing what you want, your 
 suppose to be at a main story mission but the game gives you no indication and if your not at the 
 right place at the right time then you might as well start the whole game again because you've 
 failed. Its ridiculous.
  
  Graphics- (8.2) Graphics were pretty good, the malls are large with a lot of space and there are 
 dozens of zombies that most of them all have there own unique look so that your not fighting a 
 army of zombie clones.
  
  Sound- (6.8) Voice acting is OK, nothing special and the dialogue is can be pretty stupid sometimes 
 and the audio is not so good. The sound isn't bad but it could of been better.
  
  Dead Rising is just plain fun and zombie sandbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodooline0110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I must admit when i first looked at this game i wasnt to sure if id really like it. I happened 
 on it a few years ago for christmas. I was addicted the moment i began playing it. The story keeps 
 you going back for more, wanting to uncover the reason for the outbreak and it keeps you guessing 
 until the very end. Whos your allies and whos your enemies? Nothing is sweeter then taking a chainsaw 
 to a crowd of zombies and watching the limbs fly left and right. You find yourself trapped in a 
 spot, whip out your trusty pistol and start pumping them full of lead. You heads sweat as you eat 
 or drink your last food item. You know that your out and must find more otherwise you will fall 
 to the hordes of zombies. 
  Graphics have never been a key factor in purchasing a game. I feel that if a game has top notch 
 graphics there is the possiblity that the game will lack in gameplay. As far as graphics go i give 
 it 5 out of 10. 
  Gameplay is one of the biggest factors in weither i truely enjoy a game or not. I feel that at 
 times the combat could of been better ie when ur trying to aim a gun. I give gameplay a 6 out of 
 10.
  Replay value is the biggest factor into weither i truely think this game is special. This game 
 has high replay value and i feel that it is accomplished through the fact that once you complete 
 the main story line. Inifinate mode opens and gives you as much time to survive the mall. Nothing 
 is better then taking your anger out on some zombies :) Replay value is 10 out of 10. 
  Story is a key factor to all games and i feel that this story was flawless. 7 out of 10. 
  Overall 
 this game deserves a 9.5 out of 10. 
  
  Voodooline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterj93
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Whenever i first saw this game it looked like a really awesome game. but i didn't have an xbox 
 at that time, anyway after about a year when it came out i got an xbox and this was my very first 
 game. This game was a letdown for me because it gets really repetitive after a while and that the 
 missions don't have much variety to them. The characters do have some pretty good depth but nobody 
 to really fall in love with. (Except Jessie, he he he) But anyway the combat is awesome the first 
 time you play because there are so many weapons you can use to kill your enemies. But sometimes 
 these weapons get pretty boring to use after a while which is a real letdown. Also the mall could 
 have been more fleshed out with more places to go. The zombies can be pretty lame at times to because 
 almost all of them look the same!!! The game is ridiculously bloody and violent which is really 
 awesome, and the blood effects are top notch. The game can also prove to be pretty tough for beginners 
 because you start at a low level and you only have 4 health bars and are very weak and slow. Here 
 are the final verdicts:
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Story: 6/10
  Weapons: 9/10
  Controls: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgamebird
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising pits you against hordes of zombies in a small town mall. Virtually everything in the 
 mall is a weapon. Tv's, mannequins, chainsaws, and even bowling balls. There are lot's of cool 
 unlockables like the megaman costume and a working light saber. Unfortunately these take ridiculous 
 amounts of time to unlock. Most of the missions require you to run from point A to point B in a 
 set time period. This can be very frustrating. Remember to save often, this game doesn't auto save, 
 so if you've been going for an unlockable for 3 hours and die without saving, your out of luck. 
 The downloadable content is pretty lame. All it gives you is extra clothing. The game does give 
 you 2 extra modes once you've beaten it. One that continues the story and another that makes the 
 difficulty alot more challenging and realistic. It's not a bad game, but there are a few things 
 that I wish would have been changed. I recommend it to any one who's into zombie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonSpade
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  After completing dead rising a fifth time its still so much fun, it truly is different every time. You 
 can kill zombies and psychopaths to your hearts content with teddy bears to shotguns to battle 
 axes. Endless gore as you battle the dead though 72 hours in game time and then there is other modes 
 too. Many endings depending on your actions, will you save the suvivors or complete the missions 
 to get your scoop.
  
  One of the other great things about Dead Rising is to be able to build barricades out of just about 
 anything in the game and the zombies will get though or not get though, simple depends on what you 
 use.
  
  Start from level 1 and progress to 50 as you increase your speed, attack, life and more!
  
  If 
 you do not have this game i suggest you get it, but only if you love gore. You have been warned... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kejigoto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Before I get going on this I just want to say that I love zombies, and when I first heard about 
 this game when the 360 was coming out I wanted to play it so badly. I could hardly stand it. Most 
 zombie games I had played were good, but didn't deliver the way I wanted it to and I thought this 
 would be the game to finally give me what I wanted. With the Resident Evil series awkward controls 
 kept me from loving the series and being a long time player and it took Resident Evil 4 to finally 
 get me to sit down and truly get into one of the games. Mods had curbed my hunger for a zombie 
 game for awhile, but still failed to deliver that certain something I was looking for. Gary's Mod 
 was the closest I got to getting what I desired but still feel short though. I loved spawning in 
 hordes of head crab zombies and just seeing how long I could last, trying to stack the odds against 
 myself, but it didn't have direction for it, the game itself wasn't centered around zombies alone 
 and wasn't the main focus. With that all that said and everyone understanding how much I truly 
 want a great zombie game, this one came close, but once again failed to give me what I wanted.
 
  
  
  
  First and foremost though in regards to the game, its great, amazing idea, I love just running 
 around killing hordes of the undead, I love seeing the massive groups of zombies gathered throughout 
 the mall and then trying to make my way through it without being overrun. However, there were a 
 few things that kept me from getting what I wanted, and those few things were enough to keep me 
 from completing the game and truly enjoying what is there to offer.
  
  
  
  My first issue is the item system the game uses, its not the amount of items the game has, or how 
 they are equipped, or anything like that, but rather how long they last. When I pick up a lead 
 pipe and start bashing some zombie heads in with it, I expect to kill more than 15 or so before 
 I find myself looking around wondering why my lead pipe is broke. I understand why they did it 
 though, because if items took a long time to break there would be no challenge against the hordes 
 and you could plow through them with ease. However I feel this issue could have been fixed if they 
 had gone with the normal way to dispatch a zombie, killing the brain of the zombie. If this had 
 been put in place I couldn't pick up a hunting knife and knife a zombie a few times to have it 
 fall over dead, or even worse use a soccer ball to kill zombies.. Anyways, with items breaking 
 constantly I found it hard to get into the mind set of truly being there, since I always on the 
 lookout for new weapons and trying to make sure I didn't hack my way into a mob only to find out 
 all my weapons had broken.
  
  
  
  My second major issue with the game is shooting. Something as basic as having the ability to run 
 and shoot would have fixed this, or even a lock on ability would have fixed this blunder. Now when 
 shooting normal zombies this isn't THAT much of a bother (though it still is a pain) but when you 
 are facing a human (as in not a zombieyet) and they are shooting back at you, the last thing you 
 need or want to do is get in to the open to have a clear shot, hold down the right trigger, then 
 find your target and aim, meanwhile if you manage to get all this done your shot does little damage 
 and you'll find yourself getting shot shortly after. Once again I understand Frank isn't an expert 
 at shooting so I don't expect him to shoot well, but not being able to lean around a corner and 
 fire or run and shoot at the same time is just a terrible design choice in my opinion. What's worse 
 is if you get close enough to these human boss characters to use a melee weapon you smack them 
 two or three times then get smashed hard in return and find yourself limping away from the fight 
 only to still have your opponent with barely any health reduced.
  
  
  
  This matter could have been fixed as well if your AI partner that accompanies you sometimes on 
 missions was abit smarter than a box of rocks. On one boss fight I found my partner in a store 
 firing a wall stupidly while on the other side of the wall was the actual boss which left me to 
 face him alone, though the main fight was to get the controls to respond quick enough for me to 
 end the fight before I was killed.
  
  
  
  A lot of the challenge from the game comes from the actual setup of the game and the way it controls. 
 Things that you think would prove to be a challenge, such as making your way through the crowded 
 corridors, are remarkably easy, but something you'd think would be easy like using a gun, is almost 
 broken to the point where its not even worth carrying a gun around. Its almost as if everything 
 is backwards to how it should be and instead of working out well (as it was intended to) it just 
 cripples itself in the process and leaves the player facing challenges they have no way to overcome.
 
  
  
  
  Ok so I admit, I've been hard on the game thus far and focused a lot on the negative, and that's 
 mostly due to my frustration, I wanted to enjoy this game and play through it more times than I 
 can remember. I wanted to spend countless hours trying to see just how long I could survive in 
 the mall. But the fact of the matter is because of the issues the game presented, it just wasn't 
 enough to keep me coming back for more like I had so hoped for.
  
  
  
  Not all is bad though! There are plenty of great things for this game that maybe other gamers can 
 overcome the issues I have and truly enjoy this game for what its worth. For starters the game 
 has a great list of items that can be weapons, just about everything that is in the mall can become 
 your weapon of destruction against the zombie menace. Everything from a lawnmower, DVDs, baseball 
 bats, shopping carts, benches, card board boxes, soccer balls, buckets, sledge hammers, TVs, I 
 mean anything you can get your hands on becomes a weapon. I know I complained about the use of 
 some of them, but its still great how much they've packed in and shows promise for what is to come 
 with a sequel. Also there's something really satisfying about picking up a park bench and slamming 
 it into a group of zombies till all you have left is a pile of bodies and bloody bench.
  
  
  
  There's also some fine detail that I really loved about this game, such as when you are 
 running around and killing zombies, Frank will slowly get covered in blood that is spraying from 
 those that fall victim to your weapon of choice. Its not much but its rather cool to see him a 
 blood mess (someone else's blood that is) after plowing through a massive group of the undead. 
 Also when it comes to detail is how many zombies you'll have on screen at once, which really helps 
 get you feeling like you really are trapped in this mall and things are at dire levels. I've found 
 myself a number of times coming up to a group and just stopping dead thinking "there's no way I'm 
 making it through alive, better find another way to get through." Its daunting at times to see 
 the massive numbers, and this also leads to some creative use of weapons to dispatch those which 
 are in your path.
  
  
  
  The story line from what I saw was interesting and had me wanting to learn more and find out what 
 all was going on, but once again I state I didn't complete the game and only got to the second 
 day in the mall before I had enough and got sick of trying to deal with boss fights where the real 
 boss was the control setup. There's plenty of interesting characters to meet and plenty to do as 
 well, from saving random people and helping them to safety, to attempting to complete tasks laid 
 out by those you find yourself bumping into along the way. Even dressing Frank can be rather fun 
 since you can put him in any clothes you find in the mall, so if you ever wanted to run through 
 the mall wearing clothes a 5 year old should wear while riding a skate board and beating the masses 
 of undead back with a stack of DVDs, well your dream can finally come true.
  
  
  
  Photography is a big thing in the game which I found myself surprisingly liking though I thought 
 I wouldn't care for it. Pictures are rated and broken up into their own respected groups depending 
 on what the picture contains. If you snap a shot of a couple being reunited you'll have a drama 
 picture. If you snap a picture of zombie whose head just recently exploded, you've got a brutal 
 picture. Snag a picture of a good looking female NPC in a suggestive manner and you've got a sexy 
 picture. Your photos have all sorts of things they are rated on, from how well you can see what's 
 going, as in is zoomed in just right, is everything centered? From how many characters are in the 
 picture, and even the right timing for a picture. You'll get more points if you snap a picture 
 of a zombie's head exploding than you would a picture of a zombie who's head was blown off moments 
 prior to the picture. It's a great way to break up all the zombie death going on and certainly 
 adds a twist to the game since I often find myself seeing something and thinking how cool it would 
 be to have a picture of that.
  
  
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a great game but it has some major problems I couldn't overcome to enjoy 
 the game, maybe you can though. It has a lot to offer and does a number of things really well, 
 and for those interested I say its worth a rent at least, everyone needs to check out this game. 
 I didn't find myself hating it to the point where I want nothing to do it with, in fact I find 
 myself now hoping that Capcom will hurry up and get to work on the sequel now that we all know 
 once again the "Zombies" in Resident Evil 5 aren't true blue zombies. Dead Rising is definitely 
 a step in the right direction for me and can't wait to see if someone comes through and does it 
 right, which would be something along the lines of a GTA style game but add in zombies to the city. 
 I won't say I love it, and I won't say I hate it either, I will say I tolerate it being here like 
 you might tolerate an annoying brother or sister. I'm giving Dead Rising a 6.5 out of 10 mostly 
 due to bad design choices and clunky controls in some aspects of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender1978
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  This was a really good game. Killing zombies is always fun and keeps getting better the more you 
 level up. One good thing about this game is everytime you start a new game you don't have to start 
 your character over. I recommend this game. There were some thimgs that got on my nerves though. 
 First, you should be able to have more than one save state. If you mess on the story the game ends. 
 Believe me, more than one save would have been nice. Next, the phone is really annoying. You constantly 
 get calls for missions which is fine, but if you dont answer it keeps ringing and ringing and ringing. 
 This even happens when you are fighting a boss not to mention when surrounded by zombies and you 
 cant fight when on the phone. You should be able to turn it off and on. Lastly, I didn't really 
 appreciate the anti-American comments in the game. For example, in the story the characters harp 
 on about how much we fat Americans eat as if we were the cause of the outbreak because we meat. 
 There was a sniper scene with a dad and his sons. They basically mocked our right to bear arms 
 with sarcasm. My advice to capcom is not the alienate the people buying the games. We are not all 
 fat and we are proud gun owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aultman72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is a very fun game to play its fun doing the missions and just playing around the mall 
 killing zombies. its the most fun you can have w/o an actual zombie attack:)
  any who the game is fun and addicting you can play for hours on end just killing zombies and not 
 knowing how long its been i get tottlay lost in the game dozens of things to do from killing zombies 
 to finding weapons to kill zombies and killing zombies and oh did i mention killing zombies??
 
  there are hundreds of ways to kill zombies in this game there is guns weapons in stores like skateboards 
 and shopping carts also they have clothes there to so you can change your clotes and shoes too 
 and you can kill zombies!!!!!
  
  good game i recomend buying b/c its really cheap price now and its awesome!!!!!!!! and you get to 
 kill  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and is so easy to just pick up and play once every so often if you're bored 
 but the constant phone calls about the story get in the way as the story just isn't fun at all 
 and is pretty pointless. You don't have to do the story which is good but certain areas of the 
 mall can't be unlocked until you do some of the story which really just gets in the way. Dead rising 
 also has a very bad saving system, when you die you can choose either to start the whole game again 
 with current stats and weapons, or to load previous save and it all gets a bit confusing and i 
 have often accidentally started again. Despite the story being annoying this game is a must have 
 as you can always randomly pick up and play for 10 minuted to kill some time. This game has such 
 a variety of weapons and you can kill zombies in so many ways it takes a long time to get old and 
 has alot of playing time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnafan121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  this game is so good I've been playing this game for 6 months now and barely stopped.
  
  ON WITH THE REVEIW
  
  Graphics. 7/10
  Decent graphics for a next gen game.
  
  The textures 
 on the humans are crisp and life like.... the zombies and enviorments however are lacking for an 
 Xbox 360 game.
  
  And the main problom. If you have an SD TV.. good luck reading the text this game is designed for 
 HDTV's
  
  Sound. 10/10
  From the Elevater music playing thruout the mall to the sound of a zombie being chopped up by a 
 chainsaw it realy sounds like a zombie apocalypse.
  
  The voice acting is very good and maybe the best i've heard in a game.
  
  Gameplay. 9.5/10
 
  Well this is where it counts... and Dead rising wins in this depot.
  
  The weapon controls are almost flawless.
  
  The main problom with the guns are you can't run 
 and shoot. 
  
  Overall 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanehunter24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  In Resident Evil, another of Capcom's game series', you fought a good number of zombies over the 
 majority of the series... but how about against an entire city's population? No, not Raccoon City, 
 but Willamette, Colorado, a small town with a population of about 33 and a half thousand. Journalist 
 Frank West gets a tip on something big happening in this small town, and the reality is far worse 
 that anything he ever imagined. Stuck inside the Willamette Mall for 72 hours, Frank has to get 
 his story and get out alive. In this game, you, as Frank, have to use whatever there is to survive, 
 from baking ingredients, to lead pipes, soccer balls (which are surprisingly useful) , knives, katanas, 
 cars, motorcycles, shotguns, and the almighty chainsaw. As you take pictures, rescue survivors, 
 and kill zombies, you gain experience, which levels up stats like health, running speed, and the 
 number of items you can carry. However you do not get to choose which stat to upgrade, but it adds 
 to the challenge. Missions, main or secondary, are based on the time of day, and as such, are timed, 
 meaning sometimes you have to scramble to rescue survivors after you accomplish a main mission. 
 However, the save system needed a major overhaul, and the time limit can be a bit strenuous at 
 times. Overall, with its now $20 price tag, this is a good game to play if you're looking to kill 
 time. 
  
  The Good: Interesting weapons, psychopaths make good bosses, well-developed story, good sense of 
 humor, a huge number of zombies and a strict time limit add to the challenge, one of the best games 
 to feature a chainsaw, books have great special abilites to make things easier.
  
  The Bad: Hard difficulty, especially in the early experience levels, some weapons break too easily, 
 vehicles can break, some bosses a little tough, a few minor gaps in the story.
  
  
  Tip: If you obtain the small chainsaw after defeating Adam the Clown early in the game, look in 
 the bookstores for two books: one, labeled "Criminal Biography" allows you to hold sharp weapons 
 for 3x longer than normal. Another, labeled "Engineering", allows construction tools to be held 
 3x longer than normal as well. The small chainsaw falls under both categories, making this weapon 
 last 9x longer than normal overall. The small chainsaw respawns where Adam dies, so just leave 
 and come back for another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJtheShadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Mixed feelings.
  
  One side anger.
  They publicly said that they on purpose made it only for widescreen users,
  making the text difficult 
 to read, and I'm not someone who wears glasses, so just imagine for someone who does...
  Thanks to that, some vital details get unnoticed, often crippling the, what would otherwise be 
 fun, missions or 'scoops'.
  
  That aside, the setting of opposing zombies in a less "ooh, i'm scared and paranoid" and more "i've 
 got a hammer, lets party". If you feel angry, you can easily find a sledgehammer and ram those 
 rotting bojo's with the joy of the world...
  
  Its hard to connect with the character you play, because, unless you're a devoted-scoop-hunting 
 journalist yourself, you sometimes feel awkward about how Frank rather takes a picture then feel 
 astonished and think about the events... Then again, at the 'true' ending, I can connect with his 
 devotion to the 'cure' (lets not spoil it all, shall we) .
  
  The story is understanding, and surprising.
  The save system is inventive. Preventing save slot 
 cluttering.
  Very smart idea. Though a bit irritating at times when you want to compare or play another mode 
 while still having a valuable save in another...
  
  Gameplay-wise. I love the technology those guys used to project so many zombies at once. When you 
 get hold of the red car or the convicts 4-wheeler, you'll see how much fun it can be, and how profitable 
 for your zombie-count.
  (xBox achievements, here I come!)
  
  Overally, a very enjoyable game.
  The fact that almost everything that can be held, dropped or 
 can fall off, is either edible or can be used as a weapon. Not to mention the mixer, where you 
 can mix some goods and foods with to make nice mixes. Spitfire is FUNNY AS HELL.
  
  Sometimes you get distracted by the fun of killing zombies, you forget about scoops.
  Thats another 
 bad side. Scoops that run out are still playable, but then the continuation is ----ed. Shame, but 
 fun that you can still play on.
  Good if you want to gain achievements on your own ease.
  
  
  The game can have shocking cutscenes to some.
  (I noticed when I brought my friend along...
 
  guess some gamers grow heartless when they see more gore...
  and some don't.. haha)
  This only proves once more that they are well-done.
  
  
  I enjoyed it very much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurohubby
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  I love zombie games, but this is one of the great ones. Not really a scary game but I have chuckle 
 at a few of the deaths like killing a zombie with a shower head. As Frank it's your job to slove 
 the case while taking pictures and saving people and kiling zombies. The mall can really fill up 
 with the most zombies on-screen that I think I've ever sence. It can get frustrating but know this 
 It's almost impossible to save everyone. If you don't have a HD TV it will be almost impossibe 
 to read the text which can be troublesome at times. You can lvl up and unlock new skills, more 
 room to carry items and more heatlh. This is still best zombie game that's not scary two years 
 later and still awesome let's hope for a squeal. Now there is one coming for the wii I hope it 
 will be as good as this one. make sure to dig in the bargin bin for this solid gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rutulno1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to killing zombies, no one knows it better than Capcom, the makers of Resident Evil. 
 Unlike Resident Evil, Dead Rising is an action game, with zombies that are much easier to kill 
 but travel in great numbers. So if you ever dreamt of slaughtering thousands of zombies in a mall 
 using everything from plotted plants and frying pans to baseball bats and assault rifles, Dead 
 Rising is all that and a whole lot more. The game has thousands of brainless zombies to mutilate, 
 hundreds of usable items, completely over-the-top gore and is by far one of the most imaginative 
 horror games ever created on Capcom.
  
  You play as Frank West, a freelance photojournalist who has been to a lot of war zones around the 
 world. However none of that has prepared him for what he sees in a small town of Willamette, Colorado. 
 After being tipped off about the unfolding events, Frank charters a helicopter and flies into town 
 to get images that could take his career sky-high. What he does find is a town overflowing with 
 zombies desecrating everything around them. After being a witness to a scene in which a woman is 
 thrown over the side of a building, Frank instructs the pilot to drop him off on the roof of a 
 local shopping mall. It will take the game 72 game hours for him to figure out what is actually 
 going on before his pilot returns to pick him up. So it's up to you to find the truth, save as 
 many survivors as possible and get back to the chopper to catch your ride home.
  
  Make sure you gather Prestige Points (PP) when you start up, because Frank's run is as slow as 
 a snail. Leveling up will not only give Frank more speed but also increase his attack damage, throwing 
 distance and melee attack power, helping him to survive. Taking pictures can be a good hobby and 
 you can also level up through Prestige Points by taking interests shots. After having taken a picture 
 you'll be graded on the number of faces in it and the type of shot taken, be it brutal image of 
 a human being torn apart, a dramatic shot like the reunion of the two survivors on the roof at 
 the beginning of the game, or an erotic shot, such as pictures of some of the female character's 
 assets. However, you tend to get so drawn into the zombie-killing parts of the game that you forget 
 to take many pictures.
  
  Skills can also be gained by reading books that teach you everything from combat to driving a vehicle.
 
  
  Another way to earn experience is by accepting missions. Throughout the course of the game, Otis 
 the janitor will call you every 30 seconds  at least that's what it felt like  to give you updates 
 about what is happening in various areas of the mall. The updates Otis offers give Frank many advantages, 
 such as being able to dodge large groups of his undead friends. By finding survivors and returning 
 them to a secure room, Frank earns experience and levels up faster rather than exclusively sticking 
 to the story missions.
  
  Once you have found and convinced your survivor (s) to follow you, you have a few additional commands 
 at your disposal. You can have Frank command any followers to pick up speed, or you can command 
 them to head to a specific place. You can also equip a few survivors with pistols, axes and just 
 about anything that you can get you bloody hands on. The game includes a large array of murderous 
 tools and Frank can use dozens of objects as weapons against the swarm of zombies. The sports shop 
 will give you stuff like baseball bats and golf clubs, the hardware store offers sickles and chainsaws, 
 and you'll find a variety of firearms at the gun shop. Every item has its own style of attack. 
 While you can smash a zombie using a sledgehammer, you'll also find that a guitar not only has 
 a space-clearing 360-degrees arc, but also hits multiple victims in its path.
  
  The most unique aspect of Dead Rising is the missions. Each part of the main story is broken down 
 into cases that need to be solved. Since all the case files are connected, failing to complete 
 them will hinder your progress and the trail might just go cold. Making your way through the game 
 is a little tougher than it sounds; largely due to the fact that the game has a frustrating save 
 system and time-based gameplay that will require players to replay large portions of the game repeatedly. 
 You are only allowed to save one game at a time, as any save will overwrite the previous one.
 
  
  The overall sound effects in Dead Rising are truly disgusting in the best possible way. The sound 
 of each weapon is created to perfection and some cut through the zombie with an amazing gushing 
 sound. Every weapon makes a totally different sound and each one sounds exactly rightthis is what 
 I loved most about this game.
  
  Dead Rising is not meant for everyone, as it includes tons of violence and gore, but the endless 
 number of possibilities in this game makes it a wonderful addition to almost every Xbox 360 owner's 
 library. While the three-day system, annoying single save, and the need to repeatedly escort helpless 
 people through large hordes of brainless zombies do bring this game down a notch, Capcom makes 
 up for it with great graphics, zombies, its crazy sense of humor and the sheer number ways to have 
 fun playing the game. Dead Rising has its flaws, but it's still an excellent game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johan362
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  The game inspired me to kill zombies, and thats just what i did. The good points of the game is 
 that 1: you can use anything as a weapon, and 2: there is literally 53000!!! zombies. The bad points 
 are that 1: The game is very short, and 2: The game gets incredibly boring. But the game is ok 
 and dead. The game has one big downside, in the gun section it only has a pistol. I would have 
 loved to destroy and/or shoot them to pieces with a shotgun. I mean did you ever hear of a zombie 
 game with no shotguns, thats just dum. Really what is a little pistol going to do to a zombie, 
 maybe the zombie can use it as a toothpick or an organ. If you want my opinion don't by it, rent 
 it first. If you want a zombie game either go buy residant evil or don't buy anything at all. it 
 is hard not to critise a game that promised you so much and then turns out to be very dissapointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I know what you're  paradise right? In Dead Rising, this is the 
 case 80% of the time. I, like everyone else, love to slaughter masses of zombified persons. This 
 game gives you a mall of items to use and taunts you "How many ways can YOU kill a zombie?" It 
 is fun in the beginning, but it gets boring rather quickly. The graphics are decent, but sub-par 
 for an xbox 360 game. The gameplay itself can get very repetitive very fast as will the animation. 
 It may seem like there are so many ways to kill zombies in this game, but the items you would use 
 don't have an added effects, its the same swing, slice, shot, toss, and punch each time. If you 
 enjoy killing hordes of zombies, this game is for you, but don't expect the fun to last too long. 
 I suggest renting this game first before buying it, so you have an idea of what your spending your 
 money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyCass1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a lot of fun! Nothing's more fun than grabbing about anything you see and using 
 them to kill blood thirsty zombies in a shopping mall in a small town. 
  
  This game is pretty hard. Every boss (aka psychopath) take a while to take down. It get's pretty 
 annoying when your trying to get through the story since the zombies are always in your way. Overall, 
 every corner you turn, there are zombies.
  
  It starts out pretty cool, your Frank West, a photographer trying to get photos on what's happening 
 in a town that the military has blocked off from everyone. Your in a helicopter taking pictures 
 of some crazy !@#$ going on in the town, then you go to the shopping mall, which is the biggest 
 zombie infested place in the town. Then you start the story, which kinda sucks...
  
  Why? Well, I'm not going to spoil anything, but don't get too excited on why there are zombies. 
 Your going to be saying, "... That's it? THAT'S IT!!?? WTF!!!??"
  
  But don't let this keep you from getting the game, remember, your playing the game for one purpose 
 only, to kill lots of zombies, and boy are there a lot! What the trailers show you are real in 
 the game. I passed through more than 200 zombies in one small section of the mall. If you think 
 that's a lot though, just go to the maintenance tunnels.
  
  Just about any object you can see in the game, you can use as a weapon. Guns, Shovels, cans, garbage 
 cans, cash registers, plants, toys, plates, CD's, skateboards, hangers, wood, knives, food, soccer 
 balls, and even the zombies. That's not even 1/3 of the stuff you can pick up.
  
  When you play the game, you will immediately notice the very small text. The only way you can read 
 it clearly is to switch to HD. People that don't have one are gonna have to try to read it.
  
  One big tip I can give you in this game is SAVE CONSTANTLY! There are save points scattered 
 throughout the mall. That's pretty good right? I don't think so. Every game needs an auto save 
 feature. If you don't save, you're gonna have to start over.
  
  So, Dead Rising is a great game, I don't really like the story, I don't like the small text, I 
 am a little disappointed on the save feature, but I love the game play, I love using everything 
 as a weapon. I LOVE crashing through thousands of zombies with a shopping cart heading for a restaurant 
 to get orange juice. Dead Rising is great! 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncdudley
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Two things about this game turned me away, even though I admit it is a pretty awesome game. First, 
 the loading time before and after every single cutscene was extremely distracting. My girlfriend 
 remarked that every time she looked up at the screen from her magazine, the game was loading. In 
 my opinion, that's not fun. 
  
  Secondly, and not as big of a deal, is the fact that most of the dialogue in this game is text-based, 
 not voiced. I know this is nit-picky, and I have played plenty of old school RPGs where text was 
 all there was, but I felt let down when I had to read the dialogue in Dead Rising. The reason for 
 this is because the cutscenes were nicely voice acted and then the in-game action made you squint 
 and have to read the text in a little box. 
  
  Because of these two caveats, I was disappointed with Dead Rising. Oh, and when the main character 
 runs he looks like a hunchback. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinglion102
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  The main objective of the game is to remain alive inside the zombie-infested mall for at least 
 three days, after which help will arrive via chartered helicopter. Time in the game passes twelve 
 times faster than real-time (i. e. one day in-game is exactly two hours in real time) ; therefore, 
 the game automatically concludes after six hours of gameplay when time runs out. In addition to 
 this primary objective, the player is free to choose whether or not to pursue any of the game's 
 secondary objectives. As Frank West, the player attempts to uncover the truth behind the zombie 
 epidemic by completing "case files" that reveal the central game plot as they are completed. Completing 
 case files by accomplishing specific tasks or by being "in the right place at the right time" reveal 
 cutscenes which serve as the story's exposition.
  
  The gameplay, aside from the time-specific cases, is open-ended and offers few constraints on the 
 player's progress. The storyline may simply be ignored, leaving the player free to spend the entire 
 three days in the mall sampling food, trying on clothes or killing zombies if they so desire; some 
 of the game's 50 Achievements reward this method of play.
  
  The setting of Dead Rising, the fictional Willamette Parkview Mall, is modeled after a stereotypical 
 American mall with multiple floors and several themed sections. The mall includes a roller coaster, 
 supermarket, movie theater, park, and an underground maintenance tunnel system. There are six main 
 sections to the mall, each with a variety of shops, (over 80 overall) each filled with usable objects 
 which can be used as weapons or to improve Frank's health.
  
  Electronic Gaming Monthly reported that there can be up to 800 zombies on the screen at once. [10] 
 During the day the zombies are more sluggish, but at night they become more active, gain red glowing 
 eyes and increase in numbers.
  
  Its a Great Game BUY BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjadoughnut2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  So first off, let me tell ya a little story, My friend and I were watching "Dawn of the Dead" and 
 we were people who LOVE anything with zombies. SO, we were watching and a commercial came on, and 
 guess what? Its this game's commercial and it said "availible now". You could not tell how fast I 
 was in gamestop buying this game. I dont even think I locked my door coming out! So lets get back 
 to the ratings:
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  So a normal same old, same old game ya think? WRONG! This game has TONS of great things about the 
 game-play. First off, ive never seen a game where you can steal clothes from a store, in a zombie 
 crisis!!!! Second, Eat food to regain health? I would have thought a medi-kit (you can steal this from 
 normal mall places.) Lastly, TIME IS EVERYTHING, you must use it wisely, you dont have all the time 
 in the world, only 72 hours exactly. So now ya see!
  
  Sound:10/10
  Seriusly, guns sound like guns, zombies sound like zombies should, everything sounds perfect! If you 
 put this on stereo, its like its happening in the next room!
  
  Graphics:10/10
  When I look at the 300 zombies wanting to eat me, I see no flaws, no rough edges, only smooth, percise 
 ones. Weapons look great and so do items, dont even get me started on vehicles, or characters.
  
  Controls:9/10
  The only thing that takes a while to get, but I got it in a week. You may look 
 down at the conroller or book a few times but its gonna grow on you.
  
  Story:10/10
  Its a great story with great characters, and you decide what happens. Do Scoops or leave em alone, your 
 choice
  
  Challange:10/10
  Its kinda hard cause theres hardly any save points around. Most bosses are pretty easy as long as 
 you get their weakness. HOWEVER, some just poke up, wheter youre prepared or not (I recomend the SMG)
 
  
  Well thats it, hope your first game for the almighty XBOX 360. Its a great game.
  Ninjadoughnut2 posted at 9:13PM Sunday, October 5,2008
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinner501
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising was a game I wanted to play since I saw the commercials. Just the fact that you're 
 inside the mall killing as many zombies as you can just to survive, what about that doesn't sound 
 fun? I did have some problems with the controls and the text of what the hell was being said or 
 messaged to me. That was the only let down about that game to me, small text. Besides that I could 
 have spent more time then what I already spent. I did beat it while renting it, but it is a must 
 buy in my books.
  Some of the things you could do in the game were just so funny and the gore factor wasn't left 
 out at all. Putting serve bot heads on top of zombies for hours was a fun way to spend my time 
 when I didn't know what to do. The game is difficult, there isn't a drought about that. The maniacs 
 were fun to fight, if you knew where they were. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  $60.00 nah not woth it $20.00 yah it is worth that. The graphics will seem dated because of how 
 old it is but it is still an amazing game of beat the shat outta zombies with anything laying around 
 game.. I personally enjoyed using the guitar the most.. The story progresses nicely through the 
 game and of course dont forget to take pictures of innocent people being eatin by zombies after 
 all it is your job.. Seriously though this is still a great and original game. I say original not 
 in the idea behind the game that comes right from a movie even though the creators would rather 
 not give the movie credit the unique thing is how you have to take pictures of different things 
 and that helps advance your toon to greater power. Now one thing I did was the opening scenario 
 up to where you rescue the people on the roof of the mall and start over to get his level up a 
 little higher. I also found the save feature to be a little broken would not always save my game 
 right but other than that it was and is a great game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajdr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Do anything. Wear what you want. Eat many foods. Cook food. Blend food. Loot the Hunting Shack. 
 Build a barricade. Rescue survivors. Defeat psychopaths. Drive a car through hordes of brainless 
 zombies. And don't forget about your awesome power-ups. They're amazing. If you enjow the sand-box 
 and if you enjoy building up levels, and also if you enjoy having a kill count, this game is probably 
 for you. You can discover endless secrets and you can choose how you want to play your game. Also, 
 you can take pictures in the game for experience points because in the game you are a photo-journalist, 
 which helps you at taking pictures in real life. This game is probably the best zombie survival 
 game out there. There are a few problems though. The text is microscopic, although you can always 
 read the important things marked in green. And the saving is pretty confusing, too. But its nothing 
 you shouldn't be able to handle, so it would be a good idea to rent the game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furry_McTank
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Quick review here, I'm not gonna go over the general storyline and gameplay mechanics as the gamespot 
 review covers these things. I will however, tell you why I gave it a whopping 9 out of 10 and why 
 I recommend it to everybody (especially now as you can get it on the cheap) .
  
  Usually I hate multiple endings but Dead Rising's work brilliantly because of the game's outstanding 
 selling point. That is the fact that if you miss a time limit in the game then tough luck. Whereas 
 most games give you a replay mission option at such a time, Dead Rising just tells us that you've 
 lost your opportunity to forward the story or that a possible survivor is now chowing down raw 
 meat. This is frustrating at first but once you accept it for what it is it makes the game tense 
 and exiting throughout. It is for this reason that I have played through the story 4 or 5 times 
 and every time it has been mega exiting and loads of fun.
  
  On that note I highly recommend Dead Rising as a lightning paced ride with a great sense of humour. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I thought I would love this game. I wanted to love this game. It had all the potential to be one 
 of those "magic" gripping games. But now I don't even want to touch it.
  
  - Endless slaughter of mindless zombies? Check
  - Endless supply of weapons, both awesome and 
 mundane? Check.
  - Captures "zombie story" feel? Check.
  - Cool character progression system? Check.
  
  So we're ready to rock right? Slow down.
  
 
  - Infuriatingly backwards save system? Check! ONE save slot, no auto saves. If you forget to circle 
 back or save too late in the time sensitive missions, you gotta do it ALLLLL over.
  - Time sensitive missions? Thats right. The worst you'll ever see. All this beautiful scenic mall 
 with endless novelty to explore... except you cant cuz you're rushing between missions.
  - Impossibly small text. Normally I wouldn't complain, but its the smallest I've ever seen, and 
 it made a big difference in the game play... especially when learning the interface.
  
  Its like your favorite bowl of ice cream with a turd on top. Sure, you could take the turd off 
 and the ice cream MIGHT still be palatable... but its just IMPOSSIBLE to forget the turd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  If you don't like zombies you won't enjoy this game.
  If you like realism you won't like this game.
  If you don't like fun you wont like this game.
 
  For everyone else, i can assure you that you'll have the biggest grin on your face throughout 
 the time you play Dead Rising. There aren't many games that come out nowadays that are genuinly 
 a pleasure to play but Dead Rising really is revolutionary. As you will have heard its basically 
 Dawn of the Dead, the videogame.
  If that doesn't excite you, you obviously have no soul.
  The best way to describe this game would be like a huge chocolate box open in front of you.
  
 You pick and choose what you want to do. Do you want to solve the mystery of how the virus was 
 unleashed or do you just want to spray zombies in the face with a water pistol. Do you want to 
 save as many people from the clutches of the zombies as you can, or joyously watch as they get 
 ripped limb from limb. It's your decision and Dead Rising lets you live out all those zombie apocalypse 
 fantasys you have in your twisted head. Sadly, there are flaws such as the slightly clunky controls, 
 which is the only real noticeable problem with the game, however this rarely detracts from the 
 fun you have whilst you play the game. I urge you to pick this up, you won't regret it, its the 
 most fun you'll have on your 360.
  
  Good:
  
  Good fun.
  Fantastic freeform gameplay.
  Crystal clear HD graphics.
  No shortage of stuff to kill zombies 
 with. =P
  
  Bad:
  
  Occasionaly unresponsive, clunky controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bu-ku
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because alot of people i talked to said it was almost identical to the movie 
 "Dawn of the Dead" which it was pretty close. However after about an hour and a half of playing 
 i became very frustrated with it. THE SAVING PROCESS SUCKS!!! Everytime you die, you have to restart 
 the WHOLE game unless you go to some bu11sh1t janitors closet or something like that which are 
 hard as hell to find anyway. So you really cant just save and quit, you have to go on a little 
 adventure just to find the F'ing janitors closet so you dont have to start all over again. I think 
 i had to restart from the beginning at least 20 times, no joke, it sucks. But besides my main complaint, 
 the gameplay is pretty cool... for an hour. Ok, killing a zombie with a 2X4 is freakin cool, however, 
 to me it gets a little old after you kill about 200 zombies with it. What i DO like about this 
 game, is that you can use just about anything to kill the zombies which can be very interesting. 
 So the enviroment is very explorable which in a way is kind of bad because sometimes you get so 
 lost that the zombies are like "Where the f**k is this guy going??!" but it is fun. Pros and Cons 
 time:
  
  Pros:
  -Explorable enviroment
  -Can interact with just about anything
  -Unlimited items to kill zombies with
  -Fun if you are gore/blood loving freak who loves zombies 
 o_0
  
  Cons:
  -Saving process is absolutely HORRIBLE -Frustrating (when you have to restart or save)
  -Repetitive 
 (kill the zombies, save the person, etc. etc. etc... literally thats the whole game)
  -Graphics arent too impressive -Story kinda sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  well, this game was very creative and really quite fun, and yeah, the graphics look old, because 
 it's an old game. but that's doesn't take anything away from the game. the weapons and free roaming 
 are really fun and bloody. the voice acting isn't too bad either. killing zombies was really quite 
 fun and enjoyable. killing them with guitars, ladders and lawnmowers was pretty sweet! I didn't 
 get too much into the storyline, though. the controls were pretty simple to learn, too. the sound 
 was descent, too. all the bloody effects and impacts were impressive. this is basically a Dawn 
 of the Dead game we always wanted! but it wasn't the best. you have to save it every 5 minutes, 
 or when you die you have to go all the way back to the last time you saved it. no checkpoints! 
 it got so frustrating for me, I returned it 2 days after I bought it. but if you don't mind that, 
 it's still a pretty descent game and really quite fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  You can't easily find a better 3d person action adventure on the XBOX 360. Intuitive game play, 
 intense action, cool ways of killing zombies, mixed with humorous strokes, are some of the best 
 features of the game. Big replay value also. Many details to discover, that you may have missed 
 from your first attempts. I've played it 4 or 5 times, and I enjoyed it the same. Unfortunately 
 there is a "dark" side too. The game is hard (but not impossible) , unfair most of the time, and 
 forces you to be in a hurry all the time. It could have been better, but even so it is still a 
 remarkable game, and a very addictive one too.
  
  About the save system: It has only one save slot. You can save as many times as you wish, but you 
 will have to overwrite your last save. So you can be easily get trapped by some wrong decision. 
 So chances are that you 'll have to reset your game and start it over. The good news are that you 
 still keep your level points, so the next time things will be much easier.
  
  Two things that I found extremely annoying. The AI of the NPCs is only comparable to androids. 
 A baby would have been smarter. Also the old fellow who keeps ringing on the tranceiver and complains 
 like a moron about my "bad manners" if I hung up to his face. How stupid he could be, not to understand 
 that I am surrounded by zombies and give a hopeless fight to stay alive. What am I supposed to 
 say to him? "Excuse me my friend, but right now a horde of zombies are chewing my whole body, so 
 I have to save my life, if you don't mind. I'll call you back in a moment. See ya!" How Capcom 
 didn't notice this stupidity? Anyway.
  
  (Spoilers ahead) The most funny thing that happened to me was, when I was supposed to hit some survivor 
 in panic to calm him down, or he wouldn't follow me. The proper weapon for this was the baseball 
 bat. Five or six hits with the bat and he would be convinced. So at my last play of the game I 
 decided to hit him with something a little more heavy, to finish with it, without loosing much 
 time. I picked a big hammer from the shop, and hit him with it on the head. I don't know if I convinced 
 this poor guy, but I killed him instantly! Anyway I found it hilarious.
  
  A tip: near the end of the game you MUST speak to Isabela at around 22.00, or you can't succeed 
 an A' ending, which is essential to go on to the rest of the game. In any case after your second 
 or third attempt, a walkthrough aid is recommended, or you 'll probably loose some important aspects 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeBentley
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  On paper Dead Rising does almost everything perfect while simultaneously doing so much in practice 
 completely wrong.
  
  The basic premise almost literally could not be better suited for a kick ass video game. Trapped 
 inside an almost comically massive shopping mall populated with thousands of zombies. Scattered 
 about the mall are countless objects that can be used as weapons in various ways both gruesome 
 and hilarious. The graphics are gorgeous, load times exist but are minimal, and the foley work 
 on the weapons is literally some of the best ever. If the "Kabong" sound you hear when smacking 
 a zombie over the head with a guitar doesn't bring at least a brief smile to your face, you are 
 a sad person. The games overall tone maintains a perfect mixture of deadpan black humor and generally 
 campy zombie thrills. The plot is intriguing enough to maintain interest while never getting in 
 the way of gameplay. Multiple endings, massive varied indoor and outdoor environments, tight responsive 
 controls, sharp detailed graphics, good level design, and good voice acting despite having no tacked 
 on Hollywood voice actors, a floating camera that performs well enough to at least not get fascinated 
 with some random corner while zombies are gnawing out your Achilles tendon, and interesting but 
 optional side quests like photojournalism, and Dead Rising starts out as a game that would have 
 to try very, very hard to be bad.
  
  And try hard to be bad it does. Not hard enough to ruin a perfect premise and great basic design, 
 but enough to really smack it down hard from the level it should be on. Let's review:
  
  - Weapon degradation. You get at most 20 or 30 hits from each weapon before it shatters in your 
 hand. Since at no point in the game are you really starved for weapons it makes no sense.
  
  - Escort Missions. Essentially this is the entire game.
  
  - Forced paths. For all its 
 open world design you are unrealistically forced from place to place. You are given no time to 
 explore or just walk around randomly killing zombies which is what a game like this is tailor made 
 for.
  
  - Annoying NPCs. Otis takes the cake here.
  
  - Save System as a difficulty factor.
  
  Had Capcom put in random button mashing quicktime 
 events they could of taken home a gold for cramming every bad game design into one game. 
  
  Long story short I can't tell if Dead Rising is a great game with bad game play or a bad game 
 with great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comic_Capers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Contrary to certain film company accusations, Dead Rising is not a video game remake of George Romero's 
 "Dawn Of The Dead", But rather a homage to the zombie film genre. 
  The game starts out with you being chucked off a helicopter. You soon make your way into the mall 
 whereby you find a barrage of random obstacles blocking the entrance to the mall, four or five 
 survivors weeping and grieving and mall security desperately trying to stop one of the civilians 
 opening the doors so she can rescue her now zombified dog. What happens after that is up to you.
 
  Basically your main objective is to save civilians from the zombies and uncover the mystery behind 
 the zombie outbreak, within the time space of 72 hours (Although 24 hours is actually only 2 game 
 hours) . What makes the game so unique however is the fact that you can choose weather or not you 
 wish to save people, allowing you to make the choice of saving the civilians, killing the Psychopaths 
 or just killing zombies until your 72 hour timer runs out. While this may sound like the best game 
 ever, the fact that that you can only have one save slot, the survivors can be very sluggish and 
 that some of the boss battles are almost impossible make the game somewhat unfriendly and aggravating 
 to anyone who hasn't played a Sandbox/RPG before. Praise is given to the endless amount of replay 
 value but I have to admit their were some times that I just stopped playing because if you die 
 without saving at the beginning, You have to start all over again!! Overall I thought that this 
 was one of the most original and nail biting games of all time. I recommend it but don't except 
 it to be easy on you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 4, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game, the opening helicopter ride was great, but I just couldn't. Killing 
 Zombies should be more fun. First of all, I felt like the game was constantly loading. It drove 
 me nuts. I haven't played a game in a long time that has as many loads as this game. I felt the 
 fighting/aiming mechanics were horrible, aiming with a gun was slow and inaccurate. Every few minutes 
 the phone was ringing, I wanted to throw the phone in a pool, just so it would stop. Escorting 
 people back is tedious, as some of the routes can take too long to circumvent. 
  
  The game didn't feel balanced in the sense that some of the obstacles that you come up against, 
 you're really not the proper level to deal with. Throwing mechanics were horrible, mostly because 
 of the lousy aiming system. No offense but with this many zombies around you, having to take time 
 with a real slow aiming system, is bad. This is one time when Auto-aim would have been nice. There 
 is some slight auto-aim with the pistol..... but it's pretty bad. 
  
  I know some people really like this game, and I'm glad for them, because I really want to. This 
 is one of those games that really needs to slow itself down and for things to happen more naturally. 
 it needs to balance itself out so that you don't run into events before you're at the appropriate 
 level. I just felt while I was playing the game that the game was rushing me, instead of letting 
 me go and try to get things done at my own pace... it's too hurried. Save system is bad too. Not 
 for me, sadly, because I want it to be.
  
  I decided to edit my review because I played the game more, after reading other reviews and stuck 
 it out a bit. So I'm level 35 now.... and every time I start to love the game it does something 
 that makes me hate it again. I killed the rednecks with the machine gun mounted on the pick up, 
 thinking that I would now finally be able to escort people through there with out worry...... WRONG!!!! 
 It seems like the rednecks regenerate, so even if you do kill them .... they come back, great they 
 just ran over more people I was escorting. How F@#@ing cheap is that? Then I get to the spot where 
 I have to kill sniper rifle carrying Carlito, but of course the rifle shop, where I have to go 
 to get my own sniper rifle, is guarded by a shotgun carrying psycho who has extra healths up the 
 a@# for himself behind the counter.... yup fun. I realized something while playing this game that 
 the game is actually more fun if you fail the case files.... just don't bother with them! Go save 
 people, kill zombies and have fun. I found all the other bosses easy to beat. I don't feel like 
 starting the game over, leveling up even more, just so I can do the case files. I'm lowering my 
 score even more from a 4 to a 3, based on the fact that you have to start the game over too many 
 times before you can even start to accomplish anything, and because of the cheapness factor.. which 
 is on high in this game. Oh and thaks for rewarding me with useless skills when I go up a level, 
 I think I'd rather have the extra carrying slots, health, or attack power. Who is seriosly gonna 
 duke it out with zombies, when it you can use a weapon, that last longer because of the usefull 
 books. Here's another idea.... how about after reading a book you actually gain the knowledge contained 
 there in instead of having to keep it in your limited inventory to benefit from the book? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwamebeauvais
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  There's been so much said about Dead Rising that I'm really just beating the undead horse, but 
 I do want to remind any people who still may never have tried the game how incredibly fun the game 
 is to play over. And over. And over. Infinity mode forces you to kill time (pun intended) , and 
 the number of side missions, alternate endings, and achievements makes this a game well worth trying 
 if you've never played it before. The detail added to the game makes it worth your time to explore 
 the mall (for example, try using the rifle scope to read the text on magazines in the bookstore) . 
 As for the achievements, very few games for 360 create achievements that add an entirely different 
 element of gameplay that adds to the replay value. Searching the mall to take a bite of every item 
 of food or attempting to run down a number of zombies equivalent to the town's population adds 
 a wonderful series of interesting side action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure why this game got such high ratings... but I guess anything goes for Gamespot. If 
 they get paid enough to advertise the game, it's going to get a high rating. I think this game 
 is very annoying.
  
  What could be more annoying than having to constantly pick up weapons and food? Terrible boss fights! 
 This game has both! But, that's not all, it also times every mission! So you have to rush through 
 everything like a mindless zombie that you are supposed to be killing. It's also too bad that they 
 give you these side missions where you are to rescue survivors, but when you get to them they are 
 surrounded by zombies, are extremely slow, and die really easy. You'll waste a huge amount of time 
 trying to save these morons who are just slightly smarter than the zombies, they'll spend more 
 time shoving a zombie over and over rather than trying to keep up with you. Why are these survivors 
 all bent on shoving zombies? Why should I even rescue them if all they are going to do is stand 
 there and die? Good point! Screw them, let them become part of the pack they like to hang out with 
 instead of actually living. 
  
  Firing a gun in this game is so slow and frustrating that it's almost worthless to have. Except 
 you need it to beat a boss... which move much faster than you can aim the tiny crosshair, and you 
 can't move while shooting so you have to be stationary and that leaves you open to cheap shots 
 from zombies or the boss. With every hit you take, you'll stumble and be unable to move until the 
 animation is complete, which will leave you wide open for another shot. If you didn't pack a bunch 
 of apples or orange juice, forget about beating a boss. Hopefully you stopped at a save point close 
 by, otherwise you'll be starting over and running through large crowds of zombies once again to 
 attempt the same annoying boss fight. 
  
  I wish these idiot developers would get a clue. Who the hell wants save points? Who the hell wants 
 timed missions? Timed missions are a different mode that should have nothing to do with the game 
 and you should only play this mode if you have absolutely nothing else to do. Time attack mode 
 is a failure, and extreme annoyance. I wish I had done more research on this game before buying 
 it. But I trusted gamecraps reviews, which is a HUGE mistake, they have failed on many games. Assassins 
 Creed score is not a 9 it's a 5, Grand Theft Auto 4 is not a 10, and Ninja Gaiden 2 is not a 9 
 either. I don't know how much money they get from these developers marketing departments but I 
 guess that's the way it goes with popular gamesites.
  
  Do not buy this game for 20$, rent it, find out it's more annoying than it's worth, and then return 
 it and never think about it again. It's terrible, the story is terrible, the characters are awful, 
 the ending is a joke... and it's entirely too frustrating to complete. But it's a little fun to 
 beat zombies with different objects. Whoopie doo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drir495
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a good game but it has a baaaaaad save system which allows only 1 save slot 
 per storage device. Also they really should not have done the whole 3 day be on time thing. I think 
 that the missions are a little to hard for my taste. Other than the save system and missions I 
 think that this is a fun game. The whole zombie killing aspect is really fun and the fact that 
 you can change into all different outrageous costumes adds to the fun. The graphics are pretty 
 good and the sound is great. Its very believable when you run over a zombie with a lawnmower because 
 of the good sound effects. I also like the rpg elements. You can level up your character until 
 you get to level 50. This is a motive for you to keep playing the game it is also very addictive.
 
  
  Graphics:8/10
  Sound:9/10
  Gameplay:8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising does a lot of things perfectly, it's never pretentious, it's challenging, and it's 
 a hell of a lot of fun. You'd think the premise of a free roam game with Zombies would have been 
 done a long time ago and maybe it has been. We've seen this premise in some real awful games like 
 Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddlers Green and others like that. Luckily for us the people at Capcom 
 have made the magnum opus of zombie killing games and it comes to us in the form of Dead Rising. 
 Dead Rising is an awesome game to say the least and anyone with a 360 should get it but there is 
 a major issue with the game (And a minor one) that holds it back from earning a perfect score from 
 me. 
  
  I don't want to end this review on a downer because it might give the reader a bad impression of 
 the game because in reality this is one of the better games I have played this generation. My only 
 complaint about this game is how absolutely frustrating this game can be towards a beginner. I 
 must have quit this game three times, the fourth time I stuck with it and absolutely loved it. 
 The real problem with it is the save system. There is nothing wrong with it once you get good at 
 surviving but for a newcomer it can be frustrating to complete a case file, run back to save and 
 die from Zombies. The level up system also keeps beginners down because it makes the game difficult 
 for them. Another thing which can anger new comers is the time system which is actually a lot of 
 fun when you get used to it. For newcomers it may seem punishing and I hated it at first but you'll 
 get over it. In my opinion this is all that keeps this game from being perfect and I just thought 
 I'd get it out of the way first. Now on to the good things.
  
  Gameplay wise this game is awesome a whole lot of fun. Killing zombies never gets old and finding 
 new and creative ways to kill them makes this one of the premier sandbox games. I wish it had co-op 
 though, that would make experience even more awesome but it's something I'm not gonna hold against 
 the game. It wouldn't really work within the time limits and story but I still wish there was a 
 co-op mode. Back on topic, the gameplay is really solid and the control scheme works well. The 
 level up system keeps the game fresh and makes it easier over time as you get more powerful. I 
 love the new skills you unlock and some of them are a lot of fun (While some are useless) . Being 
 able to pummel zombies to death with a teddy bear? What does that mean you might ask. I'll tel 
 you what it means, it means the gameplay in this game kicks ass and is something you must experience 
 in my opinion.
  
  Technically wise this game is really great and is one of the true 'next generation' experiences. 
 The graphics aren't photo realistic but the artistic style the game has is excellent and done well. 
 The most impressive part of the game is the technical stuff. Thousands of zombies on screen with 
 no slow down, that's simply amazing. These models aren't low resolution either they are really 
 great looking. I also liked the blood and gore effects in this game. All in all it's a slick looking 
 game. The sound is also awesome, great voice work and some cool music to be heard. One music piece 
 of recycled from Resident Evil 4 but it's forgivable since that game was awesome. The sound effects 
 are perfect and it's awesome hearing the sound of zombies being beheaded, chainsawed, and beaten 
 to death. 
  
  Dead Rising has an excellent story, it's really well written and is surprisingly social commentary 
 on America (I'll keep it general since I don't want to spoil) . The plot has a lot of twists and 
 turns and it'll keep you on the edge of your seat and there is surprisingly some emotion in it. 
 None of this comes of as pretentious, the game doesn't try to be something it's not but it's very 
 effective and presenting an awesome story which I consider to top notch. 
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a must get game. Though it may punish you in the beginning stick with it 
 and you'll be rewarded with an awesome experience which you will remember. The game is something 
 which you'll play over and over again and it's just a blast to play. It's quite cheap now so you 
 have no excuse not to get it, this game will have you playing for hours and it's one of the best 
 games of this generation so far.
  
  Good: Technical masterpiece, gameplay is top notch, killing zombies never gets old, story is surprisingly 
 awesome
  
  Bad: Downright evil to beginners, no co-op
  
  Overall: An amazing game worth getting, just stick with it and you'll be rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising definately gave me some mixed messages when I first started playing it. First off, 
 I thought it hated my guts by giving me a main character who had no idea what "Tact" meant and 
 had the physical capabilities of a ninety year old man with a walking stick. However, then I was 
 given the impression that the game actually liked me because it filled the mall with zombies and 
 gave me lots of things to kill them with. Then I thought it hated me again because the zombies 
 tended to beat the bijesus out of me because of my lack of physical strength. Then I thought it 
 loved me again because I could throw large teddy bears at people. As you can see, this game cant 
 really decide if it likes or hates you.
  
  It's tough to understand exactly why they did this, but it seems that Capcom KNEW their game would 
 be very difficult to beat with your physically lame main character, so they added a feature so 
 that you could star the the game over from the very beginning, but you would have all the health, 
 inventory, stock and ability power-ups you had gained the last time you went through. So basically, 
 you can go through until you level up a bunch of times, restart the game, and WHAM there you are 
 a lot stronger than before. You think they would have just made it so you could play straight from 
 the beginning without that being necessary, but no. However, once you DO level up, the game is 
 amazingly fun.
  
  You play as freelance journalist photographer Frank West, who got an inside tip that something 
 was going down in a small Colorado town. He charters a plain to fly him there, and sees lots of 
 strange things from the sky. Apparently watching people get mutilated from the air wasnt good enough 
 for Frank, because he has the pilot land him on the roof of the shopping mall. I dont understand 
 how that can be concieved as smart, but whatever. Anyway, once you hit the roof, off you go. The 
 game starts with the zombies getting into the mall, due to one old ladies' extraordinary stupidity. 
 However, as things unfold, you realize that there is something going on here that is deeper than 
 just the zombies.
  
  This gives way to the "mission" system in the game. Each mission is called a "case file" and you 
 must progress to each case file mission in order to complete the game's main storyline. However, 
 if you fail to complete the main missions, you do not have to try again. You simply get a "the 
 truth has been lost" message, and you are no longer eligible to find out what's really going on. 
 I wouldnt recommend this, but whatever. Aside from the case file missions, you also will encounter 
 survivors, and Otis, the janitor who gives you the most annoying radio, will fill you in on even 
 more people who are trapped around the mall and need your help. These escort missions are annoying 
 and sometimes frustrating, but they are essential to leveling up your character, so doing them 
 is sometimes necessary.
  
  If you dont feel like doing escorts, then you can fill the time in between case files by bashing 
 in zombie brains. The great thing about this is that you can do it with whatever happens to be 
 in your area. Benches, umbrellas, baseballs bats, guitars, you name it. Each weapons has its uses, 
 so its important to know what weapons you want to carry with you. If you get a weapon good for 
 one on one combat, and you get stuck battling a huge group, you are going to be in trouble. Thankfully, 
 you can store weapons in your inventory. Don't get to excited though, because some weapons are 
 classified as "heavy" and cant be carried in your inventory. It's okay though, since these weapons 
 tend to be last resort anyway.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty good for a launch title. The character models are good, as are the 
 brutal attack animations. Blood goes everywhere and covers the ground, and the zombies move in 
 some truly strange fashions. Each zombie looks mutilated, and for the most part unique, which is 
 nice. It at least means you wont mow down generic enemies the whole game. There are also other 
 types of enemies besides zombies, sometimes in the case file missions, but sometimes just randomly 
 moving around. These guys add up some extra PP (the experience for leveling up) if you can beat 
 them, and range from easy to pretty difficult. You can choose to fight them, or you can run, its 
 your call.
  
  So there you have it. If you have always wanted a game based off Dawn of the Dead, then this is 
 as close as it gets, and trust me, you probably wont be disappointed. The real time save system 
 requires you to find a couch or a restroom to save, but since they are labled on your map, it makes 
 it at least manageable. If the idea of beating the crap out of zombies in a shopping mall sounds 
 fun, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  this game really looked great before it came out but sometimes the hype just makes you want a game 
 soo bad that your disappointed when it comes out don't get me wrong here there are still some good 
 points in dead rising but mostly it's disappointing. the game is made by capcom the creator of 
 resident evil and since they made other games with horror materiel (re, dmc...) this one should 
 be good right? well let's find out
  
  -1st of all the graphics are great so that's at least that
  
  -2nd the possibility to customize 
 the look on your character is good and it's even better that your character stays that way during 
 cinematic's
  
  -3rd the fact that if you don't take the time to go save the survivors they will die may give you 
 a rush but it gives the game a touch or realism
  
  but sadly those good points doesn't make up for the games bad points
  
  -1st the games bosses 
 are........ HUMANS!! what the.... i mean couldn't they think up of monsters to turn into bosses!? 
 no instead some of the survivors are going crazy and tries to kill you who wants to save them...... 
 do i really need to comment this... i mean sure capcom wouldn't like to have done a resident evil 
 like story but now seriously this is just to damn bad...
  
  -2nd the only monsters in the game are zombies and i mean the only monsters there is no a special 
 form of zombie no faster zombie no nothing so the game gets really repetitive after a while
  
  -3rd the fact that if you don't go to the cinematic spot before the time runs out you receive 
 the game over screen makes you always feel rushed and doesn't give you the freedom you would expect 
 from this kind of game
  
  -4th i remember the trailers where they said you had freedom with weapons but well since you have 
 only two use per weapon and the second one is throwing it's not really freedom if you ask me...
 
  
  
  this game had a lot of potential but sadly it's humongous flaws just kills it. it can still be 
 fun but after half an hour your already gonna be bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkysage
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  You start out your zombie adventure armed with only a camera and a bad ass attitude. You see a 
 couple of explosions on the way toward the mall located in the center of town. After a number of 
 mediocre cut scenes and awkward dialog the game will eventually start. The in game is pretty well 
 done, being able to use anything in your environment as a weapon is done very well. The zombies 
 are well done along with the mall itself. The leveling system adds a nice rpg reward system for 
 killing endless waves of zombies.
  
  As for the games problems, it's been a while since I've played a game with such horrible boss fights. 
 They will make you shot a boss an ungodly number of times. They will follow very basic A. I., repeatedly 
 going over the same path until they get to half health when they will find a new path that they 
 will travel back and forth on. The story itself is lacking and the survivors can be annoying at 
 best. Something that really helped me was learning how to make the zombie replant potion and giving 
 it to the survivors, they use what ever you give them automatically making it easy to get they 
 to safety. Out of everything the most annoying thing that really ruined a lot of the game was the 
 damn janitor interrupting you on the walkie-talkie every few minutes interrupting anything and 
 everything your doing.
  
  All in all being able to unlock the survival modes is the most rewarding part of the game. I still 
 give the game an overall good score because of this mode alone which basically recreates the movie 
 'Dawn of the Dead.' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you realise is how big this game is. There is so much to explore and discover. 
 Almost every item you see in the mall you can pick up and use. Mentioning what you can pick up 
 is this games strong points. You can pick up guitars to smash zombies with. You can kick footballs 
 and even shove steaming hot frying pans in their disgusting faces. The characters are extremely 
 believable and there isnt any problems due to acting. The graphics are great in SD and HD. The 
 more you play the more you discover. The story is great apart from the missions pointlessly asking 
 you to go back and forth. I also have a few the health system. You oftem find yourself trying to 
 gulp down milk whilst getting gunned down by terrifying escaped prisoners. I certainly ask you 
 to buy this game as it will keep you entertained for days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  I know what you are thinking it's impossible to go wrong with a game that has something like THAT 
 in it well you are mostly right, but a lot of people think you are wrong. Let's have a look
 
  
  Dead Rising is Capcom's mall-horror-survival game that came out soon after the XBox 360 came out. 
 I was one of the rabid fans in line for it when it was launching until I read some initial reviews 
 about the save-system. Let me back up for a second
  
  Most people expect that when you get a game, you will start playing it, save your progress as you 
 go and eventually pass it. I fall into this category of people
  
  now back to the story So reading some of the initial reviews they absolutely blasted Dead Rising 
 for using this Resident-Evil-ish convoluted single-save-slot system. The way it works is that you 
 have a limited amount of areas in the game that you can invoke the save menu, much like the ribbons 
 in Resident Evil. The only problem, is that you don't have slots, you have ONE save slot that you 
 are constantly writing over as you save. The trick here is that since the game is all time-based, 
 if you have say 2-game-hours to get to the Security Room before the next event happens (like a 
 meeting with the mysterious person or something) and you save the game, and it turns out that you 
 actually cannot physically make it back to the room in 2 hours, you have to restart the game because 
 you've saved the game in a state that is impossible to continue from.
  
  Note: When you die and decide to reload or restart, when you restart you keep all your stats. So 
 the game gets easier and easier each time you restart.
  
  I need to point out that the only reason I liked this game is because when I got it, I had read 
 the reviews and KNEW I would be restarting. Because of that, I actually would get to the middle 
 of the game, die and restart just so I could get my stats up making the 2nd half of the game easier. 
 I did this about 3x and got up to lvl 31 before I just continued the game and ended up passing 
 it.
  
  The graphics in the game are fantastic and the sound is good to. The voice acting is pretty good 
 and the animations are excellent. The only down side to the game is that you really don't have 
 time to dawdle around and kill zombies. You likely aren't going to level by killing zombies, but 
 by saving people, taking pictures and killing psychopaths (bunch of bosses) .
  
  I have to say that the time-based gameplay was never really an issue for me, neither was the saving 
 limitations. One thing that will likely really surprise you is that when you find people on the 
 other side of the mall, and it tells you to take them all the way back to the "Security Room", 
 you ACTUALLY have to do that. A lot of times you will be so far away from the Security Room (basically 
 home-base) that you will think to yourself "There is no way these people will survive", and you 
 are exactly right. Most of the time they won't.
  
  In fact, trying to keep NPCs alive that you are saving is SO frustrating and dare I say impossible, 
 that what I did was just get them to join me, and then run off giving them enough time to catch 
 up. If they got surrounded, I just left them. There are quite a few areas of the game that I just 
 don't understand how you are support to actually save them because of so many zombies being around 
 that you would need to kill to create a clear path.
  
  Maybe when you get to level 50 and have 1-hit kills, it's easier to clear the paths?
  
  Another 
 thing I didn't make use of, that I plan to as I level characters are the books. As it turns out, 
 you can keep books in your inventory to effect your stats. Like keeping an engineering book in 
 your inventory to double the life-span of weapons (everything breaks after X number of attacks 
 with it) .
  
  When I originally saw the news about this game, I thought it was going to be an adventure game 
 like Resident Evil with an arcadey feel to it. The two things and made me mad enough to not get 
 it for months was:
  
  1. Time-based gameplay, no time to sit around and do what you want. 
  2. 1 save slot that you 
 can actually use to save yourself into a corner and have to restart 
  
  It took me months to come to terms with those limitations, and after I got the game, knowing how 
 it would be, I ended up having a lot of fun. I still think #1 is a huge problem with the game, 
 it just flat out sucks that you can't walk around doing things on your own time. #2 isn't such 
 a big problem after all, but it can be annoying ESPECIALLY if your XBox crashes like mine did one 
 time and I hadn't saved for hours.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Story: 6
  Fun/Replyability: 7
  Overall: 8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Catacome
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising has a lot of great things to it but, not when you first start. The game grows on you 
 a lot and then it starts to become fun. I am a person who is defending this game because this can 
 be one of the funnest games you got. Some people say this game is so bad or so good but me, I'm 
 in the middle. This game has a lot of great things to it and some bad tings that just jump out 
 at ya sometimes. For instance Frank runs like 3 different ways that looks some what retarded, the 
 game save is okay but, It's really weird but, that's kinda what I expected from Capcom. The game 
 also feels really uptight when you playing... It's like a feeling that isn't great. anyways those 
 are some of the bad things. Some of the good things.... Is that you can interact with pretty much 
 anything, you can drive cars and you get all of these cool fighting move when you level up. There 
 is way more things good then bad about this game which brings me back to my point. Don't judge 
 this game at first because I did when I got it like 2 years ago and then I finally gave it a chance 
 and it was omgoodness the best. I been playing this game for like 2 years. When I get bored of 
 it I stop playing it then i come back to it like a month or two later and now I'm just hooked on 
 it. This game is literally my favorite and I say that about a lot of games but I mean it for this 
 one. Trust me When I say this... Dead RIsing is just awesome. GamerTag = RichieFresh2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mega_beast
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Hi there,
  
  
  The Stuff I Liked
  
  I liked the zombies they were kind of realistic, I liked the missions they were challanging and 
 im all ways up for a challange, I liked the weapons because every time you used the same weapon 
 it was like you you haven't used tthat weapon before, I liked the moves the most because your moves 
 are your main weapon like my favorite move was the jump kick at first but now i have more moves 
 so now i don't have a favorite move.
  
  
  The Stuff I didn't Like
  
  I didn't like the bathroom because they sayo' a zombie can't go into a bathroom wrong maybe 
 1 zombie can't but 3-6 can i had 3 zombies come in at one time and i got pics of it on my pic. 
 vewer, The next thing is i don't like the way you die it should show you as a zombie, the last 
 thing i didn't like was when at night the lites went off ( who terned them off ) is my question 
 maybe they are on a timer? 
  
  thats the end of my review so tell you friends about it and there friends thanks bye.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natanku
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  There are plenty of games out there with zombie like main stories/story arcs (see halo, hl2, etc) 
 But this is one of the few games that focuses on the Zombie reality most of us know and love. Set 
 in a mall you are free to attack the storyline or screw around until your eventual rescue, but 
 chances are you will run into more than a few psychos and thousands upon thousands of the undead. 
 Perhaps the greatest asset to the game is the seemingly endless array of weapons from toy light 
 sabers and soccer balls to rifles, swords, and a particularly satisfying fountainhead. The game 
 play is incredible although there are a few hangups with a save system that is inconvenient at 
 best. Perhaps thee biggest drawback is that text is unreadable on standard definition TVs and can 
 hamper one shot deals with most missions. So buyer beware, but do not let these problems stop you 
 from buying one of the best in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a complete rip off of dawn of the dead. I hated this game above all other rip 
 off games of movies they have made. The game is not at all realistic, like when you get bit you 
 dont even get infected, running over zombies with shopping carts kills them, and even after you 
 done with the god awful story mode there is more crap for you to do. When you already have to be 
 careful and watch out for zombies there are crazy psycho paths to watch out for, plus some cut 
 that is a rip off of the KKK. Just thinking about this game pisses me off to the point i just want 
 to start breaking crap. The story may be completely diferent from george a romeros dawn of the 
 dead, But dead rising is still just a god awful rip off of it and anyone who is smart can tell 
 and only the retards are the ones who defend this game as if it were there life. I give it a god 
 awful -20/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  evryone loves resident evil right? i know i do, but are you getting sick of evry secoud you are 
 always scared and you have to solve alot of puzzles and you just don't get enough time to just..... well...... kill 
 zombies!!!!!!!!!!!! well you're in luck beacuse capcom has ansewred you're qustions with dead rising! 
 story: ok, so heres how it gose, you are Frank west a photogropher who wants to get the scoop of 
 whats been going around in this city somewhere in colorodo (i'm sorry i forget the citys name) 
 you then find out that the problum is going on in a mall so you say to you're pilot that you want 
 to lant there. he warns you not to but you do anyway, when you land there he tells you he will 
 be back in 3 days so you have to get the scoop in about 3 days, when you land there you meet a 
 guy names carleto, you don't know who he is but you'll find out. when you go in then you see some 
 people bulding a barocade. and then you find out what the problum is... zombies, WAIT A MUNET!!!!!!!!!! 
 dosen't this remind you of something?! i want you to take a guss, go on, guss........... if you 
 gussed dawn of the dead you are freaking right!!!!!!!!!! what the hell was capcome thinking?!?! 
 well they did get sued for it yes, but i am suprised that they are making a sequel for the wii 
 (i am excited about that by the way) i just think it's just going to be a port on the wii, so yeah. 
 well anyway wile you are looking back at the mall some crazy old guy yells at you, you don't know 
 who he is but onece again you will find out, so the zombies get into the mall and some guy yells 
 at you to come upstaries, so you do and then you find out that its up to you to get you're scoop 
 and stop the zombies. gameplay: just like i told you before dead rising is for if you well just 
 want to kill zombies, i am proud of that also and what is really cool is that EVRYTING IS A WEPON 
 yep you herd me EVRYTING!!!!!!!!!!!! so yeah but you will also help people who are suvivores, now 
 this is the stupid part, the coputers of those pepole and really freaking RETARTED!!!!!!!! i'm 
 dead surious! there slow, they always get stuck they well are just.... RETARTED!!!!!!! graphix: 
 the graphix on dead rising are ok, but this was a lunch title for the 360, so you can't blame them. 
 overall dead rising is a fun game and i suggest you check it out if you think you love it then 
 go buy it but if you don't know the i suggest you rent this before you buy it, but still you will 
 enjoy this title, oh one more thing you are timed in this game, this is also a big dissopintmend 
 beacuse this gives you less time to just kill zombies, if you miss the case then you will be givien 
 a diffrant rank on how much cases you got ant missed, but if you finneshed a case early and got 
 alot of time before the next case then that gives you plenty of time to kill zombies! also this 
 game also has some RPG eloments so say if you say level by killing zombies saving suvivores and 
 taking good pictures and if you level up you get new abilatys to kill zombies and that is just 
 plain freaking awsome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Dead rising could of been an alright game, if there was more depth it, if you know what i mean.
 
  
  The thing that probably starts to annoy you after a while is the save points, its annoying that 
 you can only save in certain points, and that it hasn't got a save any where feature. So if you 
 are doing really well in the game and forgot to save it you are going to have to start all again, 
 untill where you last saved it.
  
  the fun thing is going around and killing zombies, there is loads of different variety of wepons 
 to choose from, chainsaw to lawn mower. my favorite is the sledge hammer.
  
  The worst thing about this game is there missions, the escort mission can be very annoying and 
 frustrating, exspecially when they just stand there while the zombies attack them, and everytime 
 you call them they don't come to you.
  
  i also like the idea of real time, if you miss the helicopter at the end of the game tough, there 
 is no way of getting it back unless you, load back, which i don't think you can.
  
  there is also 4+ different endings depending what you done in the game, and if you got the helicopter 
 or not.
  
  if you want you can pick up a copy of it but i wouldn't reccomand it. sorry.
  
  also the save system is TERRIBLE. you can only save in certain places and say for example if 
 someone was coming round for dinner and you had to quickly save it, well you can't, you have to 
 hack or way back through zombies which seem to never die, they just keep respawning, and if you 
 die trying to get to the save point you load back to where you last saved. 
  
  it can be annoying, it also is VERY repeptitive, and could end up getting bored of it.
  
  also 
 isn't a xbox 360 exclusive as its coming on the wii now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revixe06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good - The Free Roam / Thousands of Zombies to kill at any time / Almost everything in this 
 game is a weapon / Great sound effects / Lots of gore / Different styles of clothing and also downloadable 
 content / Great controls for character and cars / Guns look and sound real / Great graphics / Story 
 line is a little odd at first but then gets better / The Best thing about the story is that you 
 could never get bored.. You could do all cases (Missions) one run then the next run you could rescue 
 all of the survivors (Escort) / To sum it up.. ENDLESS GAME (Almost) !
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad - Character Diolog sounds fake / Bosses can glitch up sometimes in combat / During Night 
 Time you can hardly see a thing and you will die and lose all unsaved progress / Have to find a 
 bathroom to save your progress and if you don't and you die.. GAME OVER.. / Leveling System is 
 a joke / The karate moves are cool but they are a little Mortal Kombatish / Some weapons are way 
 over powered.. Like , you can kill a zombie with a coke can to the face.. / Escorts are rewarding 
 but they get annoying / Escorts get annoying for one reason.. and that is that their AI is so horrible 
 that instead of rescuing them.. you will want to kill them yourself just to save yourself from 
 aggravation / Pistols do more damage to enemys then the Sniper Rifles! 
  
  -Thanks For Reading this Review for -DeadRising X360- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  this game is crazy . everything about this game is insane. and that is why i love this game. Dead 
 rising brings the pain. This game is sick and the story line is awesome though. The reason i love 
 this game because you get to roam in a mall around and do what ever you want and kill as many zombies 
 you want. This game doesnt get old at all, the mall is huge and there is alot of zombies to kill. 
 From a samuri sword to a twelve gauge shotgun there are many variaties of weapons to destroy with. 
 There is alot of boss you have to fight too like the guy with the P90 to the killer clown who can 
 jugle chainsaws. This game has many suprises also  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ressdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  dead rising is crazy. Entering the game as a reporter you are landing in a town to get the latest 
 scoop. Basically the town has been over ridden with zombies and if you let events turn out badly 
 the entire thing will go world wide . you land on top of a mall to find any thing out about the 
 town that you can, your stuck there for 72 hours before your helicopter will pick you up You must 
 battle through hordes of enemies to get to your various objectives. 
  
  This may be a problem if you weren't armed to the teeth with make shift weapons. Dead rising is 
 all about picking up every day objects and using them to bash the hell out o the zombies in the 
 mall your stuck in. Grabbing plates and frying pans and bowling balls and the list carries on going. 
 you must discover the reason and the history behind the zombie plague.
  
  With tons of missions to keep you on your toes you wont be shot of things to do. However, if you 
 feel like helping some innocents you can run down into the mall and lead them back to the safety 
 of the control room. Of course you don't have to do any thing really you could just sit in the 
 control room and hide for the entire time but where is the fun in that?
  
  Its a great game with a dark bloody side not to mention endless possibilities and several modes.
 
  
  Happy zombie bashing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  The quirks:
  -Bad control layout. Boss fights are hard ecause of this, but not in a positive way. Death is always 
 a great possibility in this game because of this, and given this games save feature, this makes 
 it all the more frustrating.
  -AI can ruin experience
  -though this type of save system seems it must be the only alternative for thihs game, given its 
 innovative structure, it can still be very frustrating.
  
  The Perks:
  1. Freedom-rewards the player who plans their way through an obstacle the game throws at you. 2. 
 Innovative structure.
  3. Zombies are just cool in general. Nerd dream. Great style. Unique bosses.
  4. good amount 
 of replayability, could merit multiple play throughs due to alternate endings. Infinite mode as 
 well is a huge plus in the replayability department.
  
  If your a fan of zombies give dead rising a shot. If you are not, then it is hard for me to recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Just as the header explains kids, Dead Rising, Capcom's critically acclaimed zombie game of the 
 summer of 2006 takes place in a super mall with more fixings than grandma's Thanksgiving turkey 
 platter. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Take photographer Frank West, throw him in the middle of a mall with an uprising of zombies that 
 overtake the town, and give him a virtual unlimited ensemble of weapons that can be found in any, 
 and I mean ANY store in the general area and you have yourself one hell of a good time. It's basically 
 a 3rd person survival action game sans the Resident Evil horror feel as it's your fight to survive 
 and progress to uncover the mysteries of this zombie takeover. Utilizing weapons that range from 
 hammers to garden tools to rakes, chainsaws, baseball bats, shower heads (Courtesy of Bed, Bath 
 and Beyond) uzi's, pistols, batons, hell even the freakin Mega Man blaster to use against these 
 demonic beings to best them and see them fall before you in some hilarious ways. Place a shower 
 head on their skull and watch it RAIIIIIIINNN BLOOOD, or use a katana to slice off a limb or 2, 
 or how about just plain grabbing Fred Flinstones renowned bowling ball and getting a STRIKE! (Achievement 
 Unlocked: 20g) It's innovative, entertaining, and highly addictive for the most part.
  
  Graphics:
  I must say that Capcom has brought the THUNDA in this next (current) generation. Dead 
 Rising is their first true next gen game and it only gets better from here on in with Lost Planet, 
 Devil May Cry 4, and later on Resident Evil 5 comin' right up. The character animations are impressive, 
 offering some unique textures on some of the characters. The environmental effects are niceley 
 performed as well from explosions to gunfire, to just plain mowing down zombies, it's all a pleasure 
 to view and perform.
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack is weak and voice dialogue really hurt the score. There is generally no sound whatsoever 
 other than the sound of zombies or foes being taken down which is good but you only can hope for 
 more. The boss battle music is somewhat intriguing but you can only find yourself hitting the home 
 button and using some of them custom tracks to passify most of your time playing.
  
  Control:
  Controlling Frank at first can be a chore, but once you unlock some of the upgrades, 
 he floats like a butterfly and stings like when I pee.... I mean bee. The use of weapons other than 
 melee is moderately functional and can sometimes prove to be a hassle, especially some of the more 
 complex weapons like snipers and shotguns. Although once you develop a sense of direction for aiming 
 and precision, the control on those weapons comes second nature.
  
  Overall:
  Now that you have heard most of the praise here comes the 3 big problems that really hurt the overall 
 score. The difficulty, especially on certain boss battles is ridiculous. Not to mention the unforgiving 
 save system. For chrissakes Capcom, give Frank a jounal to mark his entries in next time around, 
 and not have us travel to E7 in the northern corridors for the men's room to take a piss and save 
 away. Because if you die without urinating and therein saving you have 1 of 2 options. Continue 
 from your last save, OR start from the beginning with all attributes learned. Pretty crappy huh? 
 I thought so too. And the 3rd has to be the non-motivational dialogue this game ensues. Bleek and 
 bland voice acting make the story seem blech until the very end, and even then leaves you pondering 
 for more. Overall, Dead Rising is a great game, but with a few yet important flaws that keep it 
 from getting a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonilee
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I first heard of Dead Rising sometime in 2006, I had wanted to play it. You could bash 
 zombies heads in with any weapon you find in a mall. It sounded SOO awesome, and the day I finally 
 bought it two years later, I played it for the rest of the night and when I played it again, and 
 again, and again, it just kept getting less fun. Only because the gameplay is extremely repetitive, 
 everything else in the game is good, besides the voice acting. Anyway, on to the details.
  
  In the game, you play as Frank West, a hardcore photojournalist who has covered wars and stuff, 
 and now he has been sent to cover the story of Willamette Mall, which you don't know, is filled 
 with zombies. All you know at the beginning is that people are dying like crazy. So a helicopter 
 drops you off on a roof and from there, you have 72 hours to bethe zombies' papparazzi and killer. 
 Graphics are really nice for a 2006 game, and sound is awesome (Bones cracked and smashed, chainsaws 
 slicing zombies in half, and plenty more sounds to make you say 'Woah') , but I didn't like the 
 voice acting at all. Alot of the characters sound mental, especially the main character. But it's 
 still a cool game thats worth playing, so if you already havn't, go rent Dead Rising, and if you 
 really, REALLY like it, you can get at at a low price almost anywhere. So go out there and bash 
 some zombie heads, non-Resident-Evil-styled.
  
  -BiG D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Official Prologue:
  The city is Willamette, Colorado. One day, this small, run-of-the-mill town found itself sealed off 
 from the rest of the world. National guard troops blocked off the roads, and all transmissions 
 were put into tight information lockdown. Communication lines were closed off, and wireless radio 
 waves jammed. Something was going down. Something big, real big.
  
  Enter Frank West, freelance photojournalist. His instincts have gotten him some out of some nasty 
 situations in the past, and this time they tell him something huge is happening. Armed with a camera, 
 he hires a junker helicopter to take him in. With luck, he'll score the biggest story of his career!
 
  
  The helicopter pilot, oblivious to the state of emergency, does his usual tour-guide thing. "Here 
 she is! Willamette, Colorado. Population 53,594!"
  
  Through the zoom lens on his camera, Frank scans what looks like a normal small town. But the helicopter 
 decends toward the landing zone, Frank finds himself in the midst of his most dangerous story yet!
 
  
  My review:
  
  The landing zone was on top of a huge shopping mall. Frank has to jump out of the helicopter, onto 
 the top of the mall, due to National Guard helicopters chasing the helicopter he rode in. The helicopter 
 will pick him up in 3 days. 
  
  So the first thing you do is talk to a guy, named Carlito, beside the entrance to the mall from the 
 roof. They just talk and you can tell that Frank is very cocky. At the end of the un-pleasent conversation, 
 Carlito tells Frank "My friend, this is HELL." So now you can play the game. You enter the mall 
 and you are in a room. There is also a few storage rooms, and a janitor's room (which will later 
 become the security room) . So you go through a door that leads to the Entrance Plaza of the mall. 
 When there, you are on a big staircase that leads up to the second floor. When you get down to 
 the first floor, you see people barricading the doors. And behind the doors... zombies, tons and 
 tons of zombies. HINT: When you are walking down the stairs, in the middle they is a flat section, 
 jump over the rail on that section to get the achievement where you have to fall at least 15 feet, 
 worth 20 gamerpoints. So a guy tells you to not just stand there, and to help with the barricade. 
 So you walk away from the doors looking for stuff to use on the barricade. Then a scene appears, 
 this old woman can't live without her dog, "Madonna". And she sees the stupid mutt behind the doors. 
 So the crazy old woman breaks through the barricade, goes through the doors (keeps the doors open) 
 and tries to save the dog. But she gets eaten. And in come the thousands of zombies... thousands.
 
  
  Then up on the stairs you see a big black guy, who says "hurry up! get up here!". You later find 
 out the guy is a DHS Agent, along with another woman who is there. So you try to get to the bottom 
 of all the zombies. Also in the game you can escort survivors to the security room to get PP (experience) 
 points. In the game you start to figure out different things about different characters. And you 
 battle MANY, MANY bosses along the way. Overall, this game get's kind of boring. I would reccomend 
 renting it, not buying it. Not even if it's used. Well, not much of a review, but i hope it helps 
 some of you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyBlueOtter
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  I think that most of the new games, in themselves are good but always withhold lots of challenging 
 things such as completing a level on a certain difficulty. But sometimes it doesn't look at the 
 fun side of the game, and that's what video games where designed for. Dead rising is a perfect 
 example of what games should be about ... HAVING FUN. Killing zombies with loads of different weapons 
 and throwing pies at zombies will never stop being fun.. nuff said
  
  as gamespot say in the review, the escort missions do get repetitive and the saving system is absolutely 
 **** I'd like to think of capcom as a very good innovator which is true in every sense but i think 
 innovating this save system has extremely messed the fun of the game up.
  
  If you can get this game for 20 Pounds... get it. if your in the situation where you have lots 
 of games and are quite bored dead rising is a good game just to go back to a destroy ZOMBIES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_P_R_K
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Just Bought The Game... Going To Return It Tommorow... I Love Scary Blood Creppy games. But The 
 Saving in this game almost Kills the game it self i had to play the begining of the game almost 
 like 4 times. i Couldnt find a dang Bathroom. The Game is fun Killing Millions of Zombies. But 
 The Time and the rush sucks. I Hate Clowns and this game makes me hate them more. This Dang Clown 
 Block Everything and Made me die about 50% of my deaths. and imma pretty good gamer. Beat GTA 4 
 in less then 14 hours :) . The Way The Game Looks Is Very good for a game that came out in 2006 
 compared with 2008 looks. I Will Get The Sequal Because hopefully it will not make the same mistakes 
 as this game. Some Achivements your do one thing wrong or miss one thing you a unable to get the 
 achivement i had achievments like that. If you not an achivement whore ( I AM ) LOL then get this 
 game if your moms dont care about the oceans of red you will see in this game. I Wish i can find 
 out what happends at the end of the story but i never will cuz this game is to frustating to make 
 me want to go on. AND YOU HAVE TO READ LOL they dont talk when u talk on the phone or walky talky 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  When you combine a photographer, a mall, alot of items, and some zombies, and what do you get, 
 you get Dead Rising. This gory, intense game packs brutality, real-time action, and thrills, that 
 just what makes this game.
  You play as Frank West, a profesional photographer, who's job is to investigate a mysterius incident 
 that is happening around the area. In the beginning you are supposed to take a few pictures from 
 a helicpter, but you can also skip this part of the game. Once you get to the mall, everything 
 breaks loose, zombies start coming in, and you are left to survive yourself, along with some other 
 survivers.
  This game is great in its own way you can use almost everything in the mall as a weapon, along 
 the way you must rescue some people (only if you want to) , there are a bunch of psycopaths in the 
 game that you can also kill if you choose. While killing fifty thousand plus zombies, there are 
 some ups and downs, one. the shooting system doesnt work like it should. Two. killing zombies can 
 get a little old, even though they spill out alot of blood.
  This game is really good and its a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game is the ultimate zombie killing experience to play. The gamplay is good and the storyline 
 isnt too bad, you are Frank West a photographer taking pictures of zombies in the city but you 
 wanna know whats going on, you then tell the pilot you wanna be dropped off here in the mall to 
 get a closer look. you then find out your not alone, but have to deal with psychopaths that all 
 went crazy to protect themselves from the zombies. Except for a crazy clown joggling chainsaws, 
 he is a true psychopath. Graphics are great, weapons dont get me started just too much in this 
 game, it is just everything you can get your hands on. Thats what I like about the game, endless 
 supplies of weapons. And you can also get into a car and run the zombies over which is a good way 
 to get the zombie genocide achievement. you have to kill atleast around 53,600 zombies, and I dont 
 know the right number it is but its basiclly the entire city population which will take a very 
 long time but you will get it just like I did. And the game has alot of blood in it I mean when 
 you you get enough points you can upgrade your combo moves to really beat the crap out of them 
 like taking out thier organs and shooting thiere heads off and even ripping them appart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  Writing a review for Dead Rising is not easy. Mainly because anyone who has played dead Rising 
 knows of how many serious problems the game has, but they also know that Dead Rising is one of 
 the funnest games available for Xbox 360.
  
  Let's start off with the story. It's good. It's like a giant clich'e. It's dark, it has serious 
 parts and it has some comedy mixed in. I enjoyed it. You follow photojournalist Frank West who 
 travels to a small town to look into a possible militar cover up. He's covered wars, ya' know. 
 When he arrives, he finds out it's infested with zombies. the story screams the name of every zombie 
 movie ever created, but I've got to admit. It's rather good.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. Everything in the game can be used as a weapon. Everything. Some obviously 
 being better than others, and some even having funny effects. Dead Rising is one of the funnest 
 sandbox games I have played. The graphics look great too.
  
  But sadly, Dead Rising has it's problems. In fact, many. The first one being it only allows you 
 to have one single save file. Can you believe that? In this day and age, one save file. And the 
 sad thing is that it would be tolerable if Dead Rising didn't constantly require you to go back. 
 New players will find themselves starting over multiple times.
  
  The other major flaw is the allie A. I.. Throughout the game, your required to save survivors throughout 
 the mall. The problem is that each survivor is pants-on-head retarded. Trying to explain the frustration 
 in escorting one of these people through a mall full of zombies is a road I really don't want to 
 go down. 
  
  If you can look past these rather large issues with Dead Rising, your going to love it. It's one 
 of favorite 360 games and I am praying for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jub77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm here to tell you about a little game called Dead Rising. The main premise is that you gert 
 dropped off atop a mall apparently infested with brain-eating zombies. The main character Frank, 
 doesnt have a single clue about what is going on at this mall. He has to find out information from 
 the various different people that arent infected to find out what is really going on. But the story 
 really isnt a factor in this game. The main part of the game is the fact that you can kill the 
 zombies with technically anything.
  
  You can kill them with your fists, but who wants to do that when you can use a lawnmower or chainsaw 
 to get the job done? There's a ton of zombies that you can wreck havok on. You also can not kill 
 the zombies and take pictures, or you can just do stuff that you would normally do in a mall but 
 the part that is the best is the zombie killing. Capcom really did a great job with such a used 
 idea. For me zombies are fun to kill but even more fun comes when I get to choose how I kill them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Tyrael
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  First time i heard about it was on a this very page, watching a gameplay video, watching Frank 
 West, Journalist, cut a swath through the mobs with chairs, swords, guns, sports apperal, the latest 
 top 10 cd collection, and just about anything else you can think of
  after that my mind was set: Must have it! Must kill zombie! must take out anger on virtual people 
 and be criticised for my posibly influenced criminal manner (they wish)
  and so i did, i bought it and played it all the way thru, i even went so far as to get the genosider 
 acheivment (50k+ zombies killed) and now i can say the following through experience
  LOTS OF FUN!! theres nothing like bashing that rotten head with whatever at hand like a golf club, 
 a chainsaw, a 2x4, slicing a zombie in two with a katana is now a fulfilled dream, ever wondered 
 what the same tv you wish you were playing on could do to a guys head?, or several at once for 
 that matter, thanks to a good graphic engine that lets hundreds of the undead clog up your screen 
 at once, and only the largest of weapons (bench, explosions) can cause the slightest of hiccups, 
 and while beyond its capability to physically pile up the carnage, still has the time to nicely 
 detail the characters, or surrondings, so i say if you complain about the graphics than good for 
 you, dont call me about it.
  Its also got a good story of sorts but knowing the length of it involves one of the game's weaker 
 points, its time & save system, damn them both, but ill bless the idea.
  having 72 seems easy at first, especially because most people die and restart a few times before 
 seeing the truth, it turns out to be very ANNOYING, its not a bad idea, it gives a sence of urgency, 
 to your never zombie-related missions, but in hand with the single save slot (per storage device) 
 paves the way for some rather unnecessary trail and error, that all together pushes some people 
 away entirely into trading the game in before finishing it.
  sure if you strive beyond by the tinsiest amount youll come to enjoy it as something refreshing: 
 the actuall need to not die, the real NEED to reach the goal on time, but unfortunalty the original 
 idea of this being a free roaming bash-em up game seems out of place for that, and you'll be at 
 the end of those three days losing that very last case file more than once before you see the true 
 ending or whatever.
  and after that, well, theres a survival mode, but thats definitly a "guide in hand" kinda game, 
 which defenitly detracts from what thought it would be when i saw it the first time, it puts you 
 in the mall, all bosses and people included, and you have to kill them all, steal there food, hole 
 up and wait until you starve, hoping you get a high score (impossible) which means youll be watching 
 tv and checking in every 20 minutes to eat, strangely it mentions that saving here will make you 
 lose your other saves, but i still have to find how exactly to save my game at all in this mode.
 
  as with most 360 games replay value comes with the achievments, in this case it might be the only 
 reason you'd do any of the side missions which all (but a few) concern saving someone annoyingly 
 helpless, making some of those achievments easy (kill 1000 zombies) to borderline impossible (saving 
 EVERYONE)
  this is were the game ends, no matter what, after you either give up or finish the game and the 
 achievments, you'll have practically NO reason to play this game again, sure I say i wanna bash 
 a dead guy every so often, but then i remember ive done it a gazillion times and turn off the console, 
 the fun ends when you run out of ways to kill zombies, and mainly runs out quickly, because you'll 
 be using the same best weapons, since everything else is usually useless,
  
  All in all (if you felt like skipping all the above)
  a good solid game, give it a chance or 
 give in to your short-fused patience, but not something to depend on as a long term game of any 
 kind, play it once and go on to something else,
  Whatever you do dont try to simlulate it at home, or you'll make a case for no one to retry/improve 
 the idea. (i personally hope for a sequel)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiuser2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Franks west has locked himself in a mall with fifty-something survivors and roughly 53,594 zombies, 
 effectively creating one of the greatest formulas for a game ever.
  
  This game can be played forever, there is always something to do. you can strive for a higher kill 
 count, work on the many awesome achievements, see how many survivors you can save, try your hand 
 at photography, see the whole plot through and level up to get brutal new moves.
  
  The sound is incredible, some methods of killing a zombie create literally sickening crunches or 
 snaps or gurgles. Zombies can be hacked until just a torso remains, and although it borrows heavily 
 from Shadow of Rome's violence system, it's just plain good.
  
  Shove a shower head into their head and watch as their own blood drenches down on them, run them 
 through with an excavator and use their flailing corpse as a weapon, or just pie them in the face 
 and watch them stumble around. To the games credit there are a variety of weapons that don't kill 
 zombies and instead make them stumble blindly, so like metal gear solid, violence isn't always 
 necessary, but if you don't hack up some zombies you're not fully enjoying the game.
  
  Recovering other people from the mall adds even more substance and may even endear you to the game 
 a bit. Holding hands and carrying escorts are suppose to be hindrances but in actuality they allow 
 you to run through zombies without getting caught. After awhile of playing the game you become 
 very finely tuned to how zombies think, you know exactly how close you can get without being grabbed 
 and how to escape, the game ceases to be a horror and instead becomes a high-octane action game 
 with all the trimmings.
  
  Of age Xbox owners should get this game, unless you are a bit squeamish to violence and gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imetamonster
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  Okay, who wouldnt want to be trapped in a mall with hundreds of zombies? As a kid and even still 
 now its somthing iv always been waiting for. But whats awsome is now i can playing the great game 
 Dead rising. This is the game that zombie fans have been waiting for. It will fulfill your zombie 
 needs right away. Running zombies over with lawn mowers from beating the crap outta them with chairs 
 and guitars! Pretty much anything you find in the mall you can use to your advantage. Throughout 
 the game you will run into all different characters. Even a creepy clown dude thats waiting to 
 chop you up and kill you with balloons! There is survivors around the mall you can save if you 
 want to also. This game will last you hours on end. Alot of possibilities. Way to fun! I say if 
 you havent played this game whether you like zombie games or not, you should still get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy666
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  overall a good game with sum good ideas, and im loving the gore side of things .its a really good 
 game but the whole case file situation is a bit frustrating. But this is definatly a xbox 360 classic 
 and i would reccemend it to any1 who enjoys killin things with numerous abject.
  this is a very addicting game i spent days sat on my ass playin this game, and no matter how long 
 u play this game you will not get bored its just one of those games you are ment to love. when 
 playin this game the comment "the possibilities are endless" comes to mind due to the fact that 
 there are probly over 1000 ways to kill thousands of zombies and 100's of crazy. and although the 
 crazy people can be hard to kill at sum points it brings a smile to my face everytime i stab one 
 of bastards. i guarentee to any1 that they will enjoy this game and i personally love this game. I 
 have traded in many of games but i will never trade in my limited edition copy of dead rising. 
 GO BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!! its well worth it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlwaysHaveHope
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  + well there is zombies
  + weapons
  + a mall
  - boring as hell
  - main character is more of a retard then how he moves
  - soooooooo repetitive
  - soooooooo 
 boring
  - no characters have any personality
  - seriously why does he walk like that?
  
  Ok well you're a photographer taking pictures when you drop down into the mall with other weird 
 people. The door is secure right? Right! Until some dumbass lady moves the stuff for her dog. Basically 
 you'll have more fun playing Pong for 10 hours straight. I'll admit I found this game fun for the 
 first hour, then doing the same things over and over again. Killing zombies with the same weapons, 
 along with taking pictures of them? Wtf? I know he's a photographer but there's no time for taking 
 pictures Frank. If you're smart you wouldn't buy this game, if you're really smart you wouldn't 
 even bother renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Deadrising, you play as Frank West a photojournalist who gets trapped in a sterotypical 
 mall with loads of zombies walking around. As soon as Frank's feet hit the concrete on the roof 
 of Willamette Mall, the chaos begins. Players are quickly drawn into Dead Rising's story, which 
 is much more substantial and enjoyable than might be expected. After finishing the game's initial 
 72 Hour mode, players will find the story continues even further in Overtime mode. In terms of 
 how long that will actually take, the 72 Hour mode can be completed in roughly seven hours, including 
 cut-scenes and discounting game reloads. The Overtime mode can be beaten in less than two real 
 hours. An Infinite Mode can also be unlocked, though it's entirely devoid of story elements. Instead, 
 it challenges players to see how long they can survive as their health bar constantly depletes. 
 What can be found in Willamette Mall's shops are pretty much very similar to the ones in real life 
 such as Hardware depots, lots of clothing shops, hair salons, jewelry boutiques, a food court, 
 toy stores, sporting goods outlets and much more demand exploration. The variety of items and weapons 
 to be found is one of Dead Rising's best aspects. Weapons range from hockey sticks, bowling balls, 
 water pistols, and shopping carts to shotguns, machine guns, motorcycles and even a convertible. 
 You will have loads of fun just killing zombies with diffrent weapons you find laying around the 
 mall. Though escorting people to the roof to the chopper gets a little boaring at times.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game is reasonably well done but they are not the best that the 
 xbox 360 has to offer. I personally like all the bloody and body parts flying around though which 
 is fun to watch. 
  
  Sound: I found the sound not bad, everything sounded the way they should sound such as the running 
 of the engins to the wack of the baseball bat. The soundtack for the game was not bad either.
 
  
  Value: All in all this is quite an addictive game for killing zombies but trying to rescue and 
 escorting people can be rather tedious. I'm not sure if everyone would enjoy this game due to the 
 lack of story line but does make up for intresting zombie killing gameplay. I give this game 8.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KungFuStevie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a zombie/surival game set in Willamette mall. You play as photojournalist Frank 
 West and his survival for 72 hours.
  
  To start off with, this game has great visuals. Plenty of gory deaths and brutal beatings with 
 smooth animations are sure to please fans. The characters all look great and the environments are 
 also very crisp looking with great detail. The only problems with the visuals are the small text 
 on your transceiver and that the zombies don't look so great close up. With the mind blowing amount 
 of zombies displayed on screen at once though, you probably won't care.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic the majority of the time. The combat is great and Frank's most advanced 
 moves are still pretty easy to pull off. The game has tight controls which are never a problem. 
 This game features over 250 weapons and many types of foods to play around with and discover. Being 
 able to cook foods and mix them for different combinations and concoctions is fun to try out. Also 
 many weapons can break and become a totally different weapon which is a great idea.
  You can choose to play how you want as the game is pretty non linear, just don't expect to be wasting 
 too much time and still being able to finish the story. I think that this is a good idea though 
 as it encourages multiple play throughs. The save system is a downside as there is only one slot 
 to save over, but it means you need to plan your saves out which can be fun sometimes to be strategic. 
 There are also several different endings to find, which should keep you playing. Even after you 
 finish the story mode (72 hour mode) there are 2 other game modes called Overtime and Infinity. 
 Overtime is an extra day on top of the normal story and Infinity is a survival mode where you need 
 to gather food to survive as your health constantly drops.
  
  The sound on this game is absolutely brilliant with unique noises for every weapon, good voice 
 acting and good music to create different moods. None of the sounds or music get annoying, apart 
 from Otis the Janitor who will ring you on your transciever at the worst of times. He will ring 
 again if the call doesn't reach the end as well and when you are answering call you canno attack 
 or jump.
  
  The game has a great story which will keep you wanting to know more about the outbreak and features 
 many twists to shock you. The game has a lot of replay value due to the many achievements which 
 are fun to get, and the different endings.
  
  If you like zombie games, just buy this game. Even if you don't but you like sandbox style games 
 you'll probably enjoy this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClodStrofe
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Zombies. Who doesen't love these mindless creatures? For years now, we've had the pleasure, of 
 shooting them with shotguns, or any other weapons that have projectile. Everyone loves zombies. 
 Even if you don't think you like them, you love them. You've seen them, you love them...
  
  Ok. That was a useless zombie rant... or was it? Dead rising is a game released by Capcom in 2006, 
 staring... Zombies. In obvious homage to the Dawn of the Dead, you play as Frank West: Photo-journelist 
 extrodinare. How exdrodinare? Well, he's covered wars, you know. Frank finds out about some 'infection' 
 or some 'Plague' thats infected a city, in... I don't know, I can't remember, but it's somewhere 
 in a america. The army, has blocked off the area, so Frank 'illegally' flies in on a choper. He 
 is, a bit surprised to see the inhabitants, are all (well, most of them are) zombies. He tells 
 the pilot to let him off on the roof of an infested mall, and then come back in three days.
  
  Now tell me. Who in their right mind, would do that? Well, Frank can, cause he's covered wars 
 ya' know. As he leaves you on the roof: your journey begins. When you first go through the mall, 
 things seem... normal, until you get to the main gate. A handfull of survivors sit around, barricading 
 the doors, and grabbing weapons. All is well, until some 'stupid' old lady decides to get her 'precious' 
 doggie. She opens the doors. The zombies come in, and brutally kill everyone, because of her stupidity. 
 Anyways, you learn the basics, and can either get up the stairs, or die. If you die, it's not game 
 over, as they give you a chance, either way: your mission begins, survive 3 days, and see if you 
 can find out what's causing this infection.
  
  Well, i'll tell you: Zombies are EVERYWHERE. From every corner, nook, and crany, the zombies are 
 there. Even if you managed to kill all of them in a room, as soon as you went back, they'd be there. 
 It's literally endless. To kill the zombies, what do you use as a weapon? Anything. Thats right, 
 ANYTHING thats not nailed to the ground, is your weapon. Use your imagination. See those books? 
 Why not throw one at a zombie. Smash a pot over ones head, use one of the crap-tastic guns, a katana, 
 a lawn mower, base-ball bats, 2X4, steel pipe, manequins, diamonds, gum-ball machines, toy swords, 
 orange juice, grocery buggies, sledge-hammers, umbrellas... ANYTHING. I could spend an entire review, 
 saying all the weapons, and still miss some. There are SO many options, you could forget the story 
 and just kill zombies. or play "How many ways can I kill a zombie?" there are many, many ways, 
 trust me. Anyways, these weapons, have a certain amount of uses, that they can have. After that, 
 they break. Some (Sledgehammer) have more uses then others (Katana) so they aren't infinite, though 
 you can just hang around a place that spawns them.
  
  Not everything is about killing zombies. You can photograph them, too. If you do somthing funny 
 to them, or see them do somthing gruesome, or anything, take a photo, get some points. Another 
 objective of the game, is to find survivors, and rescue them, bringing them to saftey. This starts 
 easy, but gets harder, as the mall is quite big. Theres the next point: the mall. It's fairly large, 
 theres many, many stores, and it can take a while to see everything. Thanks to the amazing graphics, 
 it's a pleasure on the eyes. This game, is gorgeus. The blood, which their is alot of, the character 
 models, the weapons, the enviornments, everything is awesome in this game.
  
  The sound is good. Nothing beats the sound of slashing through flesh with a katana, and listening 
 as the blood splatters all over. Everything has a sound, and it's allllll, good. As for the voices, 
 they aren't bad... OR not 'as' bad as the dialogue. Regardless, everything in this section is good.
 
  
  Now lets get into the big R, Replay. The replay for this game, is HUGE. This game NEVER gets boring, 
 killing zombies. Who in their right mind, wouldin't want to do this? Theres so much choices to 
 make. The gun, or the baseball bat? The golf club, or the sledge hammer? the diamonds, or the books? 
 The orange juice, or the katana? Decisions, decisions... Regardless, Replay value is huge high.
 
  
  In the end what do you get, a game that puts you, in a mall, with millions, apon billions of zombies, 
 gives you EVERYTHING possible, and lets you go nuts. If you like zombies, buy this game, if you 
 like gore, buy this game, if you have a 350, buy this game. If you want TRUE survival horror, this 
 is it. Nothing tops, Dead rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simulator_Shock
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  At first look, dead rising doesn't look so bad. But the sad unfortunate truth is that this game 
 is one of the worst games on the 360. Capcom messed up really bad on this. 
  
  How can a game involving a very stereotypical american mall filled with thousands of zombies everywhere 
 and requires you to fight your way out using tons of weapons, be so bad? 
  
  Well to start off, you play a guy who runs around like he crapped his pants and also happens to 
 be a photographer which means that when your running around the mall you have to use your camera 
 and take pictures of things and zombies. Now this may sound like a nice refreshing change to action 
 games but its not. Its annoying to constantly dodge and kill zombies that get in your way while 
 searching for survivors and trying to remember to take pictures of anything that might look suspicious.
 
  
  Now when you first start off the main story mode, you have 72 hours to find survivors and get back 
 on the roof top for the rescue helicopter. While your inside you quickly meet up with a few other 
 survivors and one of them gives you a walkie-talkie which he uses to call you and tell you where 
 other survivors are. Of course whenever he calls you, which is like every 5 freakin seconds, your 
 completely vulnerable and you can't defend your self in any way, and of course he ALWAYS calls 
 you when your fighting your way through hordes of zombies. Not to mention that everything you do 
 in this game is timed. Yes timed. Such as when you receive a call and text appears on the screen 
 thats too small to read and tells you where survivors are, it gives you a time limit to get to 
 them. Time passes very quickly in the games time. An hour in the game is only about a few minutes 
 in real life. Not only is the 72 hour mode itself timed, but so are all the terrible escort missions. 
 Practically ALL the missions in the game are escorts. The only time you're not escorting some stupid 
 idiots is when your running across the entire mall to meet up with someone else, which of course 
 is also timed. Now the reason why this sucks so bad is that the game was made specifically for 
 High-Def TVs, so therefore if you don't have a HDTV then your screwed. What I mean by that is ALL 
 the damn text in the game is very very small and impossible to read. Thats how it showed up on 
 my old SDTV, so I tried playing it downstairs on my much bigger 50 in HDTV and the text was still 
 too small! I mean it would be very nice if they made an option to change the text size, but no 
 Capcom had to be total stupid asshats and force you to play the game on a gigantic 100in HDTV in 
 the highest resolution possible to read the damn text. What the hell is wrong with them? 
  
  The controls are so horribly broken that the boss fights where you use a gun as a weapon are 
 practically impossible to beat. I'm serious, when you aim a gun you have to hold down the trigger 
 button to aim and move the analog stick to aim up with your target, and the time it takes to do 
 that is ridicules. It takes way too long to aim a gun at your enemy, so using a gun in the game 
 is out of the question. Now for the weapons, its really ironic how a game that emphasizes on using 
 everything as a weapon, because I can recall running around the mall and seeing plenty of several 
 things to use as weapons but I couldn't pick them up. Most of the weapons that you can use in the 
 game are really stupid and weak, like running inside a record store and using a pack of cd's to 
 throw at the zombies, which does very little damage. The more powerful weapons in the game are 
 things that can be found in the hardware stores, like sledge hammers, chainsaws etc. However even 
 those things suck in this game as you will use each weapon like 4 times and then it breaks on you, 
 forcing you to switch to your next. The most durable thing I could find that didn't break on me 
 after using it more than 3 times was the sledge hammer. I tired picking up more than one in the 
 store but it wouldn't let me. 
  
  The AI in this game is retarded. I mean really, the survivor npc's that you run into are stupider 
 than the zombies. I mean I broke into a store where two survivors were hiding and they thought 
 I was a zombie despite that my character told them several times I was trying to help them, one 
 of them runs up to me and starts beating me with a bat. So after I had to beat the hell out of 
 him to an inch of his life, he finally realizes I'm not a zombie and joins my group to find the 
 safehouse. *sigh* To make this awful game even worse, everytime you run into survivors you have 
 to escort them back to the elevators to take them down to the safe room. Yeah thats right, I said 
 escort. When will game dev's realize that NO ONE likes doing escort missions in video games. Especially 
 in games where the AI is so stupid and dumb that the survivors keep wandering off from you and 
 you have to constantly keep touching the Y button to call them back to you. 
  
  Now one of the things that this game is notorious for is it's god awful save system. You can only 
 save your game inside the safe room or in the restrooms. Thats not the bad part mind you, the bad 
 thing about this is if you die when fighting a boss and if you die during a certain part of the 
 chapter and you didn't save before, than you have to start all over again. The game even has an 
 option that lets you save your character's experience but start the whole game over again....
 
  
  Gamespot crew must have been on drugs when they reviewed this abomination, because I don't know 
 how it got such high scores, then again they also have Halo 3 and GTA IV a 10, so I'm not surprised. 
 
  
  This game is so bad that it every single person who had any involvement with it deserves to be 
 punched in the face and kicked in the balls. This game is such a lack of respect to the consumer, 
 because I guess Capcom assumed that everyone has giant high def TV's to play it on. Not only is 
 this game a piece of garbage, but it's also one of the very worst games on the Xbox 360. IF you 
 really feel a need to torture yourself, then please rent it instead and don't waste your money. 
 Otherwise, Stay as far away from this awful game as you can. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don-Dougan11
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I personally love this game right from begging to end whether you do the case studies or not its 
 is quite amusing in ways and fun. The graphics are very impressive for a game of its sort and for 
 the amount of things respawning and refreshing its not that jumpy either. Slightly over the top 
 physics but that just adds to the fun in my oppinion. The story, the story is a bit "iffy" sort 
 of a mix between Resident Evil and Dawn of the Dead. Basically some virus broke out army surrounds 
 the city letting no one out. Then a free lance journalist helicopters in to a shopping mall (cool) 
 and wants to find out the true story so he takes some nice pictures of the "undead". Then just 
 like any other horror something pathetic happens allowing all the zombies to burst in to eat some 
 people. After that you go to a security room and find a small group of people working for the government 
 to find out whats going on also then the rest is up to you... Characters: obviously there's the 
 main man Frank West and as he says to many people throughout the game hes a journalist. Then theres 
 Jessie and Brad they are working for the government to find out whats going on. And lets not forget 
 Otis an ex mall worker just tagging a long and thinks its great to be on an adventure at his age. 
 Overall I think this game is fantastic ok the case studies can get frustrating if you have little 
 time to do them in same with the escort missions. I've read a few other reviews and the people 
 who wrote them seem to get bored of the game too quickly well what i say to them is try to do the 
 achievments they can be quite fun also mindless killing can be fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACME_IVIURSEY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising in my opinion is one of those games that it's so original that you have to try it out. 
 Also it has a great setting for its plot and gameplay I mean really haven't we all wanted to battle 
 a horde of zombies in an over-sived shopping mall like Willimette Shopping Mall I think I speak 
 for everyone when I say HELL YEAH!!!!!!!!! The gameplay itself is superb and on top of that it 
 has a mysterios uniquely awesome, suspensul, keeps pulling you in even more like quick-sand kind 
 of story line. For one this a unique third-person action game it's not a shooter or Mortal Combat 
 or anything like that but don't be dissapointed if you are the gameplay is still awesome in so 
 many undescribable ways. One amazing detail everyone has to aprreciate is the gore. Now I wouldn't 
 know how realistic it is because I have never ran a pipe through a zombie's skull before now maybe 
 you have but I will let you be the judge of it. All in all you could spend hours in the game just 
 slaughtering zombies now I know I did so this game is a definite buy for anyone who is even slightly 
 intrigued or aroused by zombie. Whether it's intrigued or aroused I don't care what you do in the 
 privacy of your home but this is one thing you'll want to play in that privicized home of yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  today ill tell you abought dead rising it is a pretty scary game but it is very cool you cane go 
 around stors and take stuff and make your guy look cool and take jewlery guns swords lawnmower 
 it pretty grose
  alot of the time alot of vilonce and blood you cane ride skateboards
  throw stuffed animals at zombies lol you cane drink beer get drunk
  throw plates at zombies very 
 fun and nasty game
  no online tho but still very good & soild i like using grosrie carts and running at zombies i liked 
 this game very mutch it is a cool game 
  alot of blood great story line to be honest some of the side missions are better than the storyline. 
 one in particular involves you taking out a homicidal clown with dual chainsaws as he laughs his 
 @$$ off. it ends with him laughing hysterically while two chainsaws rip him to shreds. pretty f*cking 
 awesome, huh?
  the graphics are slightly cartoony, but they deliver an amazing display of blood when you rip up 
 zombies. and i would like to say keep away from kids
  with week harts and and headaiks easyly and week stomch
  and i would like to say thanks capcom 
 for makeing a great game
  and to gamespot and im done my review for this game 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeaceTucan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  ever walk into a mall thinking, "if this place were infested by zombies, i'd destroy them all?" 
 i know i have. well now your dreams can come true with this Capcom masterpiece, Dead Rising.
  
  You play a photojournalist who is looking for the story of his life and wow, is he gonna hit 
 the jackpot. he begins by taking pictures from a helicopter in the opening sequence and then does 
 a drop off on the roof of a mall. when he finally gets into the mall he finds about twenty survivors, 
 soon to be ripped apart by zombies let in by a foolish old lady who goes after her dog. f*cking 
 b*tch, right? well, now that your there, you might as well use anything and everything to kill 
 as many zombies as you can.
  
  there IS a storyline, but the way they mapped it out is that if you don't make it to certain spots 
 on time, then the "TRUTH IS LOST FOREVER." if you actually do the storyline and put the time into 
 it, its pretty awesome, but the most fun you can have in the game is obvious (kill zombies) . 
 
  
  to be honest some of the side missions are better than the storyline. one in particular involves 
 you taking out a homicidal clown with dual chainsaws as he laughs his @$$ off. it ends with him 
 laughing hysterically while two chainsaws rip him to shreds. pretty f*cking awesome, huh?
  
  the graphics are slightly cartoony, but they deliver an amazing display of blood when you rip 
 up zombies.
  
  if you love zombies, you will worship this game. the only flaw is the saving system and the controls 
 can sometime bug you. the saving system is terrible which is a shame. Basically you have to save 
 at bathrooms around the mall, which CAN get infested by zombies. sounds pretty simple but there 
 are almost no bathrooms. One time i had to restock weapons just for the trip to the bathroom. the 
 controls are awesome but sometimes can lag which can lead to zombie bites (they don't infect, its 
 just annoying) .
  
  other than that, theres nothing wrong with Dead Rising.
  
  i award Dead Rising 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is probably one of the best concepts for any game ever conceived. It is highly likely 
 that Dawn of the Dead was a large inspiration for this classic, but it isn't fair to lump it in 
 the 'cheap copy' category. Dead Rising has some well developed characters of it's own, as well 
 as a passable plot, and some killer voice acting. To describe Dead Rising in one sentence would 
 be difficult. It would probably be something like this. 
  A game set in a mall that is packed to the brim with items that could be used as offensive weapons 
 that is also packed with zombies and Frank West a professional photographer must get to the centre 
 of the conspiracy whilst taking pictures saving survivors and becoming the ultimate zombie killer.
 
  That just about sums it up. A nice touch is the counter at the bottom of the screen during gameplay, 
 that informs you how many zombies you have killed. In all, there are over 53,000 zombies to kill 
 in the mall. That's a lot of zombies. The best feature of this game is, by a country mile, all 
 of the weapons you can use! In the hands of Frank, anything becomes a weapon, the most obscure 
 of which being footballs, postboxes and even pieces of dead zombie.
  When the novelty of this game wears off/you have tried all of the weapons/you throw up because 
 you can't take the violence anymore (delete as applicable) only the true zombie fans will be left 
 with anything with substance, and, as that's me, I still love Dead Rising, and predict it will 
 have cult status in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skellington25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game, to me, is the best zombie game out there. Games like resident evil... yeah ok a zombie 
 here and there but this game puts zombies to good use.. THEY ARE ALL OVER its physically impossible 
 the keep coming, and the thought of getting to use almost EVERYTHING as a weapon is pretty damn 
 cool.. i mean cmon.. how often to you get to beat a zombie to death with a toy lightsaber? xD to 
 me there is only 3 bad sides to this game, the boss fights and the saving, the saving can get a 
 bit frustrating if you dont do it often, i got a little cocky when going on more than one mission 
 between saves.. you die.. you lose it all to your last save point, but if you put yourself in the 
 routine of saving every chance you get, you'll do just fine. Boss fights are only frustrating because 
 no matter where you shoot them, it does the same damage, shooting a guy in the head with a sniper 
 rifle does the same as to shoot him in the foot, but thats also something you get over, successful 
 boss fights are quite rewarding, and the last thing that bugs me a little is that some of the people 
 that you save can be quite stupid or lazy, sometimes both, you give them a gun and they just say 
 "frank!" "help me!!" and just stand there, but some can be smart and just slaughter everything 
 in their way. the different skills you get are absolutely brilliant and hilarious at the same time, 
 for instance, you can get ontop of a zombie and walk ontop a horde of them to avoid getting eaten 
 alive, another is being able to walk like a zombie, diguising yourself so they dont do anything, 
 wich is freaking hilarious, but my favorite skill is called "disembowel" when you can reach into 
 the zombies stomach and rip out their intestines, wich gets quite entertaining. Overall i give 
 this game a 9.5, its extremely addictive and highly entertaining, rent before you buy, can be pretty 
 hard for the here and there gamer, but if your into alot, buy it, great game and theres like 5 
 endings and 3 game modes, so you wont be beating it anytime soon, wich is also good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  In the conversation of truly great all time video games you seldom hear the name Dead Rising. This 
 is a shame because there are an extremely small number of games that give the sheer over the top 
 entertainment that Dead Rising does.
  The face of the game is "zombie shooter". That's doing the game a disservice though. Granted, you 
 will be doing A LOT of zombie shooting but the story line of the game is very interesting and the 
 various characters you'll encounter are an absolute blast! Dead Rising's graphics still holds it's 
 own with anything out there today, even though it was an XBox 360 launch title. Most critics point 
 to the control scheme and save mechanism when bad-mouth the game. It's not completely invalid criticism. 
 The shooting and maneuverability of your character are not the best they could be, but you get 
 used to it. As for the save? Look, you know where you have to go to do it so just make sure you 
 can get there! It's not a broken feature as some would lead you to believe.
  In conclusion, if you want a challenging and frantic gaming experience that will keep you up into 
 the wee hours of the morning, Dead Rising is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korny_boy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  With so many games thinking that you should have to spend hours doing boring tasks and endless 
 objectives just to see a second of story. This game is really the ideal game for fun. Taking on 
 zombies and even mad people or clowns. And no there not people. Is possibley the funnest thing 
 ever. With so many weapons to use the fun lasts a long time. This game rocks and when can you say 
 you have ever had the chance to bowl a perfect ten with zombies. Throw it at their heads in and 
 remember it all with a nice picture you've taken. I must say i did play through the story many 
 times and even got some of the harder achivements but that's the great thing about this game you 
 will keep coming back for more. with an extra story mode for after the main game just to make you 
 come back for more. then the achivements as i said before, some are just plain easy like kill 1000 
 zombies, some will just come with time like walking a distance but then some really make you go 
 out of your way and make you do the story again. but if like me you think meh i want to kill something 
 you can and the game will carry on biting. overall buy this game it should be cheap now and you 
 will definally get the use out of your 360 that it deserves. a game that finally knows what a game 
 should be FUN, something PS3 owners should think about.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  After reading some of the reviews of one of my favorite xbox 360 games, i just had to write a review 
 because i think some people arent getting the what makes this game so great.
  
  first off, all the people that whine about the timer and characters following you getting bugged, 
 they're right it is kind of annoying, but after a while ull get used to it and you will just have 
 to learn to play with to make a joyful playthrough.
  and the timer isnt really THAT bad, its like GTA, where u have to choose wich missions ur gonna 
 do, this is almost the same, but in this game if u choose one mission, you wont have time for some 
 other mission, so u have to think in time frimes (if i do this and that mission i wont be able 
 to do that mission etc. etc.) since you have only 3 days to complete it ;)
  
  so if you want to play all the missions you're gonna have to play the game 2 or 3 times, great 
 replay value imo. (btw dont buy this for achievements, some are really a pain in the ass, hard 
 work too)
  
  There's alot of unlockable stuff that you will enjoy, lightsabers, megaman blasters (tho by the 
 time you get this you'll problably not be playing it that much anymore)
  
  gameplay is cool, tho its not a real horror-game, its more of a beat'm up vs zombies in a sandbox 
 level (ala GTA, there's also some vehicles you can drive and go into the maintenance tunnel, drive 
 over mobs of zombies :D) later on u get some WWE moves and u can pwn the zombies bare-handed, wich 
 is pretty sweet, but when you reach max level. it gets way too easy and it kills the fun. but by 
 then you have played for like 20 hours or so :p
  
  so basically if i have to describe this game in short: it would be a beat'm up game in the style 
 of the movie dawn of the dead movie (the old one) add in hulk hogan or rambo, add in a couple of 
 mean-ass bosses, some cheap scare tactics and gta mission style and there you have it: Dead Rising 
 
  
  BTW: this game is NOT scary, i did jump a few times but that was more because i was riding a motor 
 cycle through the mall and failed a stunt, so i crashed in the middle of a giant mob of zombies 
 closing in on me :p 
  
  thats pretty scary ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vader_300
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Inspired by George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead, Capcom's Dead Rising puts you in the shoes of 
 protagonist Frank West, a freelance and wartime photo-journalist investigating a possible zombie 
 outbreak in Willamette, Colorado. The town is under military quarantine, and Frank goes into the 
 Mall of Willamette by helicopter to find out the story behind the outbreak. There he meets survivors, 
 confronts psychopaths, and even cult members. The game takes place over the course of three days, 
 however, it is entirely your decision whether you want those 72 hours to be fixed around the plot 
 or not. If you do decide to follow the storyline, I should tell you that it is pretty damn good 
 one, it feels very well scripted and planned out, and also seems very believable, as though it 
 can actually happen. The game's plot consists of numerous twists and turns, keeping you on the 
 edge of your seat, anxious to see what happens next. 
  
  If you're not going to move through the plot, the game offers a very non-linear experience giving 
 you tons of other options: kill zombies, collect survivors, complete side missions, or just cause 
 mayhem at your own will. Depending on what you do in the game, be it the plot, just killing zombies 
 or other, it will lead to one of several endings. There is also a wide variety of items to use 
 in the game, pretty much anything and everything in the mall can be used as a weapon, guns, chainsaws, 
 lawn-mowers, teddy bears, anything. Most of the items you find in the game can provide bloody, 
 gory, satisfying, zombie-killing action, and interestingly enough, you also ride vehicles, which 
 adds to the fun. Different shops hold different items; swords and katanas in one store, and chainsaws 
 and sledgehammers in another = awesome! 
  
  Holding down the right trigger for an over-the-shoulder perspective helps you aim your weapons 
 and throw items, and while you may not use this system often, it proves to be a better alternative 
 than just aiming a gun in any direction. The items you hold won't last forever, they will eventually 
 deteriorate and you'll have to find new ones. Usually, I find carrying more than one of the same 
 object can prove an acceptable solution to this problem, or you can even grab books from bookstores 
 around the mall which, while in your possession, enables you to hold certain types of items for 
 longer, give you a health boost, or increase the amount of Prestige Points you earn from taking 
 photos. 
  
  Whenever you kill a boss, or take photos of random things, rescue survivors, or kill a large number 
 of zombies, you earn a significant amount of Prestige Points which are necessary for leveling up 
 in the game. Each level you achieve will either give you a health upgrade, let you hold more items, 
 let you run faster, boost attack power, increase throwing distance, or unlock different melee attacks. 
 As far as photography goes, better pictures, mean more delicious points. 
  
  When the sun goes down, the zombies become more numerous in certain areas, and also are slightly 
 more resistant to certain attacks. The "Scoop" missions in the game, otherwise called side missions, 
 involve escorting survivors to the security room, or dealing with psychopaths. Some of these side 
 missions require persuasive action on Frank's part, more often than not, most of them need to be 
 carried or assisted in order to be escorted to safety in one piece. Escorting multiple survivors 
 at a time can often be frustrating, taking into account that one or two people will detach from 
 the group and be swarmed by zombies, others will refuse orders. Some of them will also make requests 
 to you later after helping them.
  
  If you're going to save all the survivors, it is recommended that you should carry weapons for 
 them to use, but keep in mind that some of them are too preoccupied on getting out of the mall 
 to accept anything but life replenishing food and drinks. Also, some survivors can be found barricaded 
 in stores, or just hanging around the mall. Sometimes if you're not careful, survivors can be mutilated 
 by zombies and transform into the 'Undead'. All of the game's missions revolve around getting to 
 certain place at a certain time. You can check your watch to see what missions are available at 
 the time, and how to manage your time by completing certain objectives before taking on another. 
 When it comes to the plot missions, running out of time to complete them, or the death of a certain 
 character will result in a immediate halt of the story, and you'll be unable to continue it for 
 the rest of the game session. 
  
  This is mainly where the save system can screw you up, there is only one save file allowed for 
 one storage device, and if you saved in a tight spot where you encounter swarms of zombies ready 
 to tear you limb from limb, or you can't get to a mission in time, the game ends, and you'll have 
 to restart from the last save, continue playing, or return to the title screen. So yeah, death 
 can be both scary and frustrating, so it is important that you be careful of when and where you 
 save. 
  
  Apart from that, the graphics look pretty decent, the facial animations are well done, the lighting 
 is very good, and, of course, the gore looks especially good. Maybe not as advanced as Gears of 
 War, but still decent. The sound consists of top notch voice acting, and a plethora of artists, 
 such as Drea and Marylyn Manson. The sound effects are pretty decent as well, it's nice to hear 
 the revving of a chainsaw, the firing of a weapon, or the strumming of a guitar being used to mutilate 
 zombies. 
  
  Before I forget, completion of the plot will unlock you new modes, such as 'Overtime' and 'Infinite' 
 modes; Overtime mode continues the plot from the 72 Hour mode, and infinite mode replaces your 
 experience bar with a stamina bar that slowly drains your health meter, Frank must frequently consume 
 food to survive. Also, everyone in the mall is your enemy, and each time you defeat a survivor, 
 they drop a box with some useful items in it. I've never bothered to complete Infinite mode, but 
 if you want to take a crack at it, get some 14 hours of free time, and invite some friends over 
 to take shifts.
  
  Overall, I believe Dead Rising holds up pretty well. In my book, it's one of the best free-roaming 
 games next to Grand Theft Auto. There are a few minor flaws here and there, but not nearly enough 
 to prevent your enjoyment of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurpleDrink
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  where can a game go wrong when there are mindless zombies trying to eat you when you held up it 
 a mall? its one of the most fun cencept to think of, its even made itself famous of the Halo custom 
 games. sadly the concept of the game is the only positive thing about this game, its terrible. 
 
  
  ill start with the obvious complaints. the whole game is timed. all the missions are timed. this 
 meens you cant always explore the mall freely. and this meens when you save when you have little 
 time left, GAME OVER, you have to start the whole game all over again, the fact that the game is 
 supose to take 3 days is cool, that your realisticly timed is also cool, but it just doesnt work 
 sence saving will screw you over. 
  
  this game also has the worst boss fights ever. but of course, its capcom, they have never made 
 good boss fights so im not surprised. for some bosses you litaraly have to cheat the game, you 
 know, by standing behind or on top of something they cant get to and shoot for about 3 hours, most 
 of the time the dont react to bullets so you better hope your packing with amo. sence you might 
 die alot in the boss fights, you will go back to where you last saved, so if you save with lowish 
 health, youll normally have to go through 5 mobs of zombies w/o getting hit in order to have enough 
 health for the boss. its pathetic. how could capcom make a zombie game go so wrong? 
  
  All the weapons in the game act the same two, there are only a select few that make the combat 
 interesting, like a lawnmower or a chainsaw. but the rest are just things you pick up and simply 
 use a hi-hit-hit combo wth, its boring. there are few items you will see on the walls but cant 
 pick up so you cant use EVERYTHING. 
  
  dont buy it, its the most annoying game to ever walk the earth, i have a 50 in tv and i still have 
 to squint to see the damn text from a janitor that wont stop calling me when im surrounded by zombies.. 
 this game couldve been so much better if someone like Rockstar made it but no. leave it to Capcom 
 to ruin a classic stly of playing that we might not see for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow157
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  this is a true masterpiece almost as good as land of the dead like every game there are good things 
 and bad things first the bad you only get one slot to save so if you get to the last level of the 
 game and that part of the game kind of grew on you and you want to start a new game you have to 
 overwrite it and start from the begining again and the good amazing sence of style, so many differant 
 types of wepons, you even get to fight on foot and in vehicles dead rising really is a great game 
 to play and i don't care what anyone else thinks man when i heard you could use xbox live i thought 
 you could play it with online multiplayer that part was unexpeted well... what are you going to 
 do although... city of the dead seemed to be just as good as this game i hope theres a chance it 
 could be released 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro_tech9
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Do you like zombies? Do you like video games involving Zombies? now can you kill those zombies 
 with a pack of soda cans in your game? what about a mail box, or a Bench? if you had dead rising 
 you could answer those questions with a big satisfying yes. if you had dead rising you could gloat 
 about how you put Lego heads on the horde. Kill zombies with your bare hands? go for it karate 
 master! rummage through the stores for things to defend yourself with? oh yea! make Frank wear 
 a dress.... yea you can do that to.
  
  no matter who you are theres things for you from doing what ever you want for the 3 days you spend 
 in the mall to completing the cases and solving what caused this outbreak. kill physcopaths or 
 zombies. want to be a jerk? go right ahead an kill innocent people. 
  
  this game is fun for all!
  (this game is not for the easily disturbed... but try it anyway)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game is quite interesting, but for me it was very frustrating. The way you save the game is 
 quite ridiculous if you ask me, cause if you fail in the way to save it you will have to start 
 from the start point again. This game is long and very gory, I recommend strongly for over 18. 
 The graphics are ok, so I would say is an ok game. Dead Rising follows the harrowing tale of Frank 
 West, a freelance photojournalist after the scoop of a lifetime. In a small suburban town that's 
 overrun by zombies, he escapes to the local shopping mall, thinking it will be safe. Now it's a 
 standoff, with zombies unable to get Frank, but him unable to get out & escape. Fortunately, he's 
 got an entire mall at his disposal. You have to utilize everything you can find to fight off the 
 flesh-hungry mob and search for the truth behind the horrendous epidemic. Good luck with it if 
 you want to play this game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Do you enjoy zombies, gore, or malls? Well if you do then Dead Rising is the game for you. In Dead 
 Rising you play as a hardcore photographer named Frank West. Evidentially, Frank somehow managed 
 to get his hands on some information of a disaster going on in a small town. Frank takes a helicopter 
 to the town, but is forced to jump out above the town mall. He lands on the ceiling with no idea 
 as to what will happen to him inside. The helicopter will be there to pick him up in three days. 
 You have 72 hours.
  
  Inside of the mall, you can choose to do whatever you would like to, dodging the zombies of course. 
 This gives the player a sense of feeling, but it seems constantly hampered on by the fact that 
 you have to be in certain places at certain times. It just doesn't work. Throughout the game, you 
 encounter various psychopathic characters that make the game seem more life like. The voice acting 
 is decent and you begin to feel as if you are though you are really Frank West. 
  
  However, you begin to get tired and annoyed by the constant number of escort quests that you have 
 to do. Also, it seems virtually impossible to save every single survivor in the mall. The controls 
 are also a bit poor.
  
  Dead Rising is a decent attempt at a game. Don't get me wrong, it is entertaining, it just seems 
 as though it could have been so much better. I like to think of it as a beta version of a great 
 game. Dead Rising had potential; I just hope it uses more of it on the sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Okay who hasn't wanted to be locked in a mall during a zombie outbreak, show of hands? Anyway, 
 this game is just plain fun, thousands of zombies, thousands of items to kill said zombies with 
 you do the math. You are Frank a free lance photo journalist who smells a scoop and dives into 
 it feet first. You quickly find yourself out numbered by the undead and have to start thinning 
 their ranks. There is a main storyline and missions to complete then there are a ton of side missions 
 and little things to do. Not to mention since you can change Frank's cloths you're always hunting 
 to get the coolest attire together. I liked Frank with a hockey mask and Mega Man's blaster, oh 
 it was good times. Or if you like to just kill zombies by all means just run around and slaughter 
 you some undead. Seriously this game was the first game that made me really want to get an Xbox 
 360, and it was the first game I played on said system. I love it and still play it several hours 
 a week. Buy it! Graphics are great, the game play is top notch its just a great game to have. Buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is not your typical, zombie killing, survival horror game!
  in fact its not a survival horror game at all. It is more of a sort of joke than capcoms other 
 zombie games like resident evil. Dead Rising is taken place in a large shopping mall, where the 
 main character Frank West is flying over nearby and discovers that the town is blocked of and noo 
 one is there. He decides to go to down and investigate, but when he gets their he realieses that 
 the town is infested with zombies. So basicaly your in a shopping mall, zombies everywhere and 
 as many weapons as you can think of. You can literly take anything and everything from the shopping 
 centre, chainsaws, rakes, bats, garden tools even stuffed animals!
  This game isnt a really serious game, its just if you want to have looks of fun buy it. You dont 
 need to get really into it for it to be fun and its just something different. The graphics arnt 
 the best ever but are alright for when it came out but put that aside and this is one really really 
 fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhfpunisher
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  To start I am a zombie movie fan. The whole premise of man-eating zombies taking over the world 
 is a scary idea. The movies usually have a lot of unintentional as well as intentional comedy to 
 them. Dead Rising is a game that takes you inside one of these movies especially Dawn of the Dead. 
 The skinny is that you are a photojournalist that is trying to figure out what is going on in this 
 town and mall. The mall gets filled with zombies like the ones from the original Romero films (not 
 DoD remake) . They stumble along after you and you can take them out with pretty much anything. 
 I have used knives, axes, katanas, lawn mowers, frying pans (heated or not) , bubble gum machines, 
 benches, chainsaws, guitars of different types, augers (one of the best) , etc. The game is bloody 
 as hell and that makes it great. You can slice zombies in have, cut their heads of, mow them down, 
 shoot them, etc. It's great fun and the mall is pretty big and filled with zombies so taking out 
 600 in 30 minutes is quite possible. 
  The game is not only about killing zombies however, there are also humans that you must face. These 
 crazies are the hardest part of the game in my opinion. The story evolves and you are given information 
 for missions from the mall janitor, Otis through a transceiver. (This thing can actually get annoying 
 during the games where you just want to check out the mall, level up, and take out a couple of 
 thousand zombies) . Anyway these bosses are not easy to fight and it takes some timing, etc. to 
 beat them. 
  The game's level up mechanism works through taking pictures, performing tasks, and killing zombies 
 (and bosses) . You get what are called PP points which as you level up you learn more skills, get 
 more health, get stronger, etc. You may want to just play the game for awhile to level up before 
 trying to actually beat it. You have 72 hours before the helicopter comes to pick you up but you 
 restart after you die. So the 72 hours begins all over again. 
  Saving the game is one of the only things that bother me. You have to use the security room or 
 restrooms to save and this isn't usually convenient. If you do not save you die, and the game by 
 no means is short. This is why I put the difficulty as hard. The bosses alone will get you if a 
 hoard of zombies doesn't. 
  In conclusion I like this game quite a bit. It is one of the reasons I went for the 360 instead 
 of PS3, I just like zombies that much. It definitely did not disappoint!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teroseth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the games, where if you love it, you'll love it, and if you hate it, well, 
 you get the picture. Personally, I enjoyed the game, mainly because the idea of killing an entire 
 town of zombies in a completely (physical) risk free environment is akin to being given the keys 
 to a monster truck and told you can drive over your neighbours flashy new car you hate so much. 
 However, Dead Rising does have some flaws.
  
  1) The music. The same mall music plays every day ingame, and it's bad enough to begin with, at 
 the end of the game, you're debating with yourself the relative merits of headbutting your television 
 speakers into oblivion. Worse than that is sometimes, there's no music at all the mall, and whilst 
 this does the game some atmosphere, it could just as easily be argued that some tense ambient music 
 could be played to heighten drama. Anyway, this is a personal opinion, you may, or may not agree 
 with this audio complaint.
  
  2) The relative shortness of the game. Sure, it does have immense replay value, but the entire 
 story can be finished in roughly 7-8 hours, and the tagged on Infinite Mode only really serves 
 to make the other 7-8 hours go by faster and easier. 
  
  3) The Convicts. Maybe it was a glitch, maybe it was intended, but i want to know why and how these 
 guys kept on reappearing, I tried every strategy I heard regarding stopping them spawning, I wrecked 
 their car, I killed them and left their car, i killed them, took their car and left it in the tunnels, 
 and nothing worked. And as I'm sure others will attest to, killing the convicts only to have them 
 respawn when you've got 8 survivors following you, is bloody annoying in the least, and makes a 
 regular person damned homocidal in the worst.
  
  4) Otis. Those who have played the game will know what i mean. For those without, Otis is a janitor 
 who acts as a guide for Frank (the main Character) , and details the malls layout, and tells Frank 
 where survivors are and such. However, he will not shut up, and tends to call at the most inopportune 
 moments, and in such instances, you are unable to defend yourself. Then there's the small matter 
 of if you hang up on Otis to save your life, he calls back 2 seconds later, and tells you off for 
 being rude. Yes. For being rude. Needless to say, in Infinite Mode where you have the chance to 
 kill Otis, I know people have just started Infinite mode, killed Otis, quit, restarted, killed 
 Otis again ,quit /repeat.
  
  There are other annoying flaws in the game, mostly a few graphical glitches though often they are 
 easy enough to overlook, and psychopaths who are rendered invulnerable thanks to a stray graphic 
 clip deflecting bullets..... but there are good things about this game. The story, though short 
 and clich, is a good one considering it's not the focal point of the game. The voice acting is 
 cheesy and camp, and fits the game setting so well. And of course, killing zombies is very theraputic. 
 All in all, if you like action/platform games, wherein you get to kill zombies, numbering literally 
 in the thousands, Dead Rising is the game for you. For the rest of you, it'll give a few laughs, 
 a few shocks, but will probably get annoying and tedious quite fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreekflameX
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising was a game I wanted to like, I really did. There was just too much wrong with. In my 
 opinion Capcom was just trying to hard to make a good zombie game they over looked the game play 
 issues that made it crap. But, I guess I'd be lying if I said I never had fun playing this game, 
 so let's start at the beginning.
  You start the game as a photojournalist named Frank that has rented a helicopter to investigate 
 a lead he had. As you fly though the city, which has been quarantined by the military, you get 
 spend about two minuets taking pictures of people getting killed by zombies until you land on top 
 of the mall. The pilot says he'll be back for you in three days and you begin 72 hour mode, the 
 fist mode in the game. The only survivors are two CIA agents and the janitor. Through out the rest 
 of the game you get mission from them. 
  While I'm here I have a chance to explain the first thing that pisses me off about this game. The 
 mission system in this game is f***ed up. You have your main missions that appear every few game 
 hours which leaves you with a lot of down time but your afraid to go to far incase you can't get 
 back in time. Then you have scoops (side missions) the janitor will radio you every once in a while 
 with information on an event happening in the mall and I'll guarantee you three out of four times 
 your going to be recuing someone. These missions bring a degree of annoyance to the game that I'm 
 not even willing to talk about. 
  Now, about the saves. You can only save the game in your hide out or in a bathroom which doesn't 
 sound unreasonable but is royal pain in the ass. After you look past the issue of having your items 
 break after a certain time you're left with Megaman armor. That's right Megaman armor. You get 
 this armor by completing certain achievements. We get it Capcom you made Megaman let it go.
  In all honesty I didn't get much farther then that, but from what I heard it just keeps going down 
 hill. If your looking to raise you gamer score I'd suggest you go rent Avatar.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: square_eyesA39
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  So you're stuck in a shopping mall swarming with zombies and you have 72 hours to use everything 
 and anything you find to kill as much zombies as you can. Of course that isn't all Dead rising 
 is, it actually has a pretty good story which can be played more than once as you can go down different 
 paths and save different people to change the out come of the plot. With each different ending 
 you play in 72 hour mode can unlock other modes such as survival mode were you don't play to the 
 story you just have to survive in the mall as long as you can. You play as a photo journalist who 
 is investigating mysterious activity in a small town. You get down into the towns enormous mall 
 and discover that there has being a zombie out break and all the survivors are hiding out within 
 parts of the mall. You seem to be pretty safe in the mall until an annoying old woman breaks the 
 barricade just to save her dog. The zombies are unleashed into the mall as it is up to you and 
 some weird FBI characters to save lost survivors, stop a terrorist and find out what caused the 
 zombie infestation, this all happens as you attempt to record it and try to make it back to your 
 helicopter by the time the 3 days are up. 
  
  The best thing about Dead Rising is the ability to use all of your surroundings to destroy zombies. 
 Some weapons are less obvious than others such as a shot gun compared to a teddy bear. Some of 
 the weapons have special moves such as the frying pan which when heated you can burn zombie's faces. 
 Each different weapon has its own movement and attack; you can even use parts of dead zombies to 
 kill others. There are heaps of survivours spread across the mall, some you have to save and some 
 have gone crazy and will become in game bosses. The boss fights are great. There are special ways 
 of killing each boss, you either have to have a specific type of weapon or have to trap them into 
 an area where they may become weaker. There are heaps of boss fights, so much that you problably 
 wont have finished them all in one game. But it is worth it, each time you defeat a boss you unlock 
 a new area of the mall. With each new area comes new weapons clothing and more zombies. The more 
 people you save and Zombies you kill the more points you get, points can help you get more health 
 or amount of weapons you can hold at one time. You can also read books from the malls libraries 
 to unlock new fighting skills and ways of uing weapons. The Humour in this game is great, there 
 is a lot of funny clothing to collect and if you're wearing a bear helmet and a really cool Mega 
 Man suit when a serious cinimatic comes on, you'll be wearing that outfit though the cinimatic. 
 If you like the clothes you have collected or any special weapon you find you can store it in the 
 storage room at the base so you can use them again later.
  
  Dead Rising is far from being a perfect game, and it's the story that is its weakest link. The 
 story isn't bad and it's occasionally interesting but continuous loading screens and cinematics 
 trying to tell you more about the plot get in the way of zombie killing. Graphical Dead Rising 
 is great looking and easy on the eyes, but compared to other games it doesn't quite look as good 
 with some visual glitches and a cartoony style to the characters makes the realistic looking environment 
 and blood look out of place. Characters facial movements are often robotic and don't seem to keep 
 up with the characters dialogue. The only frustrating part in Dead Rising is the save system, you 
 have to either rest on a bed up in the top of the mall or go to the toilet to save. So if you haven't 
 saved for the entire game you're right at the end and you die, you have to start the game again. 
 Fortunately if you have upgraded before you died you can chose to start from your last save point 
 with all your current points and skills. It would have been a better game if it had check points 
 across the mall and before each boss fight. The only other really annoying thing is the writing, 
 it is very hard to read but its no big deal.
  
  Dead Rising is a great game, it is hilarious and a lot of fun yet on occasion fairly serious. It 
 can be scary for some faint heart people and some little kids especially when night comes and the 
 zombies get stronger. It's a great exclusive game on the Xbox 360 and one you must have in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  In the world of video game zombies, we've had the pleasure of playing some interesting games. The 
 main zombie franchise in games is of course, Resident Evil. Resident Evil is an amazing series 
 but we need freshness. How about, the "Dawn of the Dead", trapped-in-a-mall scenario in a game? 
 That's where Dead Rising comes in, from Capcom (who gave us Resident Evil) . First off, Dead Rising 
 has nothing to do with George A. Romero's 1978 classic film. Now, the game is one word: FUN. I 
 never had more fun killing thousands of zombies in my life. The almost limitless amount of weapons 
 and ways to dispatch zombies in amazing. Chainsaw? Sure. Sword? Yep. A gallon of milk? Yes, sir. 
 Anything and everything is a potential weapon. there are some vehicles as well to run over hordes 
 of zombies. Now, let's get down to the story. You're free-lance journalist Frank West. You hear 
 about a big story happening in Willamette, Colorado. From a helicopter, you land on top of a mall 
 and not too long later, you find out that the town is infested with real zombies. After a dumb 
 old lady opens the barred doors to the mall, the zombies get in. Now, it's up to you and others 
 to survive for 3 days (or longer) until the helicopter arrives back. The graphics are beautiful. 
 The character models have alot of detail. The zombies are beautifully disgusting. I just wish that 
 when we see them eat people, we would see grotesque, explicit scenes, but we don't. The story has 
 many twists and turns and many side missions. It's almost impossible to finish the whole game one 
 time through. Plus, there are multiple ways to finish the game so you'll never play the same way 
 twice (unless you try) . The game lasts a long time and it doesn't fly by, even though you're having 
 the time of your life killing zombies while saving people. You have a camera to use to take pictures. 
 You are awarded points for good pictures and it comes in handy sometimes. It's a neat mechanic 
 but it's not put to real good use. Saving people is a challenge. You have to hold their hand (which 
 slows you down) while avoiding death from the zombies. One of the mall's security guards, Ottis, 
 informs you of people in distress. The achievements are a blast to get and if you can get the game's 
 hardest achievement, killing 53,594 zombies, which is the towns populous! All in all, Dead Rising 
 is a great experience and a must play on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a good game to play if you just wanna mess around. It is like a water-downed version 
 of Grand Theft Auto San Andreas except instead of prostitutes it is zombies. This game takws survival 
 horror to a new place although still fun it is very different from the normal. This game is pretty 
 decent and worth buying. It has a pretty high replay value, considering some of the achievements 
 require you to play through again. The only problem I had with it was that the text was extremely 
 hard to read on twenty-eight inch or less TV's. It was blurry and unreadable. Other than that Capcom 
 did a good job keeping the whole zombie thing going. So if your a Capcom fan or a zombie fan you 
 will enjoy it every time you pick it up and discover a new way to decapitate a walking corpse.
 
  This was my review of Capcom's 
  Dead Rising 
  Until next time 
  Peace EZ
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboyuno
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The problem is this is not a "Do whatever you want" kind of game. The game has three modes to it. 
 Story, Overtime, and infinate modes are the different game choices but you hae to play through 
 Story to unlock overtime. Once you beat overtime mode you unlock infinate mode.
  
  For most people the things Im going to tell you will keep you from buying the game.
  
  -You 
 must follow a strict time schedule or you lose
  
  -You gain levels but your hp still sucks at level 50.
  
  -Some bosses are so overpowered that 
 you have to use glitches in the game like line of sight in order to kill them.
  
  -Once you unlock infinate mode your health slowly drains so you have to keep looking for food (which 
 is limited) .
  
  -You cannot save in infinate mode.
  
  -There are bosses everywhere in infinate mode
  
  -You put up with story mode becuase you think 
 that infinate mode is the reason that you bought the game, and it really does suck.
  
  Capcom was trying to make an authentic game. The problem is that you don't WANT to play the story 
 mode and you don't WANT a challenge. You just want to kill some freakin zombies!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: link1989_gs
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  While Dead Rising looks like a good game with an excellent concept, with the premise of being trapped 
 in a mall by zombies and everything's at your disposal to use, much like in Dawn of the Dead, except 
 that in Dawn some stupid woman doesn't let zombies over take the mall after seeing her little poodle 
 trapped outside with the zombies.
  This game makes you feel like an idiot, seriously. The AI for the survivors is a real stupid one 
 at that, as they usually try to kill me when I help them. The actual game play is so-so, if it 
 wasn't for the fact that you can get swamped by a crowd of zombies in a matter of seconds. And 
 the actual weapons aren't the greatest either, as when you aim it takes the longest damn time, 
 I mean, if it were like a Tom Clancey game or something I could've taken down at least 10 zombies 
 in a minute, but no, the aiming is so awkward, as it over shoots past your target, and it takes 
 so long to actually go on target. Melee is the only way to go in this game, even then, the game 
 laughs at this and makes you fight boss battles against people who's guns that can take you down 
 quicker than this season of Family Guy's hilarity.
  The actual weapons are ok, like it never gets old with smashing a zombie in the head with a Gibson 
 Flying V, but the thing is that your inventory is so depleted, your given a very limited amount 
 of space to store these items in, and the fact of the matter is that your weapons break very easy 
 and quickly, so your only back up after this is your fists, and those don't help much. If your 
 stuck with your fists, you better hope that you taste inedible to zombies because you're going 
 to get eaten like a buffet a table.
  There is a horrible system going on with this guy named Otis always calling you while your busy 
 to let you know something you can neither read off the screen because the text is so small nor 
 do you care about what he has to tell you, except that if you don't listen you'll miss out on something 
 which causes a chain reaction of events that make you lose the game. And this game even has the 
 balls to make you choose between loading your previous save or to save your character and start 
 over again, and in the instance of missing something and causing the dreaded chain reaction, you 
 can even keep playing to see what else is going on aside from you becoming zombie chow.
  As I had said earlier, the text in this game is so small, you would need a magnifying glass just 
 to make out what is partially legible, even then it's up there for about 5 seconds before moving 
 on to a part that doesn't tell you the important things. And touching on the AI again, they really 
 need to balance it out, because survivors are about as smart as the zombies they're running away 
 from, and the bosses are truly super human, meaning good luck fighting them, you're really going 
 to need it, especially with the atrocious aiming system installed into this as well as the other 
 fact that the control layout is completely out of whack. The other thing is the bosses, they are 
 really the worst you will ever face off, as they are both too complex and strong. The first boss 
 you fight is called Carlito, like the Al Pacino movie, and he has a machine gun that can take you 
 down in a matter of seconds if you just stand there. He also likes to throw grenades that will 
 blow you into his field of view even if you're not close to them, and with the fact that he runs 
 around so much it makes the game more difficult than you can imagine.
  There's also this whole thing with taking photo's, which is a totally lost cause. It basically 
 just means that you can run around snapping photo's of your zombie chums and making the lowest 
 points out there. Oh, and that reminds me, early on in the game you'll run into a photographer 
 who must have ADHD because he quite literally hops off the walls and will start fighting you if 
 you take down a zombie he was after. Do what ever you can to keep from running into this guy, he's 
 just a thorn in the side.
  You also have to deal with this really annoying experience system, which really doesn't have any 
 true meaning behind, except for upgrades which don't help, because after a while, you no longer 
 want to just get more for inventory, you want the ability to actually fight off zombies with your 
 fists, and more health, you need alot more health.
  That being said, this game makes my head hurt, both from the fact that I was tearing my hair out 
 in clumps and my brain was working over time to work this mess out. And here's one that just hit 
 me, this game takes place in a very small town, and yet, there are endless hordes of the undead, 
 which are all from this town. How the hell is this possible? If the town is blocked off from all 
 other civilization I don't think there's going to be a lot of people to bring up a army of the 
 undead this big, that is unless this is set back in 1943 in which the zombies are Jews from Europe 
 trying to escape the Third Reich. And that was not a racial remark. Very few redeeming points can 
 be found, but they can not save this heap of trash from the eventual decay of the bargain bin, 
 which it is inevitably destined to end up in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howt_Showt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  So we've all thought about it. Being locked in a mall overnight, no security guards to be found. 
 What fun it would be! All of the fancy tech, swanky clothes, and delicious foods of the food court 
 all to yourself. No lines, no crowds, just you and your new stuff. Now, what if you had all that... 
 but with zombies? That may sour the moment a little, but hey, it would make one hell of a game.
 
  
  You are Frank West, a photojournalist sent over to Willamette Parkview mall to cover a supposed 
 riot. However, as you make your way by helicopter to the mall you start seeing some bizarre occurrences. 
 This is no ordinary riot. As you descend into the bowls of the mall you find a group of people 
 barricading the door. Upon venturing over, you find what the barricade is holding back....
  
  And so begins your adventure. As the barricade breaks and you start fighting off the seemingly 
 endless zombie horde, you immediately have to learn how to adapt to the situation. Throughout the 
 game your going to have to adapt to any situation, picking up ordinary objects from bats to umbrellas. 
 There are endless possibilities on how to vanquish your zombified foes. So you found a fish in 
 the pond, huh? Why not beat a zombie over the head with it! Got a car? Well start mowing them down! 
 Gun store? Yup, this mall has one (continent, huh?) . There's no end to it! Not to mention that 
 the zombies are endless, so you'll have plenty of time to experiment. Just be creative.
  
  However, this game isn't just about surviving. Your helicopter is going to show up in 3 days, and 
 it's your duty to save as many survivors as humanly possible, not to mention your photojournalistic 
 responsibilities to take as many funny and/or gory pictures as possible. Not only that, but depending 
 on whether or not you choose to get involved in the story will alter the total amount of playtime 
 you get and the ending you receive. Is this more than a simple zombie outbreak? That's for you 
 to find out. There are also many, many side quests which allow you to save other survivors. Doing 
 some of these will allow you to get particularly powerful weapons or particularly involved survivors.
 
  
  Overall, Dead Rising makes a fun and innovative twist on the traditional survival horror game. 
 It has tons of things to do, and has decent replay value. Trust me when I say, your going to like 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a Horror Action Adventure game. It is kinda like GTA but your in a shopping mall 
 full of zombies and survives. You are a photographer who has came to this city to see whats happening 
 and gets dropped off at a shopping mall. He stays there for 3 days which you play. This game is 
 so fun to play. You have to find out whats going on and where have these zombies come from.
  It is not a bad game from Capcom. It is a great game if you like free-roaming games. You can grab 
 weapons from stores, change clothes and ride skateboards and other stuff and kill zombies.
  The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is awesome and fun. I reckon you Xbox 360 players would 
 like this game.
  Dead Rising doesn't support Online multiplayer but it would have been fun ever if it was co-op. 
 But there is downloadable content that you can download at the Marketplace. 
  Dead Rising is a great action adventure game and you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOTD33
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This is another game by Capcom, the creators of the Resident Evil and Devil May Cry series. Dead 
 Rising's plot centers around Frank West, a photo journalist ,that is in a helicopter when his copper 
 is forced to land on the top of a mall. Frank must survive the zombie infested mall for 72 hours. 
 Frank can use many weapons in this game, really everything is a weapon. Blades, sledgehammers, 
 guns, CDs everything! This is one of the best zombie games ever. The next great zombie games that 
 are coming out are Resident Evil 5 and Left 4 Dead. Capcom is doing great right now. they're next 
 big game is Resident Evil 5. Overall, the game is a great experience to try. The game is great, if 
 you like zombies, action, or beating the crap out of people, this is the game for you.
  Ratings -
  Game play-9/10
  Story-9/10
  Horror-8/10
  Graphics-8.5/10
  Overall-9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkerPath
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Being a massive horror movie fan, not a sole in the world would have been awaiting this game more 
 than me. Had it on pre-order, picked it up, came home, life ended. Terrible. Ok so it starts off 
 ok. But after only a few measly hours the game is so boring. Your character has no credability 
 and putting on stupid clothes is funny only a couple of times. oh yeah and dont even bother getting 
 this game if you have a poor quality tv. Even on a HD the text is nigh-on impossile to read. I 
 traded it on command and conquer a week later and couldnt be happier. Buyer beware, dont believe 
 the hype. Play a demo or borrow a mates copy first. If he hasnt already traded it! Also a quick 
 kudos to Bill Murray. After a second watch of "Groundhog Day" it proved he has enough guts to act 
 in a movie that bad, and still show his face in hollywood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killmaster3811
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever dreamed of being trapped in a mall with thousands of zombies? Well neither did I 
 until I played Dead Rising. You are Frank West, a free-lance photo journalist who will go anywhere 
 to get the next big story, even if it means trapping himself in a mall with thousands of zombies 
 for 72 hours. You can use virtualy anything to as a weapon, from a fish to a gass powered mining 
 drill. Once you beat story mode you unlock overtime mode which is where you have 24 hours to gather 
 the items to stop yourself from becoming infected (no way! i was in a mall battling zombies for 
 72 hours and they actualy bit me?) . Once you beat that you unlock the "true ending" and infinity 
 mode. All in all you can spend hours and hours mindlessly killing zombies and it never gets old. 
 But I warn you, IF YOU ARE UNDER 15 DO NOT, AND I REPEAT DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME IT CONTAINS EXTREME 
 SCENES OF VIOLENCE INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: BEHEADING, EVISCERATING, DISEMBOWLEMENT, CHOPPING 
 PEOPLE IN HALF, AND THE GORIEST I CAN THINK OF RIGHT NOW IS WHERE YOU REACH INTO A ZOMBIE AND PULL 
 OUT THEIR ORGANS TO KILL THEM, I REPEAT THIS GAME IS EXTREMELY GRAPHIC AND I WOULD NOT RECOMEND 
 LETTING ANY ONE UNDER 15 PLAY, OR EVEN WATCH YOU PLAY THIS. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbrain120
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising may be one of the best games due to the enormous amount of zombies occupying one mall 
 but how many zombies does it take to get bored of killing? It may sound crazy but killing zombies 
 isn't all it's cracked up to be. Sure chainsawing a zombie may be cool but the button mashing is 
 terrible! When zombies go for the kill on you it takes mindless button mashing just to shake the 
 zombie. Endless time on end is wasted just to stop and look at your watch. And could it kill Cap 
 com to put a digital watch on the guy! Another bad thing about this game is the time limit. You 
 only have 72 hours to get out of the mall. What kind of game has a time limit. His totally ruined 
 the game for me. If your in it for the achievements you might as well forget about getting all 
 of them in one play through or two or three. This game for me was not worth it all and I encourage 
 renting this game if not leaving the game completely alone altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong i LOVE Dead Rising but this game has some serious flaws. Dead Rising is really 
 a time-based zombie game that pits Frank West a freelance photographer in a mall full of ZOMBIES!!!! 
 You have 3 days basically tocomplete the game and that seems like a very short amount of time but 
 not it seems like FOREVER!!!!!!!!! There are bosses which are pschycopath survivors and they are 
 alot naming a few Convicts, Carlito, Isabella, Cletus, Jo, The Hall Snipers, and more. Another 
 act of flaw this game has sooooman endings like ending b, c, d, etc.... and the only true ending 
 is Ending A which is the true one the right way the game is supposed to end. Unfortunaly i recieved 
 I'm not sure which ending it is but i was stupid and stayed in the sercurity room until 12 noon 
 on Day 4 and the chopper dude thought i was dead so himself died by a zombie bite. In return i 
 did not recieve the true ending maybe one day i will go back and try agian to recieve that Ending 
 A. Dead Rising is hard but just sooo much fun to play some other flaws are the weapons tend to 
 break down which sucks and theres hella of zombies EVERYWHERE and its chaos. In conclusion Dead 
 Rising is a fun HARD game with ALOT of flaws bu in the end the only thing that mzatters is the 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising your pinned against a whole load of zombies in a mall. After a while it starts to 
 get old and the zombies just seam like pests while doing missions, but there are some cool moves 
 to show off. There are also some fun side missions like trying to defeat psychopaths or getting 
 the civilians to safety. Another thing I love about Dead Rising is being able to pick up nearly 
 anything. For example, you can pick a cash register up and throw it a zombies head. Though some 
 civilians can get pretty anoying, like when they straggle behind trying to fight off zombies or 
 when you give them a weapon and they don't use it, they just stand there and cry their eyes out. 
 Another anoying thing that I can't stand in Dead Rising is that cell phone that you have. You should 
 be able to put that thing on silent. The save points can get anoying since they're spread out and 
 you can't just save from the pause screen. Some of the achievements are extremely hard but it gives 
 the game more replay value. The graphics are decent espeicially for how many zombies are on screen. 
 That's why Dead Rising deserves an 8.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is an extremely creative thing and luckily it was one of those games that had to be 
 pulled off just right and thank god it was. I actually was late to really get into an Xbox 360 
 i first played one at my friends house and he had purchased this game which literally after playing 
 for 10 minutes i wanted to have an Xbox 360 right then and there. I did have the original Xbox 
 but after playing Dead rising it didn't cut it anymore. Dead rising has hours of fun if you actually 
 take time to level up which seems odd for a zombie game but not all that difficult thank goodness. 
 It was a ground breaking game for me due to the fact that i have always been a fan of zombies but 
 not to much into Resident evil. I thought they were fun but not worth my time until about Resident 
 evil 4 but i did enjoy Silent hill a whole lot but that's a side the point. This game brought a 
 lighter side to zombies whilst sometimes you can get a little edgy at night during the game you 
 were not on your edge scared. But sadly the time limit and the missions get a little old a little 
 too fast. You have 72 hours or so (in game that is) but you feel rushed and for a game like this 
 if your trying to do the objectives it can feel stressful but really over all i think it was a 
 great game that i had to have i purchased it right away with my new 360 (mind you that was awhile 
 ago i have now moved on to the Elite) but for people who really like this type of game GO for it 
 spend the whatever amount of money it's already a platinum hit so it's cheaper but if your not 
 sure rent it and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwood69
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game started out good but the more you run around inside, as well as out, of this mall it 
 starts to get very old, very quickly. Making the person, me, lose interest just as quickly. You 
 get little quests that are boring and not so great as you run through a wall to wall amount of 
 zombies. Hitting and shooting your way to the next spot. The idea of the "damsel in destress" should 
 be left to a disney game, not this one! And what was up with the little screen that they displayed 
 the clown boss in? Don't you think with how far we have come with our gaming ability this would 
 be a better portrayed thing? If you want to complete the game all you have to do is turn on your 
 console... leave your player on the roof and simply walk away... same thing that I ended up doing. 
 Its sad when someone is willing to admit that they beat a game this way.... there is no pleasure 
 in that at all! I found more pleasure in having to go out back and pick up dog poop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentos_eater424
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  You start this game and your thinking cool this is nice, but the story is weak. The graphics are 
 decent considering the number of zombies on the screen at once, and the fact that you can pick 
 up and use almost everything is awesome. I couldn't get into the story mode at all due to the boring 
 missions and stupid save points. This is a perfect game for playing with friends, seeing how many 
 zombies you can kill, and passing it to your friend so he can see if he can kill as much as you. 
 I think if the story was more organized and the save points were not in bathrooms only they could 
 make this an awesome game. I reccomend renting it. If you like it and are not bored of it after 
 a week then buy it. It just didn't do it for me though. The cellphone feature is just plain annoying 
 and I dont think it should be there. Some of the boss fights are very irritating to go into if 
 you dont have any good weapons. The voice acting is decent and the beggining is good. I just run 
 around and kill zombies. The story mode is not fun. Hope this was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lOh_Noesl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a survival/horror game made for the xbox 360, set in a mall filled with over 50,000 
 ex residents (zombies and psychopaths) of a rural town. The game kicks off with freelance photojournalist 
 Frank West entering the grief stricken town by helicopter and being dropped on the roof of the 
 mall to get his scoop in three days which promises fame and fortune, but Frank himself doesn't 
 know exactly what he's got himself into... until it's too late.
  
  Different elements of gameplay in Dead Rising vary from incredibly fun and highly amusing to utterly 
 frustrating, guaranteeing you will be tearing your hair out at some parts throughout the game. 
 The best parts of the game are the weapons and combat, there are over 250 different items you can 
 use to unleash all hell on the masses of living dead such as the hedge clipper, chainsaw, CD's 
 ('Shaun of the Dead' style) and even a pointy broom stick. The feel of cutting a swathe through 
 what seems a pile of 300+ zombies in one go gives a feeling like no other, and the combat element 
 of this game almost makes it worth getting on it's own. And the boss fights, oh man are they great. 
 They are incredibly well designed and it feels spectacular watching the cut-scenes and engaging 
 in combat with the psychopaths who act as bosses, as it feels like they each have different personalities 
 and have a story to tell as to why they have ended up the way that they are. 
  (a quick warning to people who are afraid of clowns - do NOT go near the roller coaster in the 
 shopping center - you have been warned)
  
  Unfortunately some elements drag this game down and restrict it from being possibly the best game 
 made for the xbox 360. The main mistake that Capcom has made with Dead Rising is the story system, 
 and it is utterly terrible. You HAVE to be in a certain place by a certain time or else you will 
 fail the entire story. And since there's only one save slot, if you save at a bad time where you 
 can't get to a mission objective in time, or you're pinned down by a boss you will have to start 
 all your hard work over again. But on the bright side you get to keep all of your stats and hard 
 earned experience making things a lot easier the second time around. Dead Rising also rears it's 
 ugly head with the mission system where once you complete the day's case file's (the Dead Rising 
 term for mission) you are pretty much left to do nothing but try and survive. Now this may sound 
 absolutely awesome, but it isn't as the day's missions don't even last that long making the story 
 mode feel almost half-a**ed and uninspired where it could've been fleshed out more.
  
  The final frustrating element of gameplay - the oh-so-bad escort missions. Surprisingly it's not 
 having to try and get some-one to follow you through crowds of up to 200 raging zombies in pitch 
 black darkness, but at how horrendously idiotic the AI is for fellow survivors. For example, on 
 numerous occasions I had cleared a huge mob of zombies for my fellow survivors to get through, 
 and when i call them to follow me and turn around, i find them running in the opposite direction 
 to attack a zombie or something, only to become swamped in the living dead and ending up as zombie 
 food.
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising where brilliant in 2006 and still pretty decent today, they're definitely 
 next-gen but can't compare to games such as Gears of War which can also be purchased for roughly 
 th same price. There aren't too many different skins for zombies, so you're bound to same the same 
 one every 20 seconds or so. The blood looks pretty decent while being over the top gory, but if 
 you attack roughly 10 people or above at once the frame rate drops considerably with the amount 
 of blood and limbs spewing forth from the writhing mass. 
  
  All in all Dead Rising is enjoyable, but doesn't seem like a very good game at all when you first 
 start out. This is probably for a couple of reasons such as the amount of loading and unessential 
 talking/cutscenes that take place at the start of the game. Also when you first start out Frank 
 is incredibly weak, only taking a couple of hits to kill (a psychopath can absolutely tear you 
 a 'new one' with just a glance) , you run too slow to escape an attacking zombie, you can't throw 
 things far at all and you can hold 4 items at once, making it hard to balance long lasting weapons 
 and healing items. It's a pretty decent game and fans of zombie games, and Capcom in general should 
 check this one out as there are alot of obvious, and some not-so obvious references to other Capcom 
 franchises that fan's will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Dead Risings unique way of exterminating zombies is one of the funniest things I ever seen. First 
 everything in the game is a weapon EX. Go into a hardware store and pick up a pair of hedge trimmers 
 and you can cut zombies in half by the waist or use a chainsaw and kill them the easy way.
  Second you can blind zombies by putting traffic cones or anything big and hollow on their heads 
 and kill them painfully. Third you can battle more then one hundred zombies at a time. Graphics 
 are really good considering that most zombies look different and there are thousands of them, and 
 the character kind of looks a bit realistic in a way. The game has a decent storyline by how you 
 are stuck in a mall with millions of bloodthirsty assailants from outside with other survivors 
 in need of your assistance to also live to see another day again, but the game is mainly about 
 your survival to beat the game. If you want more information, rent or buy the game if you have 
 an Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_jakey
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  this game has to be one of the most fun games to play on the 360. Dead Rising's story centers on 
 Frank West, a photojournalist who ends up trapped in a shopping mall infested with zombies. Frank 
 must defend himself from zombie attacks, rescue survivors and avoid crazed psychopaths, while still 
 attempting to uncover the truth behind the incident. in the game you can go around the shopping 
 mall and take a host of items to use as weopons some of wich include chainsaws, guns, tools, bowling 
 balls, scythes, shopping trolleys, boomerangs and even tomato ketchup. The main objective of the 
 game is to remain alive inside the zombie-infested mall for at least three days, after which help 
 will arrive via chartered helicopter. In-game time runs approximately twelve times faster than 
 real-time, i. e., one day in-game is exactly two hours in real time. Therefore, the game is automatically 
 ended after six hours of gameplay, when the time runs out. This game is great fun but can be repetitive 
 at some points in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popeyfolger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  No this may be a matter of opinion but this is truly a must own game to me. I don't know that it's 
 anywhere near the top of the list for best games of the Xbox 360, but in my opinion it's probably 
 in the top five. Truth be told I don't know why. The graphics aren't amazing, The game play is 
 sort of repetitive, and the story is not that compelling, yet there is something about killing 
 thousands of mindless zombies that you have to appreciate. One of my favorite things about this 
 game is it's variety of weapons practically anything in your environment can be used. I spent hours 
 literally seeing the effects of different weapons on zombies. The difficulty is challenging yet 
 always possible though some quick restocking of food and weapons maybe neccessary. Problems seem 
 to lie in the escort missions (when don't they) but this game includes many, many, many escort 
 missions. And a slew of incredibly stupid survivors waiting to die in hordes of zombies that they 
 would rather stand next to and get stuck on then run from. However there is a reward for all your 
 stress with the survivors. You do get a deserving amount of experience when you save them, and 
 some really cool maniacs to save them from. The maniacs vary from a sadistic clown to a 
  mad grocery store employee trying to protect his store from potential criminals trying to vandalize 
 his store. All of them are interesting and unique and are definitely a high point to the game. 
 This review is tough like I said to me this game is a 9.5 to but I can't in all fairness with all 
 this games flaws give a game like this that kind of score no matter how much I may like it so here 
 it is an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Yeah maybe this was the best in its hay day, although I would argue that a game so simplistic and 
 thoughtless could never be good, but putting this game in last night I was reminded of why I HATE 
 load screens, this game has the most LOADING and longest LOADING of any game I have EVER played.... Now 
 lets over look the lack of any story and anything worth intresting you.... This game has horrible 
 mechanics...... To shoot anything you come to a complete halt to aim and it uses the left analog 
 to aim which is BACKWARDS from any shooting game I have played and not to mention the just awkward 
 feel it gives you, it is a feat to shoot anything in this game...... The graphics are abysmall but 
 lets give the bulks characters some slack it is OLDER.... Now onto the worst thing about this game.... What 
 the hell happen to SAVING... This game reminds you of how IMPORTANT saving your game is... No checkpoints 
 no auto save and only one save slot.... YES ONE save slot.... You ccan literally spend hours do 
 the same thing over and over again...... And speaking of over and over again... Thats all you do, 
 kill ZOMBIES over and over again.... This game is made by a group of nobodys that capcom took a 
 chance on and I guess some folks loved it.... That baffles me and I am sure they were baffled that 
 anyone like this soapbox, slapstick, should've been release 10 years ago nothing of a game... WASTE 
 OF TIME............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has a great premise and gives you an amazing arsenal of weapons to use to eradicate 
 zombies -- parasols, mop buckets, golf clubs, bowling balls, cash registers, CDs -- if you can find 
 it in a mall, you can most likely wield it with deadly force. It's a visceral game and it really 
 relays the claustrophobia you'd feel if you were trapped in a mall crawling with slow moving, dimwitted 
 zombies -- at times you're shoulder to shoulder with a room full of them, and your anxiety increases 
 commensurately. So its a really well done game.
  
  That said, I didn't like it. It's a matter of personal preference -- I don't like games where you 
 have to photograph things, I don't like games with minuscule font, and I really detest games where 
 you have to protect or escort other computer-controlled characters through the game. To date, no 
 escortee in any game I've ever played has any more artificial intelligence than a piece of moldy 
 cheese. I can't take the frustration when the quest failures aren't my fault.
  
  I realize I'm in the severe minority here since most other people enjoyed it. Even though I gave 
 it a lower score than most, I actually recommend it for almost anyone... except those who have 
 the same pet peeves as me. If so, you may find Dead Rising actually falling off your radar pretty 
 quickly. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: np1001
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  You start as Frank West, Photo Journalist. Frank is a Papperatzi with nothing better to do than 
 to invade people's privacy. Frank hires a junky helicopter to get him a juicy scoop. Frank askes 
 the pilot to land him on the Roof of the Mall. Frank later discovers its invaded by Zombies. I 
 dont want to ruin the rest ! :) This was an awesome game! The mall was a good setting for a zombie 
 invasion! The Survivors were a little hard to escort, but it was still good. Theres lots of weapons, 
 some including Baseball Bats, Bowling Balls, Guitars etc. This was one of the best games I have 
 ever played, the graphics were good and so was the sound and the AI was good also. I rate this 
 game a 9.0! I recommend it for zombie type gamers, or someone who just loves to play games like 
 me. I would love to see a sequel to this game. It is better than Resident Evil In my opinion, but 
 they are two different games. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I remember the time I saw this game at first time and wished that I have Xbox 360. Well, I have 
 it now and I played this game. It was fun at first time. But for the first timer this game can 
 be difficult and confusing because of scoop.
  
  This game is based on time in game and you have to be at place where there will be scoop. You still 
 have little time even the time for scoop has passed. But If you are late then scoop is lost: which 
 is gameover. But you can keep play ignoring scoop also means ignoring story.
  Also there are plenty endings that will base on gameplay for example as I just said if you lost 
 scoop and be at helicopter on time then you will see ending B and if you did as scoop then you 
 will see ending A. After ending A there will be overtime mode that you have to escape, but im not 
 going to tell you anymore. Might be spoiled for you.
  
  The gameplay is... well, you kill zombies. But not like kill them with shotgun or whatever in other 
 games. You kill them with variable things in mall like baseball bat, soccer ball, bowling ball, 
 katana, and more and more countless weapons. In this game you can level up Frank by killing zombies 
 and taking photos and get PP to level up. But keep playing and killing zombies will make you eventually 
 boring by repative. 
  Also there are bosses (also called physi... I forgot) that you will encounter them by story and 
 by scoop. They will be really hard at first time. So I would recommand to level up first plenty 
 and save then play new game. Your status will be still same in new game from last game. 
  
  Graphic is fine. There are sometime problem with frame rate but its rarely seen. When you kill 
 zombie the blood will come out and splatters on floor. 
  Even there are tons of zombies walking and groaning there is absolutely no frame rate problem.
 
  
  The achivements are all same score. All of them are 20G and there are total 50 achivements. Two 
 of them are requried by playing Infinity mode that you will get after the true ending. But the 
 problem is that, the 7 days survivor will take 14 hours at real time. So there is somewhat chance 
 that your Xbox 360 might get heated up and get red ring.
  
  In conclusion, Dead Rising is great game. But because of repative this game will might get bored. 
 So if you like to chop them up then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This was a great and addictive game that nearly resembles the Dawn of the Dead movie in its fully 
 entirety! Running around in the mall avoiding zombies was a lot of fun with a lot of enjoyable 
 missions.
  
  Some of the missions really dis suck tho and were intensely hard at times to where I needed a walkthrough 
 and numerous attempts to get through certain sections and to pass the level at times. I hate having 
 to use walkthroughs but sometimes the game was just too hard.
  
  Graphics were very realistic and lifelike and that made the game look awesome on a big screen high 
 def tv. The blonde chick is actually pretty hot in the game!
  
  The worst thing about this game was tryign to save it. I ended up erasing the game at one point 
 by mistake as it did not have a well structured "save file" section that would have been much easier 
 to load and save games. That really pissed me off the most about the game, otherwise the rest of 
 the game was pretty well enjoyed and well thought out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0nesian
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  "Lets run through a mall and kill zombies!"
  "YAY!"
  "... a zombie's eating your face"
  "damn"
  
  Dead Rising is a game that you play when your supremely bored and even then you had 
 to push your way through it. Who knew killing zombies could get so repetitive.
  
  Having to watch your back every second of the game was'nt as fun as it sounded, and running through 
 the shopping mall to get somewhere became a somewhat unneedingly, lengthy chore.
  
  The controls for the game can be a little confusing and force inaccurate shooting upon you
  
 
  All in all, I suggest renting this game before buying, but be warned don't get so entertained 
 in the first few minutes because it gets harder, a lot harder and you'll find that instead of escaping 
 reality while playing you'll be wanting to finish the game so that your money is "well spent". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Already cornering the zombie market with Resident Evil, Capcom issued the zanier, more action-packed 
 Dead Rising upon the first of the new consoles. With action at all times, a decent story, and a 
 few engaging side tasks, they created a winning sandbox game with tons to do in an environment 
 familiar to us all -- the shopping mall.
  
  Playing as photojournalist Frank West, you come to Willamette, CO to seek what you've heard may 
 be a juicy story. You soon find yourself on the roof of the local mall, with three days to discover 
 why the military's got the town shut down. Before long, you come to realize there's a zombie infestation 
 bearing down on the mall and the handful of people inside. Inevitably, they get in and the action 
 begins, with you eventually teaming with DHS agents to learn exactly how and why the zombies were 
 created and what they're doing at a mall. Your weapons are your wits and whatever you can find 
 in the mall to use to repel the zombies. From benches to brooms, and guns to flower pots, if it's 
 laying around, it's a potential weapon. The game creates a sense of urgency by actually putting 
 you on a clock, so you can't leisurely examine things and get to the next cutscene when you want; 
 be where you need to be when you're told to be there, or the truth will be lost, leaving you to 
 restart or just see if you can survive the three days for the fun of it. You'll also have the option 
 to rescue trapped survivors by escorting them to a safe area, but sometimes you just have to ignore 
 them. There's also the ability to take pictures at any time (and the game cleverly uses photos 
 you took during loading screens) . Both saving people and picture taking help level you up, but 
 most important -- no matter how you choose to play and how much you ignore, the game's always a blast.
 
  
  The simple, but heavily varied, combat is a huge selling point and makes sense. Instead of having 
 a sword and 40 combos to learn, you've got at least 100 things to fight with, each of which pretty 
 much does just one attack with the X button. This makes combat accessible to all and doesn't insult 
 your intelligence by having the regular-Joe protagonist miraculously morph into a highly skilled 
 Joe Whoop-Ass. The game itself is gorgeous to look at, from the shines off walls to the ripples 
 in fountains, and it shows the game was made with 1080 HDTV in mind. That the mall is so alive 
 makes it feel so real, even without shoppers. Near closing the taped PA announces so, and shortly 
 after the lights cycle off. At opening time the mall Muzak kicks back in, the lights comes on, 
 and random announcement fill the air. That attention to detail really breathes life into the proceedings. 
 To the designers' great credit, they resisted making every store be a punny/tongue-in-cheek name. 
 By using generic, but real-sounding names, it keeps you feeling like you're just in a mall a few 
 states over rather than a clearly fictional one.
  
  Yes, I'm now going to gripe about the one save slot only issue. It's a poor choice, and though 
 I was unaffected, speaking as someone who once was saving a game and had a car hit a utility pole 
 at the exact time to knock my power out and corrupt my file, putting people in that 1 in 100,000 
 jeopardy is plain rotten. Offering at least two save slots would protect people. The game is also 
 a bit busy, and it's kind of a buzzkill to realize that you'll have to play through the regular 
 game a second time to do it right; you're just not powerful and savvy enough to get though okay 
 the first time. The enemies are a bit dumb, as opening a door to continue to give chase is too 
 much for them, even for the occassional human enemies you make. That they chose to spread the game's 
 1,000 achievement points among 50 tasks, all worth 20, lessens your desire to go after the tougher 
 ones that are grouped as a series, like rescuing 10, 20, or 50 survivors.
  
  Everything about the controls, from the layout to their usage, is pretty much spot-on, though the 
 hand-holding mechanic when rescuing people needs some work. A game has never looked as beautiful 
 as this, and the sound is of such high quality that in a videogame you'll rarely feel more immersed 
 in an environment that you're actually familiar with. Besides almost certainly having to play twice 
 to get a good ending, adding an Overtime mode to extend the story and an Infinity Mode where the 
 story's scrapped and all you have to do is live, Capcom gives you serious bang for your buck. Dead 
 Rising was clearly meant to showcase much of what the XBox 360 was capable of churning out in terms 
 of graphics, sound, and on-screen elements, and that the game is so technically proficient almost 
 makes being so fun to play feel like a nice bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you have an xbox 360 then you should have heard of this game and you should have wanted it 
 since it looks so kickass awesome. For most of you who dont know what dead rising is just look 
 at the cover and take a guess and voila thats the answer but if your answer was anything different 
 from zombie + hacking then jump off a 4 story building. Anyhoo Dead Rising delivers wat it promises, 
 Hacking away through hordes of demons using some familiar and not so familiar weaponry. Theres 
 also a pretty interesting story line but its difficult to keep with the story since there are so 
 many objectives that you have to do and in the end you will probably end up screwing up due to 
 the real time element. Alright this review might be sort since i actually liked the game A LOT 
 so lets do it the old fashioned way. 
  
  Graphics: Great
  
  Okies this is gonna be sort since graphics dont mean that much for this game. Alright lets start 
 with THE MALL. Ok the mall is laid out very well, and looks stunning. The mall actually looks like 
 a real mall but in fact it isnt real and the town itself isnt real. The structure of the mall and 
 everything in it was well thought out that its hard to believe that the creators of this game just 
 made a mall out of nothing. Ok lets go to some of the designs THE ZOMBIES. Ok people these zombies 
 look like REAL freaking zombies just like the ones you see in Dawn of the Dead and Thriller. The 
 zombies look gloriously grotesque and if you zoom in with your trusty camera u can see their nasty 
 looking face all mangled and pale. Yep Zombies look really cool and its fun to cut them down, its 
 just an amazing experience. Okays lets move on to the missing link Frank West the main guy. Ok 
 basically hes there and he wants to snap some pic for tabloids but first of all hes not some fancy 
 looking guy he is actually one of those people who like to cross dress, pick up a gun and shoot 
 it at a latino along with a black guy, run around the mall's hardware department imitating th Texas 
 Chainsaw Massacre, kill a guy to still guns from his store, and he looks like an ape. If you have 
 seen Dead Rising's first trailer you should have seen the way Frank looked (not even human) but 
 thankfully they decided to make him over into an actual swell guy whose just trying to get a story 
 out of one of the greatest catastrophe. (hmmm sounds like most inconsiderate TV journalists) But 
 hey Franks just ur average war journalist guy with a little strange taste for adventure and... 
 all things. Ok enough about Frank lets move on to some better stuff... JESSIE and ISABELLA. Yea 
 the girls look very very nice (Mmph) they are modeled very well especially their very special place 
 (btw im talking about their ass and their boobs) All that zombie killing with a mix of these two 
 lovely ladies equals HELL YEA LETS PLAY!!!! All in all graphics is done exceptionally well though 
 cant say its perfect but hey who in the video gaming industry has done a perfect job in crafting 
 a real life actual face? NOBODY (to my knowledge)
  
  Sound: Sounds wonderfully glorious
  
  Okies Sounds i dont really care about either so this will probably be short, everything sounds 
 great and real nothing outta place, mall music is really soothing especially when im hacking away 
 at a few hundreds zombie hordes, boss songs definitely pump up the mood and fits the theme, and 
 voice acting is definitely done well. Nothing delivers a better story than believable voice acting 
 and some good visuals which Dead rising owns in both departments. Jessie sounds sexy and Isabella 
 sounds like Latina HOTNESS and Frank sounds like that good old guy with some morals, and the zombies 
 sound like, idk ZOMBIES? And all the psychopaths sounds crazy and everything, it all fits in so 
 theres no strange moments of "why do they sound like turds?" So Sound gets a freaking awesome
 
  
  Gameplay: Delivered wat they promise meaning IT'S F-ING GREAT
  
  Ok you should have an idea of what to expect and if you dont then let me paint you an awfully crude 
 picture: Ok you know Dynasty Warrior? ok now replace all those idiot soldiers with zombies and 
 replace the battlefield with a mall and voila theres your Dead Rising (pretty ingenious isnt it?) 
 Now if you didnt get that then o wells you lose but for the rest of you yea you know you'll love 
 it and if you dont then get the f*ck out. Basically you find watever Frank can pick up and direct 
 your attention towards the Zombies and keep doing it until your satisfied, you can try to kill 
 all the zombies in the area but they keep coming back and hey YOUR ON THE CLOCK. If you mess around 
 too much you'll some golden opportunities to catch important scoops that progress the story so 
 there will be a lot of time management and pacing. At first you wont really get the idea cause 
 the zombies will end up chomping you down but these things take time and fortunately for us the 
 game forgives you for dying and allows you to start all over again with you current level or go 
 bak to you last savepoint but starting over again would be better if you havent reached a high 
 level. In order to actually do everything well you will probably refer to your map A LOT and you 
 WILL have to remember the layout and short cuts so this game isnt easy it actually requires some 
 thought and a patience since the AI of the people ur saving will be dumb as sh*t. Yea the AI for 
 the survivors are really frustrating so wat i do best is NOT saving them since i dont really need 
 to anymore (i'm already maxed level so they can all die for all i care) Boss battle are fun in this 
 game all of them having a different weakness and unique strengths. It takes a good player to actually 
 beat these bosses or not get killed by them and the zombie horde that are slowly surrounding you. 
 All ways of killing a zombie is extremely satisfying from ripping their guts out to sticking show 
 head in their brains its all just wonderful.
  
  Conclusion: So if you have the xbox 360 (too bad for you PS3 people and Wii people) and you want 
 a good game and you havent looked at this game yet then hit your head on the wall and march to 
 the closest game shop and tell them you're willing to purchase it for full price cause you're stupid 
 for not getting it earlier
  
  
  
  
  DEAD RISING GETS: A 10!!!!!!!
  No it doesnt, IT GET A 9 
  
  
  (Mmph Jessie and Isabella are so damn sexy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTU81
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of zombie movies, particularly Dawn of the Dead, this game is one of my all-time 
 favorites. I just recently played it again for the first time since it came out. It was just as 
 much fun to play as the first time I gave it a try. However, this time I bought it rather than 
 rented it and finished the game all the way through.
  
  The story is incredibly fun. You're trapped inside of a mall with thousands upon thousands of zombies. 
 You have to kill said zombies (oh ya, everything in the mall is a weapon. Benches, trash cans, 
 lawnmowers, chainsaws guns, knives, cd's, you name it.... you can kill zombies with it) en route 
 to figuring out just what the hell is going on in this place. You can also save (or not save) as 
 many of the scattered, stranded survivors as you want. All inside of "72 hours" until your helicopter 
 picks you up again.
  
  Playing the game and adhering to the case file missions is the most fun way to play the game at 
 first. Finding out the true story of what is going on was my favorite part because it reminded 
 me of so many zombie movies I have loved over the years.
  
  If you don't wish to follow the story you can always just run around killing zombies and saving 
 survivors. The cool thing about the game is that there is 6 different possible endings to the game. 
 It all depends on what you choose to do.
  
  Many people complain about the save system with this game. You are only allowed to save the game 
 in designated spots (the security room, bathrooms, etc.) . I, however, did not find this to be a 
 problem. After you get used to the game, it is not as much of a problem as it is when you first 
 start out. Paying attention and being smart with your saves will do the trick.
  
  I love this game and will play it over and over for years to come. Even if you aren't traditionally 
 a zombie fan you should atleast give the game a try. This game provides more fun than most games 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising was an awesome game in my opinion. As your in a huge mall with thousands of zombies 
 inside while you have to do cases to find out what happened. In my opinoin they could have added 
 more weapons to it but just like 4 because basically everything in the mall is a wepon but 1/2 
 of the weapons wernt effective at all. Yes the game is a repetitive fighting killing game but its 
 not like its hit someone their dead. The zombies swarm around you and if you dont have the right 
 skill to fight back or the right weapons... well you basically screwed. Many of the bosses in the 
 game are hard if you dont know what to do and you dont have the right weapons but if you DO know 
 how to beat them then its simple yet even wwith a streategy their still hard as you have blocks 
 of health and one hit or two would basically deplete one. Anyway Im rambaling here. Dead Rising 
 is a great game and is a must for you Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising, the zombie game from Capcom (who are pretty much the masters of the zombie genre) , 
 you play as Frank West, freelance photojournalist. He received word that something big is going 
 down in the town of Willamette, Colorado.
  And guess what? Something is.
  The town's population is being turned into stereotypical zombies. Not smart ones from Resident 
 Evil 4. Not fast ones from 28 Days Later. Slow, stupid, hungry zombies. And it's a good thing, 
 too. Because you end up killing thousands of them over the course of the game.
  In the game, you are stuck in a huge mall for 72 hours before your helicopter returns. (72 game 
 hours ends up being a tenth of that in real life: 432 minutes.)
  The game constantly refers to them as zombies, and not "infected", or any other name movies have 
 used. I think it makes alot of sense, because if a zombie epidemic struck in real life, people 
 would call them zombies considering all the movies that influenced "zombies".
  Alright, back to the actual review.
  You can use pretty much everything in the mall as a weapon.
 
  This list includes:
  Benches, Garbage Cans, Stepladders, Knives, Umbrellas, Katanas, Chainsaws, Lawnmowers, Convertibles, 
 Motorcycles, Fire extinguishers, and the list goes on!
  You can make power-ups out of combining two food items (food items are used to gain health when 
 needed) in a blender. Power-ups include Energizer (invulnerability) , Spitfire (spit turns into bullets) , 
 Quickstep
  (self -explanatory) , and a few others.
  While in the mall, there are a few things you can do. You can do the missions which are required 
 to continue the story, side missions that usually require you to kill psychopaths, and escort missions. 
 And you can take pictures. Taking pictures is one of the best ways to gain Prestige Points. The 
 basic expirience system of Dead Rising involves gaining PP (Prestige Points) , to reach higher levels. 
 As you gain levels, you learn new moves, gain maximum health, or gain maximum stock.
  Other than the 72-hour mode, there is Overtime Mode, and Infinity Mode. Overtime continues the 
 story and infinity mode has no story. All you do is try to survive in the mall as long as possible.
 
  The major downside of the game are that alot of the time, survivors you are escorting act dumber 
 than the zombies. They crash into walls, and ignore your calls to follow you. Sometimes I've just 
 killed the survivors because they wouldn't follow me. And I'd also like to point out that Dead 
 Rising wins the award for the most annoying noun ever. Santa Cabeza. Characters say that so much 
 it becomes extremely annoying....
  
  All in all, this game is a great investment considering I bought it for only 30 dollars. Go buy 
 it, and have fun, which definitely shouldn't be hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blooga245
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The concept of Dead Rising is something that is a bit of a dream come true for me. I would love 
 to be trapped in a mall with zombies like Frank is, and there is a huge amount of potential in 
 this game. But that doesn't earn this game a perfect score. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Not much of a story. You are a photojournalist who has a hunch, zombies, brains blah 
 blah blah. You don't need a plot to bash some zombie brains.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are excellent. Environments are nice, characters a re good, and pretty much 
 everything has a good polish, but there a multiple noticeable glitches that mar the sheen.
  
  CONTROLS: The killer part of the game. Using handguns is nigh impossible in this game, and 
 there is no way to change the brutal control scheme
  
  SOUND: Plenty of grunts and moans, but not a single mention of brains. Voice-overs are passable, 
 but some sound effects are laughably good. The rest are well done.
  
  REPLAY: If it weren't for the overbearing flaws, pretty much everyone would still be playing this 
 10 years from now. Unfortunately, most will have forgotten this game, so all hope rests on a sequel 
 that solves the problems.
  
  I will be the first to say that being trapped in a mall full of zombies would be quite fun, if 
 I couldn't die or get eaten (just little details) , so I was more than pleased to hear of Dead Rising's 
 forthcoming. I was giddy as a school girl when I popped in the disc. The game met many of the standards 
 I had hoped it would, but fell long and hard on standards I had come to expect from far lesser 
 games. The result marred the overall experience greatly.
  I defend Dead Rising on the graphics and many gameplay parts, but the control scheme is a mistake 
 on par with teen pregnancy. Using a gun, while it should be helpful, is more dangerous than fist-fighting 
 the zombies, since you will be killed while struggling to line up a shot and shooting. I would 
 have preferred a "select target and let the game do the shooting" to this "hold trigger and push 
 the X button" style. Also, the fact that you can only use an item a certain number of times is 
 infuriating, especially when you are surrounded in zombies. Getting seven whacks out of a large 
 steel pipe or a sickle before it basically bursts into ashes is unforgivable.
  Another killer is the repetitiveness of missions. Here's an outline: Find someone, save them from 
 a horde of zombies, get them to follow you, stop them from wandering off like retarded sheep, save 
 them again, and eventually save them. The other mission is take pictures. Cause what else are you 
 going to do in a mall full of zombies? There is no AI to speak of for the zombies, but the people 
 are even stupider. And some of the additions are to. Where in the hell are escaped inmates going 
 to find a Halo-esque Warthog in a mall? And why the hell would a couple be walking in the park 
 at night a zombie infested mall?
  In all, Dead Rising has a good foundation, but the repetitiveness of missions, flawed controls, 
 terrible (human) AI, and a weak motivation for playing bring it down from perfect to forgotten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Capcom have finaly launched one of the most amazing games to date!... Dead Rising for the xbox 
 360. Your traped in a mall with thousends of zombies... stiupid zombies but in huge numbers. The 
 mall itself, is not very big, but its big enough to have lots of fun and mess around in it; however 
 you wont have many time to do what you would like to do: kill zombies in different ways with different 
 weapons (like a shelf, TV, cheinsaw, katana, or a bat) . You will need to be in a constant rush, 
 you go from point A to point B as fast as you can, zombies are only a kind of "obstacles"... Thats 
 kinda suck... but once you complete all the missions, with 100% right you unlock a mode that's 
 called infinity mode. There you kan just mess up with the zombies, but watch your health it decreases 
 slowlly. The survivles int the mole all of them are dumbasses! the AI sucks, the zombies are getting 
 speedier as you progres in the story. Awsome game! and can't wait for DR2~~ I hope they port DR1 
 and 2 to the PC it would sell as frick... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm suprised they haven't made more zombie games, I mean they make a **** of movies but no good 
 zombie games. Anyway Dead rising is a game with great graphics and loads of fun as you take the 
 role as a photojournalist who needs a story. Frank flies by helicopter into a Colorado city which 
 the army has blocked off. He lands at the mall and will get picked up in 3 days. In the game you 
 can kill zombies pretty much anyway you desire. Whether its with a lawnmower or a machine gun. 
 You also encounter a lot of fun bosses who are all crazy. The game also has a great storyline with 
 a unique reason behind the zombie breakout. The one and only thing I didn't like about this game 
 is how its timed. You can actually miss a mission and it can screw you over but you'll get the 
 handle of it. Sometimes the game can get frustrating but otherwise its a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylucas11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  For about a year now, fans of Resident Evil 4 have been extremely excited about the next horror 
 game from capcom named Dead Rising. On this game players must travel around a huge mall saving 
 survivors from zombies and psychopaths. You are able to do the main storyline which leads you closer 
 to the answer of how the zobie disease was created. Or if your in the mood for relaxing you could 
 just go around the mall killing zombies or doing what is called scoop missions which gains you 
 xp to make you better. The xp system works perfectly, as gaining more xp makes your character better, 
 its extremely enjoyable and can learn you new gory moves :D. Exploring the mall is also interesting, 
 as you can discover secret passages around the mall and underground passages to get you around 
 the mall quicker. You can also find cars scattered around the mall that will impress you.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Rising is brilliant and will keep you occupied for about 30 hours. The 
 graphics are colourful and work well with the zombies and the main character. It is also a value 
 worth game and whatever you have heard, this game is a must buy.
  
  The only problem I must tell you is the saving system, you may forget to save it and once you have 
 died you would have to start again from the last time you saved it and this can be annoying. There 
 are no autosaves so don't forget to save it or you will be frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codemaster44
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I have had dead rising for a while now I just never wrote a review probably out of laziness or 
 more likely the fact that I cant put this game down in fact the only reason I'm writing this now 
 is because my Xbox 360 broke. This game has everything in it senseless violence to picture taking. 
 You have the option of following the very engaging storyline or you can just spend the whole time 
 killing zombies or saving people or killing crazy people, this game gives you every kind of option 
 in the world, you can go wherever you want in the mall and you can do anything you want to including 
 changing your clothes at any of the dozen or so clothing stores. This game isn't just the best 
 game out for the Xbox 360 it probably the best game out on any console. If you like action or zombies 
 or explosions or you just like taking pictures you should buy this game, not rent, buy this game 
 because even when you rent it you won't have enough time to discover everything about the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kairisha102706
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  i bought my 360 8 months ago at the same time i bought dead rising, elder scrolls oblivion and 
 saints row and for the past 7 months i didn't even touch dead rising and just last week i started 
 playing it and S#@$ i must say personally best game on the 360 i thought to my self why in the 
 hell didn't i play this earlier... after i slapped myself in the face a few times my wife and i 
 get so into it we scare ourselves i cant play this game alone in the dark it scares me to death, 
 especially the music. spooky. slashing and dashing squishing and running them over with cars come 
 on now what can get any better than that seriously ... BAR TO NONE THE BEST ZOMBIE GAME EVER THIS 
 GAME MAKES THE RESIDENT EVIL FRANCHISE LOOK LIKE CHILDs PLAY... theres one thing i have to say 
 buy this f@#$in game its worth an arm and a leg... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Name: Dead Rising
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360
  
  Platform that this game is being reviewed on: XBox 360
  
  Publisher: Capcom
  
  Developer: 
 Capcom
  
  Genre: 3rd Person/Action Adventure/Horror
  
  Difficulty: Easy-Medium
  
  Learning Curve: 1 Hour
  
  Number of Players: 1
  
  Online Players: 0
  
  Online Modes: 
 None
  
  Offline Modes: Story mode
  
  Release Date: 8/8/2006
  
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  ESRB Description: Intense Violence/Some Nudity/Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages/Blood and 
 Gore/Bad Language
  
  Score: 4.5 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $26.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  Price New: $29.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
  Is there a Game 
 Guide Book Available: Yes
  Price Used: $15.98 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $15.99 (www. amazon. com)
  
  Anything Else That is exclusive for this game: Yes, a 
 Soundtrack
  Price Used: $30.00 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $52.49 (www. amazon. com)
  
  If Capcom has done anything right it's Zombie Games with Resident Evil 1-3 plus the other spin 
 off story lines plus the upcoming Resident Evil 4. You would think that a game where a person must 
 survive zombies in a mall ala George A. Romero's 1978 Masterpiece "Dawn of the Dead" would be great 
 right? well sorry to bust your balls buddy but it isn't this is a game that had a lot of potential 
 but it just couldn't carry the ball. I'll start with the good. the whole storyline is great everything 
 from the entrance of the hero Frank West to the ending where he survives the 72 hour period. This 
 along with the Voice Acting and the graphics were great. But that's where the good stuff ends and 
 Zombie Hell enters. IMO the controls are hell. and the boss Battles aren't that better. I won't 
 lie I sucked at the Boss Battles. I'll focus on two bosses. The first boss (I think it would be 
 the first boss but it's the one in the food court who is on top of the restaurants) I actually 
 clocked myself dealing with this guy it took me 17:35 to finally beat this person. It shouldn't 
 take anyone that long to beat them and if it does it either means the controls are crap or the 
 AI is that of a Level 12 intellect this time, I blame the game insanely difficultly depending most 
 of the time I was dead within 4-5 shots but the guy could handle a obscenely huge amount of damage. 
 It wasn't fair I would shoot the guy in the head and it didn't finish him off. In Halo 3 you snipe 
 someone in the head and that's it there is no second chance your dead. I had the same problem with 
 a Clown later on in the game. two or three hits from his weapon and your dead but if you stay a 
 distance zoom in on him and unload he still lives. It doesn't seem fair at all. Another Gripe is 
 it could have been the AI that made the enemy's so hard to kill but if the AI made them smart than 
 the People you help had the AI of a big pile of Dog poo on a hot 100 Degree day. In other words 
 the AI stunk. You would rescue them and when trying to escape they would just end up wondering 
 off. Kind of made me upset at that. I went through all this to rescue you and you wonder off and 
 end up probably becoming Zombie Chow. Thanks a lot! Anyway back onto the review. the game gets 
 a 4.5 for unseemly unfair AI plus control handling. It was a good idea on paper but failed in Development. 
 It gets a M for Intense Violence, Nudity, Alcoholic Beverage, Blood and Gore along with some Language 
 if you like games that will upset you than this may be for you. But if you want to play a good 
 Zombie games stick with the Resident Evil Series. A Side Note I heard rumors that this game was 
 responsible for bricking up 360's it never effected mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flowerbug
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  thats right folks 45 mins in and already im adoring this game. i can already tell that i will have 
 loads of fun and i can already see that there will be big replay value. i must say that this game 
 got me into buying the 360 soley for it. i will also add i so far adore the 360 and the games on 
 it. this game is truely amazing and the best zombie game.... one of the best games ive ever played! 
 GO BUY IT RIGHT NOW also i have died a few times and unlike most games i never get mad cause i 
 just go over and over killing them again and again :) . i have never had this much fun with a game 
 since the beautiful ff7 and phoenix wright games. hell this game alone is worth buying the 360..... 
 so what are you reading this for? why arent you out buying it? go now go go go go go go go go go 
 go go now now now now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Dead-Rising is one of the most coolest games that I will ever play I mean who dosent want to go 
 around with what ever you can find in MALL and kill ZOMBIES with your weapon its an instant classic 
 I can play all day long and you can have GUNS PIPES even JEWLES its fun to go aroun the plaza on 
 a bike and run over the zombies or use an umbrella to make zombies rain its such a fun game if 
 you dont have you should buy RIGHT NOW.
  
  
  It would be even cooler if it was a multiplayer so you can have someone help you on your missions 
 like all the bosses that are in it that would be so sweet but I dont think that will ever happen 
 in this life time but anywase if you have ever played it then tell your friends to buy it my friend 
 thaught that it would be boring but once I showed it to him he told me that he wants to buy it 
 so the next he did its cooler if you beat it cause if you get ZOMBIE-GENOCIDER then you can use 
 the real MEGAMAN blaster It kills evrything with like one hit if you do get to LVL50 you get ZOMBIEWALK 
 the guy you play as walks around like a ZOMIE so the ZOMBIES dont know that its him Its fun to 
 play and find all the secrets in the game that they pun in it.
  
  
  You can get in cars and other vehicles to runover the living-dead hahahaha that always makes me 
 laugh to see ZOMBIES get run over cause you can shoot them in the head or make it painful by runing 
 them over in a motorcycle well I sry but I dont want to ruin the fun by telling you people ho are 
 reading this if you want to find what happens to you in the story then just go but its only like 
 20$ now and its SWEET!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of all things George Romero (though the game carries a disclaimer that it is not ripping 
 off Dawn of the Dead-which was shot 15 minutes away from where I live) I got terribly excited when 
 I saw this game in pre-production. When it came out, it delivered everything it promised. Dead 
 Rising is an awesome game that really doesn't get stale.
  
  The story centers around Frank West, a photojournalist heading to the town of Willamette for the 
 scoop of a lifetime. You arrive at the shopping mall in Willamette and must survive for 72 hours. 
 You also have to get the story, help some people, and fight off a horde of the undead. The story 
 has been done before, but it is still very interesting. Though when you get to the point where 
 you find out why the zombies are invading, it takes a turn for the lame.
  
  The graphics are good, not great, but they more than get the job done. The amount of moving zombies 
 on the screen can get staggering at times. The characters have a fair amount of detail to them, 
 but it's not the pinnacle of graphic achievement. The environments of the game are great, it really 
 captures the consumerism of your average shopping mall. The details can be underscored at times, 
 but the visuals aren't the important part, it's the gameplay here that matters.
  
  The control is pretty good for the most part. Getting some fo the manuevers to work can be a pain 
 at times. You want to do one attack and another happens instead. Your movement is pretty crisp 
 and the collison detection is good too.
  
  The sound is good, from the decent voice acting to the continuous moan of the zombies combined 
 with horrible mall music really contributes to the atmosphere of the game.
  
  The overall gameplay is great, this is just a really fun game. It is hard to play this game out, 
 I have owned it for over a year now and I still enjoy playing it through. The main missions and 
 storyline are really good, the side missions are entertaining, and the other game play options 
 like picture taking and interaction break things up a bit and keep it interesting. 
  
  One of the best parts of this game is the ability to use almost anything as a weapon-really almost 
 anything. The usual weapons are present-bats, guns, knives, swords, pipes, wooden boards, etc but 
 you also get unique items like plywood, gemstones, coathangers, glass plates, soda cans and teddy 
 bears...
  
  Overall the game is very good, it is not the greatest game ever made but it is enjoyable. It has 
 a few flaws but nothing that makes it unplayable. Most important, the game is extremely fun, it 
 never gets old mutilating zombies. Dead Rising is definately worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  for some stupendous reason i saw this game and went and got myself a 360, yes weird, not for anything 
 else, just for dead rising. and i do beleive i was right, in accusing it to be good so yeah, it 
 is a fantastic game that is TOTALLY underated. well okay ill be honest the visuals and structure 
 of gameplay is a bit awry but the story, gameplay and sound TOTALLY make up for it. the time aspect 
 is simply dumb and i dont know why they put that in it because if you stuff up the timing youve 
 stuffed up the missions and have to go on and start a new plot, and the graphics are a bit ... 
 gta like but thats exusable. whereas its sound suits any trouble or subtleness in the game, the 
 characters voices are clear and understandable and the music changes as you face different opponenets 
 and what i found creepy was the starting music that sort of expresses the gameplay. the blood and 
 gore aspect is fantastic as well as the many ways you can kill a zombie, including slicin' it up 
 with some katanas or a chainsaw or some cds yes cds, you can pretty much use anything as a weapon 
 witch is extremely unbeleiveable and fun. the many cut points of a zombie is funny as you can slice 
 off their backs with a katana or sqush their heads with a sledge hammer and the sounds the head 
 makes when it explodes is AWESOME.
  overall this a great game that deserves more attention so yeah go ahead and buyit youll probably 
 love it so go and do it... NOW hurry up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parapraxis
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  The game starts off where you meet Frank, the protagonist in this story, in a helicopter flying 
 towards this city of Willamette and begin to discover the entire city is flooded with zombies. 
 The helicopter takes you to, and drops you off on the roof of Willamette mall where the story begins.
 
  
  Now apparently this game has nothing to do with George A. Romero's Dawn of the dead? Well I'll 
 take their word for it.
  
  The gameplay itself in terms of the feel and going through the game is incredible I mean, you grab 
 various weapons found in various stores and you beat the absolute hell out of lifeless zombies 
 crawling through the depths of the Mall... Of course thats going to be fun. 
  
  What it doesn't tell you is all the while you're trying to take photo's that are actually worth 
 a respectable amount of PP, Save innocents from being devoured, fending off Psychopaths and getting 
 to the appropriate places for quests and cut scenes all in a 72 hour period. With all the zombies 
 you're surrounded by this makes it one difficult task. 
  
  If you're a perfectionist be warned that you have your work cut out for you. Getting every photo 
 op scoop, Saving everyone, and Getting to where you're going on time is just not possible, especially 
 in your first time finishing the game. 
  
  Another fun little aspect is your ability to play dress up in various stores around the mall you 
 can try on, and wear the clothes you find which also is carried onto a new game if you die. 
  
  If you die, you have the ability to restart the game with all the experience you lost the first 
 time around, which is nice, due to the outstanding difficulty.
  
  The Psychopaths are actually various survivors you can find in the manual but they're not as helpless 
 as the sorry folks that you're saving. and in one case, not to spoil anything, the Psychopaths 
 re-spawn. 
  
  I find Dead Rising to be an incredible game and its definitely a hit and a must have for any owner 
 of the 360. But be warned its not all trotting around and slaying zombies. Theres actual a goal 
 in there amongst it all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well where do i start.
  
  Lets start on the storyline. Well you play as a character named Frank West who is a photo jounalist 
 and he is doing on story on the zombie outbreak. Im not even going to lie the storyline really 
 confuses me. There are like 5 endings? Im not sure but if you do not complete the missions in certain 
 amount of time the story will disapear in darkness...
  
  There are lots of weird enemy psycopaths, like escaped convicts and crazy grocery store manager... 
 The pycopaths that scared me are those in the yellow raincoats. They run to you in straight lines 
 and stab you or gas you.
  
  Enough about that, there are a bunch of weapons to be used from potted plants to katanas and chainsaws 
 and hundreds more. There are even guns!
  
  What i really like about this game is that there can be hundreds of zombies on the screen doing 
 there very unique actions and no lag at all. bulls eye.
  
  The max level to reach on this game is 50 which is easy if you play this game a lot and take good 
 pics with your camera which gives you more PP (whatever that is) . Anyways the higher your level 
 is the more combat related moves you get and your health levels up and you can carry more items.
 
  
  I think that pretty much covers it but yeah a definite play if you got a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Everytime i look at other horror games, i always have to come back to this 
 game and think about this game's gameplay and story and compare it to the game that i was looking 
 at... Dead Rising's story made me feel kinda weird inside when i was playing it, becuz every1 of 
 your friends die, except for that hispanic girl. You might get this feeling while your playing 
 this game, but it'll disappear in about a week or so. The last boss of this game was hard to beat, 
 becuz he knows all those karate S**** and you only know zombie smashin moves....... but i beat 
 the crap out of him. Dead rising is a game that i would pick for any1. It's just fun to kill zombiesssssssssssssssss.... AND 
 LET'S ALL WAIT PATIENTLY FOR PROTOTYPE
  
  gameplay= 9/10
  
  story= 9/10
  
  sound= 10/10
  
  controls= 9/10 this game is amazing.... period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ked2009
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has a great story line, the graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is rather fun. The 
 main problem with the game is that you run out of time for certain tasks, the missions get pretty 
 hard, and the zombies appear to multiply. I really enjoyed this game at first, but it got repetitive 
 and sort of hard. Not hard to the point to where you can't beat it, but to where the game isn't 
 as interesting. I wanted to complete all of the missions in the game, but this isn't possible. 
 You have to play through the game again, going through many of the exact same parts of the game. 
 The vehicles are one of the best parts of the game. You can drive around and kill almost anyone. 
 I would recommend this game to almost everyone, but be careful not to expect an amazing game. The 
 graphics are one of the high points, but the lasting appeal of the game is the downfall. Great 
 game, but it needs more to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOYB0XX
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is for zombie fans that often fantisize of the day when the dead walk the earth. Where 
 an entire town is consumed by the undead. Inspired by the movie Dawn of the Dead, Dead Rising follow's 
 Frank West, a photo journalist, into the bowels of a Colorado town where a virus outbreak is spreading. 
 Turning the living into zombie's. Capcom has the player fetching after different objects and weapons 
 similarily found in other games like Resident Evil, in order to progress through the game - but 
 less monotonous. The environment and atmosphere of Dead Rising isn't as spooky as I once thought 
 it would be. It's more anticipation than anything else. The gameplay, at first, is clunky and unforgiving. 
 Sometimes the bosses that are in the game won't let you get back up when fallen to the ground. 
 They'll either use a vehicle to do donuts of the chest of Frank West, or by hitting him when he's 
 finally able to get back up. Sometimes this process will happen over and over again until the player 
 die's. The Y button, for instance, is used to call out to other survivors that is found within 
 the shopping mall to lead them to a safer area. The problem with this is you would think that someone 
 would write a better code for the AI characters, not just in Dead Rising but in other games also. 
 The surviving characters are as dumb as brinks, sometimes forcing the player to literally hold 
 their hand throughout the mall. One look at a zombie and the surviving character will stop and 
 cry. Seriously, they'll stop and cry. Even after giving them a weapon they'll still sit there and 
 won't move. The right trigger allow's the player to aim while the X button is to fire or throw 
 the weapon or object. The downside of this is the character can't move while aiming, leaving the 
 player temporarily vulnerable for open shots by bosses or an open opportunity for zombies to latch 
 onto the character from either the side or back. The game isn't a total disaster though. Frank 
 West is able to pick up various different weapons from shotguns, night sticks, katana's, battle 
 axes, and objects such as park benches, manquins, and car batteries to use them as weapons. The 
 player can even mix different juices together to form different effects to help Frank fight off 
 zombie attacks. Dead Rising also has RPG element's to the game which has the player racking up 
 skills and attack moves. To build up said skills and unlock different attacks the player will need 
 to collect Prestege Points which will then help the character to level up. By collecting PP ( Prestege 
 Points) the player will either need to save survivors from zombified doom, or by taking pictures 
 of dramatic situations or action events such as snapping a shot right when someone get's eaten. 
 The graphics is spot on - almost real. The gore effects could of been a little bit better but then 
 again the technology used in today's console's isn't there just yet in terms of realism. The sound 
 is great especially when smacking a zombie across the face with a lead pipe can be a little nasty 
 to hear at times. And the amount of depth that is put into this game is amazing. Although the frustrations 
 of Dead Rising can get a little overwhelming at times, it's best to take a break and trudge through 
 till the end. It's worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game concept, executed very well, except for a few major shortcomings. It 
 is an overall worthwhile gaming experience that could have been much, much more with a few design 
 changes. Hopefully there is a sequel in the works that will address these issues.
  
  First off... the good...
  
  This game is the type of game that I have been wanting to play for 
 a long time. Almost everything you see on the screen can be used as a weapon, invluding the enemies. 
 It is a game set in an every day situation (the mall) , that makes great use of that setting.
  
  You will find more outrageously violent ways to plow through zombies than you could even hope 
 for. Some of my personal favorite weapons included; the excavator, the sledgehammer, the battle 
 axe, the chainsaw, and the sickle... just to name a few. 
  
  There is a story line that goes along with all of this random zombie violence, and a handful of 
 side objectives as well. Unfortunately, this is where the game comes up short. 
  
  I really like the concept of everything happening on a timeline, and there being instances where 
 you have to make a choice between objectives. It is always clear which objective is most important 
 to continuing the story, but it is not always easy to complete said objective on time. 
  
  This is where the game gets positively frustrating. There is only one save game slot, which means 
 if you save the game with not enough time to complete the next objective... you need to start over 
 from the beginning, as the story line ends when you miss a deadline. Fortunately, it doesn't take 
 as long the second time when you know where you are going and how to defeat all of the boss enemies... but 
 nevertheless, there is significant backtracking.
  
  Overall, inspite of this significant design flaw (which appears to have been intentional) I highly 
 recommend this game. It is a lot of fun just ripping through zombies, even after the story line 
 has come to an end (either the true ending, or due to a missed deadline) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeye012006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  now to start Ive had this game since it came out but i haven't had time to play it what with work 
 and other games and at one point i was thinking of selling it I'm glad i didn't because this game 
 is really fun so enough of that brief bit of history lets begin .
  
  
  
  STORY
  
  the basically starts your a free lance photojournalist called frank west who has received a tip 
 that something big is going down in a small town in colorado but as soon as he arrives he finds 
 that every thing isn't as it would seem the army have blocked all roads leaving the town as frank 
 scans the mayhem with his camera from his helicopter escort he notices that the people are acting 
 strangely and out the corner of his eye he sees a mall and asks his pilot to land on it and so 
 the desperate struggle to survive begins you have 3 days to uncover the truth of the incident and 
 help other escape .
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  right this is where dead rising shines almost every think you see in the can be broken or picked 
 up its fun as hell and can sometimes side track you fro the main story the bosses you face are 
 called sicopaths there basically normal people who have gone insane they very in difficulty some 
 are challenging some are easy the leveling system adds a slight RPG element to the game so the 
 more you level up the better you are at fighting with you bear hands or you get a health upgrade 
 also to survive you have to eat and drink so if your in trouble and your down to your last stick 
 of health quickly find a food shop to replenish your health now here's a disappointing thing this 
 game only supports 1 save file per profile also the save points are also frustrating because you 
 could be half way across the other side of the mall and need to get to your goal to keep the story 
 going and there's simply know way of getting there in time and you have to start the game again 
 also along the way you will encounter survivors who need you help so like the good gentlemen you 
 are you have to take them to you hide out in the security room this is the best part of dead rising 
 because there are loads of endings so there a lot of replay value to .
  
  
  SOUND
  
  this is another really good thing about dead rising that the music is fantastic and the voice acting 
 is well done the music sets the tone really well for some of the boss battles in fact the music 
 score is so good that Ive downloaded all the music from the game .
  
  
  GRAFICSE
  
  the graphics on dead rising are really good the facial animations and light and shadows are are 
 really well don't also it takes quite a lot of power to have so many zombies on 1 screen and surprisingly 
 it doesn't have any framerate problems witch surprised me because of all the thing that can happen 
 at once bad bits it is pron to glitches but really it don't spoil the game so its all good
  
  
  OVERALL
  
  
  well time to rap this up Ive got to get back to killing zombies if you 
 like a game where you can do anything that has a good story and is challenging then give this a 
 wirel you wont be disappointed 
  
  
  overall 8.5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a Third Person/Horror game by Capcom, the same people who made the Resident Evil 
 series and the Devil May Cry series. Here is the review.
  
  Good- The storyline is great and it has some twists to it that really got me entertained with the 
 game. The Graphics were pretty good because even though you dont have an HDTV you're not really 
 missing anything. The Gameplay was just amazing, whats more fun than killing zombies and psychopaths 
 the whole time. I think that the best part about the game was about using almost everything in 
 the mall to kill zombies, whats more fun than killing a zombie with pans, cash registers, or anything 
 in the mall that you could use. Finally you can either choose to do all of the cases and stick 
 to the storyline and kill pyschopaths, rescue survivors (or kill them if you wish) and kill the 
 zombies as well. Or you can just do what you want the whole time so you can lvl up your PP.
  
  Bad- I think the only bad thing about the game is the ending of the game in overtime mode. 
 They could have made better.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a great game to keep you entertained for a long time.
  Dead Rising gets 
 a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Here we have Dead Rising, a horror action adventure just for the xbox 360 =D. You play as Frank 
 West, a journalist sent on a "mission" to find out what's going on in the town of Willamette. The 
 chopper sets him on the rooftop of the Willamette mall and will be back for him in 72 hours... let 
 the fun begin. The graphics look very nice on an HDTV (SDTVs might have trouble reading the text, 
 it's not a big issue) . Every time you kill a zombie you'll see fountains (well maybe not) of blood 
 come gushing out which looks pretty cool. The gameplay is where this game shines. As you progress 
 throughout the game, you'll improve your throwing, running, health, and carry abilities RPG style 
 (a category is upgraded at random) . You can use ANYTHING that isn't bolted down as a weapon, ANYTHING. 
 Shooting is a bit of a hassle in this game, you'll aim with the right trigger and have to aim using 
 the right thumbstick as well. The voice acting is ok, the story is pretty simple, although the 
 game has the biggest cliffhanger ending I've seen in a while. 
  
  Overall, this game is a definite buy for all those zombie loving fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irve
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is quite simple broken. 
  There will always be design decisions that gamers don't agree with , and i'm sure there are people 
 that play this game and really enjoy the concept behind the save system. And there will be people 
 that love the time based structure of the game 
  
  However i really can't understand some of the schoolboy errors that went into how the developers 
 have combined the two . 
  
  Personally the biggest flaw that the save system has is the lack of multiple save points. After 
 you get used to the fact that you need to continually restart and/or replay large sections of the 
 game you kinda see the way the developers are trying to add replay value and old school values 
 to the game.
  However the fact that without knowing it you can waste 5 hours of playtime by saving at the wrong 
 point and effectively ending the game for you as you've not left enough time to backtrack to a 
 story point is just ill conceived. 
  
  The real problem here is that everything else about the game has been done really well , the Mall 
 is massive and the game really manages to capture the feel of overwhelming Zombie numbers, you 
 can simply have fun mowing down Zombies as you see fit ... and best of all do stupid things with 
 the zombies like put masks over their faces or buckets over their heads. After you've been playing 
 for about 5 hours the game really comes into it's own and really shows that it has plenty of replay 
 value and hours of entertainment . I've so far completed this game 3 times and spend a long time 
 in the Mall just having fun ... I've certainly got my monies worth out of this game which is more 
 than can be said for lots of games this generation 
  
  Ultimately i don't think the game has a clear vision of what it actually wants to be .... the save 
 system and the time based play would suit a hard as nails survival horror game ... and yet the 
 actual game play is tongue in cheak. action romp which quite frankly has been done nearly perfectly 
 in Bully. Finally a special mention goes to both the plot and the voice acting ... this in itself 
 makes that game a better Zombie film than anything made in the last 10 years... for all the cheese 
 of the gameplay the script is sharp, well developed and isn't derivative .. even of Dawn of the 
 dead. 
  
  Were it not for the save system i would say this is the best game i've played on next gen ... beating 
 titles like Gears of war , Halo 3 even Call of Duty 4 as it stands it's crippled by a poor choice 
 at the design stage Dead rising is a missed opportunity that is crying out for a sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squallzxyz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the first game for the 360 game where I finally understood what next-gen meant. 
 I mean hundreds of detailed and varying zombies with individual AI doing multiple different things, 
 like chasing trapped people or fighting spec ops soldiers, as well as pushing carts around and 
 wandering around with no preset path, as well as reacting to you in varying ways the second you 
 are within their range. All this and tons more with absolutely no lag. Sure there is the rare bug 
 where something wont shoot the character or an enemy is caught on a corner, but hey that is one 
 out of 100+, unlike games where there are only 3 people and they don't seem to notice ya player 
 standing in the middle of them.
  With all the things that impressed me about the sheer size of the game aside. The game play took 
 a bit of getting used to, the inventory system kinda screwed you over if you are in a hurry, and 
 believe me standing in the middle 20 zombies that are attempting to eat you is no time to be hoping 
 to scroll through your inventory for a knife. Also it auto selects the next item in the inventory 
 so saving food to heal at a boss fight and suddenly having a katana break or have tossed away all 
 kitchen plates at a pack of man eating abominations and hit the action button again will waste 
 the one thing a player was relying on. The game is ridiculously tough in the beginning, but after 
 gaining a fair amount of levels (capping at level 50 isn't the hardest thing to do in comparison 
 to trying to run through the game at level 8) it is a cake walk. The most enjoyable aspect of the 
 game is how its possible to use anything imaginable to bat away enemy after enemy. Leaving a room 
 covered with 50 dead zombies is quite the sight after fleeing from them in games like Resident 
 Evil all these years. The game has a pretty interesting story, not very in depth but enough to 
 remain a mystery but also thrill players nonstop until the very end. There is a ton of comedy and 
 stereotypes to encounter along the way many of which will force a laugh out of people amidst a 
 bloodbath. There is really no game like Dead Rising out of all these years the closest game to 
 relate it to would have to be GTA which is a stretch. Dead Rising is a must play for anyone who 
 can appreciate a difficult but rewarding beginning and can stomach tearing the intestines out of 
 unsuspecting undead, there is absolutely no excuse to pass up on a game for zombie fans and people 
 who like to laugh out loud as they violently tear through swarms of enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of those games that are one of a kind; you can't put it in one specific genre, 
 because it has characteristics of several types of games. This game is just amazingly fun to play, 
 sure it has gore and violence, but it also has a kind of humor that you won't find anywhere else.
 
  The story is unique, you play as reporter that got stuck in a town mall, filled with zombies, 
 your job is to find a way to survive and wait for a helicopter that will save you, you can survive 
 just by waiting it out in the safe house, or you can just explore the mall, and in the process 
 save more survivors and defeat psychopaths and cultists. The story revolves around the zombies, 
 and the struggle for survival, you'll encounter some characters that are hurt and can't move, or 
 that are being chased by psychopaths, and it's your job to save them with an amazing choice of 
 weapons, that range from garden appliances (like a lawn mower, or a chainsaw) to bowling balls, 
 swords, frozen food etc.
  Gameplay is amazing and the controls feel right, the zombie killing is great, simple and extremely 
 fun, the only complaint is the time system that is really annoying and that will restrict your 
 movement, making you choose between missions, and ultimately making you miss some of the plot sequences,
 
  Graphically the game is great, the zombies look amazing, and you'll be overwhelmed with the amount 
 of zombies on screen. The sound does its job, and it fits nicely into the whole zombie theme.
 
  In conclusion, Dead Rising is a brilliant and unique game; it has a great story about survival 
 and human suffering. The gameplay is amazing, though the time limitation may be a little annoying; 
 Graphically Dead Rising is gorgeous without any frame rate issues. A must buy for any 360 owners.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  For cheap satisfaction from a game, killing zombies is a pretty safe option. Not only are they 
 malevolent, vile killing machines, they're killing machines using the bodies of your poor friends, 
 neighbors, and loved ones as weapons of war. You can satisfy your bloodlust and your mercy with 
 one swing of your machete. If you don't have a machete handy, you'll have to make do with what 
 you have on hand, and this -- the most celebrated feature of Dead Rising -- is wonderfully executed. 
 The sheer variety of available weapons, from the obvious (shotguns, chainsaws, baseball bats) to 
 the less obvious (guitars, benches) to the wonderfully absurd (teddy bears, cans of cola) , is delightful, 
 and there's plenty of fun to be had from trying out all the different tools of destruction. It's 
 a terrible shame that such a great mechanic for open-ended, improvisational gameplay is shoehorned 
 into a game that rigidly follows a (lousy) formula. 
  
  It starts off well enough. The story, which follows freelance photojounalist Frank West through 
 a Colorado mall during a mysterious zombie outbreak, is well-written and has its share of (fairly) 
 unexpected twists and turns, and it's anchored by pretty good voice acting. It's not Pixar quality, 
 but it's still better than the vast majority of games. The graphics are downright stunning, especially 
 the astoundingly realistic facial models. You can count the pores on Frank's face, emotions look 
 true to life, the animations look downright real, and staring a zombie in its empty eye socket 
 will turn your stomach. Add in light political commentary, and this is a game you can really throw 
 yourself into. 
  
  It's a shame the gameplay doesn't allow that. It's been called a "sandbox game," but the sandbox 
 is basically a narrow, sand-covered path through the middle of a minefield. You only have a limited 
 time to complete the core missions (there's a central story with unrelated side missions) , which 
 barely leave time to rescue survivors, let alone look for secrets or run over zombies with a lawnmower 
 (which is fun) . If you glumly accept that you can't do the side quests, the pace becomes tolerable, 
 but games with deadlines still feel like work. The deadlines have another fatal problem: with the 
 much-publicized wretched save system, which is far from the game's only glaring flaw, it's far 
 too easy to save yourself into a game-ending corner. Seriously, if you use your one save slot at 
 the wrong time you can't meet the deadline, and it's back to the beginning. (Being able to keep 
 your status when you start over isn't much consolation, but at least it's something.) Either the 
 save system or the time limits would be annoying on their own; together, they make the game almost 
 unplayable. 
  
  The game's best and worst come together in the boss fights. Psychopaths -- survivors who have lost 
 it under the duress of the zombie apocalypse -- give the game some of its most wonderfully twisted 
 moments. Take the much-screenshotted (?) fight with the chainsaw-wielding clown. The cutscenes 
 are will make you laugh even as you soil yourself in terror. Too bad they're interrupted by a stupid 
 boss fight. Actually, the clown is one of the less obnoxious bosses, but it's still a matter of 
 dying and reloading until you discover the Magic Formula. Also, like most video game bosses, his 
 head is somehow bulletproof. This destroys the immersion, and immersion is pretty crucial in an 
 atmospheric game like this. As games get more and more realistic, the rules of boss fights should 
 really be grounded in reality. Please? The other boss fights are worse. The guy with the .50-caliber 
 sniper rifle is unstoppable until you figure out that a hockey puck to the knees is more fatal 
 than a 9mm round to the face. (Braining zombies with hockey pucks is good horror-comedy; knocking 
 off armed terrorists with them is just stupid. But hey, that's the Magic Formula.) The final boss 
 was inane enough that I sold this piece of crap back without even finishing it -- minutes from the 
 end -- and that's just not something I do. He has abilities that you lack, including the ability 
 to make himself basically invulnerable. You don't have any defensive abilities except to run away. 
 Most games got away from this a decade ago. I might have put up with all that, but the fight is 
 preceded by twenty minutes of gameplay without a single save point. Most of the other bosses require 
 powerful weapons, which completely kills the joy of improvised warfare. See? The game's best feature 
 is a total afterthought. 
  
  Looking at the game objectively, it does have a lot in its favor. I can't overstate how beautifully 
 sick the cutscenes with the clown are, and clobbering zombies with a Stratocaster never gets old. 
 The gorgeous graphics and solid story could have made for a decent horror film. I really want to 
 love Dead Rising. Unfortunately, the gameplay slowly overwhelmed me with its badness until I felt 
 like releasing a zombie outbreak in Capcom's headquarters. Zombie-slaughter is still fun as hell, 
 but you can get your kicks with the downloadable demo -- you still get plenty of unlikely weapons 
 (red-hot frying pans never get old) , but it's free and doesn't make you suffer through terrible 
 game design. There's a sequel in the works, and Capcom might get away from the lousy formula and 
 make good on the concept's potential. If the game-killing flaws rise from the dead, though, the 
 developers deserve to be crushed under a cash register.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising forgets all the mood and atmosphere from Resident Evil games and just let's you kill 
 zombies in a million different ways.
  
  Frank West is a photo journalist, who gets a tip about something big in a small town somewhere 
 in Colorado. He takes a helicopter there and notices that roads are blocked by the military and 
 there are zombies everywhere. In a big mall there's a group of people still alive so Frank lands 
 on top of the building. You as Frank West have now 72 hours to get a story and in the process kill 
 a whole bunch of zombies. The plot of the game is interesting and especially the boss fights are 
 memorable.
  
  Graphics are not the best there is for Xbox360, but instead you get hundreds of zombies on screen 
 at once and the frame rate doesn't suffer from it. Unfortunately loading times are too long and 
 many, which frequently takes you out from the action. Game is very colourful, which is due to the 
 fact that it happens in a large mall. Sound on the other hand is absolutely great. Every weapon 
 sounds different when it's making a contact with a zombie's body and the voice acting during cutscenes 
 is also enjoyable to listen.
  
  Dead Rising is a third person action game, in which pretty much everything is a weapon. There are 
 the usual guns and bladed weapons, but you can also throw CD's like ninja stars, use a park bench 
 or maybe a weight from the gym. All this zombie killing can easily make you forget that Frank is 
 here for a story. You can take pictures and they are rated in terms of their quality. In order 
 to progress the main story Frank needs to be in a right place at the right time and this goes to 
 the different side missions as well.
  
  Completing side missions or the main cases give you points, which are used to upgrade your abilities. 
 This brings us to the save system, which is borderline broken. You only have one save slot in the 
 entire game. This means that if you miss the time limit in one main quest it's over and you don't 
 get anymore missions in the main story. At this point you need to start your game all over again, 
 but the points and upgrades you've earned come with you when you start the game again. This sort 
 of artificial lengthening of the game is something that I simply can't stand. Save system forces 
 you to play the game through multiple times.
  
  There is no multiplayer in Dead Rising, but it would have been useless anyway so I think it better 
 this way. You still might want to have your Xbox Live account online for system updates and other 
 downloadable content from Xbox Live Marketplace.
  
  Killing zombies is fun, but the save system hindered me from enjoying the game all the way through. 
 Dead Rising is still good game, but be warned about the awful save system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Lewy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Many people may look to games such as Dead rising for a short burst of fun, thier time spent slashing 
 and hacking at zombies or finding new and intuitive ways in order to defeat the "vilians" of the 
 game. However beyond the ever present front that people seam to asociate Dead Rising with there 
 is at heart, a truly fantastic storyline. Im the first to admit that when i first played this game 
 i automatically looked for the first horde of zombies of which i could eliminate in as many ways 
 possible. Granted i did begin to feel un-stretched but at this point it was to late as i had already 
 ignored any sighns to advance in the game and was unfortunatley told that the "trurth had vanished 
 into darkness." After this i left the game for a number of weeks, pre occupied with Gears of War 
 online. Upon my return i was truly amazed at the sheer brilliance of this games storyline. Without 
 giving away any secrets the twists and turns that lead to the multiple ending are superb. So superb 
 infact it got me hooked and my addiciton lead to me becoming an achiement hunter for the next week, 
 wantingto go for the glory and final obtaining the highly stress inducing "zombie genocider" and 
 "saint." Ending up with a gamescore of 800 i was left with a huge feeling of satisfaction combined 
 with a passion that will live on for this game!
  
  Capcom once again lives up to its high standard when it comes to zombie thrillers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I love this game from the top-notch gore to cheesy mall music, every inch of this game is beautiful 
 and amazing. The game's action and controls and story is superb, One of the best of 2006. As my 
 classification says, this game is seriously underappreciated, no joke. This game pits you as Frank 
 West, war journalist who's main thing in journalism, is war and atrocities. Frank gets a tip that 
 something is going down at the little town of Willamette, but soon finds that its completely under 
 military lock down. Your arriving by helicopter so you don't have to worry. The first sequence 
 is basically your flying over the town trying to get to the helipad On top of the mall while taking 
 pictures of the things going down below. You actually get to take the pictures as it is part of 
 the game as a little gameplay mechanic. Once you arrive on there your greeted by a mysterious man. 
 Then you get into the building and find out that everyone is barricading the entrances and such 
 to keep the zombies. But thanks to a really stupid lady, the entrances open and all the zombies 
 pour in. Basically the entire game is timed for you to do story based and side mission based things. 
 Theres also bosses known as psychopaths, these are the people in the mall who have gone insane 
 from the pandemic unfolding. The game's gameplay and huge variety and diversity of weapons and 
 ways to kill zombies is just unbelievable. The only issue is the same for everyone, and thats the 
 save system. It could've had some improvement but is still decent nonetheless. This game is excellent 
 and shouldn't be passed up, by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  What a game!!! Its the best zombies killing game I played!!! For me its even better than Resident 
 Evil games. I have the Xbox 360 since December and this game was one of the first I wanted to buy, 
 and Im very happy with my purchase.
  This game its quite simple to play, the story is also great (very cool having more than 1 ending) 
 and the thing I like most... the killing. Everything is useful to kill zombies. Baseball bats, guns, 
 swords, axes, cash register machines, rocks... you name it. 
  I would like to see a "Dead Rising 2" in a near future, but I guess Capcom is too busy with other 
 games, like Streetfighter 4, but if you guys of Capcom have some spare time, please do a "Dead 
 Rising 2"!!!
  So if anyone wants to relax after a hard day of work, turn on your Xbox 360, and enter the greatest 
 mall on earth. Prepare for survive, prepare to kill... lots and lost of zombies!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWolf0526
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game where the only thing to do is kill zombies, take pictures and save people 
 from being turned into zombies. Sounds boring right? Wrong! This game actually manages to make 
 it fun. You play as some cocky reporter investigating the zombies. You start off pretty weak but 
 as you become a zombie killing warrior you get stronger. Killing zombies, taking pictures of interesting 
 stuff and saving people gives you points towards leveling up. Thats right. They made this an RPG. 
 I'm not big on that choice but the game would have been WAY too easy without it. The only problems 
 I have are the story and difficulty jumps. The story is pretty much non-existent and what is there 
 makes no sense. But luckily you didn't buy this game for the story did you now? The only real problem 
 is the difficulty. Killing the zombies is almost mind numbingly easy and requires almost no effort. 
 However, as soon as you fight a boss it's like somebody flipped the "difficulty up" switch. Bosses 
 are nearly impossible to kill and hurt you way to easily. Not to mention the people who "help" 
 you suck and may need protecting. If your shooting for a game with a good story or memorable characters 
 you may want to look elsewhere. But, if killing zombies with a lawnmower is your kinda thing than 
 this is your game! I recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmulvaney
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  It seems as though this game has a love hate relationship with the people who play it. They either 
 love it or hate it, not much of a middle ground really. I loved it. 
  Granted that when you first play it starts off nice but then you can easily pick up on a lot of 
 features that need improvement. One big problem that a lot of haters point out almost immediately 
 is the save structure. Yeah it is rather painful to deal with at first, but you get used to it 
 and you get better at surviving longer without saving. It is almost as if you shouldn't save too 
 often cuz you can save yourself right into a rock and a hard place where completing the game is 
 physically impossible. However, if you do manage to do that and choose to start over Capcom has 
 taken the 'Hero Save' approach from Fable. Your stats and skills will not be reset when you attempt 
 it a second time. Making it easy to max out your levels early on in preparation for the harder 
 parts later on. 
  When i started it i almost gave up on it, packed it up and traded it back to Gamestop. I gave it 
 a second chance because I refused to believe a concept like this could be executed so poorly. And 
 then one day when i was in the food court surrounded by the undead, hiding behind a counter i found 
 a ketchup bottle and there was this particularly overly enthusiastic corpse just beggin for a bite 
 o jimmy. So, i tossed the bottle right at its face and then PLOP! her face was covered in red and 
 i was on the floor dying in laughter! It reminded me of the Army of Darkness scene where Ash is 
 burying Evil Ash and he says "hey uh, what's that you got on your face?" Hunh? PLOP! LOLOLOLOL 
 This game has so much charm that no Evil Dead, G. Romero, R. E. fan can resist it. So i beg you, 
 give it a couple of chances to get used to it, at least until you have had the chance to use just 
 about every item in the mall as a weapon, it is sooo much fun. Even if you don't care about the 
 missions, just run around and wreak havoc! The only suggestion i can make to improve the game would 
 be that how about the survivors DON'T take damage until AFTER they have joined your party? I mean 
 they have been safe up until the point Frank spots them and then you leave the map and they are 
 slaughtered? Come on, is Frank's luck really that bad that he infects the other people around him 
 with it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpt-killa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game i VERY FUN. I mean come on who wouldnt like a game where you can have unlimited weapons 
 and have phsychopaths, zombies, and cultists to use the weapons on.
  
  The game has some minor tweaks in it but mostly everything about it is great like running over 
 zombies with cars and lawn mowers, shooting things, helping people, the storyline, and alot of 
 other things but my favorite thing is killing the special forces guys, the only reason is because 
 they are actually a little of a challenge to kill, zombies can be a challenge to if your like level 
 one through five.
  
  This game is a one that you will love until you die and if you have nothing to do just play this 
 and waste time, because you probably will get addicted to it after blowin off some zombies heads 
 with a shotgun.
  
  
  So Enjoi and i hoped you liked my review
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatendoWhisky64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that no matter how many times you beat it, it will leave you begging for 
 more. Basically the game is to survive thousands of zombies, but while doing so you must also try 
 to gather information on what has happened at this mall because you are a photojournalist. But 
 the good thing is you don't have to kill all the zombies. If you wanted to you could just run past 
 them and go for your target.
  
  The leveling system is great. It let's you learn new moves, build up your health, stock, attack, 
 throw, and speed. So basically the higher the level the easier the game, because the enemies don't 
 level up with you. What else is great is that you can save your character data and continue using 
 it through different play throughs. 
  
  The game is somewhat hard. The only thing that I found hard about the game was the bosses. But 
 as long as you've got some good weapons it not that hard, adn believe me there is always something 
 for a weapon. It may not be what you want, but it can still be used as a weapon.
  
  It is a pretty long game depending on how you play it. There are tons of side missions you could 
 do, or you could just ignore them and let the poor little people die. Plus for certain things you 
 do, you can unlock special weapons or costumes.
  
  So basically if you love Capcom, and running over thousands of zombies in a motorcycle, then you 
 will probably like it. It's perfect for passing the time until your next reserved game comes out, 
 because there are hours and hours of gameply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pip0027
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is fun. Gets a bit repetitive and the story lacks. But thats not why i played 
 the game i played to kill as many zombies as possible and to go onto a rampage the biggest problem 
 i have with the game is that when you are trying to play through the story if you miss a mission 
 and dont realize and go and beat some bosses it wont tell you that you missed it until you go to 
 do it. So if you plan to play through the story I would recommend that you keep track of you time 
 very well. but if your looking for a nice place to just waste your time this is the game to do. 
 All the zombie killing really makes you forget the time. I've been lost in this game at times and 
 the bosses are quite intresting and can be scary. Not only can the game give you the creeps there 
 are quite a few times that it makes you laugh cause they do seem to throw in some humor such as 
 the erotica pictures which you will understand when you play the game. overall i would say go out 
 buy it its a good investment and is replayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodaegis666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Alright let's ge to the good bites..... ahem... all cheesy-ness aside...
  
  
  
  This game is verry fun... a mall... zombies... endless supply of weapons IN A MALL WITH ZOMBIES come 
 on! sign me up, until I played the game and realized this game is less on survival than it is for 
 uncovering truth in the plot... wich is NOT a bad thing.
  
  The only complaint I have about this game is not for gameplay buggy or anything else it sorta is... enemies 
 sure I love to ight zombies as much as the next guy but I feel by the _____ day the zombies feel 
 like they are non-exsistant...
  
  especially when there are these jerks in yellow coats with green masks who have NO PLOT INTRODUCTION 
 all you see is this crazy guy with a sword and these followers of this cult eallyare bad assed...
 
  
  they knife you knock you out with gasoline or w/e it is no idea don't care because they ruin the 
 game for me.. oh they also blow themselfs up.
  
  I really feel asif the zombies get replaced by these "yellow coat cultists" there are these clusters 
 of them and they are often encounters with them there are usually clusters of 10.
  
  wich makes certain areas of the mall an avoid this area at all costs idea.
  
  And I won't say 
 when but there is a jeep with convicts in it wich make it hard to SAVE SURVIVORS...
  
  Overall capcom made a great game with this even though it is insanely tough until you get to a 
 higher level.
  
  This game is all that for me and a must buy for any console gamer who loves zombies... and killing 
 them.
  
  now I really hate to strain the graphics area but... as a warning without a HDTV you will not.... NOT 
 be able to read the print clearly wich amde it ahrd to identify things in the middle of a zombie 
 encounter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been holding off this game, for the reason it was a timed game and had a crappy save system..... I 
 was a fool.
  
  Gameplay - You are trapped in a mall and it's full of zombies. (It's sounds familiar right?) Yes, 
 well aside from zombies you also have other humans (Crazy or otherwise sane) The game is mostly 
 built on using what ever weapons you can find and beating zombie brains out. (I mean anything can 
 be used) I used a stuffed bear and a pie to kill zombies. The game is though meant to be serious 
 is really quite humorist, and entertaining. I love how I can use a fake light saber to smack zombies 
 around, CDs and soda cans are used as ninja stars, Shopping carts are tanks and how zombie hookers 
 will try..... and... bite you.... in... places.........
  
  The game also lets you upgrade yourself like better attack power, more life and more items slot. 
 (Best part if you start a new game you can keep those upgrades.) Also the game focus alot on the 
 camera, if you take good enough pics then you get points for that too! Although the game is timed, 
 (You have 3 days really ,72 hours, to do what you gotta do till the helicopter arrives) The game 
 paces it self well, meaning you won't find yourself chilling out in a restaurant and eating pizza 
 hoping to kill some time. Unfortunately all cases or missions are timed if you miss them you lucked 
 out. An annoying thing is if you miss a story based case you can't complete the rest. You can still 
 play but it is now nothing more than a zombie killer game. 
  
  Sounds - Great! But the Dialog suffers like most games do, Repeater (They say the same words or 
 phrases) Other than that great!
  
  Graphics - Came out in 2006, but also looks great, the zombie hordes were amazing. 
  
  Replay 
 Value - You can unlock infinity mode and overtime, plus tons of items and moves. (Last you about 
 5 hours at the most)
  
  Cons - AI SUCKS! (I mean really they can't follow me around a table? Also girls can't fight expect 
 push. Also The gun aiming stunk, but I did they did that for a reason, so I'll let this pass. The 
 save system and timer on cases. I hope they fix this in Dead Rising 2! 
  
  Summary - Great zombie game to play and should not be missed, (but you have already played it have 
 you? ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuevan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the bomb (A good bomb by the way) . It has everything, its like total time killer. 
 Lets start, the game's main quests keep you glued to the screeen for hours, the boss's arnt easy, 
 theres sooo much exploring, and you get a t-shirt with a naked chick on it . What more can we ask 
 for? A mush have for any 360 owner (of course over the age of 17) . For parents. Not so much. Its 
 a total gorefest and will probaly haunt your child for a long time. Not recomended for anyone, 
 I mean anyone with permission from they're parents or not, nobody under 13, when they hit 14 they 
 know whats going on they get it. 
  
  Now this part is for anybody who is newly 17. Buy it dude, just buy it. Its cheap, its worth every 
 dime, its just... just it. By it I mean a must have for any gamer of any genre. This game has every 
 genre in it. Puzzles, thinking its just hard to describe. My advice, dont rent, just buy it. Its 
 cheap and if you rent it you wont get everything (unless you spend all day glued to your tv) .
 
  
  Now... the bad. If you have a older model of the 360, watch out, you will get some errors saying 
 disc unreadable. Also the save system just plain out sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zangan_Zack
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I saw the commercial for this game almost 2 years ago I wanted to play it so bad!
  And finally for Christmas this year I received a Xbox360 and I went to my local Gamestop and picked 
 up this little gem.
  
  So to start off I'll go with the graphics although they are a bit dated because this was one of 
 the first games for the Xbox360 and all the zombies together in the Maintenance Tunnels look a 
 bit blocky at least in my opinion. (But who cares about the zombies anyway there just there to 
 be your test subjects for the large selection of weaponry in Dead Rising.)
  
  So with the gameplay not much to it you go around the malls various stores and pick up an abundance 
 of weapons and use them on your zombie adversaries, But sometimes when you go into a store you 
 might run into a Psychopath they are the living that have gone crazy from the traumatic stress 
 of having to deal with the rise of the living dead when you defeat them you receive a large chunk 
 of PP (Prestige Points) or experience points and most of the time they drop one-of-kind weapons 
 that are extremely powerful, another part of the game is the camera which is used to obviously 
 take photos with it makes it easier to receive PP and there is a few achievements related to the 
 camera.
  
  And lastly the story,
  I actually really like the story the only thing I didn't like was the timed events because if I 
 did everything I don't have any side things to do I'll have to leave my controller sitting there 
 for up to 20 minutes doing absolutely nothing and also how easy it is to miss an event and fail 
 the whole storyline mixed with the irritating save system. (You can only save in the security room 
 and in bathrooms)
  
  All and all the game was a gem that I would recommend to anyone even folks that don't like zombies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is the whole reason i got the xbox 360 in the first place, i'm a big horror fan including 
 stuff about zombies, Dead Rising is a bad-ass zombie killing game where it actually makes sense. 
 It has a really good story to it and it never gets old cutting zombies heads off, spitting on them, 
 kicking them in the face, and watching the people you save.... die. When i got this game it turned 
 out a whole lot better then i expected, its from the people who do bring you most of the zombie 
 games like resident evil [Capcom] . This is one of the games that i bought about a year ago and 
 i still enjoy beating it. If you like horror games, you really will like dead rising because there 
 is so many weapons, so many ways that you can kill the zombies, so many ways that they can kill... you, 
 that you can't turn away for a second, you have to look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun, very camp. LOTS of zombie killing, and very creative. The game does get repetitve 
 and some of the objectives can be unclear. The game is timed, so there is some pressure to kill 
 zombies quickly and run through areas that you wold like to make a blood bath. Also, the respawning 
 is frustrating as you never really get to clear out an area.
  
  Grey's anatomy just plain sucks. The storylines have jumped the shark soooo many times and I think 
 the play the same lame music in every episode. My wife loves it, so I am in hell every Thursday 
 night. Video Game Porn As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead 
 in most of our video games has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, 
 that mentioning it was a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate 
 the gratuitous tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution 
 of video games will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot 
 wait for the corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moscardino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun but soon becomes boring withn a bad save system and a lousy choie of gameplay.
 
  there are literaly hundreds of ways to kill zombies in this game but most weapons do the exact 
 same as others such as a toolbox is no different from a dumbell as both are just used to hit a 
 zombie.
  there is some fun elemens such as chainsawing a zombie apart and driving over them in a car but 
 gets repetitive over a while.
  voice acting is good but cheesy and some actors miss lines badly. the story however is very good 
 and boss fights are challenging.
  the save system is atrocious and then in the middle of the game and you havn't saved it for 2 missions, 
 if you die you have to do them again.
  graphics are very good and go well with the game. The characters personality also are good.
  
 violence isn't ans good as you think, it is all blood spurting and the occaisonal dismemberment 
 and bisection. It still however remains fun and violence fans will love it.
  
  Overall an extremely fun game and even though it as a lot of flaws, remains good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalmagic46
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is possibly the funnest game i've played. so heres the story, your a photo journalist 
 named frank and you go to this cities mall and you discovers there are people making barricades 
 to keep whords of zombies out. this dumb old lady see's here dog outside and breaks the barricade. 
 bad move because now the mall is infested with zombies. you engage cases in which you must do certain 
 things such as help a guy fight someone. you get a radio thing thats annoying because the guy keeps 
 calling you. but all is not useless because theese call engage you in scoop missions. they misssions 
 show you were there are survivors. escorting them to safety in the security room will earn you 
 pp which i'll explain in a minute. pp stands for presteig points and getting enough of these will 
 get you a level up. level ups can get you a lot of things from more health bars to new attacks. 
 your stuck in this mall so everything and anything is a weapon. weapons vary from guns and bats 
 to swords and guitars. as much fun as it is killing zombies this game is pretty damn hard. when 
 the zombies attack you you would normally shake the left analog stick but in some cases you have 
 to do button commands which can be shaking the analog stick or pressing correct buttons. so if 
 your new to this game you might want to save your progress as many times as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty fun. you get to use anything you want to destroy countless number of zombies 
 to destroy with anything you can think of. i had fun for a while but ten it just got to hard for 
 me so i just went around manhandling zombies till i got bored. but i didnt get bored for a while 
 because i always found something new that was fun t manhadle them with. The story was decent the 
 graphics are nice t if you love gory games this game and gears of war are the games for you. If 
 you were to ask me i would recomend this game. sometimes you can get into fites with civilians 
 which is pretty fun. the idea is very interesting i would be happy if they made an easier sequel. 
 This is an awesome idea that didnt get much publicity. If you get frusterated with semi hard games 
 this isnt for you but if you dont mind the challenge its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strider_91
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Straight after picking this up you know your in for alot of fun. Starting off you follow Frank, 
 in a helicopter, taking pictures of zombies. And he ask to get a closer look so you know soon enough 
 your going to be spliting some skulls within the hour.
  
  The story is you must survive 72 hours in the mall. You can become a zombie hunter and just totally 
 wipe out there race. You could follow the story and find out what happens to Brad and Jessie. Or 
 you could risk your life and save the multiple survivors within the mall. Whatever you choose, 
 maybe even mixing it up a little, your bound to have one hell of a time and definately kill some 
 of them zombies on the way too.
  
  Get bored of killing zombies? You have other people and weirdo's to face aswell. Physcopaths, Randomn 
 crazed people who each are weird in there own way. One of my favourite people to face was the man 
 in the food department. I walked in, and there was blood all over the floor. Someone had been dragged 
 around continously and it looks really good! Aswell as these you have hooded physcopaths in raincoats. 
 These guys probably don't have a brain as some of the ways of killing your are self destruction. 
 These guys are quite creepy as you always see them chanting. But what are these freaks without 
 a leader. You go into the movieland cinema and find he has tied up some victims. This is one hell 
 of an exciting level and does bring a end to those pesky raincoat fiends.
  
  There are uncountable ways to kill zombies in this game. You have sledgehammers, chainsaws, parasols 
 anything. And each weapon, well if it is actually intended to harm, has a different way of killing 
 them. A sledgehammer will piledrive them to the floor imploding there head. Also for you die hard 
 zombie killers guns are a must. Once Clyde has given up guarding his gun store you have to get 
 in there. Shotguns, sniper rifles and handguns will keep you busy mowing down the hoards of them.
 
  
  The graphics on this game are really good aswell. The blood looks so good when its bursting from 
 there heads, or any part of there bodies. There is so much to use and interact with in this game 
 i'm surprised everything works so well. Even the characters who play little parts in the game have 
 there own way of acting, own style and some really good voicing.
  
  Overall Dead rising has been a revolutionary game bringing something new to the 360. Anyone with 
 a xbox should pick this game up as it shows what next gen is about. If bringing Frank into a mall 
 and getting to smash threw all of them undead corpses isn't enough to keep you entertained, your 
 a tough cookie to crack. (90%) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Ok so where to begin...
  For me this game gave me very mixed reaction i mean F**k yeah this game is fun for most of the 
 duration.
  
  Killing Zombies:
  
  the best part about this game fullstop as you can basically kill as many zombies as u like while 
 using pretty much any weapons you want lying around the mall and other places such as obvious weapons 
 such as Planks of wood, Swords, your hands ect... to the damn right wiered but extremly fun lawn 
 mower, footballs, plates, CD's ect...
  
  Controls: 
  
  For the controls of this game i found them masterable by that i mean yeah to be honest CapCom could 
 of made the controls smoother but there no where near broken.
  
  Real time:
  
  Ok call it what you will, i call it real time becuase you litrally have 72 hours to complete the 
 game otherwise you automatically die basically. You can tell how much time you have left by pressing 
 the left directional button on your 360 controller which brings fanks watch up. 
  Again this doesnt exactly cripple the game like most people are saying, however it does take a 
 bit of enjoyment out of playing as you always have it in the back of your mind telling you, you 
 cant kill that zombie otherwise you'll lose too much time.
  
  And of course.....
  
  Save system: 
  
  Now theres alot to be said here as the save system doesnt take any fun out 
 of actually killing the zombies or anything, however it seriously lacks due to the fact as there 
 is like only 2 or maye 3 saves you can do in the whole entire game which screws it up. The save 
 system made me take 2.5 off of this game becuase this is proberly the only part of the game that 
 is '' seriously crippled''.
  But this shouldnt put people looking to see if this game is buyable down as this game is on sale 
 as its pretty old now so if you like hours of fun beheading zombies or running them over with lawn 
 mowers id check it out, just dont expect to complete it anytime soon due to the '' disastious '' 
 save system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Although I usually prefer FPS (first person shooters) to the 3rd person adventure games, I loved 
 the latest installments of the Lara Croft and the Hitman series games. As of this writing, I have 
 completed Dead Rising in the 72 hour mode and am quite the veteran zombie genocider.
  
  Dead Rising is the beginning of a great genre for the Xbox 360. Dead Rising has a number of unique 
 features that set it apart. First off, you can pick up just about anything in the area and use 
 it as a weapon. Potted plants, lawnmowers and even an electric guitar are all at your disposal. 
 There are easily hundreds of potential weapons in this game and part of the fun is discovering 
 new ways to fight off zombies with what you have available at hand.
  
  Adding to the distinct style of Dead Rising is the ability to customize your character. As you 
 make your way through the mall, you can try on new clothing available from the various shops. Cool 
 suits, fashionable glasses and, yes, even women's and children's apparel is fair game to put on. 
 Besides wearing it as you battle the zombies, your character will also appear as you have dressed 
 him during the video cut-scenes, which is a Beautiful extra touch I was delighted to see. Food 
 has also been given special "abilities" in the game. For example, you might find a frozen or raw 
 food somewhere in the mall. If you eat it, you earn one or two points of health. But pop it into 
 an oven before you eat it, and it will completely fill your health meter. Likewise, you can mix 
 certain fluids in a blender can make an extra powerful energy drink!
  
  If you can't tell by everything I've already mentioned, this game is deep. I've only touched the 
 surface to avoid revealing any spoilers, but trust me when I say you can get totally wrapped up 
 in this game. The plot, the game and every little thing (be sure to check out the bookstore!) in 
 the vast mall has been developed with so much detail that you'll find yourself enthralled by it.
 
  
  However, when undertaking such an ambitious project, there have to be some downfalls. The absolutely 
 worst is the save game methodology. The developers have decided that you must find a restroom or 
 a couch to save. While this seemed cute and clever at first, it quickly became frustrating and 
 enraging (when you couldn't find one right before you got forced into a boss fight) . Every player 
 on the planet will find this feature problematic, I guarantee it.
  
  One thing that other reviewers haven't mentioned is that some of the level bosses (called "Psychopaths") 
 are redundant or unfairly matched. For example, often you'll be faced with enemies with devastating 
 long-range weapons when all you have is a knife or 2x4 to try and knock out your opponent with. 
 In another boss attack, I literally started at a save point and had to go through two full levels 
 to face a boss who would inevitably defeat me and then I'd have to start all over again. These 
 opponents often have a move that will completely incapacitate you in a single swipe, even when 
 you have full health. This, combined with the fact that you will often have to run halfway across 
 the map (where your last game save was) to repeat the battle, makes the game incredibly annoying. 
 If you could ammo up, then save right before the boss battle, the game would be considerably more 
 enjoyable. Also, if you do die, you can save your character progress and start the game over from 
 the beginning. This might seem like a chore at first, but in the end leveling up from the start 
 of the game will help at the finish line.
  
  Another item, although mentioned by others in a different light, is the text-based mission objectives. 
 Many reviewers have stated that the text is almost unreadable on smaller, standard definition televisions. 
 However, my biggest complaint in this area is that the text is used at all. This game, by its very 
 nature, is immersive. When you're trapped in a mall and having to fight zillions of zombies, you 
 shouldn't have to stop to read the text of another character. I honestly wish Capcom had spent 
 a little extra time and money to delete all of the text interactions since they are all spoken 
 to you anyway. Not only would this have solved their biggest technical problem with the game, it 
 would have also helped keep the suspense.
  
  Finally, there's a lot of "load-screen-itis" in this game. And by that, I mean that you'll be seeing 
 a lot of the loading screen. Granted, the mall is a huge environment, and the load times are a 
 snappy 5-6 seconds, but it gets annoying when you walk into an elevator and wait, walk down a hallway 
 and wait, turn left and wait... You get the picture.
  
  There is no online component to allow multiplayer (which would be awesome!) but Dead Rising does 
 have downloadable content from Xbox Live. It was available just days after the game released and 
 consists of eight "keys" which unlock several new outfits for the main character, available at 
 no charge. As you'd expect, the game also supports Xbox Achievements, with 50 of them to earn, 
 each worth 20 Gamerscore points. You'll have to spend hundreds (if not thousands!) of hours in 
 this game trying to obtain all of these objectives and I don't consider many of them a "walk in 
 the park."
  
  Honestly, it seems like I'm spending a lot of time picking on the problems of this game, but they 
 will plague you as you try to play through the levels. But when it comes right down to it, this 
 game has all 5 "Es" that make it a powerhouse: Exciting plot, Engaging environments, Enlightening 
 characters, 360 Exclusivity and Encredible customization! (OK, that last one wasn't an "E" but 
 you'll have to forgive me, just like you'll have to forgive certain flaws in this game!) In short, 
 you should definitely pick this game up, but love it for everything it accomplishes while forgiving 
 it for the technical problems that it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UhhhGahMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Zombies, Psychopaths, and Boss Battles!!!!! Dead Rising is one of the most bloodiest games I've 
 ever played. The action is exciting throughout the entire game. Every part will keep you wanting 
 more and more of its bloody action. It's a great mixture of action, gore, and fun. Personally I 
 think this game is the best zombie game since Resident Evil. The controls are pretty good. The 
 weapons are numerous so you should have some good fun for hours. The boss battles are awesome. 
 The aiming will take a little bit of getting used to but once you passed that, you will never stop 
 playing. The storyline was put together in a well thought out manner. I think this game is more 
 than good enough to become a movie. Even after getting every achievement, I still want ot play 
 the game. Hopefully there will be a sequel to the game. It's SO WORTH THE MONEY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimjack352
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  i got this game back in september when i got my elite, and i got it with 3 other games including 
 halo 3 and crackdown, and as such didnt play it that much. looked really cool and kinda fun, but 
 hey i had halo 3 to play at the time. Fast foward to nov. and i really started to play it hard. 
 Man! talk about addictive - this game has so much stuff to it that it literally bulges at the seams 
 with things to do. you really have to play through the game three or four times to see everything 
 ; it is almost impossible to be everywhere you have to be in the time that they give you (72 game 
 hours) your first play through. the only thing i hated was the save system, but in retrospect, 
 it made sense. the last time i got this completely wrapped up in a console game was resident evil 
 4. the achievments add that much more stuff to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wacko_McSmacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising has to be one of the single most best games on the Xbox 360, and the best zombie game 
 ever. I was tired of all the zomibe games where just aimlessly kill the living dead with a gun 
 while they stumble around getting filled with bullets. I didn't think this game would be any good, 
 but i was surpirsed. You're Frank West, a freelance journalist who is looking to make his career. 
 You get a tip that National Guard in Wilamette, Colorado are blocking off the streets and communication 
 is jammed. You take a chopper and take pictures of the carnage in the streets. Then you fly over 
 to the mall which you see many zombies are going near. You tell ther pilot to drop you off and 
 come back in 3 days. Welcome to Dead Rising.
  
  First off, the graphics. The graphics are great. The zombies look very detailed, and other surviving 
 humans in the mall all look unique. The mall is very large and very detailed. There are so many 
 different stores and places to go. The blood from the zombies you fight is awesome looking, with 
 gore and bodily fluids spurting out. Frank even gets soaked with blood as he bashes his way through 
 zombies. 
  
  Second, the gameplay. The gameplay is excellent and is really easy. The combat is sort of button 
 mashy but is definetly fun as you rip through zombies by the hundreds. Speaking of zombies, there 
 is an infinite amount of zombies throughout the mall. They are usually in large mob groups that 
 are stationary, but sometimes they travel in small packs around the mall. The game allows you to 
 pick up almost anything as a weapon, from benches to baseball bats, manequins to saw blades. As 
 you prgoress, Frank levels up and learns new combat moves. That makes the game so much better. 
 Instead of just giving you a gun to kill zombies, you have to improvise and use your environment 
 around you. But you do find guns in this game, but there are usually only 30 bullets which are 
 gone very fast. 
  
  Third, the story. I'm not going to spoil anything about the story, but how these zombies came to 
 be and why they're here is pretty dumb. Although the story doesn't affect the gameplay, I like 
 well thought out and complex stories, but Dead Rising's story is kind of strange. At least I can 
 say it's unique.
  
  There is a problem with the saving system. You only have 1 save, and the real time gameplay messes 
 this up because if you're aiming for a specific ending (I believed the are 6 different endings, 
 and there is only one actual ending) and you accidently save when there's little time to finish 
 a Case File, you're f**ked big time. You can either save very very carefully, or you can start 
 the game over from the beginning. If you start over, Frank will be just as powerful as he was in 
 your previous game, which is good.
  
  So if you're ready for a visceral, gore filled, zombie slaughtering adventure through an enormous 
 megamall, buy Dead Rising. You will not be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hrubikscube
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I got Dead Rising for Christmas last year in 2006, and I still play it nearly every day. 
  
  It's ridiculously gory, highly addictive, incredibly fun, and worth buying. It has good graphics, 
 a great storyline, fun characters, tons of weapons, and all the zombies you'll ever need.
  
  It's pretty much modeled after the movie Dawn of the Dead, but it's still fantastic in its 
 own right. Surely it isn't an overly original game, but, really, there's nothing wrong with that, 
 as it's incredibly enjoyable and very well done.
  
  Dead Rising is perfect for horror fans, and even those who just want to have a good time. I would 
 recommend just going out and buying it right away, but if you're apprehensive, I suppose you should 
 rent it first. Still, I'd suggest it to just about anyone.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising has got to be the most fun, humorous, laugh at zombies with their legs cut off game 
 in history.
  
  The main story tells about a small town and how it gets over run by zombies. As Frank West, you 
 have to jump into the middle of the zombie crowd and uncover the truth by traversing a massive 
 Mall of America size... mall. With a few HUNDRED weapons to chose from, you will be entertained 
 for days and weeks and months and years and the rest of eternity. From the usual shotguns and SMGs 
 to toy swords and coat hangers and flat screen TVs, you will almost never run out of things to 
 hit zombies with. Even if you don't manage to do the main plot, you will still be able to play 
 for long time, until the helicopter ,that is suppose to pick you up in three days from when you 
 arrive, comes to take you and any survivors you save away from the zombie ridden town.
  
  The bosses in the game are other survivors called "psychopaths" ,and will try to stop you, whether 
 this is from defending them selves, thinking your a zombie, or just want to kill because they just 
 got out of jail. You get a bonus of PP (prestige points ( the games exp) ) for each one you kill 
 and an achievement for killing enough.
  
  This game will give you something to do no matter what you crave. Simply put, you will never get 
 tired of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watson2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is a great game for starters. You play as a dude named Frank a photo journalist who 
 believes he will find an interesting story to cover in a small town. He quickly figures out that 
 the undead are living, and creating mayhem around the town. He gets dropped off on top of a mall 
 and it takes on from there. The first thing you will notice is the scale of the game. There can 
 be hundreds of zombies on screen at once, though the textures on them may not be the best you will 
 not even notice. Also you can pick up just about any object in the mall which include coat hangers, 
 brooms, ketch up bottles, and even an electric guitar, to use as weapons. You can drive motorcycles, 
 and cars as well. The next good thing about dead rising is the sound. Though the only music you 
 hear is in cut scenes and credits the sound of broom handles impaling zombies is crisp and realistic. 
 Another good thing is the boss fights which are challenging but very interesting. The last good 
 thing in Dead Rising is the story. You find your self later on helping a group from home land security 
 track down a terrorist named Carlito. He is hell bent on avenging his town "Santa Cabasa" which 
 was torn apart by an American research facility experimenting with cloning of cows. As a result 
 creating a wasp that infects human hosts. So yea it has a really rich story line. Now for the bad 
 in dead rising. The first problem is the humans A. I . You will eventually have to rescue people 
 inside the mall and they are very stupid. And the biggest problem is the lack of replay value. 
 It is a short game but has 2 modes after you beat the 72 hour mode. There is Over time mode, and 
 Survival mode which is kind of a sand box mode. Though there is a survival mode it is timed which 
 is kind of strange. In Survival mode your health is slowly draining and the only way to get health 
 is eating foods that don't respawn like in 72 hour mode. My suggestion is to buy it however. It 
 is still a very fun game and once you beat it there are achievements which are a lot of fun to 
 unlock and you will some day play it a few more times through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutoBarn
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This could have been the greatest game ever made. Misguided attempts at innovation in its game 
 design and a wilfully obscure control scheme conspire to make it one of the most frustrating.
 
  
  All of the elements are there - beautiful visuals, engaging storyline, superb atmosphere... but 
 all that amounts to nothing when you pick up the controller and play it. Melee combat is effective 
 if a little button-mashy... but for the love of all that is good in this world, who designed the 
 shooting mechanic in this game? With all those zombies crawling around, whipping out your Uzi should 
 be a wonderous experience, not a completely disorientating one.
  
  For anyone who has asked themselves whether or not they have too much spare time on their hands, 
 Dead Rising serves as a good litmus test: if you have completed this game - you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the most unique games on the Xbox 360.
  With the best selection of weapons I've ever seen in a game ever.
  The game in spectacular in 
 the way you see hundreds of zombies on screen at once yet it doesn't make a single lag. Eventually 
 killing zombies with your massive selection of weapons dies down a bit and you get bored, so they 
 had to make a selection of psychopaths and missions for you to complete in the mall. I Loved the 
 Psychos and I thought they were the best thing in the game.
  The clown with twin chainsaws, The geek with a shopping cart covered in knives, The Evil Cult leader 
 in the Cinema and lets not forget the ugly butcher covered in blood. 
  I was a bit disappointed in the missions though. The were really frustrating and if you couldn't 
 get to one in time you would be totally f**ked.
  You get sick of this game fairly fast but then there are times when you just want to have a play 
 of it.
  And its a good game to play when you have friends around (twisted, sick, sadistic friends anyway) . There 
 should have been more saves around as well, there have been countless times where i have been running 
 to the save point (ages away) and died on the way = (
  This game is hilarious and has a lot of potential but made some bad mistakes and I don't think 
 a sequel would work well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  when you start it you can see a horizon for future gaming; everything is playable; you can walk with 
 knife and hook zombies up with baseball bats; style of your fighting in this game is your real style 
 in the real life; you can do only pri-missions or pay attention to everything and actions; take your 
 nose to every hole and see what can you get; your allies are good for nothing guys and you must 
 do all lonely; when you got upper levels, the ways of your fighting changed to new ones;
  mall, shops, gardens, parking lots and surprisingly, roof-tops are full of zombies; you can reach many 
 places and do too many actions in this beauty game;
  there are many endings for this game too; for every person you can find intersting points in this 
 game; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaziantep_spor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising a very fun game to play but also a very confusing game.
  
  I've enjoyed playing Dead Rising it's a fun but hard game to play. I like the fact that you can 
 use lots of different weapons in this game. The other thing I like about this game is that you 
 can explore the mall with zombies everywhere. I reckon that the graphics is really good it's fun 
 to kill zombies with all types of weapons also there is a lot of things I was disappointed with 
 this game was the story mode. Very hard to complete the missions and impossible to complete the 
 entire story mode because when you get close to the day that you are about to leave the mall you 
 have to fight with a girl named Isabella, it's just extremely hard and I didn't know what to do 
 and failed the mission repeatedly. But once again I'm going to say that it was very fun and also 
 upsetting overall I like this game a lot. 
  
  From: gaziantep_spor to all you gamespot fans. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyracer597
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  It's like the developers made it strictly to be annoying! The first fight with Carlitas took around 
 5 goes, the 2nd one (with the sniper) I still can't do to date! Brad says... just stay alive, but 
 that's more of a problem for him as he dies... and if you try to kill Carlitas he shoulder barges 
 you, hits you with the gun or just shoots you. It is so annoying doing the exact same parts of 
 the game over and over again! The gameplay is fun and original but you have a time limit throughout 
 the whole game so if you want to explore make it quick! The 'scoop chance missed' is bewildering 
 also annoying and that damn phone never stops ringing!! I also saw one of my friends playing, he 
 is a little further than me (he plays alot and must have some attention span) and he is in the 
 chemist being chased by a guy with a trolley laden with pitchforks, the only break you get is when 
 he stops to shoot at you.... If you are an elite gamer this may be for you. Otherwise you will 
 be lucky tot get a few hours of fun out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  so you are frank west and youre a photojournalist, and after some crazy stuff that ends up happening 
 you end up covering this huge story at some abandoned mall.. which is now completely filled with 
 zombies. sort of reminds me of Dawn of the dead, but sadly this game turns out to be nothing like 
 that. So after being droped down onto the roof via helicopter you have 72 hours to capture the 
 entire story with your camera or something.. you also can choose to save other people who are trapped 
 in the mall somehow, which i hardly ever did so i cant really tell you much what that was all about. 
 unfortunatly i never saved someone that i was really suppose to keep hanging around the entire 
 game, and with that being said i messed up the story and now cant complete the game fully.. oh 
 well. the only really cool thing about this game was just the wide range of weapons you could use.. 
 really just about anything. it made the game somewhat fun and humorous but even so, with the way 
 i went in the game.. messing up the story and all, all i was able to do was just kill zombie after 
 zombie... which really wasnt all that fun after about 15 minutes. also i must mention that the 
 "boss" fights in the game were absolutely retarded.. and also pretty difficult which made the game 
 even that less fun than it already was... i guess thats it for this review, pretty big disappointment 
 in this game, the story could have been developed soo much better, but it wasnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is great for what it is a simple zombie slasher. The game allows you to use literally 
 everything as a weapon (this is the first awesome thing) . The next awesome thing about the game 
 is that you have a seemingly endless horde of well animated, well articulated, zombies. This is 
 the premise of Dead Rising your dropped in a mall that's been taken over by zombies, you don't 
 know why, but you have 72 hours to find out. This is simple, but fitting for the game. The story 
 is actually decent with good voice acting, but way too much tiny text telling you about your missions. 
 You'll also get different endings depending on what you do in the game and where you are after 
 the 72 hours is up. All and all it's a really fun game that deserves atleast a rental from all 
 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  
  You get one save slot. The AI is terrible. The guns are hard use. No difficulty options. And the 
 ending was a complete let down. 
  
  Other than that, it is a pretty fun arcade style game. You kill zombies with chain saws, guns, 
 swords, benches (yes, like park benches) , trash cans, cleavers, ect... The game keeps a score, 
 called PP (something "points") . When you get enough points, your character is enhanced in some 
 way. A larger health bar, more inventory slots, new attack moves, ect... 
  
  You run around a mall, completing missions. Saving people, killing people, and collecting items. 
 You never 'HAVE TO' kill any zombies, but it is nearly impossible to go anywhere or do anything 
 without killing (at least) a few zombies. Your enemies are other humans. The zombies are merely 
 in the way. 
  
  Saving people, is where the frustration begins. You are saving the dumbest people in history. They 
 refuse to follow you to safety. Instead they usually attempt to pick fist fights with large packs 
 of zombies, for no good reason.
  
  The game's controls handle very similar to Grand Theft Auto III, except for the shooting. When 
 you want to shoot a gun, you have to stop moving, press the aim button, and then (very slowly) 
 manually aim at your target (like resident evil 4, except the aiming cursor is much slower) . This 
 leaves the player open to attack from all the zombies, that are always just inches away. Whats 
 more, bullets don't do much damage (it takes dozens of bullets to kill a non-zombie human) . In 
 this game, a knife is a stronger weapon, than a pistol. And a sword is probably the best weapon 
 of all.
  
  In one of the early missions, I am supposed to shoot a guy with a gun. But I found it was easier 
 to just run up to him, and stab him repeatedly with a knife. Luckily the enemy AI is almost as 
 stupid as the victim AI, so they just stand there and let you kill them with melee weapons.
  
  The worst part of the game is the one (and only one) save slot. Its really bad, because you 
 have no idea if it is a good time to save (unless you've already played through the game once) . 
 You need at least a certain amount of time to complete each mission. If you save, without enough 
 time left, you can not finish the game. So its really easy to mess up your one game save, and have 
 to start over. Simply because you saved at the wrong time.
  
  And there are no check points, so if you wander around for an hour (without going back to save) 
 you lose everything you did in that hour.
  
  There is a photography element to the game, but it is completely optional. I dont think there is 
 any point, where you have to take a picture. But it will net you a little extra PP if you do. 
 
  
  And to cap the whole game off, after all the frustration, you are treated to a "text only" ending. 
 I had heard so much about the TRUE ENDING, that I was expecting something special. But the true 
 ending turned out to be just a few lines of text against a black background.
  
  I am rating this as the 4th or 5th best 360 game I have played yet. But it is also the single most 
 frustrating 360 game I have played. There is so much frustration, I hated the game and liked it, 
 at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuat_22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  good things- 
  1. you get to kill thousands of zombies using any weapon you can find
  2. you can mess with the zombies which is very funny
  3. save system might suck, but makes the 
 game more realistic
  4. thousands of zombies
  5. at nite, the zombies eyes turn red and get tougher
  6. the clown is awesome
  7. you can 
 use vehicles and lawn mowers to run over zombies
  8. the graphics are great
  9. the sounds of the weapons and zombies are cool
  10. the whole part where you are stuck in 
 a mall with tons of zombies
  11. blood... blood... blood
  12. is funny and scary
  13. if you dont want to kill zombies you can go eat or put on a dress... or whatever
  14. the 
 difficulty is perfect
  15. perfect for a zombie fans and Dawn of the Dead fans 
  
  the only annoying thing about the game is that the survivors you rescue are probably the dumbest 
 people in the world and this person constantly likes to talk to you on you radio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neublaze
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Gonna catch crap on this I'm sure.... But I played this for a few hours and pretty much ended up 
 forgetting about it. While the game was not bad it was definetley not as good as the hype was saying 
 it was. The game had immense potential. I mean being stuck in a mall with a bunch of zombies ala 
 Dawn of the Dead! Some how the game just didn't cut it. I found my self getting quite bored despite 
 the many different ways of killing those brain eating zombies. I won't slam the game to much as 
 I haven't fully played it so to do so would be unfair. 
  
  There were things I did like however. the game for has amazing graphics especially to me since 
 this was my first 360 game! HD baby! Anyway, I may be dumb but there were alot of times I just 
 couldn't figure out where the hell I was supposed to go or what I was supposed to be doing! I ended 
 up just spending alot of time killing zombies and accomplishing nothing. I gotta say that was the 
 games saving grace though was the near endless ways of killing zombies and having the ability to 
 go or do almost anything that I wanted. Just writting this though has made me decide to go and 
 give this game another chance! Maybe completeing it will make me change my overall opinion of it 
 just being a good game to being a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has a few things wrong, let me get that out of the way. First of all the graphics are 
 not next gen, I normally don't care too much, but Dawn of the Dead had such great special effects, 
 I was hoping it would be the same. Second it can get really tough at times, like when you've got 
 a boss and your last save was like 2 hours ago. That is another problem, the save system, you need 
 a bathroom or the safe room, which was a pain when you are out doing missions that are running 
 out fast. Other than that it is great, it is such a fun time that you want to play it over and 
 over. I rate any game great when it makes you want to keep playing and do your best to get all 
 the achievements. It has a very interesting storyline that really keeps you guessing until the 
 end. Second of all the characters are so original, let me give you a small list:
  1. A mentally insane clown
  2. An old lady who goes into a horde of zombies for her dog
  3. 
 A crazy gun shop owner 
  4. An ex marine who is flashing back to Nam and killing anything that moves.
  5. A cult leader 
 who thinks this is the final judgment by the gods.
  6. Two Japanese tourists who keep talking about you in Japanese
  With people like that is makes 
 you laugh and freak out at every corner. The gameplay is also amazing and challenging, it makes 
 you use almost everything around you, be it a knife or a TV. I would like to see some co-op in 
 the next installment, but other than that the gameplay is spotless. Overall I think this would 
 be something you would want to buy if your bored of your games, but not a MUST buy, it can be played 
 again and again with different outcomes and different weapons many times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Deadrising was one of the games that was praised by many for its fun and entertaining and even 
 humorous (?!) gameplay. People called it a total surprise and a game that you must get. The selling 
 points was the players ability to use anything in the Willamett Mall as a weapon; chainsaws, chairs, 
 lawnmowers etc. The game appeared to be solid fun as you could randomly go around bashing, cutting, 
 shooting, crushing and mowing zombies. After a couple of hours of play, this game was fun if not 
 for a few faults. It seems, with this day and age of Third Person shooters, the developers just 
 can't seem to get it right. The shooting in Deadrising is a total letdown. In order to fire a weapon, 
 you must hold the left trigger and then proceed to aim and fire. This, totally screws up the shooting 
 mechanics. While in this shooting mode, you can't move around like a FPS, you are glued to that 
 position while you take pot shots at the Zombies sorrounding you. **Future third person shooters 
 should use FPS mechanics like the ones used in Saints Row**. With the shooting part out of the 
 way, Deadrising is a good game, the blood and gore never seems to get old, meaning that the player 
 is less likely to solve all the cases (side missions in the mall) . The player also has the ability 
 to rescue stranded survivors in the mall (whose AI truly and surely suck) since they follow the 
 players every move and just can't seem to defend themselves. Players would find more fun goring 
 the surviving shoppers to death instead. The save system in Deadrising is a real challenge since 
 you must find a bathroom to save your progress. This was supposed to add a sense of fighting to 
 survive but is sometimes a frustrating experience to some as you might die en route to the bathroom 
 forcing a reload. 
  This game provides solid zombie action but it is recommended you rent it first since it may not 
 be to everyone's liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgarden22
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  The first thing that needs to be said about dead rising, is that it is a kind of game that you 
 have always been waiting for. If you have watched zombie movies, for the most part the people are 
 always trapped in hopeless situations, when they are hopelessly pinned down by legions og zombies, 
 wanting to feed on your brain. And you think to yourself, what would i do in this situation? 
 
  There is a bundle of games that wanted to put you in the position of this specific plot, but where 
 they all fail is the fact that there are to few zombies. The first thing that comes to mind is 
 of course resident evil series. A couple of random zombies here and there, and some boss fights 
 dont cut it. (just for the record, i love the resident evil games) Even though resident evil 4, 
 did have a some more zombies to waste, there is still something missing. I am talking about hordes 
 upon hordes of zombies!!
  This is what you get with dead rising, all you can kill gore-fest.
  
  The game puts you in 
 control of a jounalist, who has got wind of mysterious events in a remote city. He hires a pilot 
 to fly him in, because the city has been quarantined for reasons unknown by the army. The helicopter 
 pilot drops you of on the roof of a mall, and you agree on meeting back in three days. So while 
 trying figure out the mystery, you must fight youre way onward, using whatever means necessary, 
 and capturing pictures on your camera as evidence, to make the story public. But you only have 
 three days before youre pickup, so have to be quick. 
  
  Does it work? This is obliviously not a yes or no question. The fact that it is unique in its new 
 found genre, says alot about the originality. Nowhere else will you quite get the experience that 
 you do with dead rising. 
  
  The good sides, besides the ones that i have mentioned, is that you are totally pinned down by 
 legions of brain hungry zombies, and you must do everything to survive, and you do. This means 
 using everything you find in the mall as weapons, all including park benches, cd covers, potted 
 plants, buckets, shovels.... you name it. This is only naming some og the "nice" weapons, if you 
 can find the hardware store... or the weapons store... you get the idea. Now you can really get mean... slice 
 them up with samurai katanas, or carve them up with chainsaws, it doesnt get any bloodier than 
 this. The kind of sickening paradox is that its actually fun, and it will never be to gruesome 
 to watch, it never gets scary in any sense (yeah... it`s very wrong!) . Unless you are faint hearted, 
 and not used to the snuffy period games (and If you are, then you should stay away from the game)
 
  
  The rather not so appealing aspects about the game, or just bad is as follows.
  As mentioned, you have three days to get your story, and there is a main story to unfold, which 
 you must follow at any cost, or else you will not complete the game. You have a wrist clock, which 
 is always ticking without any concern about your current state (obviously) . In the course of the 
 game, there will be situations, where there are survivors, or other side missions that you can 
 choose to complete, and to cut to the chase, there are always someone in need, and you will chronically 
 have to battle the ticking clock to save somebody, or have time to do the side missions. To save 
 time, you save more people at a time, and you end up escorting dozens. Now remember that there 
 is legions of zombies, and the people you are saving arent as hardcore as you are in slashing your 
 way forward, which means they will always slow you down, or even die, if you dont watch out for 
 them. You could give them weapons to fight for them selves, and where there is a bunch of you kicking 
 ass, its kind of cool and funny. But this doesnt weigh up for the negatives in escorting them in 
 the fist place.
  Another reviewer here on gamespot, coined the game "frustrating rising" which is really funny, 
 while describing the game.
  I dont want to be overly negative, but there are some other aspects that i also think is worth 
 naming, though they do not influence the game in the sense of gameplay.
  The voice acting, is, i wouldnt say bad, but i din`t always think that they match the horrifying 
 experience of the involved main characters. During the opening scenes, and first encounters of 
 zombies, which you will deliver horrible inflictions unto their bodys, the main character doesnt 
 seem very bothered be this, but when in retrospect while in the midst of the game, he will respond 
 with shock and disgust at some of the more trivial incidents in the story. This is also the fact 
 with some of the other characters. 
  Also the text with some of the informations that are given in the game about some side missons 
 and so one, are really blurry, especially if you have low pixels on your tv. 
  And lastly but not least, the final fight (s) are really lame. I dont want to reveal the content, 
 but you will end up in a fist fight which is nearly impossible
  
  To sum up, the game is sweet, and will give you much fun. The negatives is substantial in fact, 
 but no so that it weigh negatively in the holistic sense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herow_93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is so fun, run around a mall infested by zombies and bash there brains in, or find out 
 why their there and whats happened. Throw in a creepy clown with chainsaws and a shop you can get 
 Katana's and you've got a kick arse game. But, it does lose some marks. The save points are weird, 
 it's hard to get with them without zombies eating you. Survivors are just idiots, they run into 
 zombies and end up getting killed, you can carry some and hold some of the girls hands, but, their 
 practically stupid. The bosses go from easy to hard. You might be level 1 and kill one, but then 
 you get to another, and die. You can run away from them though. Also, the zombies can be irritable, 
 especially when you don't lock on yourself. The auto aiming is horrible. You go ring round a zombie, 
 then, it gets you. But, it's not all bad. As you kill more zombies you can get more health, can 
 carry more stuff, keep things for longer even throw things further. The camera is useful too. If 
 you get shots, you get a better score. It is a fin game and the graphics are above average, but 
 not without it's flaws. 
  
  But oh well, just bash zombies brains in for an couple hours, it's amazing for anger and stress! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinisawesome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a game that made zombies feel like zombies and dead rising had that and 
 more! First of all the zombie AI was perfect they were slow but traveled in numbers and when you 
 would see a big crowd of them you had to think around, run through, or fight through and most of 
 the time i would choose to kill them. The Leveling up was kinda nice at the start but then became 
 just stupid near the end when your a freaking level 30 something. It had its moments where i was 
 actually scared and would run into one not expecting them there. The graphics were nice but not 
 amazing, SUVIOR AI was terrible it felt like there intelligence wouldn't change if they got eaten. 
 Also Capcoms Darn 3rd person shooter thing were you have to stop moving and take time to end such 
 as in the resident evil series.
  
  Time Game Played: 22H
  Good: Zombies felt like Zombies, Fun and playable over again, felt good to save people
  Bad: 
 Survivor AI, 3rd person shooter capcom you get the picture... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIL3NTxASSASSIN
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is a fun good game. One of the best zombie game out ther . Tjis game has alot of action 
 even dough the save system sucks. The story is okay. Dead Rising is a game that is worth playing 
 it has alot of gore, action, alot of zombies. One of the best thing about the game is that it has 
 different ending which makes the game good. Cause of this the game does not get boring after you 
 beat it. It makes want to see the other endings. So Dead Rising Is ag good game with a great gameplay 
 dough the bad thing is that the weapon dies out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Everyone loves Zombies, Capcom certainly do, and the Resident Evil games are some of the best to 
 ever grace games consoles (with the possible exception of the hideous port of Code Veronica that 
 appeared on the PS2.)
  For the most part people also like Zombie movies, as made famous by George Romero, and here Capcom 
 pay homage to someone who obviously gave them inspiration in the past.
  Set mostly in a shopping centre you take on the role of Frank West, a journalist, as he searches 
 for the truth behind possibly the biggest story he'll ever come across.
  As an able bodied person it falls to Frank to try and rescue as many survivors as he can that are 
 scattered around the numerous shops and restaurants whilst working with the authorities to try 
 and piece together exactly what has happened to the people to turn them into the blood thirsty 
 brain dead hordes they are.
  The pacing is a little uneven, if you don't particularly fancy rescuing anyone you can find yourself 
 just standing around passing time until that next crucial plot moving moment to come along.
  It is also crippled by having a terrible game save system, which allows you just one save at a 
 time and if you die and choose not to reload from your last saved game its wiped from memory.
 
  Its little consolation that the Level you've managed to reach during one game is carried forward 
 to the next, as this all to often means replaying the same areas of the game you've already played 
 a dozen or so times before any game where the magazine guides and walk-throughs advise that you 
 should at least be at Level 25 before starting does not bode well.
  Nor is the game helped by penalising anyone not playing in HD by use of the tiniest font ever seen 
 in a video game, and the lack of audible conversation, should you be roaming the halls nailing 
 Zombies with a baseball bat your phone will ring at the most in opportune moment, and then you 
 have no alternative but to take your eyes off the action and attempt to read the tiny text to see 
 what the message was about.
  Its not a bad attempt at recreating Day of the Dead, but it could have been so much better.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxrider5610
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Were do I start with this game I love zombie survival games and this is the best one yet since 
 Resident evill outbreak file one and two In this game your a photojournalist named Frank West tha 
 thinks the zombie attack is a riot and gets dropped off in a mall and there you go SURVIVE for 
 three days anyway you want There are other survivors their to that you can choose to save and help 
 people but some of them are bit and when you take them they tranform in a part of the game their 
 are many different survivors or you can chooose to be a phyco in this game and stay by yourself 
 and kill survivors make your own little hideout and try to survive this game is just plain fun 
 so many different weapons and alot of ways to kill your enemies with them you can give your buddies 
 weapons to you can drive and their is endless amounts of zombies to kill you dont always have to 
 stick to the story you can do whatevers neccisary to survive thats how I like to think of it Zombie 
 survival games are Deff one of my favorite types of games also so more things you can find malls 
 through the mall to make him more of a different character you can cook and make different food 
 and lots of unlockable things nice crisp graphics nice gameplay great camera you level up their 
 are alot of different karate moves you can learn every character has a different persionality this 
 is deff one of my favs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Questopher
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best non-resident evil zombie game I've ever played, except for Zombies ate 
 my neighbors haha but seriously the best zombie game and use of objects as weapons is awesome. 
 If you haven't read The Zombie Survival Guide yet, go pick it up. It explains some stuff thats 
 in the game. Can't wait to see if there will be a second one, Capcom should make it longer though 
 and add some online, but all in all this is one of the best. Controls are good and simple, great 
 concept, achievment alright so yeah, a must play for a 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullking224
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  this is a game unlike any other in a good game surprises around every corner and some shocking 
 moments awesome moves and great story along with weapons of all kinds a mixture between RE4 and 
 an all around game great for a gift for a birthday aiming is perfect and weapons you can barricade 
 doors with this is the game to get if you wanted a game with the undead so you can just beat the 
 zombies down without even doing the story or you can just go sight seeing if you please for play 
 golf smacking the zombies faces in along with every swing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  So much head slicing fun its almost a shame they make you do something else. Timed missions and 
 the save feature really ruin my day. When I wanted to go exploring or just reckless mow and I mean 
 literally mow down Zombie I just couldn't. Gotta go save Brad because Brad is useless. Gotta answer 
 some f*@& call from Otis cause he won't shut up. Gotta go on an escort mission I hope I can just 
 pick up the survivor cause its easier and the AI is just broken they will die oh yes They will 
 die faster than I did the 2nd time I had to fight Carlito. Why can't they climb the curb to get 
 into the air duct why?... why are they pissing me off?... HUH? Why? This game is filled with hair 
 pulling moments. Its all good... I'm fine, fine like wine I took all that anger and a katana and 
 sliced a whole mess of zombies up. That is what makes this game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is alot like dawn of the dead, but if it were to be a comedy. You're frank a photographer 
 looking for his big break, but all he gets is stuck and into a heap of trouble. There are a bunch 
 of survivors inside a mall trying to survive the zombie attack, which seems inebitable. As hours 
 pass by and you quest progresses more and more zombies get inside making pretty hard to move around, 
 but fun to bash their head open or zig zag your way through them. Dead Rising has a variety of 
 things you can use as weapons making combat fun and hilarious, I love hitting zombies with fresh 
 bread lol. Even though, I wish anything could have been a weapon, but then this would be the best 
 game ever made. Boss battles are fun and all bosses are freeky, from pyros to crazy cops, from 
 crazy clowns to a maniac store manager. Dead Rising gives you the choice to do as you please, but 
 the problem is that you have specific times to do things so you truly cannot goof off forever. 
 As far as graphics go they're next gen, but they could have been so much better. Practically after 
 you are done with dead rising there are still plenty of things to do, you will most likely play 
 through the game a good 3 times meaning that this game as a high replay level. Hopefully the boys 
 at capcom will come out with part two, but what would be the setting? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is about one thing, and one thing only. Zombies. Hundreds and hundreds of zombies. 
 Basically, you are trapped in a mall for three days (in game time, more on that later) , and you 
 can use anything in the mall to kill zombies.
  
  If you've watched the GameSpot review, you'll see that mine is fairly similar, as I feel they nailed 
 it on the head.
  
  You play as Frank West, a "Freelance Journalist/Photographer", and you get a tip on strange occurences 
 in a small town in Colorado. As you fly in by helicopter, you see the army has set up barracades 
 around the town. You're dropped in, and the helicopter is chased off by armed helicopters, leaving 
 you stranded. After a bit of stuffing around, getting the feel for the game, you're thrown into 
 the mall, with nothing but a camera.
  
  In Willamette Mall, weapons are what you want. In each store, there will be things you can take 
 and use, from screwdrivers at the hardware store, to hitting golf balls at zombies with a driver. 
 It's all good, and you really feel like a heroic survivor like in movies. The game does not rely 
 on suspense, just the fun of smashing zombies any way you see fit. It is something you can't describe 
 without footage, and even then, it does not do it justice.
  
  The sound is brilliant. All the actors voices are on the ball, but they do not sync with the mouth 
 movements perfectly, but it's a Japanese game, so, it can be forgiven. The sounds of zombies in 
 the distance, or munching into skin is frightening, sickening, yet oh so satisfying. The graphics 
 are nice. Character models are great from a distance, but some of the minor characters aren't as 
 detailed, but it's ok, cause you won't really bother with them much.
  
  The way the game plays, is three days in a mall, with zombies. You have to complete a main set 
 of missions, as well as saving people all around the mall. The people saving is optional, so if 
 you're kicking the kiester of a psychotic psychopath, you can leave the survivors. Also, anyone 
 you do save, you can carry them, or hold hands, or anything, so they won't get caught by zombies 
 or the ever infamous, THREE SIDED BOX! Saving people gets you experience, which is handy, as you 
 unlock more moves, which are loads of fun, from footy tackles, to jumping across the heads of zombies. 
 It never gets old. The Mall is huge, and you will get lost if you just go for a wander, but it's 
 cool, you can set a guide marker to get you to where you need to be.
  
  But, the game is not perfect. It is very unforgiving. If you screw up, you really do screw up. 
 You can't save anywhere, only in the Security Room, and in a selection of bathroom cubicles. The 
 "No Checkpoint" thing is annoying, but it gives you the feel of the heroic survivor feel, but still, 
 more autosaves coulda helped. This is because, you may have just beaten a tough baddie, and then 
 on your way back to a save point, you get maulled by zombies. If you die, you can either load from 
 where you last saved, or you can take your current stats, and stick them in a new game. This gives 
 a bit of choice, and is actually pretty sweet. It's really more of a "Love-It-Or-Hate-It" feature.
 
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is a great game. It has it's faults, but if you want a simple game, with two 
 simple goals (Survive and Kill Zombies) , Dead Rising is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising was the well hyped game that set our minds on fire back in 2006. It was the one game 
 that many believed would end the all too horrific summer drought of gaming. They were right.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The very FIRST thing you will notice about Dead Rising, is that it's not what 
 you expect it to be. I know what you're thinkin; I'm gonna' be running around killing zombies over, 
 and over, and over, and over. NO! Despite what you think, Dead Rising is very story driven, telling 
 a tale that applies to the real world around us. You take up the digital camera of Frank West: 
 photojournalist extrordinare. Trapped in a mall full of Zombies, your objective is not to fight... but 
 to survive. The Controls are tight, easy to use if you posses all ten fingers. Although Frank does 
 tend to move like he wears concrete boots it changes once you start leveling up. At your disposal 
 basically... is an entire mall of weaponry. Anything can be a weapon: baseball bat, sledgehammer, 
 gardening shears, swords, axes, guns, your own two hands, ANYTHING. If you can imagine it, you 
 can probably bust a zombie skull or two with it. I honestly have two major gripes with Dead Rising. 
 First, the save stations are placed too far apart... there's nothing more aggrivating like eviscerating 
 1,000 zombies, leveling up learning a new skill, then having your trachea ripped out of you by 
 a dead-head that was hiding behind that next hard left. Once you get a game over, only two things 
 are happening; you either load your last save... or save your stats and restart the WHOLE game, 
 an option that becomes frustrating once you reach the higher cases. What's the second gripe you 
 ask? The bosses are TOO HARD. Not only are most of the bosses almost superhuman in most regards, 
 but you can only kill them using firearms. Aiming with the multiple guns you'll be using can be 
 a bit tedious thanks to a terrible auto aim system, and a slow but accurate manual aim.
  
  Graphics:
  Dead Risings visuals are not going to dethrone Bioshocks or Gears of Wars graphical 
 power anytime soon. It's not all bad though. Textures and locales look quite nice. Frank animates 
 well for each weapon he posses, and the game makes good use of motion blur . What truly will amaze 
 you however are the zombies. I don't know how they managed to pack so many zombies into the enviroment. 
 There are some parts of the game where you will look out over a seemingly endless wave of undead 
 citizens and go: "Oh.. my.. fu*king.. God!"
  
  Audio:
  Here's where Dead Rising sadly lacks in performance. Voice acting is subpar at best. Although the 
 zombies sound terrific. Endless groaning, moaning and snarling will have you on edge constantly, 
 always on the lookout for that one rogue zombie that could break through your defense and wreak 
 havoc upon you. Boss fights strangely have a metal song playing as you try to get the upper hand 
 on your enemy. Honestly you can pop on your Ipod for most of the game.
  
  Overall:
  Dead Rising is defintely a different game for the new generation of consoles. The rough spots will 
 occasionally piss you off to no end, but unfortunately it's just something you gotta deal with. 
 It's a great experience with high replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  Where do I start? 
  
  DR is the game that Zombie fans have been waiting for forever. The ultimate zombie killing game! 
 Your goal? Survive a few hours, escape! Thats it! You can stand in one spot if you want (well and 
 kill of zombies) or you can do some missions. Its totally up to you!
  
  The gameplay concept is you are trapped in a mall and EVERYTHING... yes EVERYTHING is useable. Tables, 
 guns, cds, chainsaws, skates, shovels, rubber ducks, katana.... everything. You can even eat some 
 pie and get drunk! Or grab a parking cone and put it on a zombies head so they get confused... 
 better yet drive in the parking garage and try to kill 10,000+ zombies for a achievement if you 
 dare to NOT have your car die and be trapped with them! The possibilities are endless. You can 
 even mix certain items to make new ones such as a one that makes zombies ever MORE attracted to 
 you!
  
  There are others things like save points to use which are helpful if you want to do the missions. 
 The missions can be anything really from the storyline to the random people that are trying to 
 escape or to the murder's that are nuts inside the mall! Another thing you can do is take pictures, 
 I can't even explain it but taking pictures of anything from a woman (non dead) in a erotic like 
 pose to a zombies head just popping off gets you points that make you a faster, stronger... etc 
 character. Oh and yes you can heal by eating things or drinking things.
  
  There is no rules in the game really so if the game ends in your the only survivor then oh well. 
 And trust me not all the survivors come with you easily. And they are not easy to protect! Another 
 thing is you don't have a gun to start out with, which is obviously the point of everything being 
 usable. But some people have guns and aren't so kind.
  
  The graphics in the game are really good considering the all the stuff in the mall and how many 
 zombies can be on screen (thousands) . And when you do something like take a chainsaw to 20 at a 
 time the screen fills up with blood and guts theres no drop in FPS! Really impressive!
  
  The controls are simple to. Although learn them fast because if you want to do the missions right 
 you will need to be quick, accurate and waste not even a spit second.
  
  The music is nothing special but the sound is just awesome! Once again making it the best zombie 
 game I have played. Play it in the dark and between the zombies, the scared survivors and the crazies 
 in game you'll freak out if something bumps your chair!
  
  As always there are negatives. 
  
  The save system is horrible. Which goes hand in hand with 
 the main storyline if you choose to do it. You literally have to be perfect or else you mess it 
 up and literally might as well start over if you want to a better ending and all that. 
  
  Would have been nice to just have random missions or survivors or something that made it more fun 
 when you start over. Kind of like fighting off zombies with some random group but each time you 
 see a random group they act differently or something. After awhile it tires depending on who you 
 help. Although sometimes its fun leading them to the middle of a room and having them wait there 
 while zombies come for a snack.
  
  Perhaps the one thing that killed the game for me but I still bought it anyways though is the fact 
 that the game is SHORT.... VERY SHORT. 6 hours. It may seem long but there are things you do ingame 
 that skip time so cut it down to like 3 hours depending on what you do. Its annoying getting far, 
 doing a bunch of stuff just so it ends and you do it all over.
  
  They need to have a "free roam" mode where you can do whatever you want for infinite time and still 
 do missions but the game doesn't end until you want to. Maybe have like I said respawning survivors 
 and what not. I couldn't enjoy the game because I'd get so into it then it kept ending. 
  
  Overall the game is a blast, zombie killing never gets old! To bad its so short. So rent the game 
 first and see how you like some of its negatives. But this game is probably like $30 by now so 
 I'd say its worth it for that price although you can probably get for like $15 on EBAY.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  A Very Decent game. Story is pretty boring, seems like them movies on scifi channel every weekend, 
 but still ok. Controls are good, easy to get used to. Graphics are Ok for it being one the earlier 
 360 games. Game play feels more like a wrestling game (well it sort of is) and you do run a bit 
 slow. One flaw that I didn't enjoy this game is how often (and a pain) you can saves. You can play 
 for 2 hours and die and you'll have to go back to the room were u start. So make sure you go back 
 up here every time you've accomplished something. But overall a very fun and enjoyable game, despite 
 the fact of being frustrated when you die and loose time, just keeps you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game, I thought of everything being creepy. The idea of zombies 
 just walking the earth is always something that sends shivers down my spin. I love the concept, 
 and unlike other zombie games, this one let you interact with the environment differently. Other 
 games are first person, or 3rd person, which this one is third person, but the fact that you can 
 pick items up and use them as weapons is a very awesome concept, the saving people concept is something 
 that is very unique too because you want to be able to save everyone, to get those achievements. 
 Although the AI is sometimes annoying, its something I can look past because of the non-stop action 
 that your are forced to do. I love the blood and guts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Plot: Playing as photojournalist Frank West you go to investigate a small town trying to get the 
 ultimate story. As it turns out all of the cities people are zombies with a few survivors. The 
 story involves you staying alive at a mall for 3 days and getting the story with evidence before 
 you have to be picked up. The plot gets pretty good and embraces you in the beginning few minutes 
 but a few corny lines and actions keep it from being a deep serious story.
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent, the character models are life like and it has good lighting, 
 as are the textures. The AI for the survivors you try to escort is embarrassing they run into walls, 
 zombies, wander off and have severe problems. The blood on the other hand is well done a bit over 
 the top. The amount that comes from a single enemy is exaggerated, but satisfying nonetheless. 
 Best of all the framerate is almost perfect even with hundreds of detailed people on screen.
  Gameplay: Some of the gameplay is awesome; the whole freedom to do as you please is very fun. There 
 are lots of ways to kill zombies, with a lot of weapons. You can basically defeat zombies with 
 anything you could find in a real mall. The bad part is the save system. With only one save slot 
 allowed and few places in the game to save and no checkpoints or autosaves it can become a pest. 
 The controls are horrible, X to drive/shoot/use/attack. Also when aiming a gun or getting ready 
 to throw an item, the control and sensitivity is garbage. Not to mention the controls are half 
 inverted when using a gun, just to make things worse. There's no sense of auto-aim to be found, 
 not even a bit. The whole kill zombies level up and learn new moves is cool. But the horrible control 
 dulls the gameplay big time.
  Sound: The sound is engaging unlike the controls and half serious story. Even without surround 
 sound it makes it feel as though zombies are behind you. The zombies sound superb, as do the sounds 
 of you breaking their faces. The music is like the kind you find playing in an elevator or grocery 
 store, but you kind of get used to it. Overall the sound is great on its own.
  Value: Dead Rising has a story mode that lasts 7-12 hrs depending if you do escort missions and 
 exploring. Which you probably should do, it's the high point of the game. Finding new stores with 
 new weapons, hidden weapons, etc is very fun in a sense. The story has different endings sparking 
 a 2nd or 3rd play through. But with no multiplayer or coop, which would have been a welcome addition, 
 it does get repetitive.
  Tilt: Dead Rising has a decent plot, great graphics, a good concept, and great sounds. Which all 
 sounds good but add in the bad AI survivors, horrible controls and bad save system? Those problems 
 do bring it down from GOTY contender to 8.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weepingadaras
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  How many times have you not seen Dawn of the Dead (1978) and thought I wanna smash in the head 
 of a zombie. Like when you played Resident evil you find out those zombies aint any fun, they are 
 just there to be creepy, in the way, and at times scary.
  
  So these Zombies in this game are a fresh go, going from scary stuff, to semi spooky but hilarious. 
 The zombies in this game is plentyfull, stupid and at times annoying. The story is quite good, 
 but feels like something we seen before. Although it aint a Zombie apocolypes its still a great 
 setting, with the cut of city full of Zombies. The story folds out and goes around saving other 
 people and trying to escape, with some small twist in the end (How many times can you stand getting 
 bitten without being infected ;) ) The main star of the game, Frank West. A photo journalist, he 
 has covered wars. You soon begin to understand that Frank is an incredible BADASS. He is just incredible 
 strong, now how to smash Zombies with everything. He proves like many before you don&acute; t need 
 a Brad Pit face to be cool, (Let us face it, he kinda got a big nose :D) The graphies are really 
 good, they look speciel but somehow look real. Zombies are well done too, and there is a lot of 
 good animated blood and good effects. There are only few bad things in this game: Its hard sometimes 
 to get it all, because the clock is ticking. Another thing is that these Zombies is allways in 
 the way, they are fun to smash but when you gotten around the first couple of hundreds they get 
 annoying to smash trough even more. All and All this game is great, few bad things can not bring 
 down this games greatness. It would be a good idea to try, and if you get bored, just wait awhile 
 and you Zombie smashing feeling is coming back. Then you now you are infected with DEAD RISING 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamio
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game where you play it for a laugh it has a great main storyline and unlockable 
 modes but you mainly just play for the sheer fun of killing zombies. It has an o. k combat system 
 and a ton of weapons some with hilarious actions on the zombies. The sound has a very shopping 
 mall feel and the voice work is realy good a part from a bit of over exaggeration sometimes. The 
 unlockable modes at extra play time. And the achievments vary from really easy to really hard. 
 The A. I and escort missions are awful. These people are so dumb and bad with a hard to keep alive 
 that I prefer to blow there head of with a shotgun, which anyone considering buying the game should 
 do. Seriously these guys just run into the zombies, just use them as cannon fodder as you make 
 an escape. It could maybe have a bit more replayability but overall is a great game which you will 
 come back to for a laugh as you commit genocide on zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow I wanted this game so badly and when I finally got it I was really dissapointed. The graphics 
 weren't that great especially for a xbox 360 game. The story makes less sense than the game Portal, 
 the characters are boring. The best part f this game is killing zombies and it isn't that fun and 
 got boring very easily. Some of the boss battles were way too easy and had no point. The sav system 
 is terrible. I fyou do not sleep on those couches then you will have to start the game all over 
 again and it was VERY frustrating saving as you had to find a bathroom. But what really mad me 
 dislike this game is how you had to run from safehouse to mission over and over again and it got 
 so annoying that you had to do this over and over with almost every mission. This wasn't my best 
 review since by how frustrated I am with this game I dont know where to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam-99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  good
  -great graphics
  -tons of zombies
  -tons of different weapons
  -by no means will you get bored soon
  -clothes options for those of you who care about that.
 
  -i just love the sound of tearing out zombie bowels and all that good stuff.
  -the gameplay starts out simple, but over time it gains depth
  bad
  -save system constantly 
 gets in the way of the action.
  -after a while, maybe you might get bored.
  -achievements only worth 20 points a piece. that can be derivative for the good achievements. like 
 kill 53,594 zombies and only get 20 gamer points.
  
  review
  This game is a blast. I have invest hours upon hours with this game and I still find it entertaining. 
 The story is interesting, but definitely not meant to be serious. Its a little odd to be truthful. 
 I mean you are a photojournalist who goes to a mall for a story, but ends up waist-deep in zombies 
 and psychopaths. For the most part, the story is enjoyable (more so when you are higher leveled) . 
 The sounds are nice and squishy, just like zombie flesh. To help out those sounds are obviously 
 the wide array of weaponry. There are the obvious choices like guns, swords, battle axes, pipes, 
 and boards, but then there are the other choices that seem stupid at first. These are weapons like 
 the cd's, gems, soda cans, and the like. These are not half bad weapons if you know how to use 
 them correctly (aiming for headshots gets 1 hit kills in most cases with those weapons) . Certain 
 weapons can be "upgraded" to deal more damage and in some cases to gain PP (prestige points/experience 
 points) . For example, the frying pan can be placed on a stove and heated so it can do some face 
 frying. There are books that can multiply the durability of certain weapons, give you more health 
 from food and drink, and give you the ability to learn new skills. There are juices, which give 
 you perks for a limited time. Next, there are the modes, 72 hour (regular) , overtime (extension of 
 the story) , and infinity (survival mode) . Infinity mode is very difficult (for long amounts of time) . 
 Due to the fact, that I paused the game once i could no longer save. (THIS ONLY APPLIES IN INFINITY 
 MODE) So that was an unnecessary pain, but enough rambling on about everything. This game was fun, 
 still is, and probably will be for a long time coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty stellar, the graphics are great and the gameplay is fun in hysterical ways. 
 Beating zombies with a mall's worth of objects is just pure insanity that is welcomed. The graphics 
 are beautifully and allow for bunches and bunches of zombies to flood your screen. The only complaints 
 i have is the death system and the level up system. Sometimes it seems like forever untill you 
 get your next level. But over all its a really awesome game.
  
  The story is pretty interesting and keep you playing to find out what craziness will happen next. 
 From fighting psycho clowns, to beating a cult maniacs with gaint teddy bears, the game is a unpredictable 
 journey of fun!
  
  I give it a 9.0 of to 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxxonfury
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game where you have 72 hours to develop the story, kill psychopaths, and massacre 
 hordes of zombie in the best mall in the world. This game is fun, but its hard on beginners. In 
 order to do good in this game you have to know where stuff is in the mall, and practically know 
 the mall by heart. But once you do know where stuff is, this game is pretty easy. The controls 
 take a little getting used to, although if you are an avid GTA fan, it will be familiar. The story 
 is good, but the text on screen is ridiculously small, so you have to be close to the TV if you 
 want every little detail. The game has a good balance between humorous and serious parts. The psychopaths 
 are good and psychotic, and when you beat one, you can get a special weapon that respawns. The 
 achievement are nice and difficult, and when you unlock certain ones, you get in-game clothes and 
 weapons. The A. I. of the survivors is absolutely horrendous. They don't do what you tell them to 
 and at times it feels like Frank's Second Grade Class. But when you save them, it is rewarding. 
 Replay value is amazingly high, have to go back and play it multiple times to milk every scrap 
 out of the game. I have played 72 hour mode about 7 times since I bought it in December. If you 
 beat the game, there is Overtime Mode, which is a continuation of the 72 hour mode. After Overtime 
 Mode, there is Infinity Mode, where you have to survive as long as you can with your health being 
 constantly drained. Over all, the game is excellent and you will easily get 40 hours out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I actually picked up this game on sale for only 24.99 after the holidays. I wasn't impressed by 
 the advertisements and screenshots so I was a bit sceptical. Well, I wish I would have bought it 
 sooner. This game is highly addictive! I never thought killing thousands of zombies would be so 
 much fun. Capcom knew that it could get repetitive mowing down zombie after zombie so they put 
 literally hundreds of different weapons and items that can be used as weapons through out the game. 
 They also made it non-linear, meaning if you decide not to save a certain person in the game you 
 won't have to but there are some people you have to save in order to complete the game for the 
 correct ending. There are several different endings which give it a high replay value and each 
 time you beat it you can unlock different unique outfits and weapons! The graphics aren't going 
 to blow you away but the draw distance and amount of zombies that Capcom managed to get on screen 
 is pretty impressive. The gameplay in this game is where it shines. You can drive vehicles that 
 you find outside or in the parking lot, use all sorts of weapons, change into hundreds of different 
 outfits, eat all sorts of food, and also upgrade your combat skills with different special moves. 
 If you like B Horror movies and enjoy zombie games then you should go get this game. If not, then 
 I would recommend renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arroliga
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  You know, I can't really fairly review this game because talking about it makes me frustrated. 
 What I can tell you is: this game had alot of potential but was marrred by its crappy underlying 
 timed mission scheme. The look &amp; feel of the game is just spot on of what you'd expect from 
 a zombie slaughter game. The violence &amp; myriad ways of pwning the zombies is so awesomely violent, 
 robust &amp; over-the-top that you can't help but say damn! You'll really enjoy the first few hours 
 of this game as you experience some of the best hack n' slash/beat em up mechanics ever seen in 
 a game.
  
  Your joy soon turns into frustration, however, as you start to get into the timed aspect of the 
 game. 1 to 2 hours into the game, you're no longer free to go wild &amp; run amok in the zombie 
 infested mall but are confined by a tight universal timeline for accomplishing specific tasks. 
 I know, it doesnt sound THAT bad but trust me it is. What is so frustrating is that the mechanics 
 of the game pretty much encourage rampant careless violence but the missions require you to inhibit 
 yourself &amp; stick to task or your game ends. Imagine, you're placed in this huge mall containing 
 100s of dumb zombies itching to take a beating with endless items that can be used as weapons ( 
 my fave is the sledge hammer) . You start really enjoying yourself, successively finding new ways 
 to pwn these hapless zombies &amp; out of nowhere then you're forced to stop all the mayhem &amp; 
 follow a not-so-interesting story line cause you're timed. That's it in a nutshell right there 
 &amp; it is extremely dissapointing/frustrating.
  
  I find myself thinking of what this game could have been had it not been for the annoying timed 
 scheme. 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazza123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  gameplay:
  the gameplay is amazing you just pick up the controller and your already in the action it has a 
 good control system but the save system is punishing you have to go from one end of the mall to 
 the other witch can be frustrating.
  
  sounds:
  the sounds are brillient expeaclly on the kantanas tilt:
  fantastic story and the game is just 
 great fun it is a very challangeing story but amazing it has about 6 hours worth of gameplay but 
 then you can unlock overtime mode witch u have to get items 2 stop u being a zombie then after 
 that you can unlock infinate mode when you can go and do whateva you want with no period of time.
 
  
  overall:
  amazing game great story and good sound but the saving system is a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekky_9892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is an interesting action game which puts you in a Mall full of Zombies and gives you 
 72 hours to do what you like, allowing you to use all manner of objects from the shops inside the 
 mall to kill the Zombies.
  
  It's an innovative idea but the presentation isn't quite right. The developers seem intent on taking 
 away the horror element completely and failing to give us suspense and humour.
  
  Being able to use different objects gives the game some depth, but it can get boring. The Save 
 Status system doesn't work properly and clashes with the Real Time system. If you can get over 
 these flaws, however, this is a great game. Getting scoops and researching cases while fighting 
 off hordes of zombies and keeping ahead of the time system can be tricky but it gives the game 
 a lot more longevity than mindless zombie slaying. The Photo Mode is also fun, but can become a 
 distraction over time.
  
  I recommend this game if you can find it for a low price, but it isn't worth paying &pound;40 (or 
 $60 dollars.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard666
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I found it difficult but still rather fun at first but once i started to get my level up it became 
 even better. Loved the freedom of being able to pick up any thing i wanted to and use it. Gave 
 a sense of real life and was thrilling from start to finish. Some of the glitches were annoying 
 but soon forgotten once i excerted my anger on a huge hoard of zombies. The varity on what you 
 could do in the main story line and just in general was also very apealling. it had all elemlents 
 a game should have, in it. Comedy, horror erotic and action simply brilliance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XMONSTER13X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game will definately keep you busy. Tons of zombies, big story, and millions of things to do! 
 I think this game goes down as one of my favorite game ever. My favorite features of the game would 
 have to be the amount of zombies and the fact that practicly everything can be used as a weapon. 
 My least favorite aspecs abou the game mainly is the save system (Dont know what they were thinking 
 when they made it but could of done a better job) .
  I also would of liked to see some sort of multi player function such as a survival mode are something 
 along those lines but i still think this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keztron
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I only got a 360 a couple of weeks ago and this was the second game I got- im sorry but halo couldnt 
 wait. Its immensly addictive to slice up the undead and kick them down stairs. Personally i favour 
 the mini chainsaw or the sickle. With so many characters on the screen at once you may think the 
 frame rate might suffer but its only slowed a couple of times for me when you swing a sledge hammer 
 into multiple zombies. The save system hasnt been a problem for me yet, if you're gunna do the 
 case files then dont go wandering off if theres 2 hours till it starts, just be patient. The survivors 
 do seem slightly simple in their actions sometime and seem to think running into benches is there 
 quickest way of escape. I really cant be bothered to keep them alive so i regually smash there 
 faces in with shovels, potted plants, baseball bats.... but thats another thing, the sear amount 
 of weapons you can pick up is pretty incredible. More that half may do very little damage to your 
 ememies- frisbees for instance but there still a laugh to use. The pointless novelty is also being 
 able to spit at zombies, the ultamate insult. Although seeing Frank in childrens clothes may have 
 scared me for life, this game is well worth the money. sweet sweetness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyjwol
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the type of game which doesn't need to bought, is very unlikely to inspire anyone 
 or teach anything... however.... i love this game.
  
  Whenever I have an instinct to beat someone to death with a park bench, plant a giant lego face 
 on a zombie's head or mow them down with a lawn mower I know that Dead Rising can cater for my 
 needs. This game is a giver. There is a storyline here somewhere but I havent really bothered looking 
 for it yet because there is a lot of fun to be had already without giving me a purpose. Occasionally 
 the game can get a bit graphic (blood etc) but not an extreme amount. The only bad thing I can 
 say about this game is that it isn't multi player so has to be taken in turns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion-King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a single player action game where you take control of a journalist stuck inside 
 shopping mall full of zombies. With no help arriving for the next 72 hours, you must use your wit 
 and the everyday items around you to unravel the mystery of the zombie outbreak. (Yes, thats right. 
 There is an actual storyline) . During these 72 hours, you choose what to do. There are survivors 
 that need rescuing, psychopaths who need killing and a storyline which will keep you on the edge!
 
  
  As a journalist, you carry a camera with and can take pictures. This feature is not that important 
 and so many players neglect the camera, but it will need to be used in order to get some of the 
 achievements.
  
  Whilst on the subject of achievements, Capcom have made it really hard to get some of the achievements. 
 Some people dont like this; others do, feeling it is right to make it feel like you have achieved 
 something.
  
  Moving on, after playing the game a while, I realised you could mix different combinations of foods 
 in a blender and result in a smoothie, creating some interesting effects. I wont tell you which 
 foods to mix, I will leave that to you, but some of the effects include invincibility, speed, and 
 even a concoction that allows you to spit at zombies from a distance and kill them immediately.
 
  
  As you improve your character and raise levels, you may learn a new move. These moves will help 
 in the killing of zombies and some may come in extremely handy over the course of the game. One 
 move, allows you to jump on top of zombies when they are in large groups, and then to run across 
 them whilst on their shoulders. This is really useful in certain parts of the game. I will not 
 say what else is on offer to learn, I will let you find out yourself.
  
  So now I have given you an insight into why Dead Rising is different from other zombie games and 
 why you should be giving this game a rightful place on your shelf.
  
  Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asskick_QTip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Man when i played this game for the first time I was amazed...
  
  The amount of zombies in the game and a lot of different to. This is the best zombiegame i've played 
 so far. The storyline in this game is pretty good it will amaze you. Youll find out who caused 
 the zombie breakout and find out why. The hardest things in this game are probebly finding and 
 transporting survivors and it can be quite annoying and the AI isn't at his best there. The survivors 
 will occasionaly just run into a group of zombies just to annoy you or kill themselfs.
  
  In this game are some freaky bosses (named psychopats) and I ecspecially thought Adam the Clown 
 was funny.. and he has some good weapons..
  
  They aren't hard to beat but will give you a challenge.. because there is a way to kill them very 
 easy but you will have to find that out first..
  
  Just keep playing and sometimes you will feel like you bought a stupid game but just look for some 
 help on the net and when you finally finish the game you will be happy..
  
  JUST BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWarLover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first 360 game when i bought it. First of all if you have a SDTV DONT BUY IT. 
 I played it on my SDTV and almost went blind untill i switched to my HDTV. Well the gameplay is 
 fun and killing zombies is very cool . The save mechanics in the game sucks, if you fail BOOM just 
 restart over again. Plus if someone wants to make a new file they cant cause it only supports one 
 save slot. The weapons in the game are awesome and endless the firearms are more boring but effective 
 on bosses, not the 100000 zombies. Overall its very fun so i suggest buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_deomon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game its so much fun and very addictive every scythe kill just feels so raw and brutal 
 and its so awesome. The only problem is one that is pretty big....... the save system its so broken 
 and it just makes playing this game a pain but if you forget about that you'll love this game. 
 So look for this game and give it a chance but you'll want to make sure that you are very patient 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I LOWER my ranking vote everytime I play this 'cause it gets more &amp; more frustrating to play! 
 I'm so POed at this game!! When I first started playing this game from CAPCOM, I thought it was 
 pretty cool. The longer I played it, the more disgusted I became with the overall gameplay! First 
 and foremost, there is NOT enough locations and opportunities to SAVE YOUR GAME! If you are a NOVICE 
 player and new to this type of role playing, you may struggle to get anywhere without throwing 
 a fit of rage! This game would have been a whole lot better if CAPCOM would have added more AUTOSAVES 
 into the game! I need to be fair here, I have not given myself much playing time to familiarize 
 myself with some of the controls. Which brings me to my next gripe... Player controls are lacking 
 and slow (aiming the pistol is not as smooth as firing weapons in some other console games) . I 
 want to be fair with this game though, so I will add to and edit the reviews as I go, but for now, 
 this game has me frustrated! Check back!
  
  -AMP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I had heard many great things about Dead Rising. About the sheer humor, the insane amounts of gore, 
 and how fun it was. While it was fun for a while, it wore on me after only a few hours.
  
  Gameplay- I wouldnt say the gamelay is terrible, it just isnt very good. Your character moves very 
 cumbersomely, the ombat is terrible, bashing in zombie's skulls gets boring after awhile. There 
 are missions, but I just didnt find them all that fun.
  
  Graphics/Sound- The graphics were pretty good for when they came out. Tons of zombies can be seen 
 on screen at once, and the gore effects are very realistic. The sound is hit and miss. On one side, 
 you've got the weapon sounds which are excellent, and very true to life. The sound of a sickle 
 ripping out a human head seems very realistic to me. The rest of the sound though, is only decent. 
 Most conversations outside of cutscenes are all done in text, which is super hard to read, and 
 the zombie sounds are nonexistent. The in mall music is nothing as well.
  
  Value/Fun- This game does have a lot of value, if its your cup of tea. For me, I just didnt like 
 the game because there was way to much backtracking, crappy save points, bad combat, and a lack 
 of flow throughout. I dont reccomend unless you are a die hard capcom zombie game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift1981
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  I really liked Dead Rising from the offset. The story hooked me in, I love zombie movies so this 
 was really my kinda thing. Its fun in giant numbers. But its also frustrating as hell at times! 
 Everthing is fine to begin with and it is really refreshing and enjoyable to play. Really nice 
 to look at too! But as time moves on things become increasingly difficult to the point of frustration 
 and the game kind of loses its way a little. Its too easy to give up on the whole story situation, 
 especially when you you have to trapes back and forth from mall to mall and put up with the annoying 
 loading times every time you pass from door to door, not that there long just annoying. Save points 
 are sooo nineties as well. Resident evil style you can only save at varying points which are miles 
 apart and only save once (every time you save it overwrites the last) . This is the stupidest form 
 of saving your progress and has all but ruined a lot of games for me.
  Its too easy beacause of this to go off track and go on mindless killing sprees!! Although you 
 can easily lose an hour or two doing this, not really achieving anything but mindless fun!
  For this reason I have rated this game slightly above what I normally would, if you follow me.
 
  It had the potential to be gold status but because of a few niggles it doesnt quite make it. Still 
 a cracking 360 title none the less! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XpecTz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Good game, good story, good characters, OK zombies. Fun game overall, lots of things to see and 
 learn. Try it.
  
  Gameplay - Gets boring after awhile. It depends mainly on the story and scoops. There are really 
 just less than 15 weapon Favorites in the game. The mall is very easy to learn. Fun if you feel 
 motivated to kick some zombie ass.
  
  Sound - Personally i don't like how the zombies sound. They need a more of a Uhhhhhh sound like 
 in RE2. Music is great, the sound with the weapons and everything else too.
  
  Value - Great game, it definitely has a lot into it. Definitely worth $30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is by all means ridiculous, over the top action. Which is exactly why I passed on it 
 the first time. It also isn't a game to rent mainly because the first few hours are excruciatingly 
 boring. To enjoy Dead Rising you need to get the hang of it and level up your character so you 
 don't wind up food all the time. I suggest playing some practice runs, without delving to deep 
 into the story to level your profile, and maybe grab some achievements at the same time. Such as, 
 Zombie Genocider, the time consuming super achievement will reward you with more than points, you 
 will be given a Mega Man Buster , basically a big gun that kills everything. It is always fun to 
 run around a mall infested with the undead and beat them down with everything from conventional 
 firearms and swords, to the not so conventional CDs and Gumball machine. Most of the bosses, or 
 psychopaths in the game are also interesting and entertaining, but inteaded for more of an adult 
 humor no doubt. It isn't without its flaws or frustrations though, and probably more so than any 
 other game. The game runs on a 72 hour timespan, which is 8 real hours, and everything in the universe 
 happens whether or ot you are involved, forgot to do a campaign mission or didn't have time, TOO 
 BAD STORY OVER, can't find time to get to all the survivors? Tough. While it adds more realism 
 it brings with it its obvious frustration. Also the AI is ridiculously dumb, trying to excort anyone 
 you cant literally drag behind you is a chore only people that have played it understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelkilla2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically about a man who is a reporter and he gets locked in a mall full of flesh 
 eating Zombies. The base of the game sounds boring but with over 500 weapons it makes this game 
 a must have. After beating the 72 hour mode (story mode) you unlock two other modes so it keeps 
 you in the game for a while. Those people who like the game state of emergency will absolutely 
 love this game. The nonsence violence and mind numbing killing. Plus there are several little mini 
 games such as the crazy clown and the sychopathic gun store clerk. Or my favorite the grocery store 
 clerk. This game is going to be a platinum hit and a classic that you will play over and over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryir554
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game. I recently bought a 360 and got this game because it was a bargain 
 (30 bucks!) the controls take some getting used to as does the save system but the overall gameplay 
 is extremely addictive and fun. While the game may sound short, it, in fact is not becuase you 
 can restart the game anytime with all of your experiance intact. If I were you I would not rent 
 this game because you can just buy it for 20 dollers more, a very great game, great price, great 
 story and much much more await you in Dead Rising 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushallya
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has brought the XBOX 360 a very intense and yet comical view of Zombies. The game turns 
 out to be the most exciting to date, that I have played in many years not to mention on the XBOX 
 360 Console. This game definitely grows on you as in terms of finishing the job. To get those Achievements 
 sometimes might seem like a struggle, but once you get into gear the game clings on. At the same 
 time the game scares you it gives you some Comedy. I don't really recommend this game to those 
 under 15 years of age. Very Graphic and the language is that of an Mature level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Dead rising plays like a horror movie right out of the gate. You're a journalist, riding in a helicopter, 
 taking pictures of Zombies causing chaos down below. That's how it starts out - and it only gets 
 better from there. The graphics for this game are completely amazing, hundreds of Zombies on screen 
 while running through a completely realistic shopping mall. This game is gory, obviously, it's 
 a Zombie game. The cut scenes are beautiful, and the storyline keeps you guessing the whole time. 
 Only complaint I have about this game is the controls are sometimes annoying, the text on screen 
 is too small, and the save system kind of sucks. Other than that, this is a title you cant miss 
 if you own an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Every so often, a game comes along with a concept that doesn't seem like it can go wrong. Capcom 
 has pulled that off with a great combination of genres from RPG elements to action, and free roaming 
 to make the closest true zombie horror experience a game can make, which is no easy feat.
  
  The game starts with you playing as Frank, a freelance photojournalist who heard about a town 
 that the military had blocked off all access to. Of course wanting a gig story you hire a helicopter 
 to fly over the blockade and find out whats happening. Having seen the town over run with zombies 
 you have the pilot drop you on a mall roof and tell him to come pick you up in 3 days. From here 
 you have that time, 72 hours to explore the mall, take good photos, save survivors and try to find 
 out exactly what the hell happened to turn the town into dawn of the dead.
  
  Obviously while looking around you will have to defend yourself from the shuffling stiffs. To do 
 this Frank can use anything at his disposal, I mean anything. Guitars, bowling balls, shower heads, 
 golf clubs, hand guns, giant stuffed teddy bears, lawnmowers, chainsaws, paint cans, crowbars, 
 and even CDs to throw. The amount of weapons you can use is mind boggling. Nearly everything in 
 the mall is interactive, food can be eaten to recover health, blenders can be used with food for 
 special drinks, clothes can be changed in clothes shops if you want Frank to change duds (this 
 includes kids clothes) . Everything and anything can be done, it really is quite overwhelming at 
 first.
  
  As you fight Frank will gain experience which will increase his health, the nuber of items he can 
 hold and even give him access to special skills and moves such as punching out a zombies bowels 
 etc. The undead are not the only danger however lurking around the mall that Frank must face. There 
 are plenty of human survivors who seem to have lost their minds from the outbreak who will attack 
 you. Once again there is a large variety of them and all very unique from cults to ex vietnam vets.
 
  
  Other then that there are plenty of normal survivors that Frank can escort to the security room 
 near the roof in relative safety to await the helicopter. These survivors can be given weapons 
 to fight the hordes on the way back, though some maybe injured that you have to help support or 
 piggy back on the way up. This can be very difficult as the AI is a bit temperamental. but it's 
 worth it for the experience boost saving them will get you.
  
  Visually the game is excellent, the mall is huge with indoor and outdoor areas to explore. The 
 graphics are very detailed and crisp with some fantastic water effects to be seen. Of course with 
 a game of this nature the zombies are vastly important, and there is a huge variety of them from 
 undead police, fat trucker zombies and even lingerie wearing zombies. The only problem is that 
 the text when it does come up is so small that unless you have a 60 TV it is near impossible to 
 read.
  
  The music played through alot of the game is almost soothing mall music, except for in alot of 
 the boss type fights in which the tempo increase with some almost metal like tracks. All of which 
 fit the atmosphere very well. The voice acting to all the alive characters is perfect and very 
 believable.
  
  The game is fairly open, you can do as you wish. You can follow the main story with certain events 
 which you are notified of, or you can just run around and kill non stop. With several different 
 endings depending on what you do it's worth playing through the game several times. The achievements 
 for the game are very difficult. 50 of them for 20 points each, many of which will require several 
 play throughs to gain. Very challenging but as the game is so fun it doesn't really matter.
  
  All in all Dead Rising is one of the best 360 games I have played to date. Non stop action, 
 humour and fun all the way through. This game tends to get overlooked it seems, if you are unsure 
 this is a must have game for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  This, by all means, is a great game! The sound is awesome, the game play gets you hooked, and it 
 can be very a pleasant sight for horror genre fans to see blood splatters, and decapitations galore! 
 However, The fun can be hindered by repetitive tasks, such as saving survivors, and killing psychopaths 
 along with zombies while trying to meet the deadline before the next case expires. The save system 
 for the game possibly may seem, to some as confusing at first, and mistakes will be made. With 
 that being said, it's a good thing the game was designed in a way that the experience you earn 
 rolls over onto new game data. I notice that this games is a lot like other games which allow you 
 to do whatever you want while playing. Similar games one might enjoy are Hulk incredible destruction, 
 and grand theft auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minghui94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  The good - Lots of things to try out in the mall ; Lots of items that can be use as a weapon ; 
 Lots of unlockable ; fun boss fight ; lots of nice move that can be unlock ; thousand of zombies 
 to kill 
  
  
  
  The bad - only one save slot , so you must becareful when playing ; escort many people at a time 
 can make you fustrated .
  
  
  
  People who enjoy zombie killing game will 100% love this game , this is certainly the best zombie 
 game ever made .
  
  
  You take on the role Frank West , trapped in a large giant shopping mall , you have 72 hours to 
 solve the case ! Everything and Anything is a weapon !
  
  There are lots of thing to try out in the mall , you can explore , kill zombie , change clothes 
 and hair style , drive car , solve case , escort survivor and many many more .
  As i mention , everything and anything is a weapon , you can take whatever you see in the mall 
 , chair , guitar , skateboard , books , sign board , knife , gun , pick-axe , katana , food , broom 
 , toys and much much more . Everything can be use as a weapon , some are less powerful , but some 
 are very painful when use . 
  There is lots of move you can unlock . And your stats will also increase . increase in stats is 
 something very important , it will increase your health-bar , your power and many more . 
  There are thousand of zombies to be kill , as the game say - population 53,594 , the best place 
 will be the parking lots . 
  
  There is only 1 save slot in this game !!! so you must be extra careful when playing , one mistake 
 can cause you to start the game all over again . unless you are an expert , do not try to escort 
 more than 3 people at 1 time , it can make you fustrated , you must take care of their health , 
 and you must wait for them before you can open a door that have loading screen , if there are a 
 lot of zombie , you must be careful , sometime they will stop following you and started to shoot 
 the zombies , and sometime they will be bitten by the zombies , beware , when they are being bitten 
 , save them before they die , sometime after they die , they will turn into zombie and try to kill 
 you , so much for your kindness :D
  
  This is a great game by capcom , it may be expensive , but i think it worth every penny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjwappy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game got lotsa + points but i got to admit that this game fails in giving the 
 extra options you want. The most part of the game you're out to kill some zombies in massive amounts 
 which is fun... for 1 hour but after some hours you really want some variation which this game 
 doesn't really have. The storyline is just good, not perfect, but easy to understand.
  also a big failure of this game are the weapons, after u killed some zombies with a weapon it dissapears.. 
 and then you need to find some new ones, which really sucks. The rest of the game is pure fun though 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giff1988
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Capcom proves that you need more than a great idea to make a video game with Dead Rising. There 
 are parts that absolutely shine in this game but the amount of flaws and frustrating design choices 
 will leave you crying foul.
  
  Well first things first if you've been living in a cave for the past few months Dead Rising is 
 most likely the most anticipated game of the summer, and with good reason. The game promises thousands 
 of zombies begging to be killed and nearly hundreds of way's to kill them. Everything is a weapon 
 of destruction Gun's ,Chainsaw's, Lawnmowers, Masks, Cd's, umbrellas, Shopping carts. And the 
 list goes on and on. Include a good story and characters with great voice acting and hilarious 
 moments (Having a boss spew out Clean up on register 6 as his dying words is priceless.) You would 
 think everything would be good and dandy but that is far from the truth.
  
  The game is full of a laundry list of flaws. One of them is the save system. Only one save block 
 and you can only save in bathrooms and your home base. Many cases your beat a boss and will have 
 no save point in sight. And if you die your have to do the boss all over again. Also if you get 
 trapped and cant get to your next objective in time the game is over forcing you to start all over 
 again, this game needed multiple save blocks and a revert to save feature.
  
  Second flaw is the boss battles. You dont know you going in to a boss battle until they pop out 
 at you. For example fighting a guy with a sniper riffle with a base ball bat is not a great idea. 
 Yes you can use your environment. but the controls are so imprecise even with the proper equipment 
 your bound to be frustrated with the bosses.
  
  The biggest flaw is that the game is timed. So your constantly scrambling to point A to point B. 
 If you dont make it in time you cant complete the story, I had to start the game over twice!! 
 One item that makes this particularly hard is the radio. The radio is not voiced and is all in 
 text. But it is impossible to read!! Even if you get out of your chair and walk to the TV you still 
 will not be able to read it. And with sometimes three missions or more some optional some not. 
 It's nearly impossible to know which mission you should be doing.
  
  All in all the game has it's moments, killing zombies and unraveling the story is fun, but you 
 will be frustrated more often then not. The thing that's sad is that there is a triple A title 
 behind all of this crud that you have to go through, I recommend a rental, but the game is not 
 worth 60 dollars simply due to the lack of polish and bad design.
  
  Story: 8
  Great story. And the side bosses like the Killer Clown, War Vet, and Shopping Cart man are hilarious 
 and truly colorful characters. Ashamed there not that fun to fight.
  
  Graphics:7
  Hundred's of zombies in a mall with no frame rate hitch is a wonderful thing. Sadly text is unreadable 
 and sometimes you need to know what is being said.
  
  Sound: 10
  Flawless great boss battle music. Sound effects for the zombies are great. All the weapons have 
 a distinct sound. And top notch voice acting.
  
  Gameplay:5
  So many flaws. The save system is unforgivable, timed missions will make you start the game over. 
 You cant read the radio. Controls are to imprecise in boss battles. The only good part is killing 
 zombies. But your so busy running cases you barely have time to experiment and have fun killing 
 the undead.
  
  Final score
  6.5
  Somebody needed to a better job testing the game. Simple things like refining controls, giving 
 more time for missions, a decent save system and readable text could of saved the game. It's a 
 shame that such simple problems remained in the final product. Also a item that stands out is those 
 stupid convicts in that car. After spending time after time, dying at there hands when I finally 
 kill them they simply respawn!! This grants my official WTF stamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is the best zombie game created so far. I played this game on 1080i, and with 
 this resolution the game is very immersive and the environments are lifelike. With the well thought 
 out layout of the shopping mall, after playing for more than a few minutes you actually feel as 
 if you are in the mall. I beat this game 3 times so far, usually i do not replay games but this 
 game was actually so much fun i had too.
  
  + The graphics are amazing, shopping mall is very immersive and well thought out, characters faces 
 are lifelike
  
  + The game is really really fun, many cool weapons and secrets to uncover, like i said i beat the 
 game 3 times and i still play it + Voice Acting is superb, some of the dialog is very funny as 
 well
  
  + Levelling up system is a breeze and fun, your character learns tons of new moves as you play 
 the game
  
  + Game takes place in REAL TIME , you can even check your watch in the game to see how much time 
 you have for certain events
  
  - The game could have used more SAVE POINTS
  
  - The mall may seem confusing for the first hour or so
  
  If you are looking for a very fun, 
 very funny, very hectic zombie bloodbath, look no further, go buy DEAD RISING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was the reason I bought an XBOX 360 and the reason I initially made the transition from 
 Sony to Microsoft. As of yet, I have not been disappointed by that decision.
  
  First lets address the Save System. When you start you might call it Broken . But the more you 
 play the more you will start to see it is not only revolutionary but bordering on genius. You can 
 save your progress at several locations throughout the mall. When you die (which will happen) you 
 have the option to reload from that checkpoint, or start ALL OVER AGAIN. Don't freak out!!! That 
 is not a bad thing! Because upon starting over you carry over the previous games stats, allowing 
 you to level up on such things as health, speed, inventory capacity, etc ,etc, etc. This makes 
 the game easier and easier as time goes on and really is not a bad thing when you factor in this 
 game is simply FUN from start to finish. The game in itself is a blast and you won't mind starting 
 over. The freedom you have has a GTA feel. The fact that you can use almost EVERYTHING in the mall 
 as a weapon can do nothing but bring a smile to any zombie killers face. The replay value is astronomical. 
 The sound is PERFECT. Every weapon has its own feel and sound. This game is highly addictive and 
 worth every penny. Nothing says good game like knocking over a mob of zombies with a bowling ball 
 or having a zombie take a super soaker in the face! Buy it. Buy it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snufflewufflegu
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I've heard many people talk about dead rising in a very positive light. I rented it and was glad 
 that I didn't buy it. This game has serious issues that make it significantly less enjoyable. First 
 off you are constantly escorting NPCs, that are complete morons, probably over half the game. There 
 is only one point to drop these idiots off at so there is TREMENDOUS backtracking constantly. The 
 weapons also break with no warning whatsoever, no meter or splitting or anything. This is incredibly 
 annoying because you will use up a weapon and accidently use a valuable health item accidently. 
 This ignores the fact that the game is on an irritating unreal time constraint and if you screw 
 up one thing you have to restart the game to get the story. Don't buy this game, it's a rental 
 at best. You'll probably want to throw your xbox at some point in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waggy79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  This is a love it or hate it game. The graphics are top notch, smacking zombies with hundreds of 
 weapons (the lawnmower being a favourite of mine!) never gets boring and the sound suits the action 
 perfectly. What may put some people off is that save points are few and far between and you're 
 up against the clock to save people in time so you may have to restart (you keep your stats and 
 level) if you mess up.
  This game has been out for quite a while now so would be easy to pick up for a cheap price (the 
 special edition tin has held its value quite well though) and I would recommend this game to the 
 more hardcore gamer than a casual player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachShadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  When I initially bought Dead Rising along with my 360, I didn't expect the game to be too great. 
 I just wanted to buy it because it involved being able to use anything in a mall as a weapon against 
 hordes of zombies and I felt like re-enacting a few scenes from Shaun of the Dead . I was certainly 
 surprised when I started playing it.
  
  Dead Rising's gameplay is extremely fun, in my opinion. I laughed my head off when I put a cute 
 bear mask on a zombie and then threw him down a flight of stairs. I smiled with guilty pleasure 
 as I parted a sea of zombies with a chainsaw and when I (literally) smashed open a zombie's head 
 with a weight. The game has plenty of fun things here and there to make you forget all about the 
 story for quite some time. However, when you actually start focusing on the story, you'll find 
 an indulging tale filled with government cover-ups and acts of eco-terrorism. You might even consider 
 going vegan.
  
  Though the gameplay is fun, it is also very hard at first. Dealing with even the most simple of 
 zombies can feel like a chore until you level up enough. But regardless of how leveled up you are, 
 I found that the psychopath fights still remain just as hard, which isn't necessarily a bad thing 
 since it gives the game a little more difficulty. Also, you may feel constantly rushed if you're 
 trying to pursue the main story, because the initial few Cases give you plenty of time to complete, 
 but the further you move along in the story, the less time the game gives you to get to where you 
 need to be on time, again, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. The only thing I've found that 
 hurt the gameplay is that the survivor's AI tends to be so dense. Sometimes they'll follow you 
 blindly through a herd of zombies only to let themselves get attacked, and other times, they'll 
 just hang back somewhere and pretty much stay there, ignoring your commands to follow you. Saving 
 the survivors can tend to be extremely frustrating, especially if you're pressed for time to continue 
 the story.
  
  All in all though, Dead Rising is an excellent game. The achievements are vast and many, which 
 may make you want to go back and play the game some more to get them, and there are multiple endings, 
 so you may want to view them all. I highly recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I love zombie movie and enjoy once and a while playing zombie games but Dead Rising is the best 
 since it put you neck deep into a zombie infested mall and have to survive for 3 days
  the game play is pick up beat down zombies run repeat the shooting takes awhile to get used to 
 it's kind of like Resident Evil 4 aiming system but not as rewarding as after you use up the ammo 
 you have to get a whole new gun but at least theres is no reloading to slow you down... well you 
 do have to stop to aim correctly since blind firing seems to do no good but waste ammo
  another interesting feature is the camera which can be used to level up Frank (the Main Character) 
 by taking shots of enemies or even certain shots of NPCs THE story is interesting but not deep 
 as it could have been
  the replay ability is great ranging from day by day mode to overtime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-street
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game is great all it is is kill kill kill kill and umm.... oh ya kill some more when you do 
 missons in this game all you can see are zombies and some more zombies and you kill them. You get 
 meany wepons in this game like knifes and swords and guns and night sticks and many many many more 
 there are even cars you can run zombies over with. the game is an 18 its very bloodey and good 
 fun to mess around with over all its a good game some guy asked me what i think about this game 
 and i said this game ROCKS I GIVE IT 8.9 out of 10 p. s this my frist go at this soz if its crap 
 my blogs are better plz look at them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is highly addictive when you get to the point of which your Frank West has a decent 
 amount of health and you learn how to use weapons properly. It's also quite funny to watch cutscenes 
 with your character dressed as a child, prisoner, or jarhead and the game using that set of clothes 
 in the cutscene. Although killing Zombies is relatively easy, killing Psycho's and rescuing Survivor's 
 can be a real pain in your ass. Psycho's run around with moves that sometimes cannot be dodged, 
 and they use weapons that leave you standing there for their pleasure to attack. Once you learn 
 how to avoid these moves and weapons, you are in the open to massacre as many Psycho's as you please.
 
  
  The graphics are quite good, and the framerate stays above 30-40 almost constantly. This is quite 
 impressive considering how many Zombies can be on screen at once.
  
  The multiplayer obviously doesn't exist, although there is a ranking system.
  
  The achievement's 
 can take quite a long time to accomplish, but are worth a decent amount.
  
  Definitely a game you should atleast rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I would say it is one of the few titles for the Xbox 360 that would have 
 been worth it's initial $59.99 launch price. I, however, didn't get a 360 until the Elite came 
 out, so the game was $39.99 when I bought it. Money well spent. Where else are you ever going to 
 kill a zombie by kicking a soccer ball into his face? As far as graphics go, this is probably the 
 best looking zombie game I've ever played (note that I haven't played Resident Evil 4 though) . 
 Even with hundreds upon hundreds of Zombies on the screen at one time, the game rarely ever slows 
 or lags. The sound and voice acting are awesome as well. However this game did have some gameplay 
 issues that caused it's score to drop a little in my book. The A. I. in this game is just awful, 
 save for the zombies. The bosses and survivors are both incredibly stupid, especially the survivors. 
 Dragging along more than two of them is like pulling teeth. Also, the guns in this game are useless, 
 unless you use the auto-aim feature, and even that only shoots straight in front of you (not up 
 or down) . Aiming the gun with the right trigger takes about 9 years, so needless to say, stick 
 to melee weapons.
  
  Also, for some unknown reason, my copy of the game is evidently flawed somehow, because there are 
 two achievements that will not unlock when I do them: The Legendary Soldier (kill 10 Special Ops 
 soldiers) and Transmissionary (Receive all calls from Otis) . I don't know why I can't get the legendary 
 soldier, because one time I tried killing about 40 or so of the Special Ops guys, and nothing happened. 
 I killed them in every which way possible, and didn't get the achievement. You can also supposedly 
 get that achievement by killing 15 psychopaths, which I tried too, and it still didn't work. With 
 the Transmissionary achievement, some of Otis's transmissions (I used a walkthrough, and actually 
 just the one where you enter the Park and the one where you enter Al Fresca Plaza) don't come in. 
 Therefore, going through the game getting all of his transmissions does nothing on my game. That's 
 40 points that Capcom owes me. I would never even attempt the 5 and 7 days survivor achievements 
 either, because playing any game for 14 hours on end would just flat out start to suck. I can not 
 figure out why this is happening to me, as I can't find any case of it happening to anyone else.
 
  
  Despite my achievements problems, I think that Capcom did a good job on what you must do for the 
 achievements... save for the 5 and 7 day survivor achievements. There is a good mix of easy and 
 hard ones. This game is fun for a while, and it took me roughly two months of on and off play to 
 get 920 achievement points (like I said, I can't get 40 and and the other 40 I won't even both 
 trying) . If they ever make a sequel to this, they should have a multiplayer feature... perhaps where 
 you see who can kill the most zombies within the time limit. I think this game is actually $29.99 
 now, so all the more reason to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkurts
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Good Aspects : Zombies, Gore, Humiliation Moves
  
  Bad aspects :
  
  1. No multiple difficulty modes unlike Ninja Gaiden Black. I got through the original NG on normal 
 and all the Resident Evil games but had tremendous trouble with Dead Rising. Deaths feel cheap 
 here, perhaps on easy mode allow instant saves, but on hard mode allow no saves for those who enjoy 
 getting killed.
  
  2. Bad save system - the chance of death is so high that you need a more forgiving save system. 
 Or checkpoints. RE4 had this - why not Dead Rising ? Going backwards are we ?
  
  3. Bad time management - too many scoops and cases make it impossible to address them all - need 
 time to fight your way to the destination and need time to collect weapons etc. No way to fast 
 forward time either, especially during the darkness hours.
  
  4. Really dumb AI - AI is extremely retarded - survivors will not climb ledges and have death wishes 
 contrary to your focal objective - they like to get stuck and they like to die. Brad is very dumb 
 too.
  
  5. Cheap leveling relies on status saving too much.
  
  6. Guns suck bad - and you are very vulnerable while using it.
  
  7. No proper lighting after 
 midnight - visibility is abysmal and lots of cheap zombie hits in the dark makes it very dangerous 
 to travel anywhere. There are what looks like light fuseboxes in the Security room (American Malls 
 have much of their lighting controlled from the Security Office for obvious reasons) - but you 
 cannot turn the lights back on or alter the timer to give light ? Why not ?
  
  If it weren't for the game being a novelty, the score for Dead Rising should have been less than 
 4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun when my friend let me borrow it. I like the abiltiy to use anything as 
 a weapon, it's just the bosses that gave me trouble. Boy were they tough. And if it weren't for the 
 bosses, this game would have a much higher score. That, and the fact that every time you die, all your 
 stats go back. Meaning you have to save OFTEN. And that's not easy, especially when there's virtually 
 only one save spot, and you're surrounded by an army of zombies with a sliver of life left. But back 
 to the bosses. They almsot ruin this game. Yeah they're that bad. The bosses are only possible to 
 fight for a small amount of time before they leave forever, and a new boss is your current problem. And 
 some bosses are almost impossible to beat without beating another certain boss. So tryinh to beat 
 boss 1, to beat boss 2, can take you so much time, that by the time you beat boss 1, boss 2 is already 
 gone. And boss 4 is your current enemy. It's tough, let me tell you. But the ability to kill anythihng 
 WITH anything, is a novel idea. And the graphics are sweet too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoneillz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  When it comes to zombies, few publishers have more experience with them than Capcom. The company 
 has made a mint in recent years off various iterations of the Resident Evil series, and that franchise 
 shows no signs of slowing any time soon. So, it is with some curiosity that we now find ourselves 
 with Dead Rising, an Xbox 360 zombie game produced by Capcom that has exactly zero to do with anything 
 Resident Evil. Where Resident Evil was a series all about horror, tension, and frequent jump scares, 
 Dead Rising goes in the other direction, creating a pure action experience with zombies that are 
 much easier to kill but travel in higher numbers -- much higher numbers, actually, with groupings 
 numbering in the hundreds. As a departure from the zombie games of old, Dead Rising is a great 
 success, wonderfully blending campy undertones and visceral, zombie-killing action into something 
 highly playable. It suffers from structural faults, and the game does find itself leaning heavier 
 on repetition than you'd probably like, but Dead Rising overcomes these shortcomings by being a 
 lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astonerbum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game was HARD. Usually I have no problems but this is definately different. 
 You can be top level and zombies still chew your intestines! Of course the thing that gets me is 
 that spinning with your arms to the side is the most deadliest weapon in the game... next to the 
 katana...
  
  The bosses are HARD... BUT why? Because of BUUUUGS... Like bullets dont hurt anyone... while a 
 wooden stick inflicts 10x more damage and is ezer to use.
  
  Timer...
  Yes the timer is anoying, whats more is that you have to rescue people, beat the timer, get the 
 missions, etc etc etc... Its simply too much to do in one pass. If you want to rescue survivors 
 you need to play one game doing nothing but that.
  
  Certain timers are completely unreasonable. Like you must complete one mission in 1 hr (thats 5 
 seconds per minute so 300 seconds or 5 minutes real time) . That is fine except that there is a 
 horde of zombies everywhere and just running your ass off is BARELY fast enough. But it adds to 
 the thrill of the game.
  
  BTW this game will BREAK YOUR CONTROLLER... Yes some of the chalanges require you to wack away 
 at the control stick or buttons or both until you feel that another wack and your controller will 
 fall apart.
  
  Also I hate the neuances that make it almost good, but jsut too anoying to play: Last boss has 
 an INSTANT KILL, after you go though a long battle to get to him.... WTF? To kill him you must 
 literally exploit a game bug (or neuance of AI behavior)
  Oh and did i mention survivors following you is like having a stick shoved up your ass while playing? 
 They have NO PATHFINDING; get stuck behind objects. They cant seem to get around zombies so you 
 have to kill EVERY zombie (and there are ALOT) you waste your precious mission time to save them, 
 aaaaaaaand god forbid they decide to atack a zombie, not only are they weak, they will probably 
 get grabbed or just try fighing them off instead of running after you etc. etc. etc... its annoying.
 
  
  In the end I had a great challange and my wife loved watching me play it (big plus) but once you 
 beat it, its just *sigh* now I gota kill them all AGAIN? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The storyline to this game is ever mysterious and interesting. Once you finish the game you can 
 still have fun by playing survival mode and overtime mode that are pretty cool. Frank west the 
 photojournalist you play as and you can take pictures for which you get PP points which increase 
 your level and unlock more zombie ass kicking abilities i recommend you get this game as its great 
 fun too bad its not coop or online at all i would have given it a rating of 10 if it had coop play. 
 In conclusion get this game or you suck :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPER-MAN_2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game I think because its never been done before. You can choose to save all 
 the people that are in need or let them die, but saving them will earn you some experience points, 
 and as you grow you learn new fighting moves, or gain faster running speed, greater attack power, 
 throw distance, etc. The people you save are all different, and have different personaliteis. Theres 
 a wide range of weapons and foods to eat for health. There is always something to do and plenty 
 of boss fights, things to speed up mobility, such as: skateboards, bikes, motorcycles, cars, etc. 
 Try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Getting tired of playing Resident Evil where its all just horror. If you are, then play Dead Rising. 
 Dead Rising is an awesome, new way of introducing zombie slaughter. But what makes Dead Rising 
 different is that killings zombies with weapons (and by weapons, i mean just about every single 
 damn thing in the mall) isn't the only way to enjoy. You can run the over, play soccer with them, 
 and if your skill is high enough, even act like them! You can also go to different stores around 
 the mall like clothing stores and dress yourself up and kill zombies in style. The best part is 
 that the storyline is very interesting and does not intrude your fun zombie killing experience 
 (except the time)
  
  Pros: Lots and lots and lots of zombies to kill, Lots and lots and lots of weapons to choose from, 
 many things to try around the mall, story is interesting, funny and gory
  
  Cons: The ending isn't that good nor does it give you many details of what happened, saving survivors 
 around the mall gets a little boring at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is all about you being trapped in a mall for 72 hours (6-8 of gameplay) and you have 
 to survive in there with it being full of zombies. You get to kill a whole bunch of ugly ass zombies 
 with all kinds of different weapons. You can slice them up and chop them up. It's fun. It's really 
 gory, so this game is not for everyone. You will see blood pouring out of the zombies. You also 
 have to kill humans in the game, which is good. There are too many things to do in this game, which 
 means, playing through it once won't be enough to do it all. It has multiple different endings 
 and they're all really good. The cinematics in this game are in engine and very stylish and well 
 done. The dialogue is good, combined with awesome voice acting it's even better. The story is great 
 and you can sort of screw the story and kill zombies if you want to. The mall is open for you, 
 you can do whatever you want to do. There are also survivors around the mall, you can rescue them 
 or kill them or just ignore them. Also there are psychopaths in the mall, you can kill them if 
 you want to. Like I said, it's impossible to do everything in one playthrough, so you'll have to 
 play this game multiple times to see everything it has to offer. It's a great game and 360 owners 
 who enjoy a good, gory, zombie killing game will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b_3n_h00d
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  now let me just say if you are a zombie fan of any sort run dont walk run and buy this game. Your 
 trapped in a mall with hundreds and hundreds of zombies. Weak Slow Zombies could it get any better?? 
 does this remind you of anything? you can kill a zombie in this game with anything you have ever 
 wanted to kill a zombie with ( baseball bat ) ( pan ) ( guitar ) ( shoe?) hundreds more.
  
  Gameplay-addicting will draw you in and lose you at time's but very very time consuming since your 
 always moving about the mall. i Love the gore Not a kids game of course can get very violent with 
 chansaws and my personal favorite Katana's. you are frank a free lance paparazzi looking for a 
 big scoop a little bigger then he wanted. you have 72 hours in a mall to find out whats going on 
 before your ride comes can yo stay ALIVE?
  
  sound- not the best in the world can get repetitive ( elevator music ) argh
  zombies dont talk 
 just hiss so you do get a since of fear. mostly your by yourself but the music isnt what you could 
 call horror
  
  graphics- On Hd they are amazing almost cell shaded and look real at many times killing stuff just 
 looks amazing
  
  Cons- The janitor calls you over and over gets annoying no voice overs with small text
  
  End- 
 very good game must have for zombie killing fans =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceBananas
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  I will start this off by plainly saying that this game is amazing. Not amazing as in OMG MUST BUY, 
 MUST HAVE, NO SLEEP, JUST PLAY. But amazing as in there is so much to do in this game. The replay 
 value is pretty extensive and for now that it has been dropped in price it is a definite must buy.
 
  
  The controls are quite simple and easy to pick up. I had a couple issues with answering the phone, 
 checking the time, maybe it was just me that had problems with this. It just didn't really seem 
 to do what I wanted it to. Those issues aren't really all that big of a deal to be honest.
  
  I enjoyed the plethora of weapons at your disposal, seeing as almost everything can be used 
 as a weapon. And by EVERYTHING I mean from guns, to swords, to 2x4's to the park benches. ANYTHING! 
 That was what I was finally hoping for. I always hated those games where you are running a long 
 and you happen to run out of ammo for instance. Well usually that is a problem, not anymore. In 
 those other games you always think to yourself, well why can't I just pick up that trashcan lid 
 and smack this stupid zombie over the head? Well now you can! This game is ridiculously funny and 
 well worth the money to pick up. Even for 60 bucks it would have been worth it.
  
  Now there is a reason I have given this game endless praise and only an 8.0. For all of you who 
 have played this game you will understand my Review Deck. There are scenes where audio is played, 
 that are great, the voice acting was top notch. Problem is, there are certain things that you have 
 to read, and this game for some reason likes to put all the text in what seems like point 6 font. 
 I don't know if there is an option to fix that or what, but it's hard to read what the hell is 
 going on sometimes. I actually referred to a strategy guide numerous times just to look up the 
 text of what that person said/messaged to me. Talk about frustrating, because it doesn't matter 
 what size TV you are using. At first I thought it was the 13 screen, so I moved my 360 to a 19 
 and still couldn't read it, even on my 32 I had issues. You're in the middle of a pack of zombies 
 and next thing you know you have a message that is so small that even ants have to squint to see 
 it. With that said, this is again an amazing game and I hope they make a sequel. Lets just pray 
 that this time around we can read it a little easier without having to call up gramps and have 
 him use his reading glasses to get the information.
  
  ps. If there is an option to change the text size please message me on how to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  You dont have to be a fan of zombie movies or resident evil type games to like Dead Rising. you 
 just have to be a fan of good games period. this was my first game on the 360 (Gears was sold out 
 everywhere) . I didnt ecpect it to be as good as it was. The interactivity of the environments is 
 what i enjoyed most. Everything is a weapon and the zombie physics react appropriately to your 
 attacks. It is impossible to not have fun while playing this game. Ran out of ammo? Grab the nearest 
 bench, lift it over your head and toss it at a horde of zombies lumbering toward you. No benches? 
 Grab a stack of cd's from the music store in the mall and start throwing them frisbee style at 
 the undead. Get the picture? the leveling up system is effective and if you are a skilled savior 
 of the mall survivors then you can have a very strong character by the end of 72 hour mode. you 
 start at level 1 and will probably not get to level 50 on your forst playthrough. The higher your 
 level, the faster you move, the stronger you become, the better hand-tohand attacks you can launch 
 at your foes, and more importantly - the more stuff you can carry. Managing inventory is crucial 
 to getting from A to B in Willamette mall. A fun twist to the game is what is called booking your 
 weapons. If you have a certain magazine equipped you can prolong the life of the weapon and even 
 make its effects stronger. some weapons can have as many as 3 effects added to them making them 
 nearly indestructible which can neutralize the difficulty of the game somewhat. the story is engaging 
 and the main character Frank has some good dialogue and even manages to get a laugh or two from 
 the player along the way. The achievments for this game are among the toughest and most satisfying 
 on the 360 thus far. The Frank the Pimp achievement requires you to successfulyy escort 8 female 
 survivors simultaneaously to safety, which i can tell you is one tall order and immensely satisfying 
 upon completion. I replayed this game many times to see the different endings and to play through 
 overtime mode which was a nice addition to the storyline. If you are short on 360 games to play 
 before the impending classics of the 07 fall/winter lineup are released then pick up Dead Rising 
 and get ready to be knee deep in zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattkool13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  This game is great. it is a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. the gameplay is wondeful, great mechanics, 
 memerable moments, plus if it exist in the real world you can use it as a weapon in this game. 
 The great thing about this game is that you can finish the story in different ways, and if you 
 do it the right way you get more play hours at a higher difficulty, then after that you can unlock 
 infinity mode which is perfect for sandbox fun! this game is great with the original skills, items, 
 and leveling system. again it is a must have for anyone with a 360. especialy because the achievements 
 keep you coming abck for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is the best zombie game until Resident evil 5 comes out. Dead Rising is a game with 
 a lot of zombies. The zombies can get tidious doing the day, But in night time there smart. Because 
 they got red eyes doing night. Thats pretty wield doing a zombie game. Dead rising has a bad saving 
 system. It has no online or co-op, Its kinda disapointed without that. Its still a excellent game 
 to play. They have 72h Graphics looks pretty decent
  
  Sound is kinda perfect
  
  Value is worth your money
  
  Dead rising got really bad overtime mode, Because Overtimemode 
 is kinda boring and disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is made by Capcom, the minds who brought you the Resident Evil series, so zombie games 
 are right up their alley. What makes Dead Rising so cool is its originality. Capcom throws you 
 in a mall with thousands, literally thousands, of zombies and lets you loose. Nearly everything 
 you can think of is weapon fro a frisbee to a water gun to a chainsaw and auger. The amount of 
 weapons in this game are astonishing. Here is just a few of the weapons in Dead Rising: lead pipe, 
 chainsaw, dumbell, chair, bench, 2x4, propane tank, handgun, sub-machinegun, katana, battle axe, 
 shopping cart, shotgun, plasma tv, milk jug, and many, many more. I could have gone on all day, 
 if I wanted to. The storyline of Dead Rising is pretty good. You play as Frank West, a photojournalist, 
 who learned that some weird stuff was happening in the town of Willamete, Colorado. You hire a 
 helicopter to take you in the city and drop you off at the mall to find out nearly every single 
 person has been changed into a zombie. You find that there are town survivors who have barricaded 
 themselves in the mall. But you soon find out that there is a conspiracy that is going on. Once 
 you start the game you can either do what you want ( like a sandbox type of game) and start killing 
 every zombie in sight and rescue the mall survivors or you can go with the story and find out how 
 the zombie outbreak was caused AND kill lots of zomies and rescue survivors. The rescuing survivor 
 system doesn't work to well though; you may want them to follow you, but most times they may get 
 fall behind and leave them prone to zombie attacks. Especially when you have more than five survivors 
 following you to the security room and they are trying to get on the platform to the security room. 
 It's like there programmed to only climb up the platform on only one part of it and you see them 
 running against each other, pushing each other around. It's frustrating. The only other flaw is 
 the save system; you can only save ONE profile the entire game and you always overwrite the save 
 you had before; there could have been more save slots. The graphics are really good, but they still 
 could have polished it up a bit more. This is one of the most gore-filled game I have ever played 
 beside Gears of War, you will find blood everywhere; after each hit there will be blood splattering 
 against your clothing and against the walls. And I'm not saying this is a bad thing, I'm just making 
 a point that it is really violent. Dead Rising has a very high replay value to it. You will find 
 yourself playing it over and over again. The sound is very good also from the dismemberments and 
 decapitations of the zombies to the roar of the chainsaw and the clunk of a 2x4. Dead Rising is 
 a buy or at the very least a rental ( you will be renting this a lot if you don't buy, that's why 
 I bought it) . This is a good game that should not be passed by. PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjtr86
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I can not think of any other games that are this straight forward or this much fun. classic stuck 
 in a mall surrounded by zombies having to fight for your life. Earn some pretty gruesome moves 
 such as disembowel. It is incredibly fun to play when you have friends over and hear them say Dude!!! 
 You just smashed that guy in the face with a guitar!! . If you like zombie movies and feel like 
 you must try it but no fatal blows have been stricken to man kind by zombies just yet, i would 
 recommend this game. Also incredibly fun if you just love violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PonyBill
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Now, Dead Rising has an interesting story thats not entirely original (a. k. a. Dawn of the Dead) , 
 but it is worth taking a look at. You play as Frank West, a freelance photojournalist who wants 
 to cover a story in the small town Willamette, where the only attraction is a gigantic super-mall 
 where everyone hangs out. The entrances are blocked off by the military, so Frank and his hired 
 helicopter go in for a look. His pilot puts him down on the roof of the mall, which for some reason 
 has a helipad on it, and tells him hell be back in 72 hours. That is your time limit in the game. 
 Upon going in the mall, Frank finds a handful of humans, along with hordes and hordes ofYou guessed 
 it. Zombies! During the course of the game, you must do everything in your power to save survivors, 
 kill various psychopaths in the mall, and level up. You can get to level 50, and, on the way, gain 
 various abilities that will make killing zombies easier, much more fun, or just overall gruesome. 
 Also, you have a camera with which you can take pictures of things to gain points. Thats not a 
 huge attraction in the game. But what is is that everything is a weapon. You can essentially kill 
 a zombie with a sandwich. No, wait. You can kill 20 zombies with a sandwich. The mall provides 
 tons of things that you can use to kill zombies: guns, swords, chainsaws, some type of a drill 
 that you can use to impale zombies and use them as spinning weapons. Dead Rising is a well put 
 together game that allows you to do one thing that other zombie games never really let you do. 
 Kill zombies! In Dead Rising, you have a choice to follow the story line, or go crazy, ignoring 
 all story missions, and KILL ZOMBIES. I cant tell you how satisfying it is to reach inside a zombie, 
 pull out his small intestine and kick him over on the ground. I cant tell you how much power you 
 feel you have flailing two miniature chainsaws in the air, chopping off limbs and heads as you 
 go. I cant tell you these things. You have to experience them yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanntheman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is one of the strangest games i have ever played. Possibly because it's one of a few 
 games that let you you choose what to do in a certain time. You can do the story missions or just 
 waste your time killing zombies in literally hundreds of ways. there are so many different weapons 
 available you'll never get bored of zombie killing. The graphics and sounds were great. The sounds 
 were especially good, almost every item made a different sound when you hit a zombie. The story 
 was surprisingally good but i just wish the missions could have been better most of them had you 
 arriving at a place at a certain time or getting an item and taking it somewhere else. Despite 
 the weak missions Dead rising is stil fun to play due to the zombie killing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untitledcause
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising for the Xbox 360 shows just why Capcom is the leader in survival horror games. In addition 
 to Resident Evil, this game showcases Capcoms love for Zombies and the murdering of these beings. 
 As photo journalist Frank West, you are dropped of into a mall infested with zombies and fight 
 for your life as you try to uncover the secrets behind the games story. The game is fun to play 
 and the achievement system is the best I have seen on the Xbox 360. It rewards you equally for 
 everything you do. The progression system is great as well, leveling up your character for killing 
 zombies, taking pictures and even saving people inside the mall. The weapons are fun to use and 
 the ability to roam around the mall doing whatever you want is also nice. You are only forced to 
 do the story if you want to. It is a great release for anyone wanting a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The main objective of the game is to remain alive inside the zombie-infested mall for at least 
 three days, after which help will arrive. In-game time runs twelve times faster than real-time, 
 meaning one day in-game is exactly two hours in real time. Therefore, the game can be completed 
 in six hours of gameplay. However, there are several other elements to the game that the player 
 can choose whether or not to pursue.
  
  The player controls the main character, Frank West. As a photojournalist, Frank has an interest 
 in uncovering the truth behind the zombie epidemic through unlocking a series of case files that 
 build upon the previous ones and reveal the central plot as the game clock progresses. Unlocking 
 case files is accomplished primarily by completing tasks and being in the right place at the right 
 time in order to view a cutscene that explains more of the story. Frank also carries a camera and 
 can earn Prestige Points (PP) from photographing different situations. Pictures are evaluated and 
 assigned a genre, either erotica, horror, outtakes, drama, or brutality.
  
  Encounters with surviving human characters
  
  Scoops serve as side quests for the game. These 
 are assigned to the player by answering walkie-talkie calls from the janitor watching the security 
 cameras. Scoops will usually direct the player to a location in the mall to investigate a person 
 who has not yet turned into a zombie. These people are either survivors or psychopaths. Survivors 
 are human characters who, like Frank, are trying to survive the zombie outbreak but need assistance 
 to do so. There are 54 survivors that can be located via scoops or investigation of the mall's 
 areas. Upon rescue, they will join the player's party and can be taken to the safety of the security 
 room. The survivors mainly take shelter inside stores, but some have been split up or are being 
 held hostage by a psychopath. Psychopaths are human characters that have been driven insane due 
 to events of the zombie outbreak or have used the havoc as a cover to accomplish their own evil 
 ends. They serve as the game's boss battles.
  
  Frank carries a notebook with him and records details about all human characters encountered, noting 
 their status as either Located , Safe , Dead , Lost , or Undead . Over the course of Dead Rising, 
 some will request or give the player items, while others will revolt against the player and attempt 
 mutiny. Most of these missions are completely optional.
  
  Leveling system and weapons
  
  Dead Rising incorporates a leveling system that allows Frank to learn new offensive attacks, 
 increase his health meter, throw weapons further, increased damage, carry more items, or improve 
 his speed. One new skill, ability, or improved stat is awarded randomly at each increase in level. 
 To level Frank up he has to earn PP, which is done by helping survivors, taking pictures, and killing 
 zombies, among other things. A notable aspect to Dead Rising is that should the player start a 
 new game, all experience progression made in previous games can be carried over to the new game.
 
  
  Dead Rising is notable for the variety and large quantity of weapons (many improvised and comical 
 in use) the player can find in the mall and use against the zombies. There are over 250 items that 
 can be used as weapons, including chainsaws, baseball bats, axes, katanas, sledgehammers, mall 
 furniture, potted plants, frying pans, guitars, toy swords, and water guns. Weapons will break 
 down or run out of ammo with use, often to be thrown away, but certain weapons will gain new properties. 
 For example, a push broom can break in two, leaving the wooden staff to be used as a spear; or 
 a mannequin, which breaks into five usable parts, such as the arms, legs, or torso. Others can 
 be changed by the environment, such as the frying pan, which can be heated on a stove (to increase 
 damage or to gain access to a special move) . The player can also lift larger items like benches 
 or cash registers that can be used to smash foes or be thrown at them. These items are not considered 
 part of the player's inventory, as the player cannot store the item and it will be dropped if the 
 player selects a different weapon from his/her inventory.
  
  Electronic Gaming Monthly reported that there can be up to 800 zombies on the screen at once. During 
 the day the zombies are more sluggish, but at night they become more active, gain red glowing eyes 
 and increase in numbers. Certain foods and utensils can be combined to create more potent items, 
 increasing the depth and strategic elements of the game.
  
  Modes and save system
  
  The gameplay, aside from the time-specific cases, is very open-ended and offers few constraints 
 on the player's progress. The storyline may simply be ignored, leaving the player free to just 
 spend the entire three days in the mall sampling food or trying on clothes if they so desired; 
 some of the game's 50 Achievements reward this method of play. Also, the player may choose to ignore 
 the plot completely and gain more PP to level up and use in a later game.
  
  Dead Rising features three modes of play: * 72 Hour: Frank has three days to solve the mystery 
 of the zombie outbreak. This is the main mode of play. * Overtime Mode: An extra day that wraps 
 up the events of 72 Hour mode. Unlocked by getting the best resolution, the 'A' ending in 72 hour 
 mode. * Infinity Mode: A sandbox mode where Frank must last as long as he can. The biggest difference 
 is that Frank can now die of hunger. The health bar drops once every 100 seconds to represent this. 
 Other differences are that food is limited and the transceiver, save, and some watch functions 
 are disabled. Everyone, including survivors, are now enemies which drop character-related supplies 
 upon their deaths and they all fight each other for the food they hold in order to survive. The 
 game continues until Frank's inevitable demise and is unlocked by finishing Overtime Mode.
  
  Dead Rising has an unusual save system: only one game-in-progress can be saved per memory device 
 per profile. With this single-save system, it is possible to save a game far away from a critical 
 objective with little time remaining, making it impossible to reach the next objective in time, 
 and thus, impossible to complete the plot. In these cases, Dead Rising allows players to save their 
 current level and status, and restart the game from the beginning as a more powerful player. The 
 system is a deliberate game mechanic, borrowed from one of Capcom's RPGs Breath of Fire: Dragon 
 Quarter; the two games share some development team members.
  
  Gamers have expressed frustration as they will sometimes get killed immediately after fighting 
 a psychopath, ultimately having to restart from the last saved point and facing the psychopath 
 again. Many have also mentioned that if they had multiple game slots it would make certain tasks/achievements 
 easier to achieve. Though the unusual saves are largely unpopular with gamers and likely caused 
 Dead Rising to be scored lower on game ratings, Keiji Inafune said, in an interview with Electronic 
 Gaming Monthly, that the saves were intentionally designed so that players would feel that there 
 were some consequences for their actions and would be forced to make quick, tactical decisions.
 
  
  Storyline
  
  The game focuses on the exploits of Frank West, a photojournalist who is intent on breaking the 
 story on why the fictional town of Willamette, Colorado has been sealed off by the National Guard. 
 Frank is taken to Willamette by helicopter, as the roads leading to the town have been blockaded 
 and the town itself quarantined. Flying overhead, Frank notices what appears to be a brutal riot. 
 He witnesses multiple murders and a gas station exploding during his flight. Approaching the Willamette 
 Parkview Mall, Frank sees a helipad and tells his pilot, Ed Delucia, to drop him off. Frank jumps 
 onto the mall's roof and reminds the pilot to return in exactly 72 hours.
  
  Frank meets up with Carlito Keyes, a Hispanic man who acts mysteriously. In reply to Frank's question 
 about the events in town, Carlito replies that Frank should see it for himself, all the while chuckling 
 to himself. Upon entering the mall, Frank finds there are creatures trying to enter the mall and 
 he asks one of the survivors boarding up the entrance what the disturbance is. The man proceeds 
 to inform Frank of a zombie outbreak that has occurred across Willamette. The only thing preventing 
 the zombies from entering the mall is a makeshift barricade- the zombies, however, swarm the shopping 
 center after a hysterical woman breaks through the barricade in order to try and save her dog from 
 the zombies. A Homeland Security officer named Brad appears at the top of the stairs shouting at 
 everyone to retreat to the security room. Frank, Brad and a few other main characters are the only 
 ones who make it to the room.
  
  When Frank enters, the janitor, Otis Washington, welds the door shut. Brad then leaves the security 
 room via the air ducts. Jessie, also of Homeland Security recognizes an old man she identifies 
 as Dr. Barnaby in one of Frank's photos, but neither Jessie nor Brad are willing to share what 
 they know. After receiving a transceiver and map from Otis in order to be kept informed of the 
 mall's events, Frank returns to the mall through the air ducts. He begins to encounter survivors, 
 who need his assistance to make it safely to the security room, as well as survivors driven to 
 madness by the zombie infestation, known as Psychopaths.
  
  As the story unfolds, Frank and Brad have a series of violent encounters with Carlito, while Frank 
 continues to come across a beautiful Hispanic woman named Isabela. Frank and Brad are eventually 
 able to locate Dr. Barnaby and bring him back to the security room, but it is still unknown why 
 Homeland Security is particularly interested in Barnaby in the first place. After Frank is able 
 to pacify a violent Isabela and bring her back to the security room, she reveals she is the sister 
 of Carlito and that he is behind the zombie infestation.
  
  She explains that Dr. Barnaby was the head of a research laboratory in the fictional Central American 
 city of Santa Cabeza, the hometown of Carlito and Isabela. The research facility was attempting 
 to find methods of mass-producing cattle, but instead, Barnaby and his team discovered an insect 
 wasp called a queen that would turn the cattle into zombies with a single sting. After one of the 
 queens escaped and infected the townspeople of Santa Cabeza, the US government sent a special forces 
 team in to wipe out the entire city. The massacre was covered up under the pretenses that it was 
 a raid on drug-trade operations. Outraged over the slaughter of his people, Carlito planned and 
 executed the release of numerous queens in Willamette in revenge. Once the importance of Dr. Barnaby 
 is revealed, he suddenly turns into a zombie and attacks Jessie before he is killed.
  
  The zombie outbreak in Willamette is only the tip of the iceberg, however, as Isabela later explains 
 Carlito has much bigger plans. Hidden beneath the mall are 5 bombs that when detonated will release 
 queen larva into the atmosphere, making it possible for a worldwide zombie outbreak.
  
  Depending on the player's actions from this point on, the ending for the game varies.
  
  As 
 Frank, the player has the opportunity to complete or fail certain cases/scoops that will result 
 in the player receiving one of six different endings. This will affect the fate of other NPC's 
 within the game as well.
  
  Main characters
  
  Throughout Dead Rising, Frank West meets characters who are essential to revealing the truth behind 
 the zombie outbreak, as well as helping him survive the ordeal.
  
  Frank West The main protagonist of Dead Rising, the player controls Frank in the game. He is an 
 overly zealous freelance photographer/photojournalist that came to Willamette for the scoop of 
 a lifetime , thinking it was just a riot. Throughout the game, Frank seeks the truth behind the 
 zombie outbreak by investigating recent events and questioning characters trapped in the mall. 
 With the player's help, Frank also tries to rescue many human characters trapped within various 
 sections of the mall.
  
  Isabela Keyes The younger sister of Carlito. Very little is known about her, but that she worked 
 at Dr. Barnaby's laboratories in Santa Cabeza as a medical technician. She starts off as an enemy, 
 but after Carlito attacks her, she realizes the mayhem her brother is causing and becomes an ally. 
 She helps temporarily subdue Frank's infection, and escapes with him out of Willamette.
  
  Carlito Keyes The older brother of Isabela. The mysterious Carlito tries to kill Frank at every 
 turn. He is the cause of the outbreak and wants revenge for the slaughter of his hometown, Santa 
 Cabeza. Most of the game is spent trying to uncover the motivation and story behind Carlito and 
 his connection to the zombies.
  
  Brad Garrison A DHS agent who reluctantly fights alongside Frank throughout the story. He assumes 
 the responsibility of re-stocking the Security Room with healing items and trying to locate Dr. 
 Barnaby early in the game. At first, he is uneasy to be around a member of the press, and even 
 goes so far as to stereotype Frank as a crooked paparazzi. However, he soon grows to trust Frank. 
 At the end of the Bomb Collector case, he is forced into the zombie-infested maintenance tunnels 
 by Carlito and is attacked. Frank returns to look for Brad, but Brad, close to zombification and 
 disemboweled, realizes that there is nothing that Frank can do, except leave him and not tell Jessie.
 
  
  Jessica Jessie McCarney Brad's rookie partner. She is charged with watching the monitors for information 
 on the person/people responsible for the outbreak. Like Brad, she is distrustful of Frank, and 
 patronizes him for being a civilian. However, she grows to trust Frank after he manages to retrieve 
 the medicine from a crazed Steven. Jessie would later be bitten by an infected Dr. Barnaby and 
 becomes a zombie by the final hours of the game. She kills two Special Forces soldiers in her zombie 
 form, and is found by Frank wandering the security room.
  
  Otis Washington A mall janitor. Otis tries in vain to stop Frank from chasing Brad back into the 
 mall, and winds up handing over a map and spare transceiver. He periodically sends the player information 
 and scoops over Frank's transceiver. If Frank is unable to reach the stairs of the Entrance Plaza 
 when the zombies are first let in, and instead is knocked out, it is Otis that drags him from the 
 chaos. When the Special Forces arrive, Otis sneaks out and attempts to steal a helicopter. Notably, 
 Otis's voice is never heard during the game.
  
  Dr. Russell Barnaby A genetic researcher, whose work led to the events chronicled throughout Dead 
 Rising. He becomes infected and attacks Jessie. Brad shoots him after he attempts to attack Frank.
 
  
  Survivors
  
  The citizens of Willamette who were not initially killed by the zombie outbreak are referred to 
 as survivors. There are about 54 survivors counting Frank himself scattered across the mall, and 
 their fate is dependent on Frank. Otis gives Frank a transmitter and a map of the mall, contacting 
 him about events happening in the mall. Otis acts as the source of information for finding survivors. 
 However, Otis will not notice all of the survivors and thus, some must be stumbled upon. Many survivors 
 can be escorted safely to the security room, while others may be injured or too scared, requiring 
 Frank to carry them to the exit point, rendering him unable to use his weapons. Successful rescues 
 will earn PP for Frank.
  
  Psychopaths
  
  In addition to battling thousands of zombies, Frank West must also deal with crazy psychopaths, 
 humans who have gone mad by the invasion or otherwise corrupt, evil or immoral humans who serve 
 as the game's bosses. Examples include a clown who goes insane after seeing his audience eaten, 
 a deranged butcher thinking people are fresh meat and zombies are spoiled meat , a Vietnam War 
 veteran who suffers war flashbacks after seeing his granddaughter eaten by zombies, and a cult 
 leader. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModBox369
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I think dead rising is a very funny game to play and has many different things to do on it so you 
 wont get bored for a long time i particularly like the story line of the game and the way they 
 use time and you have to complete different objectives at different times some of the time i found 
 this annoying when i wanted to do a certain thing but i couldn't because it wasn't the right time 
 but other than that it a great game to buy if you don't have xbox live which i have never not had 
 xbox live which is probably the main reason i didn't play this game for as long as i have played 
 other games like gears of war or forza 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookie88n
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  This game is all you'd expect from a zombie game from capcom and more! Lots of blood and gore. 
 The swarm is really great and the animation is smooth.
  I really like the if you can pick it up you can use it thing. All the main characters
  are really 
 well done, but all the zombies are mediocre. At the start the photo bit is really boring. My favorite 
 weapon is the excavator. If you hold X when you are running towards a zombie, you will stab it 
 in the gut and lift it off the ground.
  Out of 10, I give it a 9.5 because nobody really likes being places on time. Even in games! This 
 game is the best thing since sliced bread (except for the X-BOX 360) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candilga
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Great zombie bashing game and costume dressing is hilarious.... the greatest drag about this game 
 though is the save game feature which has you repeating you over and over parts you've already 
 played if you're not careful. Nevertheless great game good fun and great graphics!
  
  The fact that there are lighted environments are all the more amusing as one tends to think that 
 zombies would be in dark sinister places not in shopping malls with soccer balls and umbrellas 
 and all sorts of clothes stores lying around :)
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is probably that you can use just about the whole environment 
 as weapons which differs from all other games.. Good solid game! Now that it's classic its definately 
 a bargain to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that is amazingly fun weather your playing story mode or just going around 
 slashing, shooting and even throwing things at zombies. Dead Rising also includes a very good story 
 line if your focousing on story mode . Also The graphics are very very good every thing looks exactly 
 what they would look like in real life. The learning curve isn't long either witch is really good 
 for people who just want to pick up and play. So in conclusion this game will not dissapoint you 
 it's a great game overall and a must have for X-box 360 players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintsrow384
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  there is a lot of good points about the game and bad points one of the bad points is the game took 
 to long to get out one of the good points is that you can hack and slash your way arund the mall 
 so from my point of view it is a veary good game 9 out of 10 this game is a highly addictive game 
 it was hard to put it down i wood play it from 10-20 hours a day this is a very good game go and 
 buy it if u are bord u can just kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokotorgod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Game play - 10 - I give Dead Rising for the game play aspect a 9 it changed what you think of when 
 you think of battle I mean using CDs, and plates as projectiles is ingenious and the everything 
 about the zombies seem right
  
  Graphics - 9.5 - the graphics on Dead Rising are phenomenal i mean the only parts which I thought 
 the graphics could of used some help is in the tunnels under the mall
  
  Sound - 9 - the sound in the game, is excellent but could have used some help the voice acting 
 Value - 10 - well I think this is a game for anyone that even like action, shooting, RPG, or any 
 other kind of violent game it just seems like a really good game especially since its now 30 bucks
 
  
  Tilt - 9 - I think that Dead rising is a revolutionary game that also added new aspects to the 
 action/horror/shooter genre but also implemented old aspects of the horror genre that made it so 
 great mainly I am talking about is the occasional scare u might get from it which is sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibboinvader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  This is probably one the best xbox 360 classics out on this console. The storyline makes you want 
 to keep on going. You can spend hours just picking up a hammer and beatin' the hell these zombies.
 
  One down side is the save system though they should change that and they should have had a multiplayer 
 mode not just rankings.
  But still an awsome game and it should be in everybodys game collection!
  The amount of weapons 
 there are in the game are just breathtaking and the mall is huge!
  The graphics are awsome but don't match gears of war, but no game has done that yet.
  There are 
 loads of endings depending on what you and I love that twist and it just keeps you playing and 
 wanting more!
  Well done Capcom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Overall i love this game, it is brilliant. But some of the aspects get on my nerves, forst off 
 i wish it was more like gta, there was no time and you could pace yourself. I hate the idea of 
 to get the full fun out of the game you have to do it 3 times or more. Second of all The save sytem 
 sucks i hate if you run into a boss and get killed and have to go back to the last save. Last night 
 i had 8289 kills and i ran into the clown and died and went back down too 794 kills. the ai sucks 
 they keep running into zombies and you end up diing trying to help them out because you have to 
 wait for them. Rekon there there should be less ladies clothes stores and jewerlly stores, basically 
 capcom just couldnt be bothered to make it have more depth. Most people disagree with the aiming 
 sytem however it has grown on me and i like it. OVERALL
  Graphics = 7.8
  Gameplay = 8.3
  Value = 4.6
  Sound = 8.9
  Addictivness = 7.9
  
  OVERALL AVERAGE = 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is just what the xbox 360 needed for a good game. This game is just complete fun. You 
 play a journalist who decides to follow a scope on a town that seems to be going crazy. You arrive 
 finding that a good chunk of the cizilians r actually zombies. You arrive at the mall and the helicopter 
 that drops you off will be bak to pick you up in 72 hours. The good: The fact that you can roam 
 around the mall using almost anything you find as a weapon is awesome. Whether it would be a golf 
 club, a pistol, a toy bear, cd's...... anything and everything is your weapon. The story to the 
 game isnt bad either, you follow certain cases throught the game in which u only have a certain 
 amount of time to complete and if u fail these main cases u have to start the game back to the 
 last save point which is sort of crappy. Also you can go follow scoopes given to you by a janitor 
 and take pictures of other things that r going on in this mall. I like how you may hold more then 
 1 weapon at a time and how as you complete missions or kill zombies or take pictures u gain exp 
 and when u get a certain ammount u lvl up which increases an aspect of you. Whether it is number 
 of weapon slots you have or health slots.... it just makes the game nice. The Bad: the graffics 
 arent great but then again it is one of the first games for the xbox 360 so i was expecting much. 
 Sometimes the time limits get annoying cause sometimes u just want to destroy zombies but oh to 
 bad you have to go find some person or else u lose. The save system isnt great cause u can only 
 save in a bathroom or securtiy room but finding them is sometimes hard, i would have prefered just 
 save at any point but watever.
  
  Final thoughts: This game is worth a rent if not a buy. You can play it hours on end. So much to 
 do in this game which makes it pretty fun. I love how everything is a weapon and there is nothing 
 better then getting a chain saw or a lawn mower and just destroying everything. Truly a great zombie 
 killer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis110
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game, oh yeah zombies, zombies, zombies, olat of them; I can't get enough 
 of zombies. Game play is fun and easy controller I thing is just right and when it come to characters 
 in the game is just right too, you could either dodge zombies or just go in a killing spree with 
 zombies. The story is interesting, for me it makes me want to know more. Graphic is the **** not 
 better than Gears of War and Bioshock but just good enough to say dam man this game rocks. Other 
 than that I recommended this game for anyone who love or a fan of Dawn of the Dead, and zombies 
 or just having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zunarutze
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a killing zombie game for those who don't know. Lots of blood will be seen throught 
 the game. Well the game takes place inside a mall. Inside the mall there is thousands of zombies 
 that try to kill you. You get to use anything in the mall as a weapon. When you first play it and 
 kill over like one thousand zombies it get's boring. However there is like 7different outcomes to 
 the game. You get to save citizens and you have to be places at the correct time otherwise you'll 
 get a different outcome. The game is fun for people who like to kill alot....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, I won't spoil most of the story but I'll only tell you some of the characters. In Dead Rising, 
 you play as Frank West. He's a journalist and a photographer. The game's setting is at Willamette 
 Mall. You're trapped in that mall for 3 days. Sounds great right? Being in a huge mall for a few 
 days. Yeah, except it's ZOMBIE INFESTED. You have to survive in the mall for 3 days, and a helicopter 
 will rescue you on the 4th day. Frank didn't really bring any weapons with him on his way to the 
 mall. So how are you going to defeat all these zombies? Pick up anything in the mall that's available 
 to you duh! Almost EVERYTHING is a weapon in this game! Chairs, Baseball Bats, Chain-Saws, Guitars, 
 Knifes, even food! But I'd rather just eat them. Food represents sort of like a health pack. It's 
 the only way to heal yourself. Frank's goal is to cover a story here at Willamette Mall. You'll 
 be taking pictures of stuff to cover the story. And he also wants to solve the mystery of the zombie 
 outbreak. He has two people on his side. Now I won't explain why they are at the mall already, 
 but I'll tell you the names. First off, you got this big (when I say big, I mean muscular, not 
 fat.) man named Brad. And you got this blonde girl named Jessie. They, well, kind of help you. 
 But the person who really helps you out is this guy named Otis. He's a janitor and he gives you 
 a map of the mall, and a walkie-talkie so that he can contact you about any survivors or whatever 
 is going on. Dead Rising is time-based. If you don't do a mission on time, you will fail. Saving 
 is a b****. If you die, and you didn't save at all. You will START OVER. So saving is a very important 
 element in the game. Save when you have the chance! You can also quit the game, but here's the 
 thing. When you quit and let's say Frank's level was like 14. (Yeah, you can level up in this game) 
 When you start a new game, Frank's set level is 14! So this can be used as a strategy to when you're 
 stuck on a hard boss. In Dead Rising's time, Frank has 72 hours. But in real time, Dead Rising 
 is 12 hours fast. So it will only take 6 hours to beat the game. Sure it's short, but it's a lot 
 of fun. Dead Rising should be at least checked out by all 360 owners. This is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan678
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  when i first played deadrising i though it was a good solid game and it had interesting aspects 
 such as the 'pick anything up and smash a zombie round the head with it', but after a whil believe 
 it or not this wears very thin and you will most likely end up thinking ' why dont the zombies 
 just f*ck off while i try and do the story?'. at the start of the game undoubtedly you will have 
 a lot of fun killing a zombie with a broom/ bat/ 2x4/ pipe, and then you will realise that they 
 all react in the same way.
  
  the levelling up system is ok, but a lot of the skills are complicated to do or involve already 
 getting grabbed by a zombie which sort of defeats the point of it, however the 'life up' and the 
 'stock up' upgrades are very useful throughout the game. The story is quite good, but not gripping 
 and you dont carry on playing to find out what happens you just carry on playing because it gives 
 the game a purpose, rather than just running around for 3 days killing zombies pointlessly. overall, 
 like i said i loved this game until i completed it, because then there literally is nothing to 
 do, but i have given it a high rating as it is definitely worth playing and is a lot of fun actually 
 working your way through the game, and whilst you are its hard to put the controller down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numba1dumazz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a different game, but it is most certainly a fun game. I have owned this game since 
 a little after it came out, and I still don't get bored of it. There are many elements of this 
 game that make it worthwhile, and it's hard to know where to start. For one thing, the slogan anything 
 and everything is a weapon , is very true in this game. As long as it isn't nailed down, it can 
 be picked up and used as a weapon: everything from laser swords to simple rocks. Another great 
 part is it's replay value. Not only do you unlock new modes of gameplay, but you also receive new 
 items and outfits. There also several different endings that you can get based on your gameplay. 
 However, there are some bad parts of the game. One is the time-frame gameplay, in which you get 
 through 72 hours of game time to win; however, this can be annoying when you have to wait for the 
 next mission. Another is the fact that after a while, slaying the countless zombies can get repetitive. 
 But despite its shortcomings, Dead Rising is a fun and ambitious game that many can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theemptyquiver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out, and then it came out and I couldn't wait to play through 
 it a second time to do all the things I didn't have time to do the first time. If you don't like 
 replaying games then don't play this one because this is the kind of game you have to play over 
 and over to truly enjoy and get everything out of. The game is fairly ambitious, but it doesn't 
 lack in any department. The combat is fairly straightforward with enough depth to keep people interested. 
 The game isn't too difficult or unforgiving, but it could be frustrating if you don't plan ahead 
 and save often enough.
  The friendly A. I. stinks, but makes the game charming too because it makes you choose a moral stand 
 between saving people and murdering them because they don't have any more brains than a zombie.
 
  I still go back and play this game from time to time, and it hasn't gotten old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosXing
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Being trapped in a mall with thousands of zombies hasn't been this exciting since George Romero's 
 Dawn of the Dead. It might even be more exciting, due to the fact that you can pick up just around 
 anything in the game to smash some zombie skull, from condiment bottles to store signs to shotguns.
 
  
  Oh, wait, we're not just here to kill the zombie horde? Ah, right, there's other people stuck in 
 the mall with Frank West. Some of them are in need of help. Others are off their rockers and you've 
 got to kill them before they kill you. Then there's that whole main plot to accomplish that explains 
 everything about the zombie multitude that you're trapped with. Unfortunately, the plot is cobbled 
 together and reads like a bunch of Mad Libs pages; thankfully, you'll be so involved with the gameplay 
 that this will only be a minor annoyance.
  
  There's just so much to do and so little time, which really becomes the main frustration of Dead 
 Rising. If you want to stick to the main storyline, you've got to abide by it's time meter and 
 be at specific points at certain points in time, otherwise it's case closed. You'll won't learn 
 the truth -- was it Professor Plum in the study with the candlestick? -- so if satisfying curiosity 
 is more your cup of tea, you're going to have to make sure you time your rescue missions and the 
 main story just right so you don't miss anything. Of course, if you're obeying the main plot, saving 
 everyone stranded out in the mall is going to be out of the question. If you happent to get eaten 
 along the way, then you're limited to the sparce save points scattered throughout the mall.
  
  Dead Rising will probably not get old when you play it through multiple times. In fact, the 
 odds are you'll wind up playing through multiple times whether you like it or not. Frank is so 
 weak when you first start the game that tearing through missions isn't really an option. While 
 you're busy trying to save your escorts, it's easy to forget about your own health meter. At a 
 paltry four or five sqares of health, you'll find yourself getting chomped on and downed quite 
 a few times. Then it's back to your last save, which can be quite annoying as well, since save 
 points are rare. It's easier to level Frank as much as you can, then restart the game with all 
 of Frank's stats preserved. Then you'll find you can tear your way through escort missions and 
 hordes of zombies with relative ease. Later, once you've beaten the game and done all you've wanted 
 to do, you can always start a new game and go back through to accomplish all the things and accomplishments 
 you missed the first time.
  
  To nitpick for a moment, the last boss battle seems a bit cheap. For a game that has you hacking, 
 slashing, chopping, swinging, slamming, and splattering enemies all over the place with various 
 implements of destruction, the last battle is fought devoid of any weapons but your fists and the 
 various hand-to-hand attacks you learn as you level up. While these moves are fun to use in the 
 game, they are by no means as nessecary or as fun to use as the multitude of props that Frank can 
 pick up. This final battle is anticlimatic -- what's the fun if you can't chainsaw the findal bad 
 guy? Kicking and punching is just not as satisfying -- yes, it requires more skill and patience, 
 but Dead Rising never insists upon those skills until the final moment, leaving you off your guard. 
 Did I also mention you can't use any of the healing items you've stocked up, either?
  
  These few problems aside, this game is a great investment for your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the best zombie games EVER!!! by far.... this was my deciding factor when i was 
 trying to choose between PS3 and the 360 (and the price difference as well)
  
  But this game has been the most fun ive had with a video game in a long time thats for sure. the 
 only thing for me that would have made this game a 10 is a multiplayer aspect. That would have 
 been awesome.
  
  i give this game a 9.5/10. The game looks amazing, charactors, zombies, enviroment... everything... 
 sounds amazing, voice overs are decent the zombie sounds are creepy and dead-on to what they should 
 sound like. being able to use anything as a weapon really kicks A$$... and i am dying to play dead 
 island.... cant wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  For Dead Rising I will give the good and bad:
  
  The good: Awesome graphics, great game play, The story is really deep and interesting plus multiple 
 endings is fun. The zombies in the game look amazingly scary and there are thousands of them in 
 the game (unlimited actually) . The frame rate is really good surprisingly being able to fit so 
 many zombies on one screen and the combats really fun with the fact that anything is weapon, even 
 the stupid stuff and the awesome stuff (katanas and shotguns are my favourite and the two secret 
 weapons) . Interesting boss fights stop the game from going stale. The game itself is pretty long 
 especially if your going for the true ending which I accomplished after a few tries. The bad: Only 
 one save slot can make the game repetitive. The fact that your always on a timer for your missions 
 can be frustrating especially when you just wanna kill zombies and beat the game at the same time.
 
  
  Overall buy the game!!! You have nothing to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is great! I always wanted this game and it is one of the games that made me buy a 360!
 
  
  The graphics are great for this game and the sounds are good to. The learning curve for this game 
 is about 20 mins. I find the game has a great replayability as you can play it so many different 
 endings with 7 or more endings and tons of weirdos to kill and photograph. Also you have over 50 
 survivors to rescue.
  
  Ive nearly finished the game 3 times and have been playing it in different ways to get different 
 achievements. For example ive been playing to kill all the phycopaths. The story of the game is 
 that you are frank west a free lance journalist who gets scoop infomation about the quarantine 
 an goes in to investigate. He finds the unexpected and gets his hired helicopter to land on the 
 mall roof he then enters to find hundreds of blood thirsty zombies trying to get into the mall 
 to eat him and all survivors. Your goal is then to survive for 72 hours and if you like complete 
 the story missions.
  
  This game is a great buy and well worth the money i recommend it to all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: condemned100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is from Capcom the ones behind the Resident Evil series. Now resident evil is a creepy 
 zombie game in itself, but Dead Rising is more of a Resident Evil game gone funny which is a good 
 thing. Because this game is Hilarious You play as Frank West a Photojournalist that wants to get 
 a scoop of a Lifetime, but he ends up stuck in a mall for 72 Hours 6 Hours gametime, and something 
 went Horribly wrong and every person in This shopping mall has turned into a Zombie 53,594 to be 
 Exact. And Frank west has to find out what's going on in the Mall. You can use anything and everything 
 as a weapon from a Sword to a Katana to a might sound silly but to a Frying Pan. In Conclusion 
 Dead Rising is definately for the Funny Zombie Killing Grab Anything You Can And Kill Thousands 
 Of Zombies Fan, any Fan into the Resident Evil series must buy this, because in the end you will 
 be Laughing at how silly and cool Dead Rising is and it will make you Happy owning this game it 
 is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozymandias72
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  dead rising isnt the common zombie action game... if there even is one. sure the concept is scary... your 
 stuck in a building with tens of thousands of bloodthirsty zombies who care about nothing else 
 than turning you into lunch, but this game will have you hunting down these monsters in glee rather 
 than running from them. from the beginning you can turn almost anything into a weapon, which will 
 most likely lead you away from the main stroy initially and straight into hours of zombie smashing 
 heaven. but dont worry... when you decide to play the story you will be just as entertained. dead 
 rising does a good job of keeping the tone of the story very serious (even when you can assault 
 your enemies with everything from boomerangs to toy swords) and makes you feel the tension the 
 main character must feel knowing his life is and others are all in his hands. and dont think the 
 action stops with mindless zombies, the real threats in the game are the various psychopaths (boss 
 fights) you will encounter. everything from the standard evil government official trying to cover 
 up the zombie outbreak to chainsaw wielding clowns are well put into gameplay using great cutscenes 
 and plot twists. all in all.... buy this game! you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swat47
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Great game, I mean. Who WOULDN'T want to go around a mall filled with zombies and use anything 
 and everything as your weapon, including katanas, shotguns, machineguns, chairs, tv, anything you 
 could possiby think of what is in the store. Well, I personally think the graphics are amazing, 
 and the game itself never gets boring and you could constantly beat it over and over again. Whats 
 unique is that you can continue to level up your char and get stronger, and eventually do moves 
 you couldn't do, including faking out as a zombie and get past large crowds with out getting hurt. 
 The bosses are pretty hard with some of em, some of em easy though, but get harder as you go. Alright, 
 end of review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joren360
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  when I was playing this game I reaslised that this game had some really outstanding things and 
 some bad things I'll explain.
  
  We start with some basic things: Dead rising is a game were you have to survive 72 hours in a mall. In 
 the Mall you can do 4 different things:1. follow a time based story that means that there are things 
 happening at moments in the 72 hours that are important for the story line. You'll have to be at 
 the place were the moment is happening and if you're too late the storyline is over then you can 
 choose between start a new game with al you're old things or go furher without an storyline and 
 survive until the 72 hours are over. If you choose the last thing you can do alot other things like 
 (2) rescueing lots of other survivors in the mal or get the (3) 50 really challenging archievements 
 or (4) kill as much zombies as you want with all the stuff in the mal.
  
  The gameplay in the game is a lot of fun because you can and try, grab all the things  
 the mall to kill those zombies. There also some phychopaths in the game who are lot smarter and 
 a lot harder to kill with the weapons. The game will not be repetive and boring. An other things 
 is that the game is using an rpg system for example if you kill lots of zombies you'll get points 
 or if you kill psychopaths you'll get points or if you rescue poeple you'll And with al these point 
 you can get levels up.
  
  The graphics aren't the best i've ever seen on the xbox360 but they got sharp graphics, nice light 
 effects, sharp faces and nice cutscenes
  
  The sound is outstanding. If you're contacting weapons with zombies you'll hear an amazing sound 
 effect. The voice acting is great in the cutscenes the soundtrack when you're fighting versus phychopatch 
 is great the soundtrack in mall great. You'll hear namely mall music.
  
  Value: There are 3 modes 72 hour mode, the overtime mode, infinite mode. first you'll start 72 hour 
 mode and after you finished that you can start an overtime where there even more story and after 
 that you'll will start an infinite mode. In the infinite mode you'll have to survive as long as 
 you can
  
  tilt: Pretty good story line. It's about Frank West who is investigating the zombie outbreak for 
 his story in the newspaper.
  My tilt is great because it is a very unique game but two things that is awful the save system 
 en the other survivors in the mall are pretty stupid. That annoys you when you want to save them.
 
  
  P. S There probably much mistakes. It's because I am not English 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serjitup
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  From the people who brought you resident evil, capcom have once again made a very fun, entertaining 
 game. This game is like no other, what makes is so speacial is that first everything is a weapon 
 in the zombie filled mall, and when isay everything i mean everything. Second is that just how the 
 cases unfold and what you can do meanwhile like save survivors or take pictures all for experience 
 points. This is my first and possibly only eview but i just must get word out, you have to pick 
 up this game, you will not regret it, the only gripe about this game is the saving system, you 
 can only have one game save for every account, and you have to sace in bathrooms and other scarce 
 saving spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gump91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome considering it was a game just to keep us happy until resident evil 5. This 
 game never gets old you have 3 days to discover the truth of an infestation of zombies I'll try 
 not to spoil it but the power of the x box 360 insures you'll enjoy using the 100's of weapons 
 to eradicate the zombie horde and all of the bosses are unique fun to fight and interesting and 
 best of all the you can play this game many times through before you beat and unlock everything 
 and then it just gets more fun! You can expect long hours of zombie slaying fun to come from this 
 game just don't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_gdfather
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Capcom's Dead Rising is unlike any other game. the amount of time that can be spent on this is 
 immense. The many different ways of killing a zombie along with the many weapons you can wield 
 creates an unforgetable game. -The Gameplay in Dead Rising is unique. The storyline of the game 
 is very good and is worth the many tries to finish the game. But, the beauty of this game is that 
 you can completely ignore the main story and have fun smashing zombies, killing psychopaths, and 
 expirementing with the games many features
  
  -The Graphics and Sounds on this game are magnificent. The gore and detail of the zombies and severing 
 body parts makes this a very fun game even just to watch. Plus, the sounds of blood spurting and 
 heads squishing are a definite plus.
  
  -The amount of time you can spend replaying this game is very imense to get different endings and 
 game modes along with challenging and fun achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evantowa
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Maybe its a bit repetitive but theres great fun to be had in this action title. The map is well 
 sized great boss battles (although sometimes overly difficult) .
  Although as i mentioned the boss fights can get aggrivating and survivng the masses of undead to 
 try and get an apple for health can be a bit chalenging, but make no mistake this is a new experience 
 and executed fairly well. Im definitely looking forward to a sequel and im sure you will too once 
 youve had a go at it. Also theres a high replay value with bonus endings and new areas to explore 
 that you might have missed the first time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reverendyates
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed with this game. Like everyone else, I initially thought, oh cool, zombies in 
 a mall. It will be just like Dawn Of The Dead. The problem is, you really cant spend the time 
 killing zombies because there is a clock running. I HATE games with a timer that runs down. I hate 
 timed missions in games, and this entire game is a timed mission. You have to choose which side 
 missions you are going to skip if you want to beat the game. The game is designed for you to play 
 more than once, so that you go back and do the missions you skipped the first time. I cant express 
 how much I hate it when games do that. I barely have enough time to play games as it is, I cant 
 afford to play games more than once. I want to see everything the first time through, finish the 
 game, put it on my shelf, and start a different game.
  
  This game takes a good ideakilling zombies in a free for alland then tells you that you cant 
 do that because you have a running clock with missions to accomplish. They should have implemented 
 it a la Grand Theft Auto, where you can explore the world at your leisure and only start the clock 
 when you choose to activate the mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackJohnFlint
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I prepared myself for Dead Rising by reading forum discussions. They warned of the initial frustration, 
 exceptional difficulty, the punishing save system, an impossible-to-complete list of missions, 
 insanely tough boss-fights, etc etc. They also said, almost unanimously, that Dead Rising was worth 
 all that and more. Apparently I forgot everything I'd read, and was indeed about ready to smash 
 my disk to pieces after the first few failures . Then, after my third or fourth restart, it all 
 started clicking for me. All the downsides of Dead Rising (as mentioned above) have been covered 
 so I'll just say this: just have FUN early on (and there is lots of fun to be had, if only in slaughtering 
 mass quantities of zombies, snapping goofy pictures, and exploring all the collectible weapons 
 and items) and you will be rewarded. Don't worry about failing the main storyline. Don't try to 
 escort all (or even any) of the survivors. Don't worry about missing that annoying Otis' phone 
 calls. Just keep killin' and building that experience level ---the basic game design is so much 
 fun that you'll have a blast failing .
  Because the game saves your abilities and xp through multiple restarts, it's really no biggie to 
 play through from the beginning a few times ---it gets easier each time and you know what to do. 
 While I won't necessarily defend the developer's design choice here (did they realize, near the 
 end of development, that the game was just too darn difficult?) it works just fine once you accept 
 it's oddness. Just keep repeating to yourself: Failure is good.... failure is good... failure is 
 good 
  About the time I obtained level 12-14 (four or five restarts?) I was thinking I'd probably never 
 complete the actual storyline, but I honestly didn't really care. I was having a blast just running 
 around killing and exploring. Then, suddenly, I reached some magical tipping point (can anyone 
 say shotguns and kung fu moves?) and lo and behold, I was actually getting things done. Before 
 I knew it I'd completed the main storyline with at least some measure of success, and I was ready 
 and willing to play through the whole thing again to see if I could improve on my efforts the first 
 time through.
  Bottom line: if you like great game environments, massive selections of weaponry, cool melee moves, 
 hilarious anti-zombie violence, and tons of replay value, Dead Rising is for you. Just make sure 
 you don't throw your Xbox out the window when the urge hits you (and it will, several times) and 
 delicious gaming manna will rain down upon you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steppinrazor88
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is unlike a lot f other games I've played. You can use just about anything you see 
 as a weapon. Not everything is very useful though, that can be annoying sometimes but it also adds 
 to the experience of playing. You can go anywhere in the mall that the game takes place in, finding 
 new items and lots of other stuff. There's little things that also make the game great. You can 
 hear store music playing when you enter a store or you're near one. They way your character can 
 push people out of the way if he's running fast, even the animations the NCP's and zombies make. 
 There's detail everywhere in this game.
  
  The game is also just plain fun! There's so many ways you can kill the zombies, it'll take you 
 while before you think you've seen every possible way. There's also hidden items you can get that 
 are like.... bonuses. The zombies look amazing also.... especially at night! You will feel like you're 
 actually there, I even got scared a few times running through zombie-filled areas, trying to find 
 some food to recover lost health. It's amazing how many zombies they were able to fit in on one 
 screen.... you'll be overwhelmed the first time you stand up on a platform or something to get a 
 look at how many zombies you can see.
  
  All in all this is a very good game, although it is short. They also throw lots of objectives at 
 you..... you will feel rushed to do everything. That takes away from some of the fun also..... you 
 can take your time if you want and enjoy killing zombies but you won't be able to do all the missions 
 and side mission they throw at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Capcom really knows how to make superb Zombie games . They started Zombie games with Resident Evil 
 series , now they present Dead Rising a amazing zombie action game in new style .
  
  You are Frank West a reporter who comes to Willamette Mall (Colarado) to investigate the mystery 
 behind it ( as Willamette city is suddenlly sealed off from rest of the world by government for 
 unknown reason) . Franks gets 72 hours to get his investigation done , but theres one only big major 
 problem . The place is swarming with tons of respawning zombies and later by special forces (army) 
 who will shoot anything moving on sight . First , the game is no ordinary survival action game 
 . Its completely different . Its very realistic game. Character has levelling scale to enhance 
 his abilities . The higher he is levelled his chances of survival is clear . So , in order to level 
 the character you need to earn tons of prestige points . For starters photograph anything special 
 with your camera . This nets you lots of prestige points . Next do side missions like saving survivors 
 in the mall (humans) . They also net you big prestige points. Characters inventory and skills are 
 like in a RPG game which grows according to your levelling . Character has to drink , eat in order 
 to retain his life bar . In the game you get very limited weapons and ammunition , but the good 
 thing is anything and everything in the game is your weapon . You can hit your opponnents with 
 anything you find lying near you as cooking pan , flower pots , T. V etc . But melee weapons breaks 
 also easily in the game , so don't hesitate to change them ASAP. You can ride vechiles from car 
 lots also . You can sleep ( save ) , change clothes , etc . The game has many achievement points 
 which you unlock by completting its criteria. In the game you get main story missions to side missions 
 . From side missions you achive best weapons , tons of prestige points to level your character 
 . Always check your watch as all your missions are on timer .And be sure to have some special books 
 in your inventory as they have a positive energy towards your weapons , skills etc . After beating 
 the 72 hour mode , you unlock overtime mode , then after completting overtime mode you unlock infinity 
 mode . According to your gameplay you get bad to best endings , but thankfully they come in cutscenes 
 only . The game can be frustatingly hard as it has only save system only , if you screw up your 
 story missions ( save in wrong place or save after mission timer runs out) you may have to restart 
 from scratch so save wisely . But thankfully when u restart a fresh game you previous levelling 
 remains intact .And don't jump into main story mission at first go , first level your character 
 satisfactorily then attempt main story mission . The game has got awesome graphics / visuals and 
 its a very colourful game inspite of all the blood ,gore. Soundquality , soundtracks rocks. AI is 
 okay. The boss fights are very challenging. The game has got superb action. The mall is described 
 very neatly in the game ( detailic) . This game is a must play for 360 owners . I recommend this 
 game very highly to action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedimaster11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you play the role of Frank West. A Freelance Photojournalist who suspected somethings 
 was up with a small town called Willamette. You Invest a local Mall Inside the City to find out 
 that the Malls filled with zombies! Now thats as much of the story that you will need until you 
 play this game. This game has so much good stuff that i'm forced to separate it into different 
 Parts!
  
  Gameplay: Just Straight up awesome.. Run Around, kill Zombies, Take Pictures , Save the last of 
 the Survivors, and Solve the Mystery of the Willamette Incident.
  
  Graphics: Probably One of the best looking Games out there
  
  Re playability: there multiple 
 of things you could do inside the game to go back and play for More! Achivements, Zombie Killing, 
 Anything!
  
  So.. this Concludes My Review... but im guessing you are wondering why i didn't give this game a 
 10 out of 10? Well the infinite mode is extremely hard and theres no save points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Now I must say this is my first xbox 360 game I have played and this one is a good one. First in 
 looking at the box you see that it resembles dawn of the dead even to the point that it says it 
 on the box. It is not affiliated with that movie in any way. Now you know the basic premise, you 
 are in a mall fighting zombies trying to save people and also trying to solve a mystery. That being 
 said lets talk about the obvious. The gore in this game is plentiful as is the blood. There are 
 any number of ways to kill a zombie and any number of weapons to use to kill those zombies. You 
 have your knives and chainsaws, axes and of course guns. They keep it simple handgun, shotgun, 
 machine gun, sniper rifle and thats it. Later on in the game you get a stun gun and a molotov cocktail. 
 Gun play is simple but it can be tedious especially when you are surrounded by zombies. Believe 
 me you will be surrounded by zombies all over the place. This game keeps throwing them at you over 
 and over again. There are also side missions where you try to save someone and those can be a pain. 
 You try to escort the person to safety but they tend to not listen and get cornered by the zombies. 
 You try to help them and end up killing everybody including them which is not any fun. The escort 
 missions end up being a pain in the game. The graphics in this game are incredible as is the game 
 play. At various times the game can be a lot of fun and then there are times that its not any fun 
 at all. Once the game gets to the end it gets more difficult. There are full parts of the game 
 where you will be running and running and not fighting. If you fight you will be dead dead dead. 
 These parts tend to not be any fun at all as you try to get various items while you are trying 
 not to get killed by special forces. Special forces men are loaded with armor (which you have none) 
 and they have machine guns which tend to kill you quickly after a few hits. There are your standard 
 boss battles which are not too difficult. There are even cult members in this mall that you have 
 to deal with. All in all you will be doing a lot of killing and killing and of course healing. 
 The part with the special forces men tend to make the game any fun as once the locate you (which 
 they do all the time) they tend to make quick work of you especially if you try to stand and fight. 
 Those parts make the game no fun at all and it almost makes you want to quit the game. The ending 
 is not very good for such a good game. You just end the game and you do not get any magnificent 
 ending all you get is .. THE END. Its definately worth a buy because this game will give you a 
 lot of fun and playablity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bobo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Although many who buy the game or even rent it may think that Deda Rising is very shallow and doesn't 
 have much to it, it has far more too it than just a bunch of cool weapons and zombies. The concept 
 of a game where the enemies are zombies, and you have to survive for 72 hours sounds good, I'm 
 sure you'll agree. This is how Dead Rising really describes itself on the back of the box, but 
 it is far more than that. It's story, atmosphere and premise makes it an extremely immersive game 
 that if you play alone in the middle of the night will really get your adrenaline going. Although 
 the graphics in Dead Rising aren't perfect, the animation for each individual weapon makes it seem 
 an astounding and unbelievably ambitious feat. In addition to individual animation, the sounds 
 are also extremely well done and really sound how ou would expect them to. The other humans within 
 the game and the time limit is part of what makes it so incredibly good. There are some missions 
 that you must do to complete the game fully, but there are also some other humans that you can 
 choose to rescue or defeat depending on your choosing. The compramise and decisions you have to 
 make (e. g should I try and save this person before I have to get to the Security Room in time, 
 or should I just run for it) helps to create that feeling of desperation that you may experience 
 whilst playing the game. The overtime modes and infinite modes also add extra depth, but personally, 
 I feel that the 72 hour mode has so much within it that the game has outstanding replay value with 
 just that. Although the game could do with some multiplayer modes, it still stands good as it is 
 containing a massive amount of things to unlock by leveling up. This allows you to unlock extra 
 abilities and attributes (such as moves or speed) that makes the game become easier and more fun, 
 the more you play it. The moves/hand-to-hand combat controls are so well done, using only the A 
 and X buttons and the flicking of the analog stick to give a vast variety of outstandingly fun 
 attacks. Whether you are a fun of horror games or not, Dead Rising should defineatley be a game 
 to add to your collection that will keep you entertained for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Never have I been so scared that my motocycle crashed in a parking lot. Why I was scared? 'Cause 
 I was surrounded in a parking lot filled with over 3,000 zombies (or more) coming towards me.
 
  
  And that's what Dead Rising does so perfectly. DR is Capcom's what if you just wanted to kill zombies 
 game where you play as a freelance photo-journalist named Frank. Frank hears a rumor that a town 
 is closed by the publich for unknown reason. Frank wants to do a story of it and the only way to 
 go to the town is by stopping at the roof of Willamente Mall (a la Dawn of the Dead) . The story 
 isn't as original and it's pretty sad they really copied the DotD plot but Frank's involvement 
 is interesting as you can take pictures of anyone around you. Even take a picture of a female zombie 
 wearing under garments. But the mall story aside, it's really interesting to see how the story 
 will play out. If anyone who played this game, you'd know what I mean (hopefully) .
  
  The gameplay is great. It's really fun and just so addictive of how you can kill a zombie or more. 
 You get the usual guns which does the over-the-shoulder aim like Resident Evil 4. Then you have 
 blunt objects like baseball bats and bowling balls. What's really weird is that you can even kill 
 a zombie with 50 CDs or throw a pack of sodas. The zombie killing is really fun and I would have 
 liked to have a mode in DR where all you do is trying to kill zombies in one specific part of the 
 mall. Now, the missions? Oh gawd. Well, they're okay. Some missions are so easy, some are both 
 easy and hard (which is a good thing) , and some borderline will make you so angry and aggravted. 
 One mission in particular is *spoiler*, when you have to put out all the 5 bombs in the parking 
 lot that Carlito made. Trust me, that mission took me 30 tries and you can't do it with just one 
 try. There is side missions which is manly saving people from areas. What's the problem with that? 
 The human A. I. is SO MUCH dumber than the zombie A. I. It's kind of sad that the undead is smarter 
 than the living. I'm sure you heard about this a lot so I won't explain why the human A. I. is DEE-DEE-DEE 
 when you try to rescue them. Some side missions where you either carry them or you hold their hand 
 is really easy and you should be thankfull of doing just that. The zombies won't even try to kill 
 you.
  
  The side missions will either involve rescues or other pyschopaths which are basically bosses of 
 the game. The bosses either in the main or side part of the game is really interesting to verse 
 however sometimes they're just to annoying to kill or just to repetive.
  
  Now, while the graphics in DR isn't as breathtaking as Gears of War, it's definately impressive. 
 It's impressive because how can the game not lag at all when there's 2,000 or more zombies around 
 you and that you can go to any store with no loading screen and can pick up almost everything without 
 a loading screen. It's insane and I love how Capcom accomplished it.
  
  Dead Rising's impressive techinal highlight besides graphics is the sound. The sound is just so 
 awesome. Whoever made the sound effects is genius. I'm surprised they didn't have to kill, bludegon, 
 or hurt any human being just to get these beautiful and delicious (what is that approriate?) sound 
 effects. Just listining of Frank hitting a zombie with a baseball hat is amazing. The tilt is probably 
 one of the weakest points of the game. While it is very easy to pick up things, ride vehicles (sometimes) , 
 and killing zombies, the most disapointing part is when you try to shoot the gun. I don't know 
 if I should argue but whenever Frank is moving when he's in gun aim, it's all sluggish. Also driving 
 vehicles is very hard to do cause you can't drift, stop fast, and you drive so fast, but overall 
 driving is okay. There's also a problem with the save system where you get to save one, and if 
 you mess up saving at the wrong time and place, you have to start all over again. Which I really 
 was mad, but I read that Capcom did it purpose so that, The player would know that he made a bad 
 choice along the way . Good enough for me. By the way, why does this game and Lost Planet's written 
 text suck? It's so small and I had to go really close to my TV to read what Otis or Brad is saying 
 on the text box. Ugh.
  
  When you complete the 72 Hour Mode (the right way) , you go to Overtime Mode which I did not beat. 
 You know why? Well I'm not a noob and I really tried hard to beat it but I just couldn't. Plus 
 I felt ripped off that *spoiler* Ohh all the zombies are now gone, now I can go the helicopter. 
 Oh wait, now I have to stay in this mall again but with a time limit and a load of missions that 
 I actually have to do. Oh and they're are zombies again. How did this happen? So I couldn't bother. 
 Then after you beat Overtime Mode, there's a mode where you basically have to kill zombies while 
 still trying to stay alive which my friend told me is annoying. I can't really rate the 3rd mode, 
 so blah.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising has some major flaws but those flaws are shadowed because of how fun, awesome, 
 and addictive the gameplay is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: director1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game came out of nowhere, no one expected this to be fun. But what do you know? It's awesome. 
 Obviously, not as good as Resident Evil 4 which is the king of zombie games, but this one offers 
 something different. In this Dawn of the Dead meets Shawn of the Dead game, you play as a reporter 
 inspecting Willamette mall. This game has the most zombies on screen than any other game I've ever 
 seen, and there thousands of weapons throughout it too. Even the storyline is interesting, but 
 one small complaint, you have a walkie-talkie which is how you get your scoops to save others in 
 the mall, but the writing that scrolls at the bottom of the screen is so tiny that you can hardly 
 read it. Also, it would have been a nice touch to be able to save it wherever and whenever you 
 wanted. But complaints aside, this game is very good. You have 72 hours (not real time) to figure 
 out what's going on and why, and try to save as many people as possible. But survivors aren't the 
 only non- zombie characters you encounter, out of the 77 people in the game, a good few of them 
 are psychopaths , people who will do anything to survive, even kill you. So what's the point in 
 saving people? This is the best way to level up, you level up by getting PP points by either taking 
 pictures, killing zombies, rescuing people, or killing psychopaths. When you level up you can hold 
 more items, run faster, or just have more health. The controls work very well, although the aiming 
 sensitivity is a bit low, but you shouldn't have too much trouble avoiding death due to it. Throughout 
 the many of stores in the mall you can find food, clothes, or weapons. The only downside to the 
 weapons is that they break fairly easily, but you find them EVERYWHERE. This game is great, the 
 graphics are very good, and with several endings this game will keep you coming back for more years 
 from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey315
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  You are frank west a photo journalist who gets trapped in a mall with zombies. but you dont kill 
 zombies all the time but you can if you want personaly I would but there are time based missions. 
 personaly I never had a problem with the time or the save system to me they seem perfectly balanced. 
 the game has great graphics great sound and occcaisionly great voice acting. A problem I did have 
 with the game was otis. you'll be sitting there killing zombies and he'll call at the wrong time 
 and if you hang up he just keeps calling and personaly if I were frank I would smash that walkie 
 talkie against the wall. There are many weapons to choose from going from shotguns to giant teddy 
 bears. this game has a sick sense of humour and I like it. you can change outfits too some of witch 
 gare rediculous cough dresses cough excuse me anyway this is a great time and fun game to play 
 and if your into m-rated zombie gore fests this is the game for you Warning not for the squeemish 
 or elderly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Well back in the 90's me and my buddy were always like. We need to make a Zombie game something 
 like dawn of the dead but you can mess with them.. throw nerf balls at them and crap...
  
  Our Dreams came true.. someone else had the same idea and we love it!
  
  I usually make these 
 reviews looong..
  but not with this one.
  
  Okay the gameplay is nice but sometimes i wish he would let that camera go and run full speed.. 
 its kinda hard to get out of a crowd of zombies if your using 1 arm, But there are many many many 
 Objects to use to fend them off.. or just make fools out of them. its just lacking online and splitscreen.. 
 this game online would dominate!
  
  The graphics are good.. when people see zombie games they think resident evil.. but this is nothing 
 like it.. its like dawn of the dead mixed with a great story line and a comedic side!
  
  the sound is great. but they need some cool mall music like the mall music in the original dawn 
 of the dead! lol that would be sweeeeeeeeeet!
  
  the game is worth the penny and the replay value is high.
  
  Tilt:
  All in all its a good 
 game im just not happy with breakable weapons i mean a battle axe wont break after you kill 5 people.. 
 that little dwarf on the lotr movies killed alot of things and his didnt break.. and sometimes 
 things just repeat themselfs.. the time limit sucks because i wanna play the game alot to kill 
 zombies not survive and run around to do just missions.. the whole time. it takes the fun out of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played a Resident Evil game and ever wanted a near infinite use system (example: 
 smash zombies heads in with desks or books) ? Well, look no further. Dead Rising answers all of 
 your needs with this very ambitious, yet still very cool horror action-adventure game.
  
  You play as freelance photographer Frank West. You stumble upon this little Colorado town in search 
 of some action to photograph. And guess what you find: a mall that is infested with thousands upon 
 thousands of zombies. That may be bad news. But, no reason to run out of the mall crying. There's 
 TONS of weapons in the mall to use. So if you've ever wanted to crack a zombie's skull in with 
 an electric guitar, then this is your lucky day. Any item that you can pick is a weapon. Even toys 
 in that little toy shop can be a weapon. Whatever suits your zombie-killing needs, find it and 
 start killing the zombies by the trillions (just joking) . Also, you've got 72 hours to find out 
 who started this whole catastrophe. Think you can handle that?
  
  All in all, Dead Rising is one game that will keep you addicted for many hours. With thousands 
 upon thousands of zombies to kill in many maniacal ways, Dead Rising is one of my most favorite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlock64
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  For quite long I've wanted to find a zombie-slaughtering game where I'll be put straight into the 
 action instantly. I guess it was destiny that I'd find Dead Rising. Well, here's a game with a 
 rather interesting premise. You're investigating a zombie infestation in Willamette Mall from a 
 journalist's perspective (whip out the camera) . Along the way, you're given the option to save 
 citizens which helps with your reporting. So I guess these objectives mean you don't necessarily 
 HAVE TO kill zombies in most situations, but I image anyone who buys this game won't be bypassing 
 the chance for some gritty and gory action.
  
  What's very nice, though, about the citizens you rescue is that some of them you can throw a weapon 
 to and you both can manhandle zombies to your utmost desires.
  
  So, now onto the zombie-killing element. Normal games have a select set of weapons. Handgun, Shotgun, 
 Machine Gun, Sniper Rifle and maybe a few melee weapons. But I tell you, when this game says everything 
 is a weapon they DO mean it! You've got swords, 2 by 4s, lead pipes, chainsaws, store signs, potted 
 plants, barbells, propane tanks, CDs, baking ingredients, frying pans, dishes, and stun guns just 
 to name a few. Each of the many weapons have their own various gory outcomes and sound effects, 
 top props to Capcom for that. I just love the cash drawer release mechanism going DING! whenever 
 I bash zombies over the head with a cash register. My personal favorite weapon is the shower head, 
 its effect is incredibly gross, but incredibly hilarious. On a similar note, here the graphics 
 are pretty good, maybe not up to par with the 360's potential but still good. You'll get your fair 
 share of horrific scenes and gross-outs once in a while. But there are just two problems I have 
 with the text. The dialouge text is WAY too small, you really need to get up close to the monitor 
 to see the exchange of words. And then there's the time remaining text, it's too big. The time 
 remaining text appears whenever you've come out of a loading sequence and stays there a bit. Now 
 when I'm surrounded by zombies, I can't see to well with around me with big numbers.
  
  Dead Rising is Capcom's answer to those begging for more action and open-ended possibilities than 
 with Resident Evil. Any XBox 360 owner can take solice. This game does just that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123upurass
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  A game that must buy!!! For people who have a xbox360!!!!! i just can wait til DR2 come out.... 
 DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD 
 RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! DEAD RISING 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is really an awesome game. The story follows Frank West, he goes to this town and finds 
 it destroyed. when he goes into the mall he finds out that there are zombies killing people. Everythings 
 fine at first the zombies aren't able to get in, but a stupid old lady tries to save her dog (which 
 the zombies weren't going to kill) destroys the barricade to save her dog and then the zombies 
 get in the mall. So you have to survive 3 days with the zombies in the mall. Gameplaywise is really 
 fun for two reasons. 1 is that everything in the mal can be used as a weapon making the game pretty 
 realistic. 2 is that the game is open ended mean you can either follow the plot or just kill zombies. 
 Soundwise is great, great voices great music and weapon sound is delightful. The game will have 
 you just playing over and over again. The graphics look really nice pretty realistic. The only 
 thing that keeps this game from being perfect is the save system it really sucks. Anyway despite 
 the game being exactly the same as Dawn of the dead, it turns out to be one of the best 360 games 
 currently available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjkflke
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  i hav never played a game like this befor. its different its new its got good graphics i like it. 
 theirs a crap load of things to try out in the mall while your stuck in it. and there is a crap 
 load of different weapons like golf clubs, Guns, chairs, swords and my favourite weapon is the 
 chain saw. their is a great variety of weapons. theirs all ways something going on in the mall 
 like crazy cult groups, crazy physco paths running around the mall using chainsaws to carzy butchers. 
 this game is something to paly over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is simply awesome. Capcom have yet again uncovered a GEM in Dead Rising. You have the 
 freedom to do what you want when you want what more could you possibly want from a game?. You have 
 to uncover the truth about the zombie outbreak in a action packed Mall. Do side missions such as 
 escorting people to safety and just basically kill some time with some zombie slaughter. You will 
 also come across some strange but crazy bosses such as Adam the clown . I want give much more away 
 but it comes down to this you have to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  As we all know, Capcom has made a success of zombie games with the Resident Evil games. Now they 
 have come out with this fresh new idea for survival horror.
  
  I found Dead Rising to be very original and found battling zombies this time to be somewhat easier 
 to deal with. On the other hand the fact that the zombies travel in such huge numbers was quite 
 difficult to deal with, although they were easy to kill, they were hard to fight off. With zombies 
 numbering into the hundreds you can see what I am getting at. Although I found Dead Rising very 
 original, I found the game play as bad as bad can be. I did not enjoy playing this game.
  
  Your character Frank West is a freelace photojournalist that finds himself smack-dab in the middle 
 of a small town called Willamette, Colorado. He slowly finds out that the mall he has landed on 
 top of is crawling with flesh eating zombies! Now you would think he would have caught on before 
 landing, seeing he took so many pictures of zombies crawling around eating any living thing in 
 site has his helicopter pilot flew over head on the way to the mall. I guess it is that whole denial 
 that the undead is knocking at the front door that surprised him. He instructs the pilot to drop 
 him off at the mall at the center of town and to come back in three days. He then jumps off to 
 the roof for what will be the biggest adventure of his life.
  
  The Willamette Park View Mall is huge, so huge that I can not see how such a small town has such 
 a huge mall. It is a maze that is even harder to get yourself around while dodging zombies by the 
 dozens. Although there is an upside to this, they are slow, stupid and can be killed in many, many 
 ways that are fun for hours. Not too many hours though, Frank only has 72 hours to get the story 
 of what is going on and get back to the helipad to catch his ride out. The storyline is very driven, 
 it leaves you wanting to know much with each piece of the pie that you get. Also along with the 
 main story is a alot of escort missions that are left up to you to deside to help people to survive 
 or leave them for dead. Let me start this with when you first get into the mall you meet up with 
 a few people held up in the upstrair security room. Now before you go out you are greeted by an 
 old security guard named Otis. He gives you a talk radio that will become the one thing you hate 
 the most next to hating him. Trust me, you will want him more dead then the zombies by the time 
 you are done with this game. He gives you this talk radio and finds the time to call you constantly 
 while being bitten at by thousands of zombies, and will not stopp calling until you answer. he 
 will not call however if you are not being attacked, which will drive you mad. He calls to let 
 you know where people are at so you can go save them, or not. It is all up to you. Also, if you 
 have Otis on the phone and you get attacked in any way the game automatically hangs up on him, 
 in which case he calls you right back to jump down your throat about it being rude to hang up on 
 him.
  
  Anyways Frank is looking for the truth of what is going on and finding that truth is laid out in 
 case files for you to find. At first look of the case file setup it can be somewhat confusing. 
 After you find the first of the many it becomes clear how it works. Everything is timed in the 
 game, so make sure you are not trying to save someone when the case file that is next is about 
 to run out of time. If it does, then the whole main mission is lost and you have to finish the 
 game without knowing, or start from your last save spot. Which leads me to the next grip I have 
 about this game. The save spots are unreal, you only have a few to come across. It would be alot 
 easier if there were more, or if you could just save at anytime you wanted to. Or you can start 
 the whole game over, which is not as bad as it sounds, being you can start over at the same level 
 as you are when you were before restarting, even the same clothes (if you changed them at all throughout 
 the game) . The only problem with this choice is if you are well far through the game and this hapens, 
 do you really want to restart the whole game over again? Although it will be alot easier to get 
 caught back up in the story lines seeing you are so high up in levels. Still not worth it though.
 
  
  The most annoying part is it seems everyone that has survived thus far is totaly insane. Yes you 
 have boss fights in this game and yes Otis will call you over and over while in the middle of these 
 boss fight, which hads more presure to you while you try to defeat this people. Each boss is psychotic 
 in their own way, each one has lost their mind, which takes away from the game play. I mean there 
 is a few you can understand the going crazy (the hatchet man) , but for the most part these people 
 have no reason to be insane (the grocery store supervisor) . This making fighting a boss lame and 
 stupid, making you question why this person is really nuts.
  
  Although Dead Rising has its fun parts, most of it is overly annoying (guys in the hummer in the 
 park) . As there is alot to this game that gives alot of replay value. I could not find myself wanting 
 to ever play this game again. Capcom gave a good try at making something new for zombie fans, but 
 they have failed hard in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon9Tom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Dead Rising way back when the demo was released I thought that it was a game 
 that would quickly bore me, run around a mall killing zombies over and over again boring right? 
 Wrong. Months later I see the game very cheap and decide to buy it, and to my surprise I really 
 enjoyed it.
  
  Gameplay: The part of this game that will absorb most of your time is unsurprisingly killing zombies, 
 and although this is never your central objective (most of your objectives will be save the survivor 
 or kill the psychopath) , it is always fun and never manages to get old. You will spend your time 
 going from doing the main story-line to doing side quest type missions called scoops, following 
 up on these scoops will lead you to survivors that you can save by escorting back to the security 
 room, each one on you PP which increases your levels. PP can also be increased by taking pictures, 
 this again is not something you have to do but something that is fun to play around with. Graphics: 
 Certainly not the greatest graphical game ever, but the graphics in the game certainly arent bad, 
 and many parts of the game look great, textures are all very good, and I can't remember ever having 
 any frame rate issues, not even when killing massive hoards of zombies. Sound:
  The sounds in Dead Rising are comprised mainly of zombie moans, and weapon noises, both of which 
 are done very well and sound authentic enough. The voice work in this game is very good; all of 
 the storyline characters have spoken dialogue in cut scenes and are very well voiced. Value: This 
 is the kind of game that if like me you like to do everything unlock everything then you can spend 
 a long time on it, so great value, especially now as you can get it cheap as a classic game.
  
  If youre like me and unsure of this game based on the demo, rent this game to check it out 
 first, but its certainly a game worth adding to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game today and am enjoying it so much. It has so many weapons to use when you fight 
 the zombies like: baseball bats, golf clubs, bowling bowls, manicans, lead pipes, cash registers, 
 shopping carts, gumball machines, lawn mowers, handguns, shotguns, boxes, benches, signs, police 
 batons, knifes, skateboards, plants, and many more. It is so fun, and everyone will enjoy this 
 game. If you want to get a great game, have a 360, and $30, go and get this game as fast as you 
 can. No one will ever hate this game, but you just have to make sure that you save periodically, 
 or make sure that you know where food is when low on heatlh.
  
  Whether its photographing surviors, or zombies, you get PP. PP helps you get more slots for weapons, 
 more heatlh, makes your character faster, and lots of other effects. When you take photos, you 
 can review them and keep them, or delete them. You can also help survivors out of the mall, help 
 them with there missions . Killing zombies has never been thi much fun, and everyone will enjoy 
 this game as i said before. If you don't like this game, then I don't understand you. No one will 
 hate this, 4 1/2 star game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fathertroy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I like this game because you can endlesly kill zombies..
  The graphics are good for a game with no loading times in game
  The sounds are pretty good too... 
 Theres a lot of bosses (or psycopaths.. whichever u call it) ... that have unique stories and also... 
 most of the survivors have good stories too
  
  What I hate about the game though are the survivors. They are very stupid at following u and most 
 of the time.. get killed by zombies...
  
  If u just want to kill massive amounts of enemies.... (with a good storyline i might add) then 
 this game is for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladeshock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is very familiar to those of us who spent many nights watching Dawn of the dead whilst 
 hiding behind the covers and stuffing our faces with popcorn and all forms of treats and snacks. 
 Dead Rising features the all new swarm technology which enables the player to engage hundreds of 
 real breathing zombies on screen at any one given time. Armed with any weapon you can find ranging 
 from plant pots to scythes, you can slice and dice zombies until there ain't no more. The graphics 
 are rich, the controls are fair and the gameplay is highly addictive. The only drawback comes in 
 the form of the rather aweful and unforgiving save system. Despite this, Dead Rising is a fun title 
 that will keep you happy until Resident Evil 5 hits the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This is an overall awesome game. Great story, a lot of strategy to the game and to most achievements. 
 This is the only game in the world right now where you can pretty much use anything as a weapon. 
 Awesome skill attacks too. What other game can you rip someones intestines out (disembowel) , or 
 do any of the attacks that you get as u level up. You can chop people in half. A very independent 
 game, nothing else like it. The movement of transportation like cars, motorcycles, skateboarding, 
 and shopping cart isn't very realistic, and kind of hard to control sometimes. The main bad thing 
 about this game, is that the A. I. SUCKS!!! People never follow you when u tell them, they stop 
 running at random time, and when there's a clear path right through zombies, the survivors run 
 right through the zombies instead of the clear path. But half the time when you call them or set 
 a way point, they never do what you say. They're WICKED DUMB!!!! Also, they stop running to use 
 their weapons, but they always miss and end up wrestling with a friggan zombie.
  
  It's a sweet game, but movement and A. I. could use some updating. Also very hard achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is definately one of the best zombie games I have ever played. The game starts out 
 on a helicopter that flies over this little town in Colorado (I think) where Frank, who is the 
 main character, is actually taking pictures of the town below, trying to obtain amazing photos 
 for the ultimate scoop. Little does he know that he is going to have to fight his way through a 
 mall filled with zombies. He has to survive for three days, rescuing survivors and learning the 
 truth about whats going on in this little town. As you play the game the story unfolds to reveal 
 an extrodinary truth. You actually dont even have to play and follow the story, if you just feel 
 like running around a mall killing lifeless creatures then i say go for it. The good thing about 
 this game is that you can use almost anything as weapon and i mean anything, from gems/coins/CDs/dishes 
 to shot guns/benches/knives/sniper rifle/katanas/battle axes and you can even change your appearance, 
 even wear the female wear (dresses and what not) which brings out the best in Frank. Another amazing 
 feature is that, as the days go on you find more survivors in which Frank has to rescue, which 
 helps unfold miny scoops as well. Like every game, there are some flaws, 1) the save system is 
 rather horrible, because if you die and didnt save, then you start from the last time you did... which 
 means you need to save often cause if you die or there is a power shortage... you lose everything, 
 2) The story unfolds in a matter of a time limit, which means if you dont get something done fast 
 enough.. the truth fades into darkness forever , which means there is not always enough time to 
 save every single survivor, 3) the survivors are horrible AI's... if you give them a weapon... they 
 dont always use it.. if Frank say; s follow me they dont always follow, and they can hit you with 
 their weapon, so beware of that if you give them a shot gun (they've shot and killed me) or a katana/battle 
 ax (they have cut and killed me) . The mall is the only place you have to go, however this isnt 
 such a bad thing considering that the mall is the biggest mall i have ever seen in my life, so 
 its well worth being the only place in teh entire game. The zombies, however, all look the same... like 
 not each and every one, but you do see some repeating zombies, even if you cut them in half, and 
 then eventually a cult will be seen around the mall which is kind of ridiculous as well. However, 
 all in all Dead Rising is one of the best zombie games i have ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enyipsds
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I parted a sea of undead zombies with a chanesaw. Put a teddy bear mask on a old zombie lady and 
 kicked her down a flight of stares. And went bowling for the undead with a bowling ball. Good times 
 good times.. You have 3 days to do a lot of stuff. The campy action and dialogue are so funny. 
 And anything and everything is a weapon. The best part. I picked up an umbrella and bowled over 
 a hallway full of zombies!!. Yeah lots of fun. But you should rent it first and see if it is worth 
 buying. I think it is but thats me. Outragous bossis and hours of fun. Dead rising is a campy B 
 game. That i love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising, a game similar to Dawn of the Dead, is a game made by Capcom and has every reason 
 to be rated M. In Dead Rising you play as Frank West, a photo journalist. He hears about some strange 
 activities going on in the city of Willamette and decides to go check it out. Eventually he figures 
 out that the city has been infested by zombies and is must survive for 3 days in order for him 
 to gather up what he needs for his story.
  
  In Dead Rising, in order for you to get your story, you must complete several cases, all in witch 
 occur at different times. As you go through the game the first time, trying to level up and completing 
 cases, you will have to travel through huge number of zombies with a wide variety of different 
 weapons, witch basically means the entire game can be a challenge. Once you beat the game the first 
 time, you can go through it again and try and complete every scoop, witch are basically side missions 
 that involve saving other people. Though it seems highly boring, just killing zombies all day can 
 actually be very amusing with the number of weapons and skills you can use on them, with the addition 
 of changing your clothes witch can be very amusing, especially when you can even change into girls 
 dresses or kids shorts. If less you like not being able to see, the game doesnt seem to be too 
 much fun anymore when the mall gets dark usually at night because pretty much everything seems 
 to be pitch black.
  
  There is no online gameplay but however there is a ranking system, on how long you have survived 
 in infinity mode, on xbox live. Infinity mode is unlocked once you have finished overtime mode, 
 witch is unlocked by finishing 72 hour mode. Infinity mode is an extra challenge where you can 
 see how long you can survive as your health drops down slowly and the only way to get it back up 
 is eating and drinking all sorts of food.
  
  Dead Rising is a must have to all 360 owners and a very addictive game if aimlessly killing zombies 
 is your type of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicGangsta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  This is just one of those games you can always play, and never really seem to get tired of. Although 
 you do need to get a few hours into it, before it gets really fun and after that it just gets better, 
 and better. In it's essence it is like a GTA with zombies but its so much more fun to just go around 
 killing in this game. And if you should get tired of this there is also a very good story mode 
 you can play. If I was to name the things this game lacks it would be a little better graphics, 
 multi-player and of course more blood hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Malls, tons of items, and zombies, what else could you want? Cars? It has it.
  Imagine, running around a mall, where almost everything is accessible. Sounds fun, eh? Welcome 
 to Dead Rising.
  
  Graphics: Great, considering the amount of stuff is in the game.
  
  Sound: Tons of sounds in the game, all of great quality; captures the mall essence perfectly.
 
  
  Gameplay: Smooth, the controls don't feel flunky in your hands, except for the item switching, 
 its difficult, and tedious.
  
  Interface: Smooth, and clean, except, for the damn item switching!
  
  Genre: Major breakthrough 
 in the horror genre, wish more horror games had this much content.
  
  Series: N/A
  
  Verdict: Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChadFromCanada
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I love zombie movies, literature and the whole idea of zombies and stuff like that. So naturally 
 I would love this game.
  
  Some boss fights are hard, but if you follow walkthroughs or know what you're facing, you can adequately 
 prepare by finding katanas, SMGs or whatever weapons you think you'll need. The story is awesome 
 as well.
  
  There are a few cons, things that would be pretty easy to implement and that bug me:
  
  First 
 of all, there is no co-op multiplayer. Wading through zombies is easy enough and it's possible 
 to get from point a to point b without having to even touch a zombie (or simply just jump kick 
 certain ones out of the way) . But it would be ridiculously fun to play with 4-8 people, slaughtering 
 zombies and fighting psychopaths (it would be quite easy but extremely enjoyable) .
  
  Another thing I don't like is how easily weapons break. You can find books in the mall that increase 
 the amount of times you can hit zombies with a lead pipe or katana or whatever, but each takes 
 up an inventory slot. I don't think a lead pipe should break after hitting zombies in the head 
 10 or 15 times.
  
  It would also be nice to permanently clear out an area of zombies, like the elevator to get into 
 the mall, or the warehouse, so that you don't have to worry about zombies until you actually are 
 in the mall itself.
  
  Also, the survivor AI is not very good and they did not follow me as close as I would hope. The 
 survivors also do not do so well when battling zombies (which is why I think co-op multiplayer 
 would be fun, it would be nice to have companions that can actually fight) .
  
  That being said, it's a great game, an essential for zombie fans and it has quite a bit of replay 
 value with the leveling up system, unlockables and achievements to earn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_big_fat_clown
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is indeed one of the best games I have ever bought and played for the Xbox 360. I'm not going 
 to lie, there are a couple of crappy things about this game. First of all the save system is crappy 
 and at times annoying.
  
  Second of all the escorting of survivors is annoying and very repetitive because their AI sucks 
 very badly and will usually end up dying
  
  Lastly, the time limit is a bit annoying because of all things you want to do at times is you want 
 to run around and kill zombies and this game doesn't leave to much time to do that.
  
  but once you get past these flaws this game truly shines.
  
  -A great variety of weapons to 
 choose from
  
  -The sound and the soundtrack of the game is absolutely awesome the music fits the scene when you 
 fight a boss.
  
  -excellent replay value, worth the $30 I spent to get it.
  
  -Hours upon hours of game play.
  
  -Graphics are great and very gory
  
  -some funny parts 
 to the game worth a laugh or two.
  
  -Very large area to explore
  
  -excellent story.
  
  -Voice acting was pretty good, not the best but far away from mediocre
 
  
  Well that's about it. If you haven't bought this game yet I highly suggest you get off your butt 
 and run to the store ASAP this game kills time very well while we all wait for the good games to 
 come out in August. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthThatWas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The concept is simple: survive for 72 to hours in a mall that's been dooched with zombies. You 
 play as a reporter who gets flown in, dropped off, and has to find some way to survive the risen 
 dead. The longer you last, and the higher you level up, the more zombies you have to deal with. 
 I only have two complaints for this game. First off: the other survivors are complete morons. As 
 you play, you will receive calls from the janitor telling you that he has found a survivor or two 
 in certain parts of the mall. Now, you can choose to ignore them, or you can risk your neck and 
 rescue them. Bringing them back to home base is no small feat, given that most of them seem incapable 
 of protecting themselves. Although Capcom did a good job of attaching a unique personality to each 
 survivor (a fact displayed by the different ways they handle themselves or respond to attacks) , 
 most of the time you get the feeling you should just leave them to the zombies. Better they become 
 lunch for the undead than trying to herd them to safety. Just try escorting eight survivors at 
 once, and you will know what I mean.
  
  Complaint number two: the time line. I would have liked to have seen a mode where the clock is 
 not a factor. It would have been nice to be given free reign to kill and flee to your hearts content. 
 Now, a lot of people don't like the gun play in this game. To be honest, it does seem a little 
 sluggish, but I believe this was done intentionally. The main character explains how he isn't any 
 good with firearms, and it shows. Maybe it was just Capcom being lazy, but to me it just adds depth 
 to the character. And besides, why use a pistol when so many other melee weapons are on hand? In 
 terms of a variety of weapons, this game shines. Battle axes, kitanas, bowling balls, shower heads, 
 lawn mowers, and chainsaws abound. And that's just naming a few.
  
  Graphically, the game holds up well. As you clamber up the level tree, you will begin to notice 
 that the once relatively quiet expanses of the mall are becoming increasingly busy. The closer 
 you come to achieving the level cap, the less room you will find to maneuver. Zombies will begin 
 to literally choke the screen, and you will have to find inventive ways to get past them. Even 
 with all of the on screen action, the game seldom loses its stride. Though I haven't played it 
 in a month or so, I can remember few instances of the game slowing down. Character models are well 
 done, and the cut scenes are beautifully rendered. The game is no slouch in the sound department, 
 either. The music fits perfectly into the scene, and there is little more gratifying than the sound 
 of your sword ripping through some unfortunate walking corpse.
  
  One of the things I love most about this game is the amount of innovation that has been applied 
 to it. From the appearance of a bizarre, non-zombified group of individuals to the ability to walk 
 along the backs of helpless undead, this game is stocked with interesting ideas. The mall is vast 
 in scope, with dozens of clothing, book, and supply stores to raid in hopes of finding new weapons 
 or flashy wardrobes. If you're in the market for something a little different from your typical 
 FPS or Racing title, I highly recommend this game. The concept is fairly unique in today's 'lets 
 blow up everything' gaming scene, and through and through, Dead Rising is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotchicken29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun I consider for you to buy it don't rent it, because you'll need more time 
 to finish the story, save people, and figer out why the hell zombies are in a mall. You'll have 
 fun just killing zombies with thousand of defrent items in the mall. thier are diffrent endings 
 as well, some are good endings some are bad.
  
  I thought this game was hard because the check point (saving areas) are restrooms. And if you get 
 killed you go back to that point which sucks. Phycose are crazy people who are just **** up in 
 the head! Frome chainsaw wielding clowns to a millitary leader. If your into gorey games or loves 
 to play resident evil this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  Those who love resident evil games, you must didn't miss to buy this game. with detail graphic, 
 interesting storyline, humourous gameplay, you will never get bored. In the gameplay, you will 
 control Frank West, a free lancer photo journalist who came to some places where all the peoples 
 there had change into zombies because of the virus that was spread by the goverment projects. At 
 the place, you will control Frank inside a plaza to solve the mysteries of the zombies. To fight 
 the zombies, you can use anything inside the plaza's to bash them including chainsaw, vase, chair 
 etc. Not to mention, the gameplay also is based on time that mean it has a time for Frank to complete 
 the mission. The difficulty is just right because more and more you follow the strolyline, it will 
 come more difficult to complete the storyline, but don't worry, i'll sure you can finished it. (not 
 like transformer the game) . In conclusion, it's up to you to rent or to buy this game because the 
 game is just plain fun.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok! Now this has been a game I most REALLY wanted when the 360 came out. Well I don't own one but 
 I play it at my friends house. Dead Rising is awsome! Plot: You are Frank West. A normal no skilled 
 photojurnalist who goes to the mystery of a town. Willemette Colorado. When Frank looks down from 
 the helicopter he is in he sees special forces agents blocking the main road in. Luckily for that 
 helicopter! :) So as Frank enters the city he notices something odd. The city is being destroyed 
 before his eyes! People are being slaughtered! Buildings and stuff are on fire! All hell broke 
 loose. After Frank snaps some shots with his camera of the massacre he tells the driver to drop 
 him off on the roof of the large mall and come back for Frank in EXACTLY 72 hours. After the ride, 
 its up to you!
  
  Gameplay: Dead Rising is all about fun and laughs. Ya. Even though zombies are one of the scariest 
 thing to most people, AND the fact that its made by the infamus Capcom Games. (whom i hate) The 
 creator of the highly scary, wet yourself jump scare, mood and feelings, game series Resident Evil. 
 Strangely DR is the complete opposite. Though there are moments in the game wear some of the boss 
 deaths are pretty disturbing the game really is quiet comical! With the execption you are stuck 
 in a HUGE shopping mall filled to the brim with anything as a weapon and the other weird combos 
 of clothing. You can have Frank dressed in a womans gown and carrying a shotgun blowwing the brains 
 out of 50 zombies. Fun: Dead Rising brings a new example of fun to the world. You can stock up 
 on almost ANYTHING in the mall! Frying pans, movie props, ladders, katanas, battle axes, Machine 
 Guns, chairs, zombie hands, fake lightsabers, lawnmower, car, motorcycle, lead pipe, 2 x 4, ANYTHING!!!!
 
  Now just cause the game throws MILLIONS of zombies at you, there is a real point to the game other 
 than to murder masses of zombies. You will mostly find yourself trying to level up by getting exp 
 points or in DR pp. (percision points i think) transporting survivors to join in the fight, doing 
 the main cases, killing the bosses, not getting captured by the cultists, and much more! the Bad: 
 Now there is very little of which you could complain about in DR. The only thing is the games difficulty. 
 It is really hard for a begginer to go out and try to fight off 60 zombies with their bare hands. 
 Some of the bosses seem really hard at some points of the game like (spoiler) Jo or Adam. The thing 
 is you need to be on time a lot. I mean A LOT! This ties in with the save system. You may save 
 the game with full health and 3 katanas and 2 shotguns and get ready to beat on of the case files 
 and you find yourself out of time as soon as you leave the save spot. Then you cant redoe the case, 
 you wont figure out why zombies are in the city, and most important, you will never forgive the 
 game for a long time. This can also be a huge problem especially when low on health and food miles 
 away from you! And the AI. The AI for the survivors is terrible. You will find yourself screaming 
 the 'command' button a lot at your tv casue the guy is stuck in a crack in the wall and you cant 
 go and grab him by button use. Along with some of the AI very weak in sticky situations. You can 
 be doing just fine on second and then your survivor is being eaten by a mob of zombies! Sometimes 
 your aim might get a little to close and kill the survivor but then you can give them wine or something 
 to heal with.
  
  Graphics: DR is an awsome game even more becasue of the breath taking cinematic scenes and the 
 realism of the zombies rotting face or the lovely blood splatter on the wall.
  
  Sound: Wow. A mall. Filled with weapons. Every one sounds the same. NOT!! The weapon sounds are 
 incredible! Every blow you deal to a zombies skull with a lead pipe or the deafening sound of the 
 shotgun against a zombies head just sound so real. The zombies even fit their own catergory. Perfect. 
 Every stumble, trip, wheeze, moan, scream, whine, breath, sounds just like a zombie would.
  
  Audio: Now I normally am not a huge fan of game audio but DR is BRILLIANT! The music is just 
 so perfect for the game. The convicts song Gone Guru is one of the best savage zombie killing themes 
 you may ever hear next to Bodies hit the floor . But that is the glory of the Xbox 360. Custom 
 audio!
  
  Overall: Now to conclude. I think that any fan of Resident Evil or zombie killing games should 
 buy DR. The insane fun, graphics, audio, and zombies, make up one great awsome game! any owner 
 of a 360 should buy it.
  
  kombatmaster12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun, simply put. There's tons to do in the mall (although it takes time to unlock parts 
 of it) with a large portion of avaliable objects to use as weapons against the brain feeding zombies. 
 The zombies are relentless... exactly the way they should be. The visuals look great, although not 
 on par with Gears of Wars but still very well done. The controls works very well too... super responsive 
 and easy. The gameplay overall is great, however I do have some complaints about the difficulty 
 (cant choose, theres a standard) and the time moves too quickly in my opinion. But overall, the 
 games a blast to play with tons of replay value.
  .
  Pros
  + Original videogame concept
  + Concept of psychopaths works well
  + Excellent visuals/audio
 
  + Tons of objects and items to use
  + Replay value
  .
  Cons
  - Might be a little too difficult for some
  - time moves too quickly
  - Answering walky is 
 annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is another zombie game/possible franchise (Resident Evil is a well known series made 
 by capcom and possibly one of the best game story lines that have been going on for a decade) made 
 by Capcom which they do a fantastic job in Dead Rising.
  
  The game takes place in a small town in Colorado (I live in Broomfield CO oh snap =0) which your 
 adventure takes place in the local mall there and as Frank West a photojournalist you've gotten 
 a tip that something has happened to the small town so you do what any photojournalist do, you get 
 the scoop any way possible!, but wait! the population of 53 thousand have turned into flesh eating 
 zombies!!!.
  
  Some people might say that Dead Rising is just another zombie rip off game which of course they 
 are mistaken since DR is not only a survival horror, adventure/zombie game it takes in a neat leveling 
 system (somewhat of an RPG style, kills and completing quests=exp/lvln) in which each lvl or so 
 your health bar increases, you learn more gruesome moves/finishers and your speed/attacks also increase. The 
 next thing DR adds is how the inventory reacts which can displayed in game on the top right corner 
 and as you lvl your inventory slots increases. While your mauling hordes of zombies which btw your 
 tv screen can be filled with zombies, you as a photojournalist can take pictures of the invested 
 mall which can give you points and maybe even some achievements.
  
  Along with the story/gameplay you can do escort quests and help escort the survivors in the trapped 
 mall or you can choose to let them die by not seeking them out or getting hints to their location. The 
 save system is somewhat odd but you get use to it after awhile which your save locations are Bathrooms 
 in the mall and some spots where Frank West can catch some Zzz. The replay value of Dead Rising 
 is up there since capcom did a good job of adding 6 endings yes 6 endings which your actions throughout 
 the game will effect on which ending you get so its worth playing through the game a few times 
 to see the endings you can get and the boat load of achievements you can earn.
  
  Edit note: earlier I said 5 endings when it's really 6 endings total 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kman117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say this is one of the best games i have ever played. The game is insane. The game 
 has a descent story and awesome graphics. the immense amount of weapons makes this game perfect 
 for basically anyone who likes beat-em-ups or shooters. Saving sucks but other than that the game 
 is close to perfect. ive spent hours just chopping up zombies and smashing their heads in. It would 
 be nice to have online coop but other than that the game is a must buy for any zombie/action fan. 
 the game is just amazing and definately worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shootingpeanuts
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a game where you can kill massive amounts of Zombies and take pictures of it happening. 
 Imagine a game where you can disembowel a zombie while a fellow friend blasts 20 of them away from 
 you with a shotgun you found. Imagine a game where a clown chases you through a hallway of zombies 
 and just as you escape, you find an insane War Veteran who's Machette is ready for you! Imagine 
 no further! Dead Rising is the perfect game for any gamer who loves RPGs, Zombie killing, and Rescues. 
 Brief Review of every aspect:
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are near realistic. This is truly a masterpiece game from Capcom. 
 The Zombies are all detailed as much as the Survivors. Sounds: The sounds are too realistic for 
 this game. Especially in surround sound. Enjoy hearing the guts of a zombie being torn out as you 
 kick thier faces off. The blood sounds and weapon sounds are just too good to pass up. Controls: 
 Very Easy to learn. If you've played resident Evil 4, then you'll already know how to shoot over 
 the shoulder and throw objects. Frank West also runs quite well and unlike the Resident Evil games, 
 doesn't run like a Tank. Difficulty: While most of the game is incredibly enjoyable, you will die 
 alot in this game. The Friendly AI can be a pain as most survivors are much slower then you and 
 they usually begin to cry when there are loads of zombies around. Adding that in, along with the 
 fact taht physcopaths can kill Survivors in 2 hits makes escorting all the more annoying. Thankfully 
 escorting is only optional but if you wanna feel good about yourself, then I would do it. Story: 
 the story is amazing and features plenty of endings for you to wish to replay. Overall: Great graphics. 
 Great sounds that are almost too realistic in surround sound. Easy controls. A rather difficult 
 escort experience. And a great story with many endings. I totally reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaBear421
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very well made game. Killing the zombies in any way imaginable is fantastic. Very 
 similar to Dawn of the Dead (duh) which is one of my favorite movies. Story was pretty good. Voice 
 acting was decent. Too many repeated character models though. Also, escorting survivors was fun 
 the first couple of times but grew tedious as more zombies appeared through out the mall. My only 
 other complaint is having to be at a particular place at a particular or time or else the story 
 ends. I understand that it makes sense, it just didn't translate well into the game. Aside from 
 that, Dead Rising is an instant classic. Pick it up as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Looking for nothing more than a playground of undead destruction, I approached the game as many 
 of you will. I was hoping that the action wouldnt get too repetitive. With any luck, I thought, 
 the cheesy dialogue and setting would be an asset and not a source of droll cutscenes I would want 
 to skip through. I started the game. I literally mowed over zombies. I cackled every five minutes 
 when a newfound weapon sliced through the thick hordes in an over-the-top mockery of slasher flicks 
 and secret dreams of the biggest Dead Alive fan. I outright horrified the other editors by walking 
 Frank around in a cute little sundress for a full day.
  
  But the rest of the gamewell, figuring out where the thing actually ends is hard. I think that 
 you could go through a dozen times and see at least two entirely new, large-scale events each time. 
 The game is huge on replay in the main mode and offers even more after the tale is done. Without 
 spoiling anything, lets leave it with the promise that youll be popping this in for months to 
 come. And do you want to know why? For more than the bounty of content, or interesting twist of 
 social commentary, or even the collection of secret touches  youll keep booting it up because 
 its an artsy brand of fun that you cant get anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Resident Evil, so, of course, I am a huge fan of zombies. However, you don't 
 have to like Resident Evil (or zombies for that matter) to enjoy this great game.
  
  Nearly everything in the mall is a weapon. That should be a major selling point to anyone right 
 off. I mean, almost anything you see can be used for something, whether it is eating, fighting, 
 or a key item. Now that, is freaking awesome.
  
  Customization is pretty high up there, too, as you can put Frank West (the main character) into 
 nearly outfit that the mall offers. Do you know how hilarious it is watching a man in a pink dress 
 take control of a gatling gun mounted on a jeep? Pretty damn funny. The best part is, these outfits 
 stay with you during cutscenes, which makes the game all that much better.
  
  The game isn't just purely action, there are also RPG elements incorporated, like leveling up, 
 for instance. You get experience points by taking pictures of interesting things, rescuing survivors, 
 or killing zombies in a unique way. By leveling up, you can gain new and interesting moves to use 
 against the zombie foes.
  
  One of the major problems in the gameplay is the task of rescuing survivors, since the AI is pretty 
 retarded. It's such a nuisance that you will be dreading every time the janitor gives you a call 
 to go help someone in distress. Yes, it's just that bad.
  
  However, one motivation to rescue survivors is the psychopaths that they may be harassing them. 
 The psychopaths are very interesting people gone mad by the zombie invasion that are, just like 
 their title implies, psychotic. When you defeat them, they usually die in a satisfyingly gory way, 
 which is always fun to watch. Also, they leave re-spawning weapons which are pretty damn powerful 
 and useful.
  
  One thing that will really get on your nerves is when you're shot, because you usually just fall 
 flat to the ground, and right when you get up, can get shot again. This can be a real pain and 
 lead to many cheap deaths. My major disappointment with the title is the graphics. Constantly objects 
 are going through other objects or something of the sort. Also, since there are so many zombies 
 on the screen at one time, the game has to give up pre-rendered cutscenes, which is a shame since 
 it would could really showcase the 360's power.
  
  There are is a ton of replayability found in Dead RIsing, such as unlockables like a beam sword 
 or a real Mega Man blaster. There are a couple other modes to unlock and beat, which will satisfy 
 any gamer for at least a couple of weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofanatic333
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is pure awesome. The leveling up processs is to understand. Do certain things-&gt; 
 Earn PP (prestige points) -&gt; Earn enough PP level up-&gt; learn new attacks and stat upgrades. 
 The Save system purely sucks. The choice of weapons is amazing over hundreds of usable items, some 
 for serious damage, gore, or pure funny things. DR has a great story with multiple endings, but 
 it kinda is confusing. I haven't unlocked all but the Ending B. You don't only kill zombies. There 
 are crazed survivors, called pyschopaths, cultists, soldiers, bosses, and other werid people. DR 
 is an amazing game, but for non HD owners your gonna go blind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroking420_666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  ok there nothing more than good things to say about Dead Rising. This game is so much fun grab 
 anything and kill that zombie. Also the game play seems dated to me but that still fine I love 
 going around and just have a ball killing zombies the missions at time seems frustrating, and seems 
 to be alot of controller throwing for this game, with that the people you rescue seems to be the 
 dumbest AI in the game. The saving in this game could have been better. When you first start the 
 game and really want to explore you really can't do that quite yet with the clock ticking down. 
 Also seems that you have to keep starting over if you don't have a guide and that is still hard 
 with a guide. With all the complaining that this games brings out. I still stick with killing zombies 
 and that seems not to grow old.. If you like zombies, and alot of violence than pick this one up 
 and chop till you drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_1994
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  actually i just beat this game and this game is incredible i mean you are going to willamete colorado 
 to make a report which will be your biggest report of frank's career who rented a junk helicopter 
 well in the heli you see that the city is small but when you go down to the roof of the mall well 
 you are trapped in a bigggggg bigggggg mall so you wanna know what is happening and all you meet 
 two dhs agents brad and jessie and you will also meet carlito and his beautiful sister isabela 
 well they are from santa cabeza so when you challenge carlito for the first time of 3 times you 
 actually think he is the one who made all this maddness but when you continue the story you will 
 find the one you captuered his picture in the entrance plaza he is the professuer who made all 
 this they were making a reasearch of someking of the meat is expensive or something so there was 
 an accident and all this happened so santa cabeza was attacked by zombies and every one was killed 
 so all carlito wanted was to live in peace in santa cabeza so he wants revenge from the americans 
 who did all this and you will figure out all this when you play more of the game that carlito didnt 
 want all this all he wanted was revenge so when you meet him the last time the butcher injured 
 carlito so bad that he is going to die so when you kill the butcher you will talk to carlito and 
 ask him for the pass of laptop so all he deos he deos not tell you the pass he only tells you give 
 his necklase to his sister isabela when you give her the necklase it turns out that its the picture 
 of the father and mothere of carlito and isabela. so just give this game a try and play it really 
 it is a very good game but but it deosnt have a good ending at allll thats the bad but i have heard 
 it will be a sequel .any way this game is sooooo good. but one thing is the graphices i mean for 
 a 360 game it should have better graphics any way it is a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is every zombie fans dream come true. A Dawn of the Dead style setup and hundreds of 
 ways to just destroy zombie's for hours upon hours, but Dead Rising intrudes on the fun a few times 
 to an almost unbearable extent.
  
  Dead Rising's premise is totally awesome, as I stated, but to keep it from being a repetitive hack 
 'n slash game they had to throw in a few more things than just thousands and thousands of zombies. 
 So, there are a bunch of escort missions available to do along with a main storyline set of cases. 
 Everything in Dead Rising takes placed based on time so you have to make sure you are in the right 
 place when you need to be. Just to cover the sound and graphics real quick before getting into 
 gameplay and my complaints, they are both of good quality. The zombies make all kinds of sounds 
 and the voices are all done fairly well actually. You won't feel like this is as B-grade as it's 
 premise may be. Graphically getting all those zombies on screen with such quality comes off as 
 quite a feat. And there's no shortage of them or items in the mall. These two things don't hold 
 the game back by any means.
  
  At the beginning of the game you get dropped off in this mall where you are stuck till your ride 
 comes back to get you in 72 hours ( about 6ish real time hours ) . At the beginning you meet different 
 people and start to learn about what's going on here. Then you are set to roam free for awhile. 
 Now, I must say that my first time through the game I was roaming and I missed the first mission 
 on Day 2 which cancels out EVERY OTHER MISSION so I was stuck with nothing to do for the rest of 
 the days. Of course I could have reloaded, but thanks to Dead Rising's level up system I decided 
 to spend the other 2 days exploring the mall and upping my stats.
  
  This system I speak of is that at anytime during the course of Dead Rising you can actually start 
 the game over and you'll keep all your stats. So exploring the mall for a few days is actually 
 a good idea so that when you want to go through the main cases nothing is overwhelmingly difficult. 
 My 3 days spent there were a blast, but by the end I was ready for some structure so I started 
 doing the story. My first string of complaints came on about day 3. Dead Rising reminds me a lot 
 of games like Silent Hill where you go up against a boss in hopes that your weapon is stronger 
 than there's and you can hit them more time's first. I know, you'd think a game focused on killing 
 zombies would have a great battle system, well it doesn't. It works pretty good for the undead 
 that just kind of stumble around, but for someone focused on killing you, it can be very frustrating.
 
  
  This becomes extremely apparent if you get yourself the true ending to the game (there are 4 endings) 
 in which you'll probably find yourself running for your life and very frustrated at certain things 
 of which I am attempting to not give away. This part of the game made me wish I had never started 
 it.
  
  Dead Rising does have a lot to offer though. The mall is definitely fun to explore and there is 
 plenty of it. There are also plenty of survivors to save and psychopaths to take care of, not to 
 mention the hundreds of ways to do it all. I'd say it's worth checking out, but I can't give it 
 my recommendation to everyone just because it feels a bit broken. But if you can get over these 
 flaws your in for quite a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  There hasn't been a action-packed zombie game before, and after playing Dead Rising I wonder why 
 not? Dead Rising is everything you want in a zombie game: suspense, blood, gore, stupid survivors 
 (well not that one) . The graphics are quite good and seeing hundreds of zombies on-screen at a 
 time without any or very few hiccups is a testament to that. The sound is good enough with a few 
 suspense songs here and there as well as music which go along well with the genociding. And the 
 voice acting is pretty good too as well as the story, a huge improvement from capcom's old days. 
 But the gameplay is where the game shines. Guns, knives, bowling balls, giant toy blocks, machetes, 
 lawnmowers, boomerangs, teddy bears, and many other weapons to throw or use are at your disposal 
 as well as hand to hand moves and vehicles as you slice and dice your way through the mall, it's 
 underground, and a few other places as well. But even with all this, it isn't perfect. The save 
 system is a bit hard to take, having only one save per profile can cause headaches if you find 
 yourself in bad situations- and are forced to start the game again (or keep going without the story) . 
 Survivor AI is pretty bad- about the equivalent of a cheese sandwich but you really don't have 
 to save anybody if you don't want. But if you play smart, these problems are no big deal. Bottom 
 line if you like zombies, action, bloody gory violence, and can deal with incompetent survivors 
 and a harsh save system, Dead Rising is bliss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stucazzo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is possibly in my top 3 most frustrating games of all time.
  
  Graphics are a mixed bag, but mostly good due to the fact that there are hundreds of zombies on 
 screen at a time and the framerate never lets up. But the subtitles on the bottom of the screen 
 are almost impossible to see on a 27 TV unless you're closeup. (I'll be getting and HDTV soon I 
 hope)
  
  The sound is top notch in all aspects and the amount of weapons at your disposal is limitless.
 
  
  Dead Rising has the potential to be a great game, which most people think it is but there are too 
 many flaws in the game for me to actually enjoy it, and as of now, I'll be trading in the game 
 for something that won't cause me to yell at my screen in frustration.
  
  Where to start... Escorting hostages to security is the most frustrating task in video games in 
 Dead Rising. Civilians don't respond to your commands, they walk when they should run and they 
 constantly get in the way when you're fighting. How am I supposed to carry someone 10 feet when 
 I keep getting shot or run over by criminals when there are hundreds of zombies around only to 
 keep dying and load my game again?!?! I've also encountered on almost every death that I've had, 
 is when I'm about to accomplish something, I die or lose a civilian that I worked my ass off to 
 keep alive. I really wanted to break something. I haven't felt that way since playing NHL '95 in 
 a league on the Sega Genesis and losing to my brother.
  
  The map is extremely confusing at first but you eventually get the hang of it, the save marks, 
 as said by most reviewers it is definetly broken.
  
  That being said, I can understand why a lot of reviewers like the game, because if you can get 
 past the flaws Dead Rising has, you'll have a great time killing zombies with all the weapons at 
 your disposal. I just couldn't have fun with the game anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryBurtonman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is a campy game that bounced its way to the 360 with its appeal in all the gore and 
 utter stupidity of the person you play as. He knows how to work guns because he has covered wars 
 you know, but he punches like a complete pansy. The thing I love about this game is that it allows 
 you to pick up what ever you can to own some zombie a$$. Otis is so annoying that you want to feed 
 yourself to the dead idiots, but thats the point. Otis wouldn't have a real purpose if he couldn' 
 t badger your in danger a$$ every two seconds, so he has a use. This game is definitely worth getting 
 if you have a 360..... And I don't have one. I just play it at my friend's house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassyLime
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Usually when I hear about a zombie game, I dont really try it out, because of the horror factor, 
 which sucks because I really like zombies but not horror games. Thats where Dead Rising comes 
 in. Its not a freaking horror like Resident Evil or others, but its still got its fair share 
 of horror. But what makes like game unique is just the massive amount of zombie on the screen at 
 a time! There can be hundreds, all moving around in this giant groaning mass of dead. And the RPG-ness 
 of the game only adds to its value.
  
  The game puts you into the shoes of Frank West, a photojournalist who investigates wars and those 
 dangerous types of things in search of big scoops, and his gut just happened to point towards the 
 town of Willamette, where strange things have been going on and the army has quarantined the town. 
 When Frank manages to get into the town and finds himself in the mall... surrounded by hordes of 
 flesh-eating zombies. It is up to Frank and the remaining survivors to unravels the mystery surrounding 
 what happened at Willamette. You have 72 hours to survive until your chopper arrives to take you 
 away. The story is actually pretty good. In it you meet crazy psychopaths (bosses) ranging from 
 chainsaw wielding clowns to Cult Leaders. It definitely helps move the game along and has some 
 pretty good plot twists (which I wont spoil) but the only downfall is that the ending is kind 
 of a letdown.
  
  The power of the next-gen Xbox 360 allows for almost anything you find in the mall as I weapon. 
 So if you walk into any store, you can find weapons ranging from axes to toy swords and boomerangs, 
 basically anything you would find in a real mall you will find here. That also includes clothes, 
 with hats, shirts, pants and shoes. Frank can dress himself in dozens of outfits that really add 
 a sense of customization and individuality to the game. In between the main story quests are side 
 quest where you can help other survivors back to your safe house. There are a lot of these missions 
 but each survivor is different and makes each escort unique. The only downside is that the A. I 
 for the survivors is pretty stupid and you have to basically babysit them all the way back to your 
 safe spot.
  
  The graphics. They are quite good, theres no blurriness and faces of characters are well modeled. 
 The animations are all very smooth. You will cut, shoot and hack your way through the dead and 
 look great doing it. The zombies also move well, the developers got the feel of the slow moving 
 yet surprisingly fast zombie down pat, and theres no stutters in movement when you kill them either, 
 which just adds to the feel of the game. The mall is very beautifully designed, with lots of colors 
 and every store looks authentic. You can look at a screenshot from the game and in HD, it almost 
 looks real. The blood is pretty good, its not shiny or anything but it usually sprays in the right 
 direction after you kill a zombie. The only problem I found was the variety in zombies. Theres 
 only about 7 different zombie models and since you go through thousands of zombies in the game, 
 youll be seeing them a lot.
  
  The gameplay is pretty straight forward. You start off at level 1 and you level up by killing zombies 
 and taking pictures and going farther into the story. The higher level you are, the more life you 
 have and more items you can carry. Also, you learn new attacks which turns Frank into a black belt 
 by level 50, letting him disembowel, decapitate, suplex and all sorts of other nasty things to 
 unsuspecting zombies. Using weapons is as simple of tapping a button, but that also makes it a 
 little repetitive, but theres just so many different weapons is never feels really boring or anything. 
 The downside of the game play is the shooting and throwing of weapons. You hold left trigger to 
 go into aim mode (over the shoulder TPS) and press x to shoot or throw. But the aimer is pretty 
 imprecise and hard to aim so its usually a good idea to just hack and slash rather then shoot.
 
  
  The sound in the game is nothing short of amazing, with each weapon sounding as authentic as if 
 the developers actually brought the dead back to life and used each weapon in the game on them. 
 The voice acting is okay, its never brilliant but its also never over the top. The zombies sound 
 great, the moaning and groaning sounds freaky and when you hear that a hundred times at once from 
 every direction as zombies close upon you, it makes you just want to run away!
  
  The only downfall in the game is the save system and the time in the game. The save system is basically 
 you can save at your home base and in washrooms around the mall. But the bad part is that you can 
 only have one save file, you cant make more then one on a hard drive, so if you screw up then 
 save, you have to restart all over again. That can get a little bit frustrating at times. Then 
 there is the time system, which run throughout the game continuously over three in game days. This 
 is cool because if gives you a sense of realism but also that means that there are hard set times 
 where you have to be at certain places for the main story to continue, and if youre not there, 
 you lose, game over. So if you save at a point where you cant make it to you destination on time, 
 its game over man, GAME OVER!
  
  All in all, Dead Rising is a very unique and fun zombie horror game that suffers from some save 
 system and time system flaws but all in all is a great game that any fan of zombies, horror, or 
 fun hack and slashes should try out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I'm biased. I'm a Zombie fan. I love zombie movies. So, take that into account while you read this.....
 
  
  Awesome game, but I didn't finish it as well as I wanted to. I got Finish D and I'm sure that's 
 bad. Still, I had a great time playing it and I am going to play it again for both Achievements 
 and a better ending. This game has a better story than most zombie flicks. Capcom has a great, 
 new franchise on its hands. Many reviews panned this game for it's save system, but I think it 
 added to the survival-theme of the game. Also, this game flexes its next-gen muscle with the amount 
 of zombies on screen at once. And with the amount of objects you can interact with. It's simply 
 amazing that almost any object can be used as a weapon.
  
  My sole complaing is the lack of targeting system for guns. Shooting zombies shouldn't be this 
 difficult. Though.... I did find using the melee weapons to be more enjoyable than guns. My fav 
 is the katana.
  
  In my opinion, every Xbox360 owner and fan of zombies in general should play this game.
  
  
 I will definitely buy Dead Rising 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkTempler1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Love the Game, I think it's one of the best single player games for the 360 out their, I reccomend 
 everyone to try it out.
  
  Pros: Zombie action LOTS, use basicly any item as a weapon found in the mall, Very challenging 
 at a low level, Addiction characteristics.
  
  Cons: the AI survivors (the ones you have to escort) are retarded basicly, some smarter AIs would 
 be very nice, The ending boss is too easy I beat him in less than 2 minutes on my first try!. More 
 uses for guns would be nice, like for example melee with the butt of a gun would be extremely usefull, 
 duel weilding pistols to make the pistol a weapon I'd actually consider using more often.
  
  ?: I was wondering since it's a zombie outbreak why didn't they make use of fort building, 
 or barricading areas for protection. that woulda been fun to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Food1214
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  the good:
  able to kill zombies with over a wide variety of items. an interesting story line. its 40$ good 
 value. tons of replay value
  the bad:
  the game has over a 50% chance of breaking by itself. very repetitive. pyschopaths are very easy. 
 the AI sucks.
  
  Difficulty:
  when you first start the game it will be annoying. you will die alot at lvl 1. but after you level 
 up. become stronger. have more health. it will become very easy
  
  Graphics:
  it looks pretty good but it looks like it could easily be a reg. xbox game
  
  Sound: i love 
 the pshycopath music but the mall music does get annoying after awhile.
  
  reviewers tilt:
  i like it...... (ya i know great tilt lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vansking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  El Juego en un principio llama la atenci&oacute; n por que es uno de los primeros juegos de zombies, 
 a quien no le gustan o a jugado juegos de Zombie?, todos poh.
  
  Cuando comence a jugar pense que iba a ser lento, ya q el personaje es lento en un principio, despues 
 mejora mucho y se pone muy versatil y divertido.
  
  Primero voy a comenzar por la grafica: Muy Buena, no perfecta pero muy buena, el dise&ntilde; o 
 de los personajes todo es bueno, pero se nota que es uno de los primeros juegos (no le ponen tanto 
 empe&ntilde; o ) pero eso no quiere decir q sea algo malo no para nada, el juego es divertidisimo.
 
  
  Jugabilidad: Algunos cuando empiezen a jugar van a creer que el personaje es lento y poco jugable, 
 pero a medida que mata Zombies su Agilidad Rapidez y Movilidad mejoran mucho, muchooooooo, se ponen 
 mucho mas divertido el juego.
  
  Sonido: Bueno no me deja alucinado pero es bueno.
  
  Rejugabilidad: Este es un punto muy importante del juego. El juego puede variar muchisimo si uno 
 rescata o no a ciertas personas, adema si uno recorre todas las tiendas podra encontrar enemigos 
 secretos que te daran muchos puntos y podras adquirir mas abilidades. Muchas veces tuve que empezar 
 a jugar de nuevo por q me di cuenta de que me falto encontrar Personas para Salvar y enemigos para 
 matar tambien. El juego ademas presenta un sistema genial que te inter-relacionas con la mayoria 
 de los objetos y lanzarlos, romperlos, son muchas las opciones que tienes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icabog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Fun Factor: 10 - This is probably one of the most fun games i have ever played, there are hundreds 
 of weapons that range from anywhere to a massive chainsaw to a flimsy water gun. Now not all games 
 let you actually pull out other zombies ORGANS!! Some of the skills in the game will let you walk 
 as a zombie, crush their face onto the floor, pick them up by the neck and throw them down a huge 
 stair well, stick a huge excavator through their stomach and spin them around watching all their 
 limbs flying off. You will start at level 1 as just the prey but eventually you will reach level 
 50 and be a zombie slaying god. Also this game has many difficult and fun achievements for you 
 to try an accomplish with many awesome unlockables. This game is extremely bloody, gory and realistic 
 which makes it one of the most bad ass games for the 360. The only anoying thing about this game 
 is that you only have one save file and thats it.
  
  Graphics: 9.5 - It truly is amazing for a game to have all these features and still have absolutely 
 amazing graphics. When you are slaying all the thousands of zombies you will never get bored because 
 the graphics are so well done it is almost as if you are actually slaying the zombies with your 
 own hands. The characters are well detailed along with every other thing in the game which is just 
 another reason to buy this game.
  
  Sound: 9 - The sound of all the blood spilling and heads falling is yet another reason to buy this 
 game. The sound effects are beautiful and the sound tracks are awesome. All of the heart pumping 
 music will definitely keep you going!
  
  Replay Value: 9.7  I can ensure you that you wont get bored of this game for quite some time 
 because there is just so much to do. Dead Rising offers so many features wall maintaining such 
 good qualities making this game a masterpiece. You probably will still be playing this game after 
 a year or two.
  
  Story: 9  The story of the game is just as well executed as the rest of the factors and will definitely 
 be a fun ride. You are Frank West a photo journalist that was sent out to capture a story about 
 what was going on. His helicopter pilot dropped him off at a mall to take photos. Frank thought 
 it was a riot but later found out that everyone was a zombie and you must survive for 3 days in 
 the mall trying to find out what caused all this. Rent or Buy: BUY!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king0demons
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  If you like a gorey, high action fighter shooter get this. Some parts are hard but non the less 
 a great game. You will love this game no matter how hard it gets. I love the occasional gut twisting 
 of a body being cut in half or a blood shower. A wonderful weapon selection from a shopping cart 
 to a gumball machine to a gun to chiansaw. The game allows you to change your entire attire from 
 shoes to sun glasses. You are not obbligated to but highly reccomended to escort families they 
 give you a big boost in exp. You have more than the ability to use weapons you can also do melee. 
 From basic kicks to roundhouse kick to the face. From a basic punch to dis-emboweling everything 
 in your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbhtaed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was the only reason that I went out and bought a 360. I thought that they were joking 
 about using everything as a weapon but they were not kidding around. It is just fun killing zombies 
 with anything and even funner putting masks on them. Road cones are the best. The only let down 
 is how easy it is to kill the zombies in the maintenance tunnels. But the fun achievements makes 
 up for it. I personally would recommend doing Zombie Genocide and then using the fun weapon that 
 you get. This game is worth the wait and is not a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skh447
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  You play as Frank West, a photojournalist, who goes to the city of Willamette, figuring out the 
 town is overrun with zombies. You go to the mall and you have 72 hours to find out what happend. 
 I personally like skipping the missions to kill some zombies. There are also some side missions. 
 You can pretty much use anything as a weapon. There are a few differant endings according to the 
 way you spend your 72 hours. If you do all of the missions something happens that you have more 
 days at the mall. When you beat the game you unlock infinity mode, where you just kill all of the 
 zombies with no time limit, except if you don't eat you lose health. This game is great. You can 
 do almost anything in the mall. This game is definitly a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonester360
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is an enjoyable title with thousands of options available to the player. Whether you 
 decide to pulverise hordes of zombies, lead fellow survivors to salvation, eliminate psychopaths 
 scattered throughout the mall terrorizing other humans, or simply cower within the security room 
 is your choice. Tonnes of weapons are at your disposal. From vicious katanas and gigantic battleaxes, 
 to powerful lawnmowers and harmless trout, absolutely anything can be used to destroy the zombies. 
 You are not required to actually complete any of the tasks, though accomplishment of all the main 
 objectives (which reveal more information regarding the outbreak) will unlock different story modes, 
 such as overtime mode (containing a dark twist) and infinite mode. Frank levels up during the game 
 (ultimately making your journey through the mall much easier) giving you a larger chance against 
 the more challenging psychopaths. You are able to transfer your level to a new file, meaning you 
 can begin a new game with your previous level intact. Plus, you are able to cherish all your memories 
 during the game with your valuable camera. The storyline itself is intriguing and thrilling, leaving 
 you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Unfortunately, checkpoints are scarce, and are usually difficult to access. Death during a task 
 leads me to another bad point linked with the one above. Because checkpoints during objectives 
 are non-existent, death means starting again from your previous save point (I suggest you save 
 your file regularly) and trawling through the millions of zombies to begin the task all... over... again! 
 Interaction between characters leads to illegible text at the base of the screen. The words are 
 tiny, and reading them is impossible, meaning that you haven't a single clue of what the actual 
 conversation is about!
  
  Overall a fabulous title! Despite its flaws, it is a brilliant game with dozens of features on 
 offer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising brings a new way to have fun in a 72 hour game time. You can either, Kill zombies, 
 or do the story line to get an A ending. There are all different ways to end the game. Different 
 endings for different actions that you do. The makers of Dead Rising brings a shocking ending, 
 and brings an overtime mode. Then, once you complete overtime mode, you can see how long you can 
 live in Infinity Mode.
  
  The graphics show some good amount of detail in the character, and backround worlds. Zombies have 
 lots of detail, for example, zombies eye popped out. Usually you will see a blob in his eye in 
 other games.
  
  The gameplay has good, smooth motions. It could get laggy once in a while, but in a world with 
 thousands of zombies, you would expect LOTS of lag. (especally in the Matinence tunnel)
  
  Sound is pretty good. Guns sound neat, zombies sound real, and you weapons hitting the zombies 
 make neat sounds. The value of the game is good. Worth you money. I kept going to Best Buy, and 
 they where all gone &gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising Starts off in a Helicopter a photo journalist by the name of Frank West has a tipp 
 that something big is going down in a small town in Colorado named Willamete. Right from the start 
 the game pulls you in and doenst spit you out until the end. The Man driving the helicopter tell 
 to Frank that the only thing to do in this small town is to kill time at the shopping mall. So 
 that is where he takes Frank. Right when you land you have 72 hours to explore the mall and find 
 out about the story and backround of this zombie plague. Right from the start you will meet a major 
 character. Dead Rising to me falls in the genre of a survival type of game you must do anything 
 to survive and get this story to the public. there are a variety of stores with clothes, foods, 
 and weapons. There are so many weapons to be found in this game almost and pretty much everything 
 is a weapon thats what makes this game unique.
  
  I had a lot of fun with this game I like how you can choose to do the story or just go around the 
 mall and forget about the story and do what ever you want. There is a lot of people who need to 
 be rescued and thats kinda fun but it can get frustrating because the people sometimes are downright 
 stupid and you constantly have to say c'mon or over here by pressing a button which can get extremely 
 annoying. theres this guy named Otis who gives you a walky talky and calls you constantly to tell 
 you about surivivors which is the most annoying thing in this game besides the save system. He 
 wont shut up I would rather kill him then the zombies.
  
  This gam isnt bad at all there is just stuff I wish they would fix like of course the save system 
 which is terrible. I had to start over a lot after dying fighting a psychopath and go all the way 
 to hq and have to go all the way back to fight the psychopath again which made me mad. The Graphics 
 are pretty good. storyline isnt the best, sound of the zombies and cutting them to pieces is really 
 good. and the voiceovers are good. Gameplay isnt the best can get frustrating when fighting a boss 
 or psychopath.
  
  So if your in to these kinds of games pick this one up you wont be sorry you didnt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citizen-legend
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is highly addictive, it has some really good parts (to be exact the begining, and the 
 end are the best parts but there are some ok parts in between) like the crazy clown adam with two 
 chainsaws. Over all the game has a great story (thats if you get into it and get to your missions 
 on time) the thing that bothers me the most is the time 72 hours ( 7 hours and 20 minutes) to complete 
 the game there was some times when i got to a mission late and the story was over and i didn't 
 get the true ending. the game addictive, and i love this game but there was some stuff missing from 
 this game like online co-op, and the time frame make the game longer lik 5 days. the graphics are 
 good but I think they could have made the graphics better but the graphics look good and clean 
 .Over all this game is worth playing when you just finished a difficult game and want something 
 simple and this game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebel108
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a sandbox game that pits you, Frank West, against a mall full of zombies. In fact, 
 the amount of zombies on screen is quite impressive. There are over 300 awesome weapons that are 
 all quite unique. In addition, there are multiple (over 40) costumes to wear, and also some unlockable 
 ones. The story is very interesting and entertaining, and there are many different boss like psychopaths 
 to fight against. The mall itself is quite large and detailed, and contains many secret areas. 
 The replay value in this game is incredible because of the sheer amount of zombies to kill and 
 ways to kill them. The player may also use cars to run over zombies which results in many kills 
 and lots of fun. If you are a fan of zombies, buy this game now. However, don't expect this game 
 to be a walk in the park, because the game is hard especially because you may only have one save 
 file. Many people view this one save system as a detriment, but it adds to difficulty and some 
 frustration that can result in a great sense of accomplishment. Although the a. i. of survivors 
 that you can save may seem weak, it is a portrayel of how people would actually act in real life. 
 This game is amazing in terms of design and sound. Hitting a zombie never felt so real, and there 
 are many little secrets and easter eggs hidden throughout the game. There are also multiple endings 
 and many things to unlock. This is the best singleplayer game on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob1224
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is the worst and most repettive game on the 360 all u do is just kill zombies all game theres 
 100 ways to do it but after u do each 1 10000000 times it gets old in about 1 hour so dont even 
 waste your time on this pathetic game thats not even worth it if it was free! This is a really 
 repettive game cuz every level what do u do kill zombies which like i said is really repettive 
 for an all game thing 1 or 3 levels ok but not the whloe game This is the worst and most repettive 
 game on the 360 all u do is just kill zombies all game theres 100 ways to do it but after u do 
 each 1 10000000 times it gets old in about 1 hour so dont even waste your time on this pathetic 
 game thats not even worth it if it was free! This is a really repettive game cuz every level what 
 do u do kill zombies which like i said is really repettive for an all game thing 1 or 3 levels 
 ok but not the whloe game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes yes yes this game is epic. if you have played any of capcoms games before you will know that 
 they are good at creating the effects of zombies but the games they have made are fun but you don't 
 get to do what you want to do to the Zombies. thats why they made this game. its a survival action 
 horror game where you are stuck in a mall and you can use your knowledge of malls to your advantage 
 to find weapons to gruesomely kill zombies. there is day and night in the game and its an in game 
 clock but it goes by slowly. also at night time the zombies get stronger and they are more harder 
 to kill but they don't get faster which would be impossible. by the way if your in to zombies that 
 can run play this game and you will change you mind zombies that walk slowly is creepy and much 
 more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godsofplunder
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  I LOWER my ranking vote everytime I play this 'cause it gets more &amp; more frustrating to play! 
 I'm so POed at this game!! When I first started playing this game from CAPCOM, I thought it was 
 pretty cool. The longer I played it, the more disgusted I became with the overall gameplay! First 
 and foremost, there is NOT enough locations and opportunities to SAVE YOUR GAME! If you are a NOVICE 
 player and new to this type of role playing, you may struggle to get anywhere without throwing 
 a fit of rage! This game would have been a whole lot better if CAPCOM would have added more AUTOSAVES 
 into the game! I need to be fair here, I have not given myself much playing time to familiarize 
 myself with some of the controls. Which brings me to my next gripe... Player controls are lacking 
 and slow (aiming the pistol is not as smooth as firing weapons in some other console games) . I 
 want to be fair with this game though, so I will add to and edit the reviews as I go, but for now, 
 this game has me frustrated! Check back!
  
  - Gods of plunder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bond21
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  This game could've been something great, but instead the gunplay is monotonous and unsatisfying, 
 the combat is nothing but button mashing, and the text is so small its nearly impossible to read. 
 Dead Rising has some interesting weapons, they all react differently and it does help the game 
 from being completely dull, but the boss fights are lame, the save system is broken, overall the 
 game is just not worth playing.
  
  The story is mildly interesting, you are a freelance reporter who goes to a town riot, it turns 
 out its not a riot its just a whole heap of zombies.
  
  Sound and Graphics are good, Voice Acting is decent, if a bit uninspired.
  
  I say rent it 
 if you must play a zombie game, but for everyone unsure, give this one a miss.
  
  Capcom, stick to Resident Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8: The gameplay in Dead Rising revolves around going from point A to point B while killing 
 lots of zombies on your way. There are so many zombies, litterally hundreds, sometimes even thousands 
 of zombies. You will also eventually encounter psycopaths who are much harder to kill, and often 
 times can kill you in just two or three hits. The tension with the psycopaths usually makes the 
 game more intense and gives the game some nice variety and challenge. If there's two things Dead 
 Rising does really well with it's gameplay is that it throws a lot of enemies at you, and gives 
 you so many different things to kill them with. You can use swords, gun, tv's, chainsaws, bats, 
 and so many other little weapons, that are actually really humorous to use on the zombies. Dead 
 Rising's gameplay also has it's downsides as well. Sometimes you just feel like you're mashing 
 button after button to just kill these thousands of zombies, and the gameplay itself is really 
 repetous. Besides killing zombies all you can do is take some pictures, which is kind of neat but 
 weird at the same time. Still the core gameplay is still a lot of fun throughout in Dead Rising. 
 Graphics 8: Not the best the 360 has to offer, but the graphics do have a few great touches. The 
 lighting effects are really imppressive and the character models look great especially in the cutscnees. 
 While the graphics could use a few little improvements, they still look really good. Sound 10: 
 Dead Rising sounds absoluetly fantastic. You can litterally hear every sound of the weapons colliding 
 with zombies. You can hear blood pouring down from the zombies, heads popping off, and every other 
 little sound effect. The voice acting is solid, and the music is pretty good to, but the main area 
 where the sound shines is in the sound effects. Value 9: While not a really long game, there is 
 a lot of replay value here. Because of the open ended nature of the game, there is a good chance 
 you missed something while playing it your first time, so there really is a lot to see in the mall. 
 This game is definetly worth a buy. Tilt 9: Dead Rising has a really interesting premise and gives 
 you so much stuff to do and see, as well as a great story, but the save system is really ridiculous. 
 You can only save the game in one spot in the whole game. There are no auto saves just a very punishing 
 save system. Why did Capcom put a save system this broken in the game? Oh well it's still only 
 a minor qualm. Overall 8.7/10 Overall Dead Rising is still a great game. Its saved system combined 
 with it's repetative gameplay may prevent it from reaching it's true potentional, but even so Dead 
 Rising is an absolutely must play for anyone who likes killing zombies, or just big open ended, 
 do whatever you want games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  This is simply one of the best games out on any console it is addictive, fun, bloody however it 
 can get frustrating with the save system but that is the only thing i can thnk of and that aint 
 realy bad i just think it is an amazing game capcom are good at these games like resident evil's 
 i just love them . i will definetly get the second dead rising on the release if you aint played 
 this one i suggest you go out and buy it. Highly addictive is dead rising i am going to go on it 
 later actually. As for the achievment they are some of the best set achivment out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game is great, it alone got me to buy the Xbox360. Anyone who likes zombie games should buy 
 this. Instead of at first fighting off zombies and then fighting harder monsters. You fight a huge 
 amount of zombies all over the mall. It's just fantastic! Go grab your baseball bat or a chainsaw, 
 maybe you fancy a pistol or shotgun. It's all there, fight with a bench a trashcan or why not throw 
 CD's on the Zombies. Change costumes, save people from the zombie hordes. You maybe just want to 
 avoid fighting and keep to the camera, taking photos of zombies and people. Just remember to get 
 some food before you start searching the mall. You'll need it to stay alive once those zombies 
 come after you in their thousands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the first games i purchased for the 360 and it is somewhat quite marvellous.
 
  The fact that it is in a way really like a sandbox game giving you freedom to experiment with 
 the games objects and environment alike.
  The game gives lets you mostly do anything and use almost every object in the game, from hunting 
 knives to katanas, from hedge trimmers to lawn mowers, from pylons to pies you name it, it can 
 be used. You are a Journalist Frank West who is here to investigate the local mall yet to his horror 
 it has been over run with zombies and psychopaths. Once again the game gives you a choice to follow 
 the mainstoryline or just mess around, although you must make this choice sharpish as you are timed 
 to get to these main storyline missions. The storyline reveals why are the zombies here? . If you 
 dont follow the storyline your main job is to really rescue the living from the mall. The mall 
 is split into a numerous amount of sections giving you a huge amount of places to explore. Although 
 playing it first time is quite a challenge. There is a levelling system, this is called PP. To 
 level up you must rescue people, kill certain amounts of zombies, kill psychopaths, complete a 
 main story line mission or by taking good photos. Taking photos is one of the ways to kill time 
 as well as earn PP. There are 5 types of photos you can take. Erotica- Taking a picture which is 
 revealing say of some of the women you find if they are in a pose then take a picture of them to 
 score erotica. There are some zombies around which are wearing skimpy dresses normally erotica 
 shots come from breasts or up-skirt shots if you get my meaning
  
  Outtake- Outtake shots are for those with the sense of humour, like putting a bucket or a cone 
 on someones head then taking a picture of it would score outtake points
  
  Normal- These are no Genre shots
  
  Horror- Normally shots of a large group of zombies coming 
 at you scores horror
  
  Brutality- for those who enjoy the more violent pictures. Taking a picture of a zombie with a shower 
 head lodged in them, a knife or lead piping scores brutality. Taking a picture of a sheer amount 
 of bloodshed or gore scores this.
  
  Sounds in the game are pretty good adding an atmospheric *Groan* around the entire mall. Weapon 
 sounds are good too. Although the game is good... later on it get s a tad out of hand and somewhat 
 very difficult, for those who dont really enjoy bosses then you wont be the happiest person on 
 this game. Eventually the mall is completely swarmed with zombies basically if you dont have many 
 weapons your screwed. Where i said it gets a tad out of hand the mall gets over run by pychopaths. 
 Men in yellow jumpsuits with masks on will appear wielding knives, a maniac takes over the department 
 store so hes very handy with a blade, a maniac later takes over the large food shop, escaped convicts 
 later take over the outside area in a jeep with a large machine gun, the jumpsuit main pychopath 
 takes over movieland , a gun wielding lunatic takes over the gun shop and you must and a crazy 
 clown with dual chainsaws takes over the paradise plaza. So basically it gets increasingly tough. 
 Its not the easist game in the world in fact its one of the hardest, killing these dudes above 
 isnt always easy either. The Jumpsuit pychopaths become the most annoying. They are not hard to 
 kill if say armed with a sledgehammer but they can gas you and kidnap you and you are left bare 
 with no weapons stuck in a room with psychopaths. Another bad point is the fact how weapons break 
 fairly easy. Swords break within about 15-16 kills maybe less or a little more but then just break 
 you would think the would last a little longer, even acoustic guitars last longer than normal swords. 
 Although a good point is Frank is very customisable, change his hair, his clothes even decide if 
 you want him to wear a teddy head its up to you.
  
  Good Points-
  - large world to explore - plenty of weapons
  - decent levelling system
  - customize
  - just 
 plain fun
  - classic zombie storyline
  
  Bad points-
  - Repetitive, can get boring - gets extremely hard
  - too many psychopaths
  - weapons break 
 to easy
  
  - and Otis is the most annoying person in the world... if only you could turn off that GOD TAMN 
 RECIEVER
  overall- its an awesome game but somethings should be changed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpanishPeacock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  There's nothing like another zombie game from Capcom. As a huge RE fan, I saw the game in a magazine 
 with that Capcom logo on it, and I knew I was going to shell out $400 for a 360. The game is challenging 
 enough to make it look easy when you play it, but not so easy that you can be multitasking while 
 running through a crowd of zombies with a baseball bat. I also never realized how much fun golf 
 could be... while aiming at the walking dead. The availability of weapons is spaced very well, 
 to the point where you could even settle for a trash can for a while in between the better items. 
 A sheet of plywood? Gumball machines? Plates? when they said everything in the mall was a weapon, 
 they weren't kidding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nascarulz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Okay, Ive been missing out for almost 2 and a half years now. this game is soooooo awesome! It 
 has the best idea for a video game! Zombies+mall=F%^$^ AWESOME! Almost everything in the game is 
 at your disposal to go hunt down some zombies! I have never felt like i have really done something 
 meaningful in a game... that is until i mowed down zombies with a lawnmower, no pun intended. to 
 be honest i really didnt care about the story, i was busy having too much fun to even care about 
 anything. This game is very addicting, and will cause you to want to go to a mall soon! BUY THE 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedizsuck
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Ahh dead rising, the glorious rip off of rearge romerios great zombie movies. This game is based 
 on his best one dawn of the dead. You are frank west, a freelance photographer who has just come 
 upon the stroy of a lifetime. However you are stuck in a giant mall for 72 hours with flesh-eating 
 zombies. As the stories progresses you find out why the zombies are their and its a preety good 
 storyline but really thats not what the games about. Tis game is about the many ways you can stab, crush 
 and basically, anialate as many zombies in as many ways as possible. Truely the variety in this 
 games lifts it above an eight. The characters are good but you dont really learn alot about them, 
 the saving is widley documented as terrible and the subltitles are way too small. However dead 
 rising is one of the XBOX 360 games you must own it if you have a 360!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmul82692
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9 Extremely fun and innovative. The storyline is immersive and fun. As you increase in 
 levels, learning new abilities, being able to hold more and gaining increases in health make you 
 want to continue playing. The only downside is that mindlessly slaughtering can occasionally get 
 boring. Wait, not occasionally. RARELY. Main downside is the low number of difficult to get to 
 save spots.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Stunning, Just stunning.
  
  Sound: 10 Soundtracks and mall music create a true :Zombies are taking over and you're stuck in 
 a shopping mall atmosphere. Cutscenes Scary music can send a shiver down anyone's spine.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Worth every cent.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: 10
  
  Game: $60
  
  Xbox 360: 
 $300-$500
  
  Killing Zombies using anything in a shopping mall: Priceless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising. While not a unique concept, I can't say I've ever seen a game like it. The Premise 
 is that you are a Journalist, Frank West, going to cover an incident in Willamette, Colorado. After 
 Waiting through a Cutscene of Cheesey Jokes and mediocre Voice acting, you start taking pictures 
 of the Carnage. Eventually, you land on the mall, after a semi-dramatic chase scene. A Latino Man 
 starts leading you towards the whole Zombie theme, but frank has learning disabilities and doesn't 
 figure it out until Dr. phil comes along and starts screaming at you. Then Brad , Who seems nothing 
 like the main character from Dawn of The dead, starts yelling at you. You go to the security room, 
 and go through the thinly veiled tutorial stage, and rescue some obese people on the rooftop, and 
 take them back to the security room. And now the game really starts. The Idea is to save people 
 and learn more about whats going on.
  You save people by finding them, convincing them to join you, an escort them back to the Security 
 room. The people can give you more info, or just PP to upgrade with, so eitherway their valuable. 
 Saving people is actually very challenging, due to the number of closed gates and passageways, 
 plus the number of zombies. But the reward is ussually worth it. Saving the game, unfortunately, 
 is challenging also. I've never gotten the point of taking the save option from the startmenu and 
 putting it into a save point, but it seems to be the new thing. It's not as bad as you would be 
 led to believe. There are roughly 3 save points per section of the mall, sometimes only 2, sometimes 
 upto 4. All you've got to do is go to one of the save points and hit B. it isn't the most efficent 
 way to save a game, but it isn't the devil spawn they make it out to be. The game is pretty challenging, 
 and could take a couple of attempts to beat, but the gameplay is fun, and lets you be creative. 
 The claim use anything as a weapon is really true; you can use pipes, cash registers, pies, knives, 
 garden tools, buckets, furniture, TVs..... The story isn't award winning, but it is somewhat entertaining, 
 and helps to justify your running around. The sound: Wow. The gut wrenching cracks and crunches 
 of running things over has never been better, audio-wise. The Graphics are nice, not great, but 
 there is evidence of alot of effort, and I haven't seen ANY glitches, or tearing, or cutting or 
 anything like that. The game does tend to make your Xbox freeze, probably due to inefficent coding 
 casusing overload, but it was a launch title, so give it some respect. Overall, the game is pretty 
 good, but the simple fun of running through the mall and using everything as a WMD makes it that 
 much better.
  I give this Game A Buy! Buy! Buy! ( for Mad Money Fans) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillErmarinE15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you take the role of a photographer. Your flying in a helecopter, talking to the 
 man flying it. Talking about the town your going to with a rapidly growing grisly death rate. Flying 
 in you see the Army surronding the little town with a huge mall.
  After flying around the town a bit you see people, and dead people, walking. You see few people 
 scattered around the small town. Getting killed violently, or splattering on the ground.
  After you see the nasty deaths you spot a huge mall, you land there. You talk to a man. Asking 
 what the hell is going on. After saying saying some stupid crap he walks away.
  You wonder what is going on, it can not be civil disobedince, much to quiet. Hey guess what, their 
 zombies!
  You go into the mall meet, some people, they get eaten because some stupid old b1tch opens up the 
 door keeping them out just to get her dumb little dog. You go around the mall killing stuff, over 
 and over again. Saving random people in the midist of it. But the worst part of this game is OTIS!!!!! 
 ARGHHH SHUT UP OTIS! He calls you over and over! Killing a zombie? Otis needs to interupt. Fighting 
 a zombie? Otis calls, it does not matter to him if you get eaten alive!
  A somewhat good game with a crappy storyline. Rent it first though, you may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam_Tree
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I though this game was awesome, but it was very short. There should definitely be a second Dead 
 Rising. The best part of the game was probably the zombie killing and blood shed. The cool part 
 was that you could go do anything you want. Like, you could stop doing the missions to search for 
 survivors or you could try to get the zombie genocide achievement or you could try to take some 
 good pictures to go along with your front page story. Any way you choose to spend your 72 hours, 
 in a mall full of zombies, you will have a fun time. This is truly a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christianimaru
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  ok se que encuanto a juegos de zombies se refiere ya han salido unos tantos, y en cuando pensamos 
 en capcom pensmos en resident evil... pero, gracias a dios que esta vez capcom dejo de lado esa 
 franquicia para regalarnos este gran juego. los aldeanos que llegaste a ver en R. E 4 no son nada 
 en contra de miles de zombies estupidos que se pasean por un mall.... (estaras pensando pero son 
 estupidos ...... y yo te respondo..... LA UNION HACE LA FUERZA , no es lo mismo un aldeano o zombi 
 inteligente a 5000 zombies tontos ^_^) .
  
  la idea del juego es rescatar personas del centro comercial y hacer una que otra fotografia de 
 los hechos (el personaje principal es un fotografo) , pero mediante avanza el juego tu reto sera 
 sobrevivir a un mall que cada vez se vera mas lleno de zombies, maniacos, terroristas, y miembros 
 de un patetico culto.
  
  ahora pensaras como me defendere y la respuesta es facil...... ESTAS EN UN CENTRO COMERCIAL!!!!! 
 puedes tomar lo que quieras y partirle la cara a los zombies con lo que quieras, desde palos, bates, 
 maniquies, publicidad, armas de fuego, o lo que se te ocurra..... (te rrecomiendo visitar la ferreteria 
 durante tu paso por el mall, es genial tener miles de victimas para tu motosierra muajajaa)
  
  al final veras como te vuelves un sadico con tu control en mano y buscaras nuevas maneras de 
 matar a los zombies, pasaras horas destrullendo y te quedaras pegado a un juego que va a abrir 
 tu imaginacion destructiva....... ahhhh si tan solo mi ciudad se llenara de zombies......
  
  este mundo seria mejor con zombies......... y armas con las cuales volverlos a matar ^_^
  
  
 bueno si quieres un buen juego, horas de destruccion, matanza despiadada y largas horas de juego. 
 ya sabes que hacer...... ve por twistwed metal 2 para play 1....... naaa es broma, busca dead rising
 
  
  
  
  
  
  ps: twisted metal 2 para play uno era un juego genial..... snif, como lo  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritOf
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is an action-adventure/survival game by Capcom which would make you think that it's 
 a wannabe Resident Evil clone, and you'd be wrong, dead wrong.
  
  The only thing about Dead Rising that resembles RE is, of course, the zombies, but Dead Rising 
 takes a much campier, more Americana , approach and a very different gameplay approach. You play 
 the game as Frank West, an investigative reporter looking into the mysteries behind a strange viral 
 outbreak in the small town of Williamette, Colorado. Frank hires a helicopter pilot to drop him 
 off in Williamette at the local mall. Frank discovers zombies and a conspiracy that he needs to 
 expose and escape from within the pseudo-game world's 72 hours (the amount of time before the helicopter's 
 return) . The setup is simple, it's Dawn of the Dead: The Video Game .
  
  Where Dead Rising sets itself apart from RE though is in the overall structure of the game. The 
 clock in Dead Rising is always ticking and the game NEVER lets you forget it. To unlock the conspiracy 
 and continue the overall storyline the game hands out timed missions that give the player absolutely 
 no leeway. If you can't finish a certain story quest by the time Frank's wristwatch hits a certain 
 time limit, it's game over, mystery unsolved. Add in the facts the game throws in optional side 
 quests (99.9% of which are of the get the survivors to safety escort mission type) and a camera/picture 
 aspect to help add to your PP points (this games equivalent of EXP points) , and an unprepared player 
 could become overwhelmed pretty quickly about what to do and which order to do them in. The game 
 should really come with a warning that says something like stick with it, it gets better or don't 
 be afraid to use the save/quit option or maybe just a really good tutorial because once you get 
 past those first couple of hours, there's a lot of fun to BE had with Dead Rising. Once I discovered 
 that I could grind Frank to about level 12 or 13 and then restart the game with those saved stats 
 and levels, the game became a whole lot more fun, more approachable, and less intimidating.
  
  With that out of the way, I can't say that Dead Rising is an absolute Tickle Me Elmo experience 
 though. For a game that leans so heavily on the mechanic of escort missions, I have to say in all 
 honesty that the AI of DR's escorted has to be some of the worst in the existence of that mechanic. 
 To say that the AI is bone headed is to insult the intelligence of the zombies that you're so desperately 
 trying to save them from. They tend to get hung up on objects very easily, stand around and wait 
 to be attacked, or go out of their way to attack zombies not even within their path to freedom. 
 Add in that you can seemingly clear the immediate area of zombies, only to have a fresh batch spawn 
 within seconds RIGHT BEHIND YOU, and at times the game can have some real pull your hair out/controller 
 crushing moments. But as a generic kill the zombies sim, DR really does shines.
  
  If this game were just a multi-player hack n slash, like Gauntlet or Diablo, I would probably be 
 completely fine with it because, as long as you're killing zombie waves, DR takes it to the hoop 
 and shows you what it's made of. The weapons that can be used against the zombies, and the ways 
 it which they can be used, is practically endless. From machetes and hand guns, to shower heads 
 and cooking oil, to just plain old fisticuffs, DR just wallows in its over-the-top violence. Being 
 able to slash through a zombie army with a katana blade or send them flying with a molotov cocktail 
 is always rewarding if you're into gloriously violent gameplay. Also, for no more than I personally 
 care about them, DR's Achievement Points are set up quite nicely. Fifty achievements at twenty 
 points per achievement is a nice system for a sandbox game like DR. Some of the achievements are 
 easily attainable, while others require a lot more attention, but all seem to be doable within 
 the natural progression of the game. Only a small hand full feel forced, needless, or obstacles 
 in the way of enjoying the core gameplay.
  
  Overall the game looks pretty nice and sounds pretty nice, but in the end they didn't stand out 
 to me, or really make take notice. It's pretty impressive to see just how many zombies can get 
 crammed on the screen at one time, the different death animations, and the physics engine at work, 
 but ultimately there wasn't anything in this game that screamed next-gen to me. It's by no means 
 a bad looking game (and I thought the voice acting was surprisingly awesome) , I just found myself 
 wanting more, or at least something to make me look back on my PS2 or original Xbox as being something 
 more primitive. Dead Rising really didn't do that for me like, say, a Gears of War did.
  
  Dead Rising is a game that immediately left me with a pretty bad taste in my mouth, but which ultimately 
 grew on me to the point where it became completely enjoyable and worth my time to play through. 
 Stick with it, do some leveling, and even save/restart the game a couple of times, and the appeal 
 of Dead Rising will eventually show itself. If you can make it past that initial learning curve 
 there's a great little game underneath in Dead Rising for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunno52x5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  When i first played it i loved everything about it especially the story, and the gameplay was alright. 
 The blood efftects are pretty cool too, but after i beat it and played it for a couple more days 
 it just got to old to quick, the story was quite impressive i really enjoyed all of the cutscenes. One 
 other thing i really disliked was the stupid escort missions u had to do, they were way to aggrevating 
 if u couldnt carry them to the safe point. although it is a 360 title u should not miss, atleast 
 rent it, i promise its worth the 7$ rental fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_Sentry
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  The game is fantastic, you begin with busting in the heads of zombies thinking that it is literally 
 just fun and games. They soon incorporate a challenging and well thought story line that keeps 
 you playing until you get further into the game (mostly because you have to because time is a factor) . 
 The sound and picture quality is precise, especially if you have surround sound 5.1 and an HD television.
 
  However, after a few hours of playing in consecutively, the constant struggle of how you are going 
 to manage your time becomes blistering, and then the way to kill your enemies or do things to your 
 friends become repetitive. You find yourself using the same weapons in a specific area and they 
 just don't last.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game for those gamers who just want to go crazy and f*** around with zombies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas830
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Dead RIsing has the most original concept in the games I've experienced for 360. The cheesy movie 
 storyline and good gameplay and campaign create the foundation that makes this game solid. However, 
 this game earns such a high rating in my book because of the quantity of things to experience in 
 this game, and the hilarious possibilities the zombies, survivors and weapons make possible. Along 
 with the unlockables and special combat skills learned, it makes this game a hugely entertaining 
 experience. So, I recommend this game to everyone. Now, go find the truth behind the incident at 
 Willamette Parkview Mall. The Mega Man unlockables help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the story of a free lance news reporter named Frank who hears of a possible story 
 to cover in an unheard of town. As he enters the town in a helicopter it is clear something has 
 gone wrong. The general story of the game is Frank trying to find out exactly what happened with 
 the help of some survivors.
  
  The gameplay seems as though itll be really interesting at first. But they kind of just keep piling 
 on the gameplay mechanics until you almost forget how to do something. The idea of having 3 days 
 to do everything seems interesting as well but then there comes a million time constraints that 
 just make the game more stressful than it should be. The zombies are as easy to kill as you would 
 think either. If you feel like taking time off out of trying to complete missions before your time 
 runs out on them to kill zombies, you will quickly lose all your weapons as they break much more 
 easily than they should. The missions are also really difficult, even early on. The shooting isnt 
 as precise as you would expect either. There is also an experience bar that you are always trying 
 to fill up to gain levels. You can do this by taking a variety of different pictures that represent 
 a certain theme, by hitting benchmarks for killed zombies such as 100 or 500. The camera mechanic 
 is honestly too much in my opinion. You can get experience using the camera but to earn anything 
 significant is really rare or difficult to make up yourself. The graphics are actually pretty good. 
 Theres lots of blood and stuff like that. The mall does really look like a mall but much bigger 
 and it does have a huge variety of stores. They do a good job of making the mall look authentic. 
 The onscreen presentation of everything looks pretty good too, until you have to read text. Most 
 of the text in the game is way too small, making some of it hard to read before it disappears. 
 The sound is great as well. The voice acting is generally good along with any music they have in 
 the game. Some convey a sense of panic while others serve to portray a person in the area such 
 as the convicts riding around in the truck in leisure park. All in all i didnt like the game for 
 the time i played it nearly as much as i thought i would. To me the time constraints were just 
 too much. If the game was slightly more linear without the time problems (something like grand theft 
 auto i suppose) it would have been much better. Still this game is great if you can get past the 
 time problems, and its still a recommendable title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golasta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was extremely curious this is because my friend told me that it was 
 fun but not fun enough to keep playing it for a long period of time.
  
  So when I played it I was stunned. So much work has been put into this game. The graphics are superb (especially 
 the cartcines) . The sound is just terrific when zombies surround you it makes you feel really clostraphobic. 
 Killing Zombies is obviously the main attraction to the game but besides that it has to have a 
 fun in depth story with interesting characters, easy to follow story line which makes sence and 
 it has to flow it does all of this and it does it brilliantly. However for me the best part is 
 the the overtime mode which many reviewers just seemed to ignore. In overtime mode you have to 
 you see the the helocopter has crashed so you are stranded somehow frank catches the virus and 
 has to get rid of it by colecting all sorts of items ranging blenders to perfume bottles. This 
 is the first part the next part you go to fight the trechorous goverment trying to cover up the 
 zombie outbreak.
  
  I like dead ring because of it's depth, fun it's a challenge and replayable gameplay yet it does 
 suffer in that the save system borderlines on crap but that is probably my only criticisim. Oh 
 yeah if you complete overtime mode you get infinite mode which is a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Though Dead Rising may seem like a simple, mindless game when you first pick it up, it eventually 
 reveals itself as a deeper experience. Tons of extras are packed into Willamette's shops, there 
 are magazine power-ups and special drink mixes to be brewed, lots of clothing combinations, countless 
 pictures to be taken and plenty of NPCs to be saved. The game provides an incentive for every aspect, 
 making each worth pursuing. It's a game that somehow remains cohesive despite having so many seemingly 
 unrelated elements. The save system means you're going to be playing through the 72 Hour and Overtime 
 modes multiple times, but at least along the way you'll level up, get the best ending, nab more 
 achievements, and get better scores on the Xbox Live leaderboards. With a better save system, more 
 intelligent NPCs, a more forgiving story progression, and tighter controls, Dead Rising could have 
 been even more fun than it already is. Even despite those issues, after several times through it's 
 impossible to deny the appeal inherent in slaughtering Willamette's zombified shoppers. Now if 
 only there was a cooperative mode. We suppose we'll have to wait for the sequel, if Capcom decides 
 to make one. As it stands, Dead Rising is one of the more unique and entertaining titles on the 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a hard game that requires patience, skill and lots of replaying. The graphics are 
 sharp and near-movie quality, especially in the the bevvy of cut-scenese, and the zombie killing 
 mechanics are wacky and fun all the way through.
  
  It's quite easy to find yourself in the restart-hell mode where making a slightly wrong move results 
 in total stoppage of play and restarting. Which, in case you didn't already know, is not fun.
 
  
  The very first boss of Dead Rising had me stumped for far too long and I got quite aggravated at 
 it, not being able to figure out where to move to, to kill the damned fool! The rest of the bosses 
 are much of the same frustrating hardness.
  
  It's hard NOT to like Dead Rising, but one must be extremely patient and calculating in liking 
 it. However, the opening scene of taking photographs of stranded individuals in the zombie overrun 
 town is a great way to pull you in and make you want more more more.
  
  Overall, it's a quality title, but why must games have such high difficulty levels these days ? 
 Is that what is considered fun ? NOt in my book!
  
  I've found that due to the storage size of DVD games, even when games are easy it still takes many 
 hours just to complete it. That's what people really want when they play games.... they want an 
 interactive movie that's challenging for the brain, not challenging (or impossible) for the hands 
 to do! Dead Rising is just that, hard hard hard in spots, but a wacky and fun adventure in between 
 the hardness.
  
  Choose Wisely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael-Redd-22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I first saw this game, I believed that it would be special. I loved seeing the 
 many different ways to kill a zombie, not to mention the vast amount of these undead creatures 
 just going around the mall, waiting to be destroyed. I admit, I was incredibly excited when I finally 
 had a chance to play the game. But, in reality, this game is pretty average in every aspect (except 
 the zombie killing itself) . Dead Rising places you into the shoes of Frank West, a freelancing 
 photojournalist who's goal is to find out what exactly is happening in Willamette, Colorado. The 
 story is being hidden from the world, and Frank wants to find out what exactly is going on, so 
 he may become famous. It appears to be at first a riot, but our hero quickly learns that most riots 
 don't include undead people walking around, hoping to consume the flesh of the living. Many people 
 assumed that the storyline in Dead Rising wasn't going to be any good, but I find it to be interesting, 
 and for the most part it does really draw you in. Considering this was developed for the 360, most 
 of you would probably assume that this would be a great looking game. But, unsurprisingly, it's 
 not. Why would I say unsurprisingly? Because of the sheer amount of zombies that can be killed. 
 53,594 undead, to be exact. And considering just how many can be on the screen at times, it was 
 necessary to tone down the graphics a bit (and this also prevents slowdown, which is just awesome) . 
 Still, that's not to say this is a horrible looking game. It really reminds me of the graphical 
 style used in Resident Evil 4 (made by Capcom, the developer of this game) . The character models 
 look pretty good, and the environments aren't too bad either. Also, all of the cut scenes in the 
 game are done with the in-game engine, so everything looks pretty good, but it won't really impress 
 you. Still, there are much better looking next-gen games than this, but with all the action, it's 
 understandable. One of the larger problems is the text. Although the cut scenes have voice work, 
 everything outside of that must be read. And unless you have an HDTV, you'll be forced to sit close 
 to the screen and hope that you'll be able to read it. I'm sorry, I realize that HDTV is becoming 
 the way of the future, but honestly, not everyone has one, and developers have to realize this, 
 because others will be forced to suffer due to bad design choices. For those who have an HDTV, 
 Dead Rising does support up to 1080i, which does make everything much sharper looking. All of the 
 special effects, from the blood gushing from zombies (or you!) to the bullet fired from a gun, 
 to the sight of a shower hose being stuffed into your enemies' skull as the blood showers down 
 to the floor, is great. If they make a second Dead Rising, hopefully the polish in the special 
 effects is just as great as in this game. One area which is pretty hard to mess up is sound, and 
 luckily, Dead Rising does pretty well. Every sound you'd expect to hear is present, from the sound 
 of a bullet being fired from your gun to the sound of a bat smashed into the face of a zombie is 
 here. Even those light tunes you would normally hear in a mall are in this game. Still, the songs 
 they decided to put in, are pretty annoying. It isn't real music, just little bits of music with 
 crappy lyrics. The voice acting on the other hand, is actually pretty good! The dialogue is appropriate 
 for the situation, and the voice work makes it all seem sensible and realistic. For once, it isn't 
 incredibly annoying sitting through cut scenes listening to people babble on, and that's always 
 a good thing. Still, you must be wondering this by now: what's the gameplay like?! Well, I'm happy 
 to report that Dead Rising is everything you could hope for. If you see an item lying around the 
 mall, chances are you'll be able to use it as a weapon. From your average gun to a 2 x 4, or even 
 a rubber teddy bear, this game is both humorous and incredibly addictive. Still, it doesn't go 
 without flaws. Dead Rising goes for the over-the-shoulder approach, made famous by Resident Evil 
 4, but for some reason it just doesn't work quite as well. Still, you don't really use it all the 
 frequently except when wielding guns, so it's not that big a deal. The premise is this: you have 
 72 hours to go around the mall, saving people, killing zombies, but most importantly, getting pictures 
 and learning what the hell is going on. Every button on the 360 controller is put to use in this 
 game. Luckily, everything works very smooth, which is a testament to the overall design of Dead 
 Rising. Overall, this is the complete package. Sure, the visuals and the audio may not be great, 
 and the story might not draw you in, but the gameplay is good enough that in the end you won't 
 care. If you're in need of a good 360 title, this is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-money4000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  It is basically a video game tack off of dawn of the dead but yet this game is more fun than watching 
 the movie. u can basically use any wepon this was a great game u keep track on how many zombies 
 u killed u have choices to either follow the stories missons or say to hell with them and work 
 alone. the graphics arent out of this world but they are preaty solid. i thought that the big fat 
 cop joe was a dude but the graphics were good enough to make a dude who looks like a lady. i would 
 call it hard in some places like the boss battles and the phycos that walk around the mall but 
 with all the fire power u have u should be able to take care of it. CHOP TILL THEY DROP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniGuns
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game for the Xbox 360. It is sort of based off the cult film Dawn of the Dead. 
 You play as a wartime photojournalist named Frank West that is looking for the next big story of 
 the century. Frank gets a tip that something big is going to happen in the small town of Willamette, 
 Colorado. When Frank West gets to the small town of Colorado he finds biggest story you can get 
 the undead rising. He tells the pilot drop him off at the mall and pick him up in three days. As 
 he enters the mall he finds a band of survivors trying to barricade the door from the undead. When 
 Hank tells him to find supplies to barricade the doors the undead break in start attacking the 
 living or anything in their way. Frank Degets pass the hundreds of undead in his way to the stairways. 
 When he gets up the stairs he is confronted by Brad (Homeland Security Agent) . Frank asks Brad 
 what happening but Brad says he doesnt know what is happening. When he reaches the security room 
 Otis welds the entrance door to the security room so no undead can get in.
  
  That is a taste of the story of Dead Rising. As l stated in the first sentence of my review its 
 an Xbox 360 game and a good one. Frank West can use anything in the mall of Willamette up to guitars 
 to guns and my favorite the samurai sword. In the game there are about fifty survivors in the mall 
 that find can only find on a certain day. As you play the game Otis calls you not only about where 
 survivors are but the location of psychopaths you can dodge or decide to fight to the death. When 
 you defeat enough psychopaths in the game you unlock points towards your Game score card and your 
 XBL live account you can use to buy games or wallpaper. Also if you defeat psychopaths you can 
 get some special weapons that will help you a lot during the game. When you progress in the game 
 more of the undead get into the mall and it gets a lot harder to get around the mall.
  
  Around day two in the game the convicts break into the park of the mall with a military jeep armed 
 with a M60 machine gun and cult members decide to kill the unclean (Frank) . As I stated in the 
 psychopaths sentence you can dodge them or fight them to the death. On day three the special forces 
 come in to clean up the mess by killing every little thing in their way and they bring a new weapon 
 with them a M16 or M4 machine gun. Also on day three Frank makes his escape from the hellhole of 
 the mall with all the people he saved during the three days. If you beat all the cases during the 
 three days you get a mode named Overtime Mode. In Overtime mode you get then extra day in the because 
 he have been infected with the virus that turns the living into the undead. As you continue the 
 story in Overtime you find out that the queen bees (the ones who spread the virus) also have the 
 cure in their body. Dead Rising is a great game to get achievement points and the game play is 
 superb because of the very set up controls. Also the AI of the enemies and bosses are one very 
 tough to fight off. In my opion on the music during the boss battles that is it great that they 
 got some good indie bands and artists to make music for the battle fights. In the end Dead Rising 
 is a must own if you own a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Well here we go, zombies and lots of em.
  
  With the arrival of Next gen consoles you would expect a game of such magnitude to come out, wouldn't 
 you?
  
  Dead Rising delivers what Zombie fans only watched and dreamed about, with a population of 53,000+ 
 people, you'd expect there to be a fatal mistake, like resident evil, your confronted with 4 enemies 
 a time. Dead Rising offers multiple enemies on screen, (understatement, there's hundreds!) which 
 gives you the idea to run into them, and become a rambo right? wrong! the enemy catch you quickly 
 and you quickly die. You must think your way through a mall, and you thought zombies were bad, 
 Clowns with Chainsaws? a strange cult wearing bio suits? not all is what it seems, you must find 
 survivors to unlock achievements.. great!
  
  The clock is ticking, you have a time limit, until you escape, in multiple endings, so dont worry, 
 its plenty of time.
  
  Weapons are Numerous throughout the game, katana's, shotgun's, you know your going to have fun, 
 but even mindless zombie slaughtering can get boring, so the play back value gets a pretty low 
 score.
  
  Driving, and the maintanence tunnel.
  
  Car park, Motorbike, Car, Truck, Maintanence tunnel full to the brim with zombies, more mindless 
 violence in order, but remember cars can be destroyed, and being stuck in tunnel with zombies is 
 like aparty with cannibals!
  
  so overall the game has qualities that make it very entertaining, but some silly falws in the game, 
 and the boring scenario your faced with after a few hours of gameplay, prevent it being amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Capcom's Dead Rising for the Xbox 360 is a cross between Resident Evil and State of Emergency, 
 only without the random scares of Resident Evil and the complete chaos of State of Emergency. The 
 game is all about zombie killing in a ton of bizarre and gory ways, and also surviving.
  
  Dead Rising has a very simple goal: survive for three days (72 hours) in this zombie-infested mall 
 and find out what the heck is going on. You play as Frank, a photojournalist who is trying to uncover 
 the terror behind the zombie attack, and ultimately reel in the ultimate scoop of the whos and 
 whys. The game begins with Frank in a helicopter over the city en-route to the mall, and you will 
 have several opportunities along the way to photograph various events such as zombies raiding a 
 school bus and a gas station exploding with zombies nearby. You will soon land on the mall roof 
 and a cutscene will take over, somewhat explaining what exactly is happening, as though it's not 
 already obvious. You will soon learn from the future cutscenes is that there is something much 
 bigger going on than meets the eye. You must uncover these hidden things and escape by helicopter 
 while surviving the three days. Frank always has his camera out so you can take quick snapshots 
 to gain PP, which is to increase your level and thus gain new skills and power. His other hand 
 is free to take hold of anything else: a katana, a battle axe (actually Jack will use two hands 
 for bigger weapons) , a lawnmower, a sledgehammer, a hanger, music CDs, gems, vases, shotguns, handguns, 
 purses, cash registers, benches, fire extinguishers, television sets, etc. The game's unique set 
 of weapons also doesn't just include the blatant killing of zombies. Sometimes the weapon will 
 have a special use. For example: a large umbrella on a stand can be used as a shield so Frank can 
 plow headlong into a zombie throng and run them over. Or perhaps using an ordinary clothes hangar 
 to jam into the mouth of a zombie and watch them bleed. The mall is the perfect setting for this 
 game. With all the stores you are sure to find something to bludgeon or impale a zombie or ten 
 with. Finding an antique store will net you access to old battleaxes and katanas, toy stores will 
 net you toy bats, and jewelry stores let you chuck handfulls of jewels at zombies. The game's variety 
 is second to none, and not even including weapon selection you can cook/eat food, use machines, 
 drive vehicles, ride skateboards, etc. There is so much to do in this game you will have a hard 
 time deciding where to go. You better not stand still while thinking because zombies are attracted 
 to you -- in the flesh-eating, brain-snacking way. When you first begin Frank is slow and runs like 
 a club-footed man, but when you start to level up your abilities will increase such as speed, strength, 
 and other things such as inventory space. So until you really start leveling up you'll feel really 
 weak against the tons of zombies you need to cut through, and it is very fortunate that you begin 
 as a character who can easily avoid the slow-moving undead throng. Though things get pretty hectic 
 where you have an upwards of one to one hundred and fifty zombies on-screen. Leveling up is done 
 by killing zombies, completing quests, and doing odd things like using the seven (I think) treadmills 
 to get a big PP boost. So in the long run leveling up is made fun because killing zombies in hundreds 
 of ways is just plain cool. The maingame may even feel like a bonus because just about everywhere 
 you turn about twenty zombies are staggering and limping toward you. An interesting element I just 
 began using was barricading myself. Frank can pick up large objects like benches and chairs and 
 just drop them, so this is handy if you need to block the opening of somewhere if overwhelmed. 
 Controls in the game are seemingly-sluggish when you first begin, but when you get the hang of 
 it it will become a whole lot easier to get things done. There is one issue, however, that must 
 be addressed. The game has a good save feature, as Frank can save his game at any restroom, but 
 this does not help the case files. These files are missions that Frank must play through to complete 
 the game, but here's the hitch: if Jack fails just one case then all the others after are also 
 failed. It's a stupid system, but since the game is based on a 72-hour time period failing just 
 one event would, as dumb as it seems, realistically would goof up the rest. As a real bonus Frank 
 can gain new clothes from clothes stores like dress suits, athletic uniforms, action figure outfits, 
 and even a woman's dress. So if you so desired you can run around in a pink dress with a handpurse.
 
  
  Graphics are done very well both in-game and in cutscenes. Cutscenes come usually before and after 
 a case file is completed, or when a pivotal moment occurs. Zombie killing is what you'll be doing 
 90% of the game. A testimony to the game's graphical power would be sometimes masses of zombies 
 are standing/walking around in the mall and are all onscreen at once. Stores are unique according 
 to their wares and the mall does a good job of looking different in each wing and also containing 
 landmarks for Frank to use along the way. Other character models in the game are done just as well, 
 including the hardened Brad or the really hot geek babe Jesse. They will make expressions according 
 to what is happening at that moment. The game throws in the element of the lights going out at 
 night, but this doesn't make the game any more terrifying. The game isn't even very frightening 
 in the first place like you would expect from Resident Evil, and dousing the lights only kind of 
 makes it more of a pain to see where you are going. Anyway, you will enjoy chopping up those zombies 
 and being splattered with blood.
  
  Sound is pretty good. We have great voice actors for those involved, but the zombies use just the 
 standard grunt when they lunge at you. There's some music in the game. During the day there's a 
 funny mall music , the kind you might hear in a mall. When using weapons the sound actually shines. 
 You'll hear the gooey slash of the katana against undead flesh and the crunchy chop of large battleaxes 
 against cliques of undeads. All in all sound is nothing special, until you start sweeping up zombie 
 points.
  
  The game is very fun to play. It can be very difficult trying to ward off the undead, and it can 
 be quite frustrating if you're not careful. Then again it can be a total joy to play, staying constantly 
 on the run from those things. You'll probably want to go back through the game again, only this 
 time with the stats of your previous character. I would recommend this game to anyone bent on zombie 
 killing or who loves Capcom. Same thing, I guess.
  
  Anyone who liked Resident Evil will like this game. Zombie killing, staying alive, collecting items, 
 gaining levels, earning new skills, etc. This game is very original and very fun. Don't miss out 
 on the zombie-killing action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiite
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the coolest zombie game ever. If you liked the movie Dawn of the Dead, they you 
 will love this game, instead of watching people survive in a mall full of the living dead you will 
 be able to play it.
  
  Tons of stores where anything is your weapon and resuraunts where there are all sorts of ways to 
 make food to regain health. You can even change your oufit in tons of the store. The Xbox Achievements 
 are really fun to complete, and some just so weird and funny.
  
  The zombies are slow and weak in the day but at night they will be able to out smart you and become 
 even stronger and deadly, they will also make the mall have blackouts which are very cool.
  
  The health and saving systems need some work, there was too little health even at maximum, 
 and the saving was just dumb, a free-saving option from the pause screen would have been cool. 
 Also, I didn't like the fact that you were always timed, the missions were cool but sometimes i 
 just wanted to kill zombies all day without having to worry. But the option of starting the game 
 over with all your experience and moves after you die was cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  The game sucks i didnt like how you died so easy because i wud be whooping on like 10 dudes with 
 a cash rejester and all of a suden a dude comes behind me and grabs till i die. So to me it was 
 just pointless, i also didnt like how you had to save ppl tht always got killed and the taking photos 
 were dumb how are you going to take photos when your being attacked. The things i did like is how 
 you can watch the cut scenes of ppl being attacked or killed like in the beginning where the girl 
 is being attacked by 5 guys and just falls of the building LOL =] ] ] ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onedia-f-ball21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Its just plain fun! you could play it for hours and not get board. ITS AMAZING GRAPHICS!! Just 
 try not to die as much as you can becuse the game is just sooo hard like the bosses. God it takes 
 forever :* ( . Youll have a lot of fun playing it though. There are so many wepons in the game shot 
  I like it game play is fun, endings will blow your mind!!! My fav 
 wepon is a SNIPER RIFLE you can BLOW THERE HEADS OF, YOU CAN GET A JACK HAMMER, A DRILL, HAMMERS, 
 FIRE AXES, KITAANS SWORDS, HUNTING KNIFES, TOYS ALL KINDA OF CRAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herrix
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  I like Stubbs the Zombie and all, but for I while now I've been longing for a game in which I'd 
 have the chance to bash a flower pot over his head and those of all his zombie converts. Dead Rising 
 was supposed to give me that chance, but after struggling through mission after tedious mission 
 of escorting stupid friendly AI through undead-infested shopping areas, shooting at seemingly invincible 
 enemy human beings, and squinting at the barely legible oncreen text prompts which should have 
 been voice-overs, it looks like I'm going to have to keep longing.
  
  The game begins interestingly enough, with you leaning out the open door of a helicopter photographing 
 a small town in the midst of a zombie epidemic, which (I thought) serves as your camera tutorial 
 before you actually have to go out and fight zombies. Then, shortly after you land, you are prompted 
 to undertake another camera tutorial which involves you photographing a cocky young journalist 
 over and over again until the game finally decides you have a good enough shot for you to stop. 
 I finally decided the point of all this nonsense was to infuriate me to a point at which I was 
 finally mentally prepared to kill lots and lots of zombies.
  
  The good news is, that's the good part of the game. Bad news, it's the only good part. Killing 
 zombies, and lots of them. Zombies fill the mall without slowing down the action, and they look 
 nice and gory. They also move like zombies you see in films of the same genre, picking up severed 
 limbs, falling flat on their faces when they encounter uneven terrain or stairs, and lunging clumsily 
 at you whenever you come too close. Beating them down is fun as well, but it's only a little more 
 diverting as engaging pedestrians in hand-to-hand combat was in the 3d GTA games. You have plenty 
 of weapons to use, both potent and ineffective. You can even throw food at the creatures or spit 
 on them if you're unarmed. It doesn't have much of an effect but it's still somewhat fun to do. 
 However, you'll probably tire of this after a while and want to go straight to the missions.
  
  This is where, like the aforementioned zombies, the game falls flat on its face. The missions 
 mostly involve either escorting a survivor to safety, which is a done one, done 'em all deal, or 
 engaging a psychopath or enemy human in an unlikely firefight. First of all, the game's controls 
 are great for targeting zombies, but they're just not built for strategic gunplay. The protagonist, 
 Frank, cannot move while aiming and cannot crouch at all, and that makes the simple task of running 
 from cover, targeting the enemy and firing before going back into hiding seem clumsy and tedious. 
 Also, the people you have to fight are ridiculously immune to bullets - even more so than the zombies, 
 and that's just wrong. Shooting a zombie in the head once will drop it to the ground, but I've 
 seen these psychopaths survive more than fifteen bullets to the skull. One such encounter involved 
 a trio of convicts who, in the short time since they escaped, somehow managed to commandeer a military 
 vehicle similar to Halo's warthog, mounted turret and all. This fight was all but impossible due 
 to the vehicle's maneuverability and Frank's lack of finess in gun battles. Finally, the vehicle 
 became stuck by a lake and I was able to take out the gunman by emptying my gun into his head, 
 then I repeated with the driver, who sat still through the process while I unloaded point-blank 
 range into his face until he finally died. Before I could take out the passenger, I ran out of 
 bullets and had to find a zombified security guard and take his gun so I could run back to the 
 vehicle and kill the psycho, who was still sitting there like a moron. In this day and age of gaming, 
 such dull AI and such blatant health augmentation to cover it up are simply inexcusable.
  
  Unfortunately, friendly AI characters share the same immunity to gunfire. And I say unfortunately 
 because just suppose, hypothetically, I take it upon myself to execute one of the survivors I find 
 annoying. Bullets bounce almost harmlessly off their skulls as well, and I know this because I 
 eventually grew weary of photographing that retarded camera-happy kid and decided to shoot him 
 my own way. The gunshot to the temple only inched his health bar down a little bit, but he responded 
 with a wimpy karate kick that somehow emptied my health bar to half. Another bothersome detail 
 is that most of the in-game conversations held between characters lack voice overs, and instead 
 provide a small text prompt with such a small font that you need a magnifying glass to read it. 
 Maybe I've been spoiled by most current-gen games, but to see two characters just staring at each 
 other for a full two minutes when they're supposed to be talking just looks goofy.
  
  One more thing, it's possible to run out of time on missions before you accept them, and this brings 
 a sense of tension that you're on a constant itinerary rather than just free-roaming through the 
 mall. It's not helped by the fact that the game has only one save slot per profile. It's as though 
 the save system and the story structure are constantly working against one another, and that makes 
 playing through the game more of a chore than it should be.
  
  Long story short, the developers made some really poor choices when making this game. Just make 
 sure you don't make a worse choice by purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy90
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  it is a very entertaining game. with 50 achievements and an in-depth plot one can always find things 
 to do in this game aside from mindlessly killing zombies ( that is quite fun as well ) the game 
 however is held back by stupid ai of the survivors. they are noticibly stupider than zombies and 
 cannot defend themselves and also tend to get hung up on walls and may even run in circles. since 
 survivors are a key element of the game this affects gameplay in a negative way. other than that 
 a very good game. Infinity mode which is a secondary way to play is entertaining buy the lack of 
 a save system in that mode really hurts the fun that can be had 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game, put it on, and it blew my mind totally. I've always wanted a game that runs along 
 the same line as Night Day and Dawn of the dead trilogy and i think this is the closest a man can 
 get.
  
  Gameplay: Basically you run around a mall killing zombies with pretty much anything around you. 
 From shotguns to rocks on the floor there is all kinds of things to send your imagination wild. 
 Then you go around beating the crap out of them and watch your zombie counter pile up a total. 
 But there is more to this game than that, you have 72 hours till your chopper arrives so in that 
 time you can run threw a story and do boss battles on crazy people (and i mean nuts!) or do side 
 missions and save people then bring them to your safe house. Combat is a breeze it pretty much 
 works the same as resi 4 (over the shoulder view) but you also have a crap load of fun and weird 
 moves you can unlock as you progress threw the game.
  
  Sound: This is a total treat, it basically sounds just how you would expect a sickle to the head 
 to sound, Bloody brutal!. Voice acting is strong and the soundtrack is awesome too.
  
  Graphics: Oh yes they are awesome. Imagine 100 zombies on the screen at one time and the framerate 
 doesn't even twitch. Amazing. The sky looks great character models lighting all brilliant stuff.
 
  
  **** box: Main issues with the game is it can be incredibly frustrating in boss battles or if you 
 want to try and get away alive from a crowd of zombies with no health items. The save system is 
 the main flaw, as in it is totally broke. Random save points and then there is the fact you only 
 have one save slot and if you save at the wrong time and you have about 10 seconds to get to a 
 storyline, call it curtains for you ol'lad because your done.
  
  Overall: This game is amazing and in some lights makes resi games look like ass, strong story great 
 graphics and outstanding sound but most of all fun and original which is important in a competative 
 market. BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevy619
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Honestly Dead Rising is although highly rated, still underrated. One reason for this is although 
 saving survivors can be annoying after a while it isnt actually neccessary to save ppl to beat 
 the game, and if you want to make it easier just give survivors a gun and they will defend themselves. 
 The save system works just fine and combined with the time limits gives the game an old school 
 feel where the player must think before they act. The game has alot of replayability as there are 
 a lot of hidden bosses, items, and unlockables (you can even unlock a megaman megablaster!) . The 
 story is actually very well done and the cutscenes are well done and never drag on. The actual 
 gameplay control works very well, you start off a bit slow but soon will level up to move faster 
 and gain new moves and so on. Moreover, you also level things like health, how many items you can 
 carry, and damage you inflict per attack. My advise is to play this game a few hours before you 
 judge it, once you get into it its really hard to put it down. From a technical standpoint this 
 game looks beautiful, there will be hundreds of zombies on screen at times and it never causes 
 any slowdown. The sound effects are amazing and unmatched thus far, and the minimilistic approach 
 with the music works very well considering theres always zombies groaning and being splattered 
 etc.. Bottom line, if you own an Xbox 360 this is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adompe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  OK, I first tried playing Dead Rising back when it came out with my g/f. I know it's a single player 
 game, but we played together with one of us reading online guides and the other actually playing. 
 And we took turns this way. The game seemed too hard and we eventually stopped playing. But this 
 weekend we picked it up again and haven't been able to put it down. If you want a GTA style experience 
 with a cool storyline &amp; crazy zombie killin, then check this out. I gave the game a high learning 
 curve and difficulty only b/c if you don't know what's going on in terms of where weapons are, 
 or certain keys (uh, the maintainence key is in the tunnel) , and making potions then it can be 
 quite frustrating in the beginning. Make sure to check out gamespot's game guide and read the first 
 few cases, scoop missions, and general info. Also, look up Dead Rising videos on youtube; there's 
 a number of good ones showing you how to achieve hard to reach achievements. I know all this may 
 sound like more work than fun, but trust me, gunnin down zombies and spec-ops guys and savin the 
 world is for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of zombie films ever since I saw the original dawn of the dead and the remake was 
 I believe very underrated. This game pays homage to everything that is george a. romero it has 
 all his classic elements from the films fromt he scared and arrogant survivors all the way to the 
 zombies re-enacting their old life e. g. pushing shopping trolleys around. I have played this game 
 through over 5 times now and I constantly find something new every single time. It also adds a 
 very basic RPG elemtn to it where Frank can level up from the PP points you obtain from killing 
 zombies and taking photos of the carnage. I give this game 10/10 because it takes survival horror 
 to another level. No need for dark corridors and things that jump out at you. The sheer feeling 
 of being completely overwhelmed by hordes of zombies and nowhere to hide is scary enough. What 
 would have made this game even better is if the main character, Frank, was voiced by Bruce Campbell. 
 I would hace given it more than 10/10 for that then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Capcom are known for there horror games which is mainly Resident Evil series we all know and love 
 (if you have heard of Resident Evil where have you been for the last 11 years) . Capcom tried a 
 kid game called Under The Skin which was ok for Capcom but Resident Evil's are so much better. 
 Dead Rising was released in 2006 and was welcomed by players well. If you have seen Dawn of The 
 Dead then this will sound similar, you play as a photojournalist called Frank West who is looking 
 for his big break in a small town called Willamette which has nothing of interest but a mall which 
 has a lot of rioters around the building. Frank lands on the roof of the mall and when he goes 
 inside he is told that everyone outside are zombies and that there can't get in, (yeah right) a 
 women sees her dog outside and breaks the door open and the zombies start eatting everyone around 
 you. Now with 72 hours until you can be picked up you have a chose fight the zombies or hide. What 
 i found the best bit is the fact you don't have to do the story at all you can go aroung for the 
 full 72 hours and kill all of the zombies which is what i have always wanted Resdient Evil to have. 
 This is a great game that 360 owners will love if you are a Resident Evil fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  You are in a shopping mall. You need to rescue people hiding in stores. You need to get to them 
 while fighting off thousands of zombies with what ever you can find. This game sounds pretty simple, 
 and it is. You just go around and save people while killing zombies. You can pick up virtually 
 anything to whack the undead with. There are many funny things you can do to the zombies. The weapons 
 vary from toy laser swords to chainsaws to weights to women's purses. Later in the game you can 
 even do cool kung-fu moves. You can change your clothes. You can take pictures. There are many 
 things to do, but mowing zombies down with a lawn mower, may seems fun, but killing zombies just 
 gets boring after a while. Everytime you get a new weapon, it's fun to take a couple zombies out 
 with it, but after that, it gets repetitive. You can take them down in nearly infinate ways, but 
 theres not much stragedy or thinking you need to do. The story is pretty good, and the graphics 
 are the best i've ever seen. Every zombie looks different, the water looks fantastic, and the envoirments 
 look real. The best graphics ever. The blood looks real too. The blood stains your shirt, the ground, 
 and the envoirment. This is the most violent game i've ever played. I'm not a fan of overlly violent 
 games, which is why I don't think this game is great, but for you it might be different. The sound 
 is cool too. The save system isn't great, though. Overall, this is a good game that is worth renting 
 if you like bloody games where you do nothing but kill. But for me, I could have lived without 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dasilvazsd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  good: Great graphics, tons of cool weapons to take out zombies, and best of all it has a great 
 storyline.
  
  bad: Hard to find a save point at times, no on-line co-op or deathmach
  
  If you like zombies and shopping malls this is the game for you. It starts out with the main character 
 Frank West taking pics of a town from a helicopter from what seems to be a riot. Killing zombies 
 from anything from a mega man gun to a LCD T. V.. The graphics are top par for an xbox 360 game 
 and the shopping mall has great detail. You wont be disappointed with the hours of fun you will 
 have playing dead rising for hours and hours. So if your a fan of games with extreme gore and blood 
 and you enjoy movies like land of the dead you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imperial_agent
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought the 360 just so I can play Dead Rising, and it was well worth it.
  
  The game is original. It's fun. It's got a kick ass premise. The graphics are amazing.
  
  This 
 is simply one of the best games I have ever played, and believe me I've been playing games since 
 NES. I'm old school. Nothing comes close to Dead Rising in terms of sheer bloody fun, replayability, 
 creativity and originality.
  
  I love this game. Can't wait to get Dead Rising 2 if it ever comes out. If you like killing zombies, 
 this game will simply blow you away. Fun fun fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disclaim3r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  So, we're in a Zombie infested mall and have a bunch of items at our disposal. First instinct would 
 be to kill them all, but it's not that simple. Dead Rising turns a lot of people off because of 
 the tedious nature of the game, because sure, killing zombies for hours on end is fun for a while, 
 but it gets real old real fast. That's why if you're planning to get this game to just spend hours 
 bashing in zombies heads with every object you can, you won't get much out of this great title. 
 If you delve into the story and help survivors though, it can be one of the best games you've ever 
 played.
  
  You begin the game as Frank West, a stereotypical American journalist, just dieing to get a fresh 
 bite of the scoop (Pardon the awful pun) . He arrives in Willamette to find it infested with flesh 
 hungry zombies, something I doubt he was hoping for. Frank is dropped off at the shopping mall, 
 not a really an idle place to be for something like this. Though, being the hardcore freelance 
 he is, he decides this is the perfect scoop to take home to the press. So begins your adventures 
 in the luxurious Willamette shopping mall!
  
  The game's main innovation is not really the sandbox style gameplay, but rather the set-up of how 
 missions are done. Missions, or Scoops are scripted events that are triggered by what time and 
 day it is in the mall. Frank's got exactly 72 hours to find his goods and make it out of there 
 alive. The only problem is, you're not the only one in the mall! So, many of the Scoops are compromised 
 of running around taking the mall dwellers back to the security room, the only non-infested portion 
 of the mall. This can eventually get tedious, but the thrill of racing the clock to get to the 
 next scoop in time while a survivor is being ganked by a huge group of zombies makes up for it. 
 Missions that move the story along are called Case Files, but are spaced out well enough to allow 
 you time to save survivors while you're waiting for the next case. The thing is, Scoops and Case 
 Files will time out if you let them sit for too long, usually ending with the death of a survivor 
 or the loss of vital info, which is basically a game over. The main problem with this mechanic 
 is that if you mess up and find yourself will too little time, you'll have to start the game over 
 completely. It even has an option to save your status and start the game over with all your statistics 
 intact (I. E. Health, special attacks) . The fact it needs this option is actually kind of crazy, 
 but it's something that defines the game as it's own.
  
  The Graphics in Dead Rising could be argued of being below average, but when you take into account 
 the literal hundreds of zombies on the screen at one time makes up for it. The sound in the game 
 also compliments the atmosphere very well with the weapons sounding like they actually would if 
 you were tearing down mobs of zombies (don't ask how I would know what that sounds like.) It really 
 gives you an immersive feeling that's great while playing late at night with the room lit only 
 by your TV screen. Speaking of TV screens, if you're TV isn't and HD one, or doesn't support widescreen, 
 you're screwed. The text will be so small you'll be straining your eyes to even attempt to read 
 it. It's so bad that some kind people even put up scripts on the internet for this major problem. 
 Capcom's work around didn't work around anything for most, and it just made the experience a big 
 let down for SDTV users.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is a must-play title, even with it's small defects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newjack900
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Zombies Ate My Neighbors for the new generation. A highly addictive game that will keep you entertained 
 for a while. It kinda feels like they took ZAMN general theme, through it into a mall, and combined 
 it with timed missions that you can choose to do. The game starts off slow, but once you get into 
 it a little bit it really starts to pick up steam. The only flaws worth mentioning is the clunkiness 
 in the movement of your player, the save system, and the difficulty in bringing stranded victims 
 to the safe room that just happens to be away from everything. These minor flaws don't ruin the 
 game experience though. I am hoping for a sequel in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising lets you play in the body of Frank West, a freelancer photographer thats send to a 
 little town to make a story for a newspaper.
  
  Although, the town is filled with zombies, and Frank and a few other NOT-zombie people are scattered 
 around the town, and its you're duty to survive for 72 hours, and do missions and just have fun.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  You have a extremely wide variety of weapons, from squirting guns to umbrella's and from CD-discs 
 to weapons, almost everything you can find is a weapon, its nice to smash people in with various 
 objects, but after having fun killing three-thousand zombies with all the weapons gets pretty old 
 in a long run, thats why stuff like lawnmowers and vehicles like cars and trucks some in to get 
 you more gameplay variety.
  
  Its fun to be in a mall surrounded by typical zombies. The annoying part is that you only have 
 ONE save in the game, and savespots can be rarely occured in the game, and sometimes happen in 
 moments you aren't able to defend yourself that good, so that mostly means you have to restart 
 the game.
  
  Their are also diffrent game endings that are pretty fun, they'll let you end the way you've played 
 it, like if you didn't do one certain quest wrong, a diffrent ending shows, this can lead to some 
 replay value to unlock all endings.
  
  Graphics:
  Great, zombie designs look great, so do the cutscenes, stuff you can wield and wear look good and 
 stuff, the mall looks realisticly and has a shop for when it comes to DVDs, guitars or even skateboards, 
 which you can use again etc.
  
  Story:
  Like I mentioned above..
  
  AI:
  Terrible, its suitable for the typical zombie, nothing wrong with the zombies, they are stiff, 
 don't run and make alot of weird noises, and they are always coming towards you, anyways, real 
 humans are a pain in the butt, in missions they mostly run into a large crowd of zombies and get 
 killed, so that isn't good.
  
  Is it a good action adventure game:
  It certainly is, every Xbox360 owner should have this game, its just really fun and addictive, 
 but in a long run, you'll have probably near or over 100 hours of gameplay behind you're back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 30, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I have to admit I was enjoying it quite a bit. However after struggling 
 through and having finally finished it, my overall impression has gone downhill very fast.
  
  The main issue I have with Rising is the constant feeling like it was a chore to play. I felt 
 like I was going through the motions towards an end that I had already seen many times before. 
 Here's my main issue with this game:
  
  -The zombies. At first, it was very cool to be completely surrounded by a massive amount of enemies. 
 But after a while, all they became was an obstacle to be dealt with in the exact same manner everytime 
 to get to the greater objective, which a majority of the time ended up being utterly frustrating 
 escort missions. The zombies all became filler , put there as nothing more than an obstacle to 
 overcome over and over and over again. They were not different in any way and for the most part 
 did not have any unique qualities that made the confrontations varied and enjoyable. I constantly 
 ended up wishing that I had a bunch of napalm to drop in every part of the mall that I entered 
 just to get rid of the impediment that they quickly became. I also found that with such a variance 
 of weapons, they ultimately had the same effect..... they didn't allow for different enough strategies 
 for the player to use. I ended up staying with the mini dual chainsaws the entire game because 
 they accomplished the quickest what I was required to do to progress through the game..... namely 
 chop my way through it. Not fun.
  
  This negative aspect overshadows everything else in the game that is otherwise well done. The graphics 
 are crisp and clean, story well developed, characters that were interesting and varied boss fights, 
 and a ton of cool and varied weapons and extras available during and after completion.
  
  It's just too bad that what was supposed to be the main draw of the game quickly became the very 
 thing that brings it down. It was an exercise in tedium and ultimately made the experience not 
 at all horrible, but not that great either.
  
  There are better zombie games out there. I wouldn't recommend this one at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLSWITCH
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 29, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is for zombie fans that often fantisize of the day when the dead walk the earth. Where 
 an entire town is consumed by the undead. Inspired by the movie Dawn of the Dead, Dead Rising follow's 
 Frank West, a photo journalist, into the bowels of a Colorado town where a virus outbreak is spreading. 
 Turning the living into zombie's. Capcom has the player fetching after different objects and weapons 
 similarily found in other games like Resident Evil, in order to progress through the game - but 
 less monotonous. The environment and atmosphere of Dead Rising isn't as spooky as I once thought 
 it would be. It's more anticipation than anything else. The gameplay, at first, is clunky and unforgiving. 
 Sometimes the bosses that are in the game won't let you get back up when fallen to the ground. 
 They'll either use a vehicle to do donuts of the chest of Frank West, or by hitting him when he's 
 finally able to get back up. Sometimes this process will happen over and over again until the player 
 die's. The Y button, for instance, is used to call out to other survivors that is found within 
 the shopping mall to lead them to a safer area. The problem with this is you would think that someone 
 would write a better code for the AI characters, not just in Dead Rising but in other games also. 
 The surviving characters are as dumb as brinks, sometimes forcing the player to literally hold 
 their hand throughout the mall. One look at a zombie and the surviving character will stop and 
 cry. Seriously, they'll stop and cry. Even after giving them a weapon they'll still sit there and 
 won't move. The right trigger allow's the player to aim while the X button is to fire or throw 
 the weapon or object. The downside of this is the character can't move while aiming, leaving the 
 player temporarily vulnerable for open shots by bosses or an open opportunity for zombies to latch 
 onto the character from either the side or back. The game isn't a total disaster though. Frank 
 West is able to pick up various different weapons from shotguns, night sticks, katana's, battle 
 axes, and objects such as park benches, manquins, and car batteries to use them as weapons. The 
 player can even mix different juices together to form different effects to help Frank fight off 
 zombie attacks. Dead Rising also has RPG element's to the game which has the player racking up 
 skills and attack moves. To build up said skills and unlock different attacks the player will need 
 to collect Prestege Points which will then help the character to level up. By collecting PP ( Prestege 
 Points) the player will either need to save survivors from zombified doom, or by taking pictures 
 of dramatic situations or action events such as snapping a shot right when someone get's eaten. 
 The graphics is spot on - almost real. The gore effects could of been a little bit better but then 
 again the technology used in today's console's isn't there just yet in terms of realism. The sound 
 is great especially when smacking a zombie across the face with a lead pipe can be a little nasty 
 to hear at times. And the amount of depth that is put into this game is amazing. Although the frustrations 
 of Dead Rising can get a little overwhelming at times, it's best to take a break and trudge through 
 till the end. It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryztalDragon
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising offers alot, whether its pumping bullets into Zombies, saving survivors or even running 
 around dressed as a little girl.
  
  You play a Frank who is trapped in a mall.. a very big mall that you eventually come to terms with, 
 its flooded with the undead that want nothing more but to chomp on Frank.
  the Zombies can be dealt with in anyway you please, the normal bullet in the head, a suplex, using 
 bowling balls and seeing if you can strike.
  There are alot of unlockable items that offer massive replay value.
  Just try not to be eaten 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustHawkeye
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is an action packed game that delivers on hours of fun and zombie killing madness. 
 i had very high hopes for this game and when i bought it the day it came out i was ready to kill 
 some zombies. the story is what you'd expect from a zombie game set in a mall, find why there are 
 zombies, kill the zombies. the story has some plot twists and the zombie killing never gets old. 
 one thing i had a problem with was the other people trapped in the mall, they were about as stupid 
 as they come and most of the time they get side tracked. the side quest were alright with saving 
 people but like i said before the people are stupid. the graphics from a distance don't look very 
 good but when you get right next to a wall and look at the level of detail in the characters face 
 its amazing. the replayability deals with how much you loving killing zombies with various weapons. 
 Dead Rising is a thrill ride that i'm still playing months after i finished it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SexxiyGunzz
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the game till the end the main focus is on survival and helping others while at the 
 same time helping unraval the truth behind the outbreak.... but the reallll thrills of this game 
 comes from the inpressive expansine to the game after its done, its called Overtime mode....
  
  the story completly changes into humans V. s Humans and soldiers are ordeerd to kill everything 
 in the mall, leaving nothing and knowone alive, your main concern now is to stay alive while your 
 fellow humans who you were hopping would help you, are now trying to kill u, Via 28 days later 
 style.
  
  Many people don't appricate the brillence in the twist in the story and how it potrays are everyday 
 world and whats going on in the middle east today, people killing eachother without hesistation, 
 complete insanity and chaos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakkadakkadakka
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of those games, love it or hate it, that you have to play once before you die. 
 It's a sandbox game that lets you do anything you want. And what you want to do, is kill zombies 
 in many, many humorous/bloody ways.
  
  Dead Rising is based off of many Zombie movies, Mr. Romero's Dawn of the Dead is the most obvious 
 one. It is sort of like a playable cheesy B-Movie splatter film. The mini-bosses can cause some 
 laughs , the dialog is cheesy I've covered wars, ya know! , and the characters are like those bad 
 actors you like. But thats not what the game is about, the game is about having endless hours of 
 fun.
  
  No matter what, there is always something to do/find out in Dead Rising. Be it doing the story, 
 getting achievements (which is great fun, I might add) , or hunting bosses. The game having three 
 game modes (72-hour mode, Infinite Mode, Overtime Mode) , and having 6 multiple endings, you'll 
 keep coming back trying to complete the game 100%.
  
  In Dead Rising, as you might have heard, just about everything is a weapon. Teddy Bear mask may 
 be used to blind zombies, Teddy Bear's may be used to battle these flesh hungry monsters, and frying 
 pans can be smacked in their face. If you can pick it up, it can be used to combat the living dead.
 
  
  And this game is Bloody, with a capital B. This is is not for the faint of heart. Blood is everywhere, 
 several bosses die in gruesome deaths that make you wanna look away (but its so interesting you 
 can't) , zombies seem to have buckets of blood inside of them, survivors die in gruesome deaths 
 as well.
  
  The Save system is complained a lot, but I have never had any problems with it. You can only save 
 in one slot per profile, so if you saved in a bad spot, you might have to start over. But don't 
 fret, if you quit and save, you keep your levels and skills. So it gets easier to make it back 
 to where you were. You also can only save in certain Areas (Bathrooms and the Safe Room) and Bathroom's 
 are in just about everywhere in the game. So I never found it annoying or challenging. No auto-save 
 or save-anywhere-anytime here.
  
  The game also has a timer, but not an annoying one. You have 72 hours game-time to find out what 
 exactly happened to this town. Every hour is 5 minutes real-time, so the game is 6-7 hours long 
 if you directly do the story. It took me around 20 hours to finish it though, not because it was 
 hard, but because I loved leveling up, starting over with my same skills/levels, and leveling up 
 some more because I just wanted to have fun saving survivors and killing zombies. But the timer 
 is only in 72-Hour Mode and Overtime Mode, in Infinite mode you have an unlimited timer, but its 
 all about survival. One box of health goes down every 1 minutes, survivors/NPC's are against you 
 so if you kill them you can take their weapons and food, bosses are scattered in new areas, and 
 its the only way to get 5-day and 7-day Survivor achievements.
  
  Like all games though, it has its flaws. The small text for SDTV's is a huge annoyance, and with 
 Capcom saying deal with it it isn't very comforting. The character Otis always calls you right 
 when you're in a boss fight, or in the middle of a huge pack of zombies so he can get you frustrated, 
 but I guess in the Zombie movies, there was always one guy you hated. And the official ending isn't 
 a huge disappointment, but its not going to win any awards. The Survivor A. I is awful, horrible 
 even. Makes you wanna kill them yourself, but thats fine, sometimes it fun to throw a person into 
 a pack of zombies, eh?
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is a must buy for your 360 if you like these kind of games. As I said theres 
 so much to do, it'll be worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  If the living dead ever manage unionise, Capcom are in for some trouble. The software giant has 
 made more than a few pennies from violence and general discrimination against walking corpses and 
 clearly has no plans to buck the trend; Dead Rising features zombie genocide on a grand scale. 
 While the Resident Evil series has concentrated on shocks and scares, the focus of Dead Rising 
 is the oft overlooked positive side of the zombie apocalypse; the chance to beat the absolute crap 
 out of the undead with whatever you can lay your hands upon. Repetitive side missions, frustrating 
 save system, and occasionally awkward control scheme aside, Dead Rising is as much fun as it's 
 possible to have in a mall overrun by shambling, brain hungry, recently deceased types.
  
  Dead Rising's main exponent of zombie oppression is Frank West. A photojournalist, Frank has made 
 a career from tracking down the vilest and most brutal aspects of humanity and asking them to say 
 'cheese'. With the town of Willamette quarantined and reports of shady business leaking out, Frank 
 hires a helicopter pilot to fly him into town. After snapping a few pictures of undead civil disobedience, 
 West spots a helicopter pad on the roof of a huge mall complex and demands to be dropped off. Instructing 
 the chopper pilot to return in three days, Frank heads into the mall, just in time to see a small 
 group of survivors become zombie fodder. The plot then twists and turns as Frank struggles to uncover 
 the cause of the infestation, rescue a few survivors, and escape the town with his story.
  
  From the get go, Dead Rising wears its cinematic influences on its sleeve. If the 'survivors 
 in a mall' scenario wasn't a big enough homage, the storyline and characters tick all the right 
 scary film boxes. During your 72 hour stay in the besieged Willamette Parkview Mall, you will stumble 
 across a scientist with a dark secret, meet two government agents with a dark secret, save an attractive 
 young woman with a dark secret, defeat a psychotic clown (who may or may not have a dark secret) , 
 fend off a brainwashed cult, run into a big chap with a very big knife, unravel a huge government 
 conspiracy... Dead Rising is a horror film archetype tour de force. Frank West himself is straight 
 from Action/Horror Reluctant Hero Casting Office, the storyline verges quite firmly on the absurd 
 but it's done so knowingly and with tongue so firmly in cheek that what could have come off as 
 clich&eacute; d - or just plain stupid - actually works.
  
  The storyline revolves around Frank finding the truth behind the not inconsiderable problems afflicting 
 the town of Willamette. The story is furthered through case files, which are basically story missions. 
 The files take place at specific times over the course of the three days, and the only way the 
 story will advance is if Frank is in the right place at the right time. Taken in isolation, it's 
 an interesting system and adds a certain tension; the game is going to keep moving forward whether 
 you're keeping pace or not. That tension is ratcheted up a few notches by the game's brutal save 
 system. Dead Rising gives the player one save file. One single, solitary file. Saving your progress, 
 which is done in any of the toilets scattered around the mall, overwrites all previous save data. 
 It's entirely possibly to back yourself into a corner by saving without having sufficient time 
 to reach the next case file location. Miss one case file and the storyline drops dead. It is possible 
 to restart the game retaining Frank's current skills and abilities and, given the content and real 
 time structure, Dead Rising is a game that needs to be played through several times to see all 
 the content, but the save system is still unnecessarily punishing.
  
  Surprisingly, the awkward save system can work in the game's favour. Fighting through the zombie 
 hordes to a bathroom save point can be a desperate task, and knowing that one slip up can lead 
 to disaster brings and extra layer of tension, something that helps build the game's atmosphere. 
 Dead Rising is a genuinely tense and genuinely creepy game. There are very few out and out scares 
 but, due to the difficulty of the case files and the sheer number of zombies between Frank, his 
 goals, and the save points, there is a constant feeling of dread that borders on the oppressive. 
 The Willamette mall is a sprawling capitalist nightmare, a massive consumer hell. From the food 
 court to the hardware store, from the bright pastels to the gratingly cheerful muzak, the mall 
 is a perfect virtual rendition shopping complexes we know and love. And that's what makes it so 
 deeply creepy. One of the most effective ways to create an unsettling atmosphere is to subvert 
 the familiar and ordinary into something completely alien. Taking a friendly happy place like the 
 mall and filling it full of shambling, recently deceased cannibals is a perfect example of taking 
 twisting the banal and 'safe' into something really quite sinister.
  
  The mall is a dangerous place, particularly for the zombies themselves. The number of different 
 ways to wipe out the undead is breathtaking. The Wilamette mall is a brutal playground full of 
 improvised weaponry. The mall's stores are a surreal armoury, with the best weapons being the most 
 preposterous; beating down a zombie with a toy laser sword, complete with a tinny crackling noise 
 when swung, is a lot more entertaining than it should be. Obviously you'll rely on the more conventional 
 weaponry such as guns, knives, lead pipes and baseball bats to actually get through the game, but 
 the real joy of Dead Rising is turning everyday objects such as CDs, bowling balls, or even shower 
 heads into a lethal implements.
  
  Given the sheer number of zombies and the ridiculous arsenal weaponry on offer, it's surprising 
 how small a part the mass extermination of zombie kind plays in the storyline. The storyline missions 
 tend to involve fighting off those who are still alive, collecting items from stores, even defusing 
 bombs. If you're trying to complete as many missions as possible or save as many survivors as you 
 can, then you don't have time to kill thousands of the undead. The case files are tightly timed, 
 and there are plenty of side missions to pursue during the few lulls in the plot. The side missions 
 take on the form of 'Scoops'. Much like the case files of the storyline, the scoop missions will 
 lapse if you don't get to the area in time. The side missions tend to involve rescuing other survivors 
 trapped in the mall and escorting them back to the safe room, and it's a gameplay mechanic that 
 gets repetitive very, very quickly. Guiding those you've rescued through the mall isn't all that 
 much fun; the survivors aren't all that bright and have a distressing tendency to run head first 
 into large groups of zombies. While you can arm a few of the living, they, perhaps understandably, 
 seem more interested in killing the undead than getting to safety. Throw in a few survivors who 
 need carried back to safety, effectively disarming Frank completely, and you one of the most sigh 
 inducing gameplay mechanics in recently memory.
  
  Occasionally the game spices up the scoop missions by throwing a psychopath into the mix. Psychopaths 
 are living non-zombie types who have been driven insane by the zombie infestation and function 
 as optional boss fights. The psycho themselves provide a nice diversion from the zombie culling 
 and form a few of the games most memorable moments. Adam, the chainsaw wielding clown and Cliff, 
 the Rambo inspired war vet, are just two of the highlights. Unfortunately, the psychopaths feel 
 obliged to share the craziness and take hostages. Hostages who then need escorted to safety, tempering 
 the quality of the psycho fights with the frustration of getting the people you've rescued out 
 of harm's way. If, for some bizarre reason, you can't lay your hands on a park bench or guitar 
 to crack some zombie skulls, Frank has an assortment of unarmed moves. Starting with a simple punch 
 combo, the hand to hand moves become ever more preposterous; late in the game West will be decapitating 
 zombies with a quick karate chop or throwing them overhead using a German Suplex. While most of 
 the unarmed moves only take out single zombies and are therefore completely ineffective, they're 
 all hilariously blood thirsty and entertaining to watch. Unfortunately, pulling off the hand to 
 hand moves highlights the lack of subtly in the game's controls. While precision doesn't really 
 matter when Frank is swinging a baseball bat wildly, it can be frustrating to watch him be chomped 
 upon by the undead because he didn't quite respond to your commands. This is particularly noticeable 
 with moves requiring the left analogue stick to be depressed. Never the most precise of input methods, 
 one of Frank's most useful attacks, the Zangief inspired Spinning Lariat, ups the awkwardness by 
 combining pushing the stick in with pressing another button. It's irritating to watch Frank valiantly 
 back chop at the zombies engulfing him when all you really want him to do is spin around a bit 
 with his arms out.
  
  Frank gains hand to hand abilities by levelling up. When he first arrives in the mall, Frank is 
 a complete weakling. But as you gain prestige points, he'll slowly start to become a one man wrecking 
 machine. Frank's evolution tops off at level 50, with attribute increases and abilities gained 
 at random whenever he levels up. Prestige points are acquired by rescuing survivors, completing 
 scoop missions, putting large numbers of zombies out of their misery, and taking photographs. The 
 photography system isn't particularly deep and rarely necessary, but is a nice diversion and a 
 way to keep a record of the numerous ridiculous things you'll see in the game.
  
  While the sheer number of zombies on screen is the most visually impressive part of Dead Rising, 
 the game adopts and sticks to a visual ****that really works. The Wilamette mall is a nightmarishly 
 cheerful and bright place, which is nicely at odds with the gore and death taking place within. 
 The malls contents, from the store to the items held within fit the glitzy mood. The zombie models, 
 while not highly detailed and prone to over repetition, shamble and move just as you'd expect them 
 to. The main characters look a lot sharper and, Frank's weird run aside, are animated incredibly 
 well, both in the cut scenes and out. Dead Rising's audio features the shame juxtaposition; the 
 twinkly muzak and store announcements are in nice contrast to the creepy moans of the zombies or 
 the unsettling laughter of the psychopaths. The voice acting is top notch, with the cast giving 
 suitably straight faced and enthusiastic performances with some ridiculous lines. Throw in a few 
 satisfying weapon cracks and thumps, and you have a game with excellent presentation
  
  Despite the profanity inducing save system and survivor rescuing, Dead Rising proves to be a lot 
 of fun. While the concept of killing hundreds and hundreds of zombies has the potential to get 
 boring or repetitive very quickly, the story line and real time structure keep the game moving 
 forward at a brisk pace. Dead Rising is far from perfect with a few very questionable design choices, 
 but the sense of style, strong presentation and the sheer variety of potential fatal items scattered 
 around the mall save the day. What other game lets you use a lawnmower, cream pie or parasol as 
 a weapon? The cartoon-like levels of violence, twisted setting, and the guffaw factor of the available 
 weaponry make Dead Rising stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 5
Date: May 24, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Story: You are a freelance photographer who goes into a barricaded off town to see what the problem 
 is, you soon find that all the fuss is centralized on the town mall. So you get your helicopter 
 driver to drop you off their and come back for you in 72 hours. So you go into the mall to unravel 
 the story. The story is a good one but not very original intact i seem t remember a film called 
 Dawn of the Dead with a very similar storyline from 4 or 5 years ago.
  
  Game play: Although allot of people like the game play of Dead Rising i feel the missions are very 
 repetitive and after a couple hours get very boring. What i did like though was the running around 
 killing random zombies, that was very fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite good even when there is 50+ zombies on the screen at one time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_rush
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 24, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love zombie games and movies, and when i saw this game i was extremely happy with it. Dawn 
 Of The Dead is one of my favorite zombie movies and when i saw that this was similar to it, i had 
 to play it. The variety of weapons is great its almost humorous, using a lawn mower to kill zombies 
 is just gory, fun, and almost satisfying. I really liked the time lapse of this game around the 3 
 hour mark, thats when the zombies start to increase in number, which means more stuff to do. The 
 zombie killing can be repetitive but its still fun either way, the missions make a very good challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrowindeler
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising what is their to say. Capcom did a exelent job with this zombie game it was a RPG Zombie 
 killa. I enjoy this game quite frequenlty and still have moments where I think, Wait how could 
 I kill a zombie with this? in my everyday life. Dead Rising reinvented this slowly dying genre. 
 The only thing I find wrong with this game, is (dont scrutinize me about this) I bought this game 
 under the bases I could use ANYTHING in the mall to kill zzombie. Not exactly. If you have a XBOX360 
 and 40 do yourself a service and purchase this game. Oh yeah one more note for the road, Zombie 
 Genocider=Impossible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Zombies in a mall is one of the best games ideas ever. Just like the idea the game is pretty darn 
 good too. You play as a photographer in a mall of zombies. You must save all the people still left 
 in the mall and occanisoly you can take wonderful pictures of brain hungry zombies. But not all 
 people in the mall are nice friendly zombie hating people. Some are evil little demons. Here is 
 the review of:
  
  Dead Rising
  Capcom
  Released August 8th 2006
  Xbox 360 Exclusive Mature 17+
  
  Gameplay: Dead Rising gameplay is kinda like GTA everything 
 is a weapon and it is mostly sand-box in the latter parts of the game. It will take a good gamer 
 to get some of hardest achivments on the game (one was even of the May OXM Extrivements Frank The 
 Pimp) and the 7 Day Survival all of the achivments are worth 20 gscore. You'll have to spend about 
 45 minutes to get everything down pat. Some of the boss deaths are just gory. *Vamit flys out after 
 thinking of the Clown's death* But they're cool for u gory perverts. But it is kinda short but 
 that is the only MAJOR problem. There are stores of everything on this game like there would be 
 in any mall.
  9-10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are about average for the 360 right now. 7-10
  
  Sound: Great voice 
 acting in my opinion. Maybe some of the best on the 360. The screams are great in surrond sound 
 and u can hear the mushing of the zombies. The voices are like i said very good. Different weapons 
 make differnent noises.
  10-10
  
  This one of the best Xbox 360 games u can buy right now plus its about 35 dollars now so get this 
 game if u ain't got it yet.
  
  8.8 great game!!!
  
  Friend's Opinions
  
  Troy: 9.3
  Johnny: 9.5
  Josh: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as good as everyone makes it out to be. First off let me begin by saying this 
 game could have been great but the control ruined it. 
  There were parts in the game that were cool but the bad just overshadowed it all. Shooting a gun 
 is like pulling teeth... you can't move while shooting, you aim with the left stick rather than 
 the right... whats up with that? The time limit in the game would have been cool if CIVILIANS actually 
 listened when you called them... instead they sit around with their thumbs in their ass staring 
 at me while prescious time ticks away. It is frustrating to the point of wanting to break your 
 TV. They want you runnin around like a chicken with your head cut off doin 12 different things 
 at once... take pictures, escort idiots with the IQ's of a hammer, mow down some zombies, eat all 
 the foods, check your clock don't be late, on and on and on repetitive crap. C'mon CAPCOM step 
 ya game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksunshaman
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Gotta say, Capcom seems to have truly cornered the market on this genre and it just keeps getting 
 better. The freeform setup lends itself to this game, making it the most fun I've had taking pictures 
 and clubbing zombies. I haven't found too many problems with the game to date and have had nothing 
 but a good time with it. As for the graphics, I really see this game in the next gen lighting it 
 was conceived in. As with most any other 360 game, the achievements really do add to the replay 
 value and makes the experience that much more engrossing. I really hope that there is a sequel 
 in the works, it needs one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is easily one of the funnest games I have ever played. You assume the role of a photographer, 
 Frank, who is heading to the mall to cover a big story. Upon entering the mall you run into a bunch 
 of people who have barricaded themselves inside the lobby. Next thing you know, the zombies break 
 through the barriers and flood the mall. You escape into the security room and begin to encounter 
 some people who will help you along the way.
  
  The way the game is set up is that you have an indicator in the upper right of the screen that 
 displays your mission status. You only have so much time to complete each mission, which is displayed 
 by different colors. There is a main story line where each mission must be completed for the story 
 to progress and there are side rescue missions where you head out to rescue survivors within the 
 mall. Along the way you'll encounter some pretty wild and creepy bosses such as a chainsaw-wielding 
 clown, a butch cop who likes to torture girls, and a machete wielding hunter. For everything you 
 do in the game, you earn prestige points. One way to earn them is to take great photos of zombies, 
 people in danger, and bosses. Sometimes a PP icon will appear above a person's head. When this 
 happens you can really rack up prestige points by taking a photo right away.
  
  There are plenty of weapons in the game to take down zombies. These include handguns, shotguns, 
 rifles, baseball bats, lead pipes, lawnmowers, chainsaws, gumball machines, mega man's mega buster 
 (shoots foam balls) , katanas, axes, dumbells, 2x4's... the list goes on. This large amount of variation 
 keeps the game fresh.
  
  Dead Rising, simply put, is a great fun game to play. Depending on how you play, you can unlock 
 better endings and continue the game. The replay value is huge on this game and will keep you playing 
 over and over. If you haven't had the chance to play Dead Rising yet, I strongly suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoonquest
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 19, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  (this is my first review also please excuse the grammar errors)
  Dead Rising to me is a good game with minor flaws. I say this because the game itself is very fun 
 one time through, but get boring pretty quickly after that (unless you come back to it later) . 
 First lets talk about the bad and one of the worst parts of this game is the aiming system. I mean 
 honestly for the type of game it is the aiming system is barely par. Now for the good :the fun 
 in this game is with fighting the zombies and all the interesting (and I do mean interesting ) 
 psychopaths. That and all the items you can use around the mall from lawn mowers to mops to fight 
 the before mention foes. The game play is very enjoyable.
  
  To me the story was that of a B movie which isn't bad mind you (I like B movies) . It's involves 
 a photo journalist named Frank who goes to a mall by way of helicopter for a scoop. Lets just leave 
 it at that it was more than he bargained for.
  
  In closing this game is for anyone who enjoys zombies (and there company on lonely nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saki257
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 19, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  ALL i gotta say this game rocks. i mean going into a mall with hundreds of zombies on the one screen 
 haha can get as good as that. going through zombies with a lawn mower chopping there heaps and 
 legs off. Its gruesome and gory. its got plenty of action plenty of zombies but a low variety of 
 guns!!! but u can get heaps of stuff to throw at the zombies like chip packets, pots, plates, soccerballs, etc. 
 this game is my 2nd best game on my 360 but its still one of the best ive played. i hate it whenzombies 
 get you from behind and try to head your head!! but thats still doesnt change the way i love my 
 game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  This is a game i actually bought my 360 for. Not GoW (total letdown) or halo 3, but this. I watched 
 my friend play this one day and said i need to buy this game. So i did and heres what i found.
 
  You start the game off as Frank West a reporter who came to this city to find out what the hell 
 is going on. Only to discover hes been thrown into a zombie infested wasteland. The story immediately 
 takes off and takes you for a ride. Twists and turns abound, as well as a interesting cast of characters, 
 it kept me hooked until the end. I was glad they stayed away from linking this to Resident Evil 
 too, with its own unique story and premise.
  The gameplay is a guilty pleasure. Its fun to get all kinds of crazy weapons. Anything from soccer 
 balls to a lawnmower, and just destroy wave after wave of zombies. The whole photography thing 
 is a fun added bonus, while not required its still great to try and get the perfect shot. Hell 
 you get to; make your own food, use anything as a weapon, kill endless waves of zombies, rescue 
 innocents, drive vehicles, wear anyt type of clothing you want, and fight crazy people. What more 
 do you want from a game?
  The graphics are pretty good, ive seen better but this game has been out for almost a year and 
 can have hundreds of enemies on screen without a single hitch in framerate. So theyre mustard to 
 me.
  Sound is standard fare for the most part. The groaning of the zombies, the different weapon sounds, 
 the cries for help, all good and well. Some great songs on the soundtrack though, my favorite being 
 the fight in the home depot store with the Nam Vet.
  Tons of replay value and great achievements make this more than worth its price tag. I can only 
 hope they make a sequel because this game was a blast. Definitly worth checking out if youre a 
 zombie flick fan or you just love capcom games. Cause i guarantee you wont regret popping this 
 one into your drive anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game less than 2 weeks ago. Ive already beaten 72 hour mode but thats not the end of 
 the game. If you meet certain qualifications by the end of 72 hour mode, you unlock overtime mode, 
 which is another 24 mode where you get the True Ending . Then you unlock infinity mode. So theres 
 quite a bit of things to do in this game. And on the back of the case where it says that everything 
 and anything is a weapon, there pretty much right. Only certain things cant be used in the game 
 but most of them can. My favoite weapon liability wise is probably the mannequin torso. It may 
 not seem strong but it can kill a zombie in 1-2 hits. It also lasts a long time too. Power, fun, 
 and gore wise, i'd say the best is the excavator . You can only find this is one store i think. 
 Its super gory and can take out a lot of enemies in one weapon. And its cool to get the achievements, 
 as most game are.
  
  The graphics on this game are pretty good. The frame rate holds up and it never really slows down. 
 The graphics on the gore look pretty good. And even just the plain character models arent half 
 bad.
  
  The sound isnt anything very special. You just mainly always hear the moaing of the zombies throughout 
 the game. But what would you expect right? The sound of the weapons are pretty cool too. Like the 
 chainsaw is cool, and when you rev it up and kill them, you can hear it slice them apart.
  
  The replay value is extremely high to me. Mainly because there is no way possible to get all 
 the achievements in one play time through. You can either, save the survivors by taking them to 
 the security room, kill all the psychopaths that come your way, or do the main storyline to unlock 
 the other modes. Im not going to spoil it but when you get certain achievements you unlock clothes, 
 and even a couple of wicked awesome weapons.
  
  And the price tag I think is wicked good. I would definetly any day pay the full $40.00 most places 
 charge to get it new. So if you like a lot of gore and violence, and action games, DEFINETLY buy 
 this game. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katterfly
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  To me this is one of the best Zombie games I have ever played. Its right up there with the Resident 
 Evil Remake for me. I loved every minute of this game, even when it was frustrating and I wasn't 
 exactly sure what to do, which was in the beginning. Now however I've pretty much got this game 
 pinned down. I enjoy revisiting it from time to time and replaying the story.
  
  Speaking of the story, it had a lot of great twists that a video game should have. I was truly 
 shocked at some of the things that transpired within this game's story, especially two main character 
 deaths that I didn't see coming. The characters were all very interesting, though some of them 
 could have had more background explored. I was slightly annoyed at the constant calls from Otis 
 and how all I could do while answering a call was be a piece of meat with no weapon.
  
  Never the less this game is a great play for me, and I certainly enjoy the game play, and the freedom 
 of what your allowed to do in it. Hell i was surprised at the fact different costumes actually 
 showed up in all the cutscenes. Very interesting to see. I also enjoyed the fact that almost anything 
 can be used as a weapon in this game. My personal favorite being the Katana, Shotgun, &amp; Melee 
 moves. Over all this is one gaming experience I definitely enjoyed and I'd recommend it to other 
 people no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peaceful_hippy
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  There are lots of great things about Dead Rising: the attention to detail around the mall, the 
 sheer number of different ways you can kill zombies, the unnecessary but fun extras (such as changing 
 into a wide variety of costumes) . But the one thing that really sets it apart is the way the game 
 as a whole works - let's call it 'The Groundhog Day experience'. A lot of people don't immediately 
 'get' Dead Rising because they approach it as a standard action game. They think they're going 
 to play it through once; maybe twice. So they try to do as much as they can on their first playthrough 
 - they wouldn't have to miss stuff and have to play through it again, right?
  
  Capcom have cleverly made the whole point of Dead Rising that you only have a limited time inside 
 the mall. 72 hours equates (with some very rough back-of-the-envelope maths) to only around six 
 hours of playing. Couple this with the fact that, if you choose to, you can skip large chunks of 
 the game by just standing around in safe areas and you can easily do a play through in a (long) 
 evening. While it's probably possible to do everything in one play through, it isn't necessary. 
 Even the 'Saint' achievement lets you make a few mistakes. So you can play through once doing the 
 story missions (ignoring the survivors) then do the reverse on your second play through. You can 
 concentrate on killing zombies. You can concentrate on killing psychos. You can do whatever you 
 want. The fact that the game uses a generic points system to boost your skills means that if you 
 find a particular mission too hard, you can just roam around and kill zombies, take photos or eliminate 
 psychos until you're skilled enough to make the mission a breeze. The fact that you can pretty 
 much pick your weapon when facing a boss means that you can tackle them your way, which does a 
 lot to eliminate frustration. Dead Rising isn't perfect: there are some irritating bugs, and the 
 text is too small for comfort on non-HDTV TVs. But some truly excellent achievements (probably 
 the best collection I've seen on any 360 game so far) and a great sense of fun far outweigh these 
 problems. Pick it up and you'll find it's one of the best value story-based games you'll ever own 
 - just remember not to approach it as you would the competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancer-Evo-III
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 12, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome, and a very fun play, but it has a fair amount of flaws. It has great game-play, 
 great graphics, however, the shooting and attacking system takes a while to get used to, the photo 
 feature is a new fix on games, as it gets your PP up, and makes you stronger and faster. The addition 
 of placing some 'psychopaths' in amongst the zombies was a great idea, adding some half intelligent 
 enemies into the game, and giving you a run for your money. However, the saving makes the game 
 difficult, there are scarce areas where you can save, yes it makes it a fair bit harder, however, 
 there are no checkpoints, so if you die, you have to start from your last save, and go back to 
 where you were, this is more annoying if you are on your way back to a save point.
  
  The storyline resembles Dawn of the Dead, obviously, and in some cases Shawn of the Dead. it gives 
 a rather comedic appeal to zombie attacks, you get more PP for saving people who havnt been infected, 
 aslong as you take them back to the security room, this can be a difficult task if you arnt thinking 
 straight, the game takes thought, and patience, as you cannot just start a mission/case whenever 
 you want, you have to wait untill the right time. All in all, it's a good game, but still needs 
 some improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I am a zombie movie fan, so its not a surprising thing one of the reasons I forked out the money 
 for a xbox 360 was to play this game and a couple of others I'm looking forward too most (Bioshock 
 &amp; Mass Effect) . This game has its up and downs, but overall this game is very entertaining. 
 If you have ever fantasized about ripping through zombie flesh with a katana, running over a group 
 of zombies with a lawnmower or grocery cart this is definitely the game for you. The journalist 
 camera thing is a cool bonus game to the actual slicing of zombie flesh. See how much mayhem you 
 can cause and also catch on camera. The game is not without its flaws though. The escort missions 
 can be difficult, because of crappy AI following techniques. (Lets go around this group of zombies 
 (my mind) lets fight through the middle of them (AI Mind) . So yea, things can get a little rough 
 at spots, but overall this game is very entertaining and can be a blast to play. I was said that 
 there is no online co-oop or online playability, cause this game would be all the more fun with 
 two people causing zombie death compared to just going it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chloera
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game, Brilliant Graphics, Brilliant story... what more is there to say? I have yet to 
 find a third person game as good as this... if you are looking for a good game to keep you busy, 
 this will! The difficulty isn't your average shoot-em-up.
  
  The zombies arn't slow and gormless like in Dawn Of The Dead... The weapons you can smash over there 
 heads are wicked... This game deserves a sequel... i have not completed it yet... but i think you 
 only get to find out who caused the zombie outbreak... for DR2 you could have it so you have to 
 find out a way to cure the outbreak... but who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayquaza75
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good: One of the best story plots in video game history - Sound is perfect - Much replay value 
 - Most everything is a weapon - Lots of Zombies
  Owns my 2006 Game of the Year... Even over Gears of War
  
  The Bad: Some missions can seem 
 repetitive - Graphics can be pretty nasty during cutscenes - No multiplayer - NOT FOR KIDS... NO 
 EXEPTIONS
  
  The Opinion: This is one of my favorite games of all time, anyone who is at proper age to own a 
 game like this should own it. If you pass this game up you will miss out on the best zombie game 
 ever.
  
  The Review: You play as Frank West, Photo Journalist. You hear of a big scoop in the small town 
 of Willamette, CO. You soon uncover that there is a zombie outbreak, then it is up to you to capture 
 the story, and save any survivors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gursoy
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  dead rising is quite possibly one of the most fun games ive ever played. Theres a countless number 
 of awesome ways to kill zombies whether it be usin a shower head to make blood pour out of the 
 zombies head or brushing them aside with a huge parasol. Not only is it fun to kill zombeis, but 
 theres actually a good story mode if you bother to follow it (which u dont have to) . Only fault 
 with the game is that theres no 2 player mode or any xbox live capabilities other than a few dwnloads. 
 still a must buy for 360 owners. and if u dnt have a 360 go buy one fool! (then buy dead rising) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  at first the game is so funny (what not fun about chainsawing zombies in half) but the saves are 
 so annoying if u die u go to the save like if the last time u saved was the beginning of the game 
 but ure at the end and u die ur back at the beginning, the only good part is the killing the zombies 
 and the graphics but the story is very interesting. so yea first u gotta rent it. but the game 
 overall isnt really the best and u cant get bored with all the mini bosses awesome weapons and 
 cool cars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I love zombie movies. I love Romero movies (yes, even land of the dead.) So when Capcom took the 
 idea behind Dawn of the Dead and stuck a bunch of survivors in a Mall I thought my dream had been 
 realized of a truly epic experience set to the backdrop of a Rmoero classic. Fortunately the social 
 commentary in Dead Rising is not as heavy but it packs plenty of campy and insight into American 
 culture to make it fun.
  
  The gameplay involves you running around or driving around to complete objectives to solve the 
 true case of what happened in Willamette. How did the whole town turn into zombies and how is the 
 government involved? Along the way you are given secondary objectives to complete such as rescuing 
 survivors and escorting them back to the security room. Now you are not free to complete these 
 objectives when you want since you have time restraints on how long to complete each objective. 
 If you happen to let one of the main story cases expire, it means you would have to start all over 
 from the beginning inorder to get to the truth. Luckily, if this happens, you restart with what 
 ever level Frank was at when the case expired so that you don't have to rebuild your levels.
  
  The save system involves you either resting at designated areas or using the bathroom to save 
 your game. The problem is you are only able to save to one source so you have to be careful that 
 you have enough time to complete your current obective and that you don't save yourself into a 
 corner that would prevent you from completing all cases. You can let the main story expire and 
 just play until the 72 hours of in game time is up and then report to the roof to be picked up 
 by the helicopter though.
  
  The graphics are pretty good in the game and the controls pretty responsive. Very rarely did I 
 experience any lag which is impressive with the amount of zombies that can appear on the screen 
 at one time.
  
  The sound in the game is truly wonderful. Every weapon or action has an associated noise that sounds 
 completely believable. From the sword slicing to the gun shots its all believable. Feel like ripping 
 a zombies head off? listen for the sickening pop that goes along with it.
  
  My overall experience with Dead Rising was truly fun and the achievement system is setup in a way 
 where you will have to most likely replay several times to get them all. There is also the infinity 
 mode where you try and survive in the mall for as long as you can as your health slowly drains. 
 But with no ability to save and each day taking 2 hours real time to pass, I don't have the time 
 to commit to something like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of zombie movies or games but after hearing my friends rave about how 
 much fun this game is I had to give it a try. After trying this game I was officially hooked. This 
 game is an absolute blast, at some times literally. The cut scenes are well put together and the 
 missions pose a nice challenge. The open ended gameplay is what had me from the start. I just enjoyed 
 going around slaughtering zombies with all of the various weapons you could turn ordinary items 
 into. Being able to use a lawn mower to mow down zombies was greatly entertaining. There are so 
 may unique things you can do with the make shift weapons you can find in the mall. For example 
 shoving a shower head, pipe included, into a zombie and watching the blood shower over it's head 
 or heating up a frying pan and using it to melt their faces. The game can get a bit annoying at 
 times but overall the gameplay is great. I'd highly recommend this game to any adult but it is 
 definitely not recommended for children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Reasons not to hate this game:
  The graphics on this game are OK but nothing spectacular. The voice acting is OK nothing great 
 but nothing too cringe worthy where it is at but much of dialogue is received via text.
  
  Game contains many of my personal pet peeves in gaming and to me these would be reasons to hate 
 this game:
  * Escort missions. - This game is all escort missions.
  * Worse then escort missions are escort missions with stupid and helpless people -- many of the 
 people in this game.
  * Reapawning enemies. Especially if there is no logical place for them to come from. At least 
 if they were streaming in a door or a hole in the wall that would be ok but to clear out an area 
 with no entrance and to have them magically respawn behind you is annoying.
  * Enemies that thoughtlessly charge right towards you. (Yes I know this is a zombie game, what 
 can I tell you I hate zombie games. I just gave this a try because everyone said it was so good.)
 
  * ENEMIES THAT RUN AT YOU AND EXPLODE. I cannot properly verbalize the HATE for which I hold 
 this particular game convention. I blame Halo for it though its possible it existed in games prior.
 
  * Annoying AI teammates who wont Shut up. In this case it was just the ringing phone but you 
 really should have the ability to turn the dam thing off Or better yet crush it under your sledge 
 hammer.
  * Timed missions. Actually timed missions arent always bad. I have never been a big fan but some 
 are ok unless combined with the next problem with this game * Bad save spots. This is especially 
 bad when your main game missions are time dependant. And double especially when there is only one 
 save slot. One bad save and you have to start all over. Of course this game was designed to replay, 
 over and over and over but its still annoying.
  * Oh and the aforementioned no sound in NPC interaction, which wouldnt be bad if it was clear 
 when the conversation started and stopped and the B button wasnt so touchy.
  
  With all its faults however the game is strangely addicting. I dont know what it is but there 
 is just something satisfying about being able to beat the crp out of everything with everything. 
 Its all the more satisfying because even when you restart the game your character keeps his stats 
 thus it is easier to beat the crp out of everything.
  
  I can not recommend this game at full price but at the newer cheaper prices I think it would be 
 worth picking up and keeping in your collection for some mindless zombie beating between games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthehomer
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 7, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Taking a almost 180 degre turn from what the company achieved with the Resident Evil franchise, 
 with Dead Rising Capcom have forgone the dark, claustrophobic gloom and instead gone for a sprawling 
 urban shopping mall in which to truly harness the 360's processing power and populate it with quite 
 literally thousands of zombies.
  
  It really is quite the sight when you first head out to the Leisure Park, an otherwise pleasant 
 and tranquil section of greenery only to stare at the sheer number of zombies facing you. Whilst 
 it is a lot of fun to try and take down every zombie that comes across your path with the massive 
 plethora of weaponry available to you (personal fav so far - the shower head!) you soon have to 
 accept that the numbers are truly overwhelming and that to get through this is going to be as much 
 about skilled evasion as it is about judicious combat. By the second day when the main malls are 
 literally crawliong (or should that be shuffling) with zombie hoards you really start to appeciate 
 the sanctuary that is the securtiy room and for the brief respite it provides because pretty much 
 ever other location in the game is a point where you have to be on your guard, toes and everything 
 else to keep you alert.
  
  What's nice as well is that even though your character Frank obtains various abilities throughout 
 the game you never feel as though he is super human, that you will literally be able to plough 
 your way through with brute force. For this reason there is always a palpable sense of trepidation 
 as you make your way to the next location because sooner or later, the zombies will get you.
  
  But in some ways you almost don't mind given this game is so much fun to play when you are 
 taking on the undead. The sheer amount of weapons, comical and otherwise means that you will frequently 
 find something new and different and many hours can be wasted just exploring all the areas of the 
 vast shopping complex and working out as many ways to despatch your foes as possible.
  
  Unfortunatelt Capcom decided to throw and huge spanner in the works with the frankly ridiculous 
 save game system. A game like Dead Rising which equates to a zombie sandbox style game screams 
 out to simply be exlpored and enjoyed for what it is. So why impose such strict time penalties 
 on performing certain tasks? I understand the rationale given the real-time 72 hour structure of 
 the narrative but there are times when you not only have to reach your objective but complete it 
 before the timer expires, with no warning of which it might be. And because you can only save once, 
 if you havn't left yourself enough time to perform said mission you may find yourself having to 
 start all over again.
  
  And that is the real kicker. There is no doubt that Dead Rising has great replay value, however 
 I don't want to replay the same sections over and over before I even get through the game once, 
 especially when it comes to the often tedious escort missions. Considering the variety that exists 
 in other areas of the game, the fact that the only real side missions are almost always escort 
 related seems a bit short sighted. And why make your escorts so monumentally stupid? Often unable 
 to scale the lowest of ledges or follow your simple directions only serves to provide more frustration. 
 It is such a strange diachotemy that on one hand you have a game that is such good fun to play, 
 but on the other hand can be so horribly frustrating. Its like Capcom have treated the 360 owners 
 as pet dogs, given them a fabulous chew toy to play with and them kept us on a tight leash. The 
 single save system really is utterly nonsensical and ruins what would otherwise have been a superb 
 game, especially given the number of wow moments in the game that you would want to impress your 
 mates with. Is the game worth the annoying issus with the save system? Yes..... just. Dead Rising 
 really is dead good but boy do I wish the save system was more human. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illbill10
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. This is for all those people who love Capcom.
  This isnt like Resident Evil, but there is one thing, id you've played Resident Evil 4, you know 
 the annoying thing of having to stop and shoot system going on. It's like that in dead Rising, 
 even though its like that though, you'll find yourself not doing that a lot. You'll be smacking 
 zombies with your fists, using a weightlift, or plowing 'em over with your Bicycle, or my favorite, 
 chopping 'em up with a chainsaw gorefest. The gameplay is great, theres enough items for you to 
 have a lot of time searching for 'em all. The sound is perfect, hearing the various item your holding 
 slamming the zombies. This game, you'd think, last awhile, but actually, it gets annoying after 
 a while. All you do is go save a person and bring them back to the hideout, or go and kill someone 
 to go and save someone. Something that is stupid is that once you save them, thats it. For one 
 thing, I heard that you were going to be able to take a party of 3 people and give them certain 
 weapons and armor and bring the malong with you. I was wrong :/. The game is the same thing over 
 and over, save a person, and then kill a person to save a person. Thats basically it :/. Though, 
 if you are a fan of any type of zombie killing, you will have fun with this. I would wait for this 
 to go to about, 40$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecMajer
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I can describe this game using free words: Fun, Fun, Fun. There's only one thing I would change 
 if i had such chance - its graphics which are far from being ideal and stunning. Nevertheless the 
 game still rocks. Music barely exist in the game. Sometimes you can hear some rock band playing 
 especially during some boss fights. The rest of the music is simply sound effects like zobie wailing 
 or footsteps. The most amazing part of the game is gameplay. Running in mall full of zombies with 
 chainsaw in hand is unforgettable experience. That's all folks have a nice playtime. &lt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaznobread
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  What? A review of a launch title this long after it's out. Well yes, some games I just hadn't got 
 around to yet. And since this game has already been reviewed to death, I'll keep this short.
  
  The depth of many new games is enough to keep a normal person busy for months. This game is 
 no exception. For starters there is tons to do and see. Just the main story alone is enough to 
 keep you hopping. You won't have enough time to do any of the side stories so a 2nd,3rd, or 4th 
 runthrough will be necessary. Which brings me to the downside of this game: the save game system. 
 You are only allowed one slot for savings. That's it. Save with not enough time to complete an 
 objective and you start from the beginning. Not just the beginning of the level.. THE BEGINNING! 
 Now the upside to all of this is that Frank, the main character, keeps his stats that he accumulated 
 with the start of a new game. This is essential to getting through the game. Not sure if it's a 
 brilliant idea or the idea of a madman. So take my advise, run through the opening scenes a few 
 times and die before you really get started. It will take you a long time to level up to level 
 50 anyway so explore, get familar with the mall, take some pictures and rack up some achievements. 
 The achievements themselves will take a concentrated effort to get as well. Once you level up some, 
 the game gets a little easier, although the mall seems more crowded. My suggestion, rent it first 
 to see if the save game is for you but the real fun is keeping this game long term for it's replayability.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaths_Vanguard
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is amazing, the gameplay is what it's all about and the storyline isn't too bad either 
 and gets alot more involved later on. A must have if you either like just killing things and also 
 for laughs. The variety of ways to kill zombies is the most imense ive ever seen as of yet and 
 it's just brilliant.
  
  This game is a perfect blend between a deep storyline and being incredibly cheesey. It's just fantastic. 
 The amount of zombies on screen at any one time is just stupidly impressive and has only lagged 
 three times for me and thats when there was around 300 zombies on screen at once which is very 
 rare. Overall I say, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Cutting the crap, right to the game.
  
  Story:
  A huge roller coaster of twists and turns. Second only too bully.
  
  Controls: Not bad, the 
 driving could use a little work though.
  
  Graphics: Amazing, just amazing, the blood is so detailed I can see myself in it!
  
  sound: 
 The moaning isn't just annoying, IT S FREAKY!!! THere's no soundtrack either. But there is elevator 
 music!
  
  Weapons: That's a stupid effing question
  
  I would reccomend the guide though, get it online, or get it at Baarnes and Noble or Borders. They 
 have a larger selection than gamestop.
  
  Real quick on the Elite: Where's the TV spots? The adds? Anything?
  Only 12,000  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock231992
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is just fun and funny. I am now going to tell you why this game is fun but first let me 
 tell you the story of it. It starts out a reporter going to a mall taking pictures of zombies. 
 But he then thinks that he is safe in the mall but he's not because a old women wants to find her 
 dog but she then find's it outside with the zombies. She then open's the door which block the zombies. She 
 then see's her dog but the zombies eat her and break through the door and killed all the people 
 there this is when it's starts the game level where you fight the zombies!!!!!!!!!!!!! The graphics 
 of this game is very good but when it comes with the blood it get's better. The gameplay is just 
 fun. There no playing with other players online but there are downloads and updates for the game 
 which is great. I give this a 10 out of 10. Rock231992 sign out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Before I got my 360 (indeed before I've bought any console) I spent months pouring through the 
 magazines to get an idea of what I'd be letting myself in for, and this game was among the reasons 
 I wanted a 360... being a big fan of Zombie movies and Capcom's Resident Evil series this just 
 appealed on so many levels... and let me down so badly.
  
  The save system is horrendous, if you die and choose to restart your save game file is gone, and 
 you only get one slot to save in anyway, and there are oly so many save points and they aren't 
 the easiest to find. The levelling system is hideous, yes if you reach level 7 and die you start 
 the next game as level 7 but when you pick up a guide from a magazine and they start by saying 
 you ought to be around level 30 before following the guide thats just wrong.
  
  Whats also wrong is the interaction with NPC's, your mobile will go off when its the worst possible 
 time to answer a call, which you answer using the not-to-friendly 360 d-pad, nor are the conversations 
 audible and they've chosen a tiny little font for the captions that make reading them a struggle.
 
  
  Nor do I like the idea that weapons break with repeated use, sure a french stick might be good 
 for just a couple of hits but a golf club or baseball bat as well? Don't think so, and combining 
 all this with having to escorts the survivors through the shopping centre gets boring after you've 
 done that 8 or 9 times.
  
  It could have been so good but just left me feeling frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EA2Y731
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that Capcom did a good job making a horror action game this fun! Who would not kill 
 a zombie by using a guitar or a manikins arm? I recommend this game to Fans of Resident Evil! 
 Now, lets get started!
  
  Gameplay: Fun, interesting, and fun LOL! Capcom made an interesting way of using the achievement 
 system that Microsoft uses. Like the RPG element!
  
  Graphics: Looks nice! What would expect from the 360!
  
  Sound: Sonds very cool. The music 
 for bossbattles sound cool and scary.
  
  Value: Good
  
  Bad things that let it down: Save system sucked, different endings for the game, co-op wouldve 
 been nice to put in
  
  In conclusion, I give 4.5 out of 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodyjoel
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game easily could have been a 10 if it was not for one major issue game pacing. The game goes 
 by way too fast at the start not allowing you to fully enjoy all the sidequests then kinda drags 
 towards the end.
  
  The gameplay is highly addictive allowing you to kill the tons of zombies in many unique ways from 
 throwing cans at them to shotguns. If the game let me, I could spend hours just running around 
 killing zombies. The sidequests where you save people are fun but sometimes the AI is incredibly 
 stupid after they join you. The storyline is very good for a horror game with tons of twists and 
 all the violence and gore you would expect. The graphics and sound quality are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmath4life
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  AND i will tell you why.... who wouldnt want to bash smash decapitate and destroy every single 
 zombie in the game with unlimmited weapons at your dispense and a game chocked full of surprises 
 and scares... im gonna tell you right now that it can be frusturating but with the unlimmited zombies 
 to easily wail away at who cares? So heres the deal and some advice if you do not have this for 
 the xbox 360.... GET A JOB then go and buy it you dumb ass! Then sit down turn the lights off and 
 have some fun the game is fun from the very moment that you take the pictures all the way to the 
 end of the game when you get back to the heli-copter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_X5213
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I love Zombies. To spruce up any game/movie throw a zombie in there somewhere. This is a HUGE reason 
 why i love me some dead rising. Imagine this. You're trapped in a mall with hundreds of zombies. 
 Can you guess what it is? Not Dawn of the dead silly! But Dead Rising, Capcom's latest game has 
 you in the role of Frank West, photojournalist who, while looking for his big break, gets trapped 
 in a mall full of zombies. Okay, maybe that's not the best plot you've heard in a while (or the 
 most original) but dead rising manages to succeed even without a great plot. Running around, grabbing 
 weapons (which is pretty much anything in the mall, from chainsaws to plants to even pies!) and 
 blasting zombies all while leveling up (which can earn you some new moves, health, speed, attack or 
 more stuff you can carry.) the mall is big, and theres plenty of shops to check out. The game is 
 not all great however, I have two major complaints with this game. the first (and biggest) is the 
 fact that the missions outside of the story missions are all the same! You get a phone call telling 
 you that someone is in trouble and you should save them (you don't have to but you get good EXP 
 from it,) then you find the person, and bring them back to the security room, fighting zombies 
 along the way. it wouldn't be too bad if the survivors weren't so stupid! man! they run into zombies, 
 get themselves killed, and if you give them a weapon, they don't use it! anyway the second reason 
 is the story mode time limit. it's annoying and thats all i'm going to say about it. these problems 
 should not keep you from enjoying the best part of the game. killing Zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete_merlin
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game i was very disapointed. the aiming was clunky and the save system 
 seemed broken. but after playing it alot (ALOT) you get used to it. the fact that the survivors 
 of the mall you escourt to safety are so stupid they mite aswell be a zombie themself is kinda 
 annoying, but eventually you get used to how they are and everything does seem to flow much better! 
 if you give a survivor a shotgun dont go standing in front of them or else you mite accidently 
 get your face blown off. i never have liked the way you aim any gun in this game and i probably 
 never will, its awkard and slow. but this game isnt about firing guns so much, its more about beating 
 the living hell out of the living dead with pretty much what ever you see; where ever that be a 
 chainsaw or a a teddy bear! a sledge hammer or a toy sword! the reply value of this game is outstanding. 
 you can decide to play this game however you want and still be able to see an ending! you can decide 
 to devote all your time killing thousands of zombies, or you could try to do all the missions, 
 or you could try to kill every single phsycopath in the game or you could try to save ever single 
 survivor in the mall! or you could mix it all up and do it all at the same time!
  this game isnt worth missing! although when you first begin playing you may not like the way the 
 game is played, but dont let that beat you! continue playing and before you know it you will be 
 having a great time!
  
  gameplay - great but the could be better if the aiming was different and if the save system was 
 a bit more friendly.
  
  Graphics - the graphics do look great. having hundreds of zombies on screen at once looks amazing! 
 but sometimes the frame rate does drop if you attack a loud of zombies at once.
  
  sound - the sound is amazing! guns sound good and the sound of a zombie being ripped apart by a 
 chainsaw sounds dead on!
  
  value - this game is worth the money, believe me! tilt - my experience was good but could have 
 been better, sometimes i did get very frustrated with it! but once its all said and done i did 
 have a very good time playing through dead rising.
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreeson
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The thing that stands out about dead rising is the ability to use just about anything, from shotguns 
 to fish as a weapon. This is a game that never gets boring. How many zombies can I kill in one 
 minute? Can a water pistol stop a zombie horde? Do pies have mmultiple uses? All of these questions 
 can be answered whilst playing this game. The storyline is immersive and the missions are diverse. 
 The character models are beautifully detailed and animated. Sadly, there are a few flaws in this 
 game: 1. The survivors make George Bush look like a rocket scientist. 2. Little or no voice acting 
 has been given to all the miscellaneous survivors. ( Go away Not a chance AAAAARgh.... being the 
 only phrases used 3. The in game text is tiny and your recon man, Otis, is the most annoying character 
 on the Xbox 360 to date. Despite this, Dead Rising stands out for being replayable, fun and insanely 
 gory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I Love this game so much.
  I have 660 Gamer score Points on it. Including the one and only Zombie Genocide. The Game Is Intensely 
 fun and it has a great Story line. I really love how it looks. If you have this game in the Highest 
 Hd quality You might drool.
  This Game has its Faults though. The escort missions SUCK! The Computers are retarded. even if 
 you give them a SHOT GUN! They Get Grabbed way too much and they always Cry and Whine every couple 
 of seconds! The Achievements should Be rearranged a lot 20 points for every mesealy Achievement 
 The 7 day Survivor is insane. But i can understand that now.. They Give you special weapons/Clothes 
 MEGA MAN FTW!! My score For Dead Rising is a 9.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarbyXCrash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Three days spend trapped in hell. In a mall surrounded by the living dead, you are Frank West: 
 Photojournalist. Your helicopter drops you off and promises to return in 72 hours. From then on, 
 everything us up to you.
  
  Dead Rising, released last August by Capcom, is a completely immsersive game that gives you almost 
 complete control over what happens. Once in the mall, you are given the basics. A safe room, a 
 save point, and instructions on how to defend yourself. From there, it is up to you.
  
  Most of the game takes place in the mall environment. Though it may sound small, it is quite the 
 battlefield, in which there is never a shortage of things to do. Restaurants give replenishing 
 meals for your health, and just about every other location provides some sort of weapon for you 
 to battle the onslaught of zombies.
  
  The main objective of the game is to get the story of what is happening in Willamette, the town 
 in which the mall is located. You are always on the clock, and to get the right ending of the game, 
 you have to complete each mission within a time frame and move onto the next by a certain hour. 
 Unfortunately, if you are tardy on one mission, the rest become locked, and the trail goes cold.
 
  
  While ambitious, the time system can prove to be somewhat of a burden, because in a free-roam game 
 like this, it would otherwise be common for one to run off for days at a time on a zombie slaughtering 
 rampage. Unfortunately, to complete the game, this cannot be done. Also, the save system is very 
 idiotic as well. There is only one save slot, so if you save without enough time to get to your 
 next case in time, you are stuck and will have to start the game over.
  
  Fortunately, this is not the worst thing that can happen. When you start the game over, you get 
 to keep all of your PP, or experience, from previous games. With experience you gain skills and 
 upgrades to your health, speed, carrying capacity, and more. Therefore, restarting the game may 
 be beneficial at times when more experience is needed to complete a task.
  
  The weapons are one of the best parts of the game. Almost anything can be used as a weapon, so 
 there is rarely a situation in which you are unarmed. From bats and swords, to guns and knives, 
 everything can be used in your defense. Alternatively, you can kill zombies with potted plants, 
 electric guitars, cds thrown like ninja stars, teddy bears, and even their own arms. The only thing 
 that each weapon has in common is its transitory property. They all degrade over time, eventually 
 breaking or running out of ammunition. This adds to the intensity of the game, because you will 
 find yourself resorting to uncommon means of defeating your attackers. Several times I would be 
 swinging away with my bat or katana and have it break on me, leaving precious seconds for me to 
 pick up a park bench and continue to smash my assailants.
  
  Guns are less impressive, and left me slightly disappointed with a desire for more. Each one serves 
 to be not much more than a pea shooter, and don't really serve much purpose when zombies are close. 
 Also, the aiming system is confusing and hard to get used to.
  
  Also in your arsenal of attacks are various skills, such as the ability to pick up a zombie and 
 throw him various ways, the flying kick, the skill of double lariat, which makes Frank windmill 
 with his arms outstretched, and various evasive moves, such as the head butt, the shoulder throw, 
 and the back kick. All of these will be vital in your survival.
  
  There is never a shortage of things to kill, either. Zombies are just about everywhere. Most of 
 the time they are docile, but after 7pm, they become ravenous. Their eyes glow red. They become 
 faster, more alert, and have deadlier attacks. A swarm of red zombies can pull you apart and destroy 
 any evidence that you were ever there.
  
  The game play lacks some intuition that would have greatly helped it. Several times I've been in 
 a elevator trying to escape a throng of the undead, and have been completely frustrated by the 
 simple task of trying to press the call button. If there is a weapon at my feet, Frank would rather 
 pick that up. In doing this, he drops one of his own possessions, thus repeating the process.
 
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising are decent during game play, but are truly impressive in the cinematic 
 cut scenes. The characters are incredibly detailed, and the main characters look almost real. In 
 game the graphics, while good, are less impressive. Understandably, when there are over 100 zombies 
 on the screen at one time, making each one look life-like would be quite a task, and would prove 
 to be more ironic than relevant. Accordingly, while fighting said 100 zombies, it would be better 
 to focus on staying alive, rather than the lack of eyebrows on zombie 48. At a glance, however, 
 the zombies do look great. Their decomposing skin and glazed eyes create enough of an effect that 
 the human mind fills in the rest.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is a great game however you choose to play it. I give fair warning, it can 
 be frustrating at times, but the persistence of a dedicated player will lead to an amazing payoff 
 one you get the hang of it. I highly recommend Dead Rising to any fan of zombie movies and anyone 
 who enjoys a good game that can turn a blind eye to the slight lack of polish and intuition. I 
 did, and it was worth it.
  
  DEAD RISING - 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo_ache
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  this game was great. it had good graphics and an ok story line. the problems in the game are forgoten 
 by the good. the saving in the game is bad since there are only curtain places where u can save 
 and the infinit mode sucks because u r dieing even when ur not getting hit. the story line was 
 good with plenty of action but can get in the way of just having fun but that is why there is an 
 infinit mode to slice and dice zombies as much as u want. the assortment of kick butt weapondry 
 is awsome weather u like cutting ur way through zombies or shoting them in the head u will most 
 likely love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cajiman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  never having seen the film myself but having heard about it i am wondering is it a clone of a film 
 or is it a whole new game. dead rising is a great game for passing the time the graphics engine 
 isn't the best .my main problem with the game is that there is no physics and that just annoys 
 me so much this certainly isn't the best game ever but slicing up zombies is so much fun the best 
 weapon in it has got to be the chainsaw .i don, t ever play the story on this sort of game because 
 i take out my anger at other games by decapitating zombies left and right. this game is like gta 
 without the drugs swearing and the enemy in gta certainly aren't zombies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMass1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Your trapped in a mall, with no way out. You have to kill hundreds (or thousands) of zombies just 
 to survive. This alone could be a very solid game, as it has been in the past. Zombie killing games 
 have been made before, but are nothing like dead rising. Even thought slaughtering loads of zombies 
 with ridiculusly interesting and interactive weapons, that is not the real point of them game. 
 I would like to point out that even though the commercials and reviews talk about the great graphics, 
 the lighting, physics, and the number of objects that can be used, the game is really all about 
 the story. Did you know that you can manipulate the story to change the future? You can also unlock 
 insanely cool rewards such as a mega man blaster and costume. Capcom made with very original style, 
 gameplay, and story. ... ... and it has great sound. If you have 't done so already, check out 
 this game. Do yourself a favor and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheUnholyBorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  Well here we are in a city filled with the undead with anything as a weapon sounds good right, 
 the graphics in this game a awesome, the zombie sounds and firing sounds on the weapons are brilliant 
 and gameplay is fun, anything is a weapon what more can i say it is the perfect zombie killing 
 game, there is also the choice of doing the story in the game or just going around killing zombies, 
 psycho's and saving survivors and the fact that some of the survivors can be given weapons can 
 come very much in handy when you are being swarmed by zombies, it can also be annyoing in the fact 
 that if you are to close to them they end up attacking you as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinKuei_warrior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  This Game is a really fun game to play! So many zombies, So little time (72 hours to be exact) . if 
 u hate games where the enemies were hard to take down, this game will ease that stress! the zombies 
 are soo slow n stupid, killin um makes it easier!
  
  Journalist: u play some photo journalist name Frank. some guy who wants to make a gr8 story about 
 this mall full of zombies! not only does he take photos, but he knows how to take out the zombies! The 
 only thing bad about him is that he runs like a gorilla, which can hold u back at times, but if u 
 can avoid that w/e.
  
  Mall: The mall is frickin awesome! theres soo much stuff in the mall u can use for your zombbie hunting! bats, sticks, shopping 
  way more! u can even hock a big lugie at the zombies! As 
 u progress in the game, ull start to learn different attacks like throws, puches, kicks, and some other 
 lil combos to help make fighting zombies eaiser. theres also clothing stores in the mall so u change 
 your look. u can even cross-dress (wtf!?) if u feel its necessary.
  
  Helping ppl: all throughout the mall theres gonna be ppl that are stuck in a ccorner needing your 
 assistance. Some are completely hostile where u might have 2 fight back, others may need u to help 
 them walk out whether its sprained or broken legs. the more ppl u rescue, the more u get health, attack, or 
 speed upgrades.
  
  jus got the game hours ago and im hooked! play this game... its well worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is an epic game. Aside from a few glitches and bugs, you can have endless fun killing 
 zombies in a huge amount of ways. Although Psychopaths can be quite annoying, they reward you with 
 weapons and some tips. There's nothing better than hacking away at zombies with a small chainsaw. 
 You can perform a huge array of activities which range from making blended beverages to cooking 
 meat! From Katanas to chainsaws, mannequins to lawn mowers &amp; from guns to explosives YOU CAN 
 DO ANYTHING!
  
  What can I say, the shopping centre is jammed pack of adventure and surprises. Quite a few elements 
 in the game can be quite annoying, but can be avoided if you know how.
  
  This is the best game I've ever seen, owned and reviewed.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  It had its goods and its bads. It is fun killing zombies at first when your level isn't too high 
 but when it gets too 40, the zombies just get annoying and its impossible to survive in the mall. 
 I thought it was a little too short and I didn't like the fact that you had to play the levels 
 and the games time and not yours, but still, atleast it wasn't the same stuff over and over again. 
 Infinitie mode was better than 72 hour mode and one of the things that I hated was that all the 
 guns spawn in the same odd places everytime. And another TERRIBLE thing was that if someone had 
 an automatic gun than they would just shoot you and you wouldn't be able to move, it wouldn't even 
 push you back! and if somone shot you with a shotgun you would do the same thing everytime... do 
 3 side rolls in the air than you get up and the same thing happens. But there are lots of good 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymike15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  One of the most unique games I've ever played. Dead Rising offers hours of zombie slaying fun, 
 with a large variety of items used as weapons from bowling balls to shotguns, swords to lawnmowers. 
 While one might assume a zombie game would be scary, Dead Rising is surprisingly comical and won't 
 have you jumping out your skin.
  
  The plot seems somewhat farfetched, but when put in context, the place is full of thousands of 
 zombies... doesn't matter how farfetched the story is.
  
  One of your gameplay options will be to rescue survivors in the mall and escort them to a safe 
 place, but these survivors have shockingly irritating AI and will get stuck behind benches, trees, 
 you name it. When you get used to controlling your party this presents less of a problem, but is 
 annoying at first.
  
  The game features a number of different boss battles which, unlike cutting through hundreds of 
 sluggish zombies with a katana, present a real challenge. They all have different combat styles 
 and are in different locations.
  
  A wide variety of achievements will have you playing through the game several times with different 
 goals, which you won't mind doing due to the large amount of content to discover within the game. 
 Your play directly affects the game's ending and so 3rd 4th and 5th play-throughs can still be 
 different.
  
  One major drawback is that you are only allowed one save file in the game, meaning you cannot save 
 more than two games. You have to finish a game before you can save a new one. Your characters progression 
 through the games will unlock more health, more capacity for carrying weapons and new abilities, 
 as you raise your level, and this can be done through numerous games to get to maximum level 50.
 
  
  Dead Rising is undoubtedly an entertaining game, but if you are still not sure it's your cup of 
 tea, then it's definitiley worth a demo download from the 360 marketplace. If you like the demo 
 you will like the full game and everything it offers to gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. There are plenty and plenty of zombies which makes this game a little more 
 challenging, but more fun. Plus you get to choose from plenty of things to hit them with or shoot 
 them with. And you feel like you're actually there like Dawn of the Dead happened or something. 
 Also you get food to heal yourself which makes the game better so that it's not impossible. This 
 game is amazing and absolutely sweet. I recommend this game to most people whether you only like 
 sports games or not. Everyone with a 360 should get this game. It's a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that just gets you thinking. Like some select people, for years 
 I have fantasized that zombies will take over the world, and I be the hero. This game fulfills 
 that quest for blood! Some of you may be asking, Why is it innovative!? . Well, I'm sure I'll get 
 an argument from this, but the 'everything is a weapon' thing is maybe not new, but is finally 
 done right. This game is a game about survival, and there are a great deal of times where you run 
 out of ammo, and you best weapon may be a park bench. The story is surprisingly good, it may be, 
 at times, unreal and exaggerated, but thats what makes it great. It may seem corny to some people, 
 but I find it hilarious. The thing I really love about the story is, I've beet it at least 5 times 
 now, and I've seen a different ending every time, and different things in the middle. The best 
 part about this game is it is such a stress reliever. Nothing better than relieving stress by bashing 
 zombies with a sludge hammer in the head. The graphics aren't too great, but when you put into 
 mind that there are thousands of zombies being loaded, it is surprising how smooth the game runs. 
 This game is a game that you will play for a long time, at least I will, and the game only gets 
 better and better, NEVER gets old......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was great, its every thing i thought it would be but the way you save the game is hard. 
 It is kinda stupid how they did it. Like if you play the missions and stuff you have to get things 
 dont by time you have to leave the mall. you must get in the mall and get out in 3 days. the missions 
 have to be done be a time if you dont you dont finish that mission and you cant go back. So if 
 save during a mission and dont have enogh time to get it done by the time it wants you can reset 
 that whole game or jsut keep going and jsut try again after you beat the game. and you have to 
 go to a a diff place to save like you cant jsut hit start and save you have to run to teh point. 
 Liek what happened with me i finished fighting this boss and and i beat him and i only had one 
 life bar left and i died trying to get to the sve point. if you did you just reload your last save 
 so there is no cheeck points you make your own cheeck points by saving the game but if you save 
 to much and you dont have time to beat the mission well your SOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llcoolray
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  When I had first seen Dead rising, I thought looks like a GOOD waste of precious life!!!! When 
 I first started playing, it was right off the bat, do what you want when you want. This game got 
 you right into the action, of a very large zombie infested mall (Think Dawn of the Dead ) from 
 the beginning to the very end and had me coming back for more meat, just like the thousands of 
 zombies in the game. Very innovative way of action/fighting never before seen, being able to use 
 almost anything and everything you can find in a Mall as a weapon of death, from trashcans and 
 trashcans to more of the traditional zombie slaying weapons of many melee weapons such as baseball 
 bats, lead pipes, sledge hammers, etc, and the occasional firearms. If you're looking for a game 
 to either satisfy you're daily dose of violence, this game will give you a year's worth, but not 
 overly bloody that it is disgusting. Has a great main campaign as well as lots of side quests (Rescueing 
 Civilians, Stopping Psychopaths, etc.) that will last you at least 6-8 hours, and extended gameplay/modes 
 if you achieve the right circumtances. Pretty original/creative storyline, Very nice level design. 
 Only dowside is you may find that it may feel a little repetative, but come on, who would'nt want 
 to massacre zombies, 1 v. s. 100's, for hours and hours!!!!!!!! Overall this game brings many of 
 the elements such as graphics, gamplay, and replay value that many people look for in a great action 
 game. Two Thumbs Up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharuka
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game has its flaws yes. The saves might not be helpful, and the case system can annoy, but 
 this game has enough good points to overshadow the bad. Belive me when I say not being abel to 
 see a few cut scenes, but insted maim and sluaghter about one thousand living impared is worth 
 it.
  And why conplain about the save systems? I mean if you do die before you got to save, you get to 
 play again with better stats, meaning the ways to kill the zombies are better, and you get all 
 the PP that you earned in your first play again. But I must confess some of the game could be improved 
 greatly.
  The subtitels and item labels are to small to read without a HD TV, and the graphics could have 
 been better, but I ask you, do you belive they would be abel to create 1000+ zombies on the screen 
 without a slowdown or crash when every zombie was in expert detail. I say the games graphics are 
 exelnt considering the acomplishments this game has done for the zombie game genre.
  
  I ask you, as a final note, don't ypu care about the poor zombies you mercilicly hack to death 
 on the game? My personal awnser would be... HELL NO!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I'm borrowing this game as I type this review, and It's amazing. The graphics are very good at 
 parts and there are tons of weapons to slaughter zombies with. How could it go wrong?
  
  The save system. I had heard horror stories before, but I didn't believe them. It's true. The save 
 points are few and far between, and you will probably die between them. For this reason I've basically 
 had to start over 3 times and start an hour back from where I was several times as well.
  
  Still, Dead Rising is great fun. Basically you're stuck in a mall with zombies and must kill them 
 because that's what you do to zombies. There are survivors around and you can escort them to safety, 
 although the zombies usually kill me before I can do that.
  
  The graphics are very good considering how big the game is. The first cutscene had me worried but 
 it made up for that soon after.
  
  Part of the reason Dead Rising is so fun is that you can do whatever you want without being shoved 
 somewhere by a computer. If you want to endure the whole 72 hours behind a snack bar counter throwing 
 things at zombies, no one's stopping you. Of course, it will give you some litle quests and missions 
 to do, but ignoring them is easy.
  
  In short, Dead Rising is a fantastic game, but having to deal with the save system leaves it needing 
 polish. If it had an Oblivion-type save system, It'd be a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of my favorite games of all time, not because it has zombies and i love killing 
 zombies! Its because the game finally took my idea and im sure a million other people thought of 
 this. YOU, ZOMBIES, TRAPPED IN MALL, SANDBOX GO!
  
  I could tell you about the story, but you can find that out for yourself, its a pretty interesting 
 story but nothing to special.
  
  Graphics; There very shiney! hundreds of zombies on screen at once with not one slow down! The 
 character models look a little BLEH, but you quickly forget about it when you see how much detail 
 they put in to the mall itself. Great job with graphics
  
  Sound: Everythings here from chainsaw to plants, sound had to been taken directly from the real 
 life things. Cause it sounds good, nuff said though
  
  Gameplay: VERY GOOD, I fell in love with this game the moment i put it in my 360. ill keep this 
 summery short. The game is one GIANT sandbox of things to do, you can follow the main case studies 
 to find out the truth behind the zombie outbreak, or you can goof off and kill zombies in the MANY 
 different ways. Another thing you can do is kill the games bosses named phychos and believe me 
 these people are nuts. You can save survivers you'll find throughout the mall at different times 
 and places. You have basilcy 72 hours to do all of theses things you want. After playing through 
 the case studies my first time around, i found that messing around is alot of fun. But killing 
 just ZOMBIES can get old after about an hour or 2. SO your goin gto want to save survivers, find 
 new stores, defeat new bosses, or just mess around with people period. This is just a summery of 
 the game itself, there is so much more to it. One more important mention is the save system, now 
 i know its under great controversy. But please trust me when i say its not that bad. Even if you 
 decide to start the game over you can take over your abilities and skills to your next game, just 
 remember to save as often as you can and the save system will be no problem. ITs not as bad as 
 people say. Lol another thing is that the survivors in this game are pretty dumb, but there managable. 
 Its a challenge, this game is challenging, not a cake walk
  
  Overal: the game shines, its amazing. If you like zombies, your giong to want to rent it or buy 
 it. Its a much see for anyone who owns a 360. its only flaw is a akward save system thats not that 
 bad if you save often. Interesting unique gameplay, good sound, great replay, and great graphics, 
 plus a challenge to come with it. A great experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzeplin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Capcom is real famous for there resident evil series, that has a bunch of blood thirsty zombies 
 in it and now they've put these zombies in a mall with everything as a weapon. This is an absoulutly 
 fun way to start the day off, put dead riseing in your xbox and start to shoot, chop, throw, and 
 do a mission. There is nothing more fun then pondering how to kill that one zombie in the corner 
 by himself who has just realized that you are there. All in all the game is real great and I have 
 told all of my friends about Dead Riseing and they have all become addicted to it. The only cons 
 are when your shooting a gun without aiming you miss like all of the time and the graphics arent 
 next gen material. The sound for the game is some of the best sound you can get out of a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darruk
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising, is one of those games that you keep finding ways to enjoy.
  
  Story: Although not a Pulitzer prize winning piece, the story is cohesive enough to keep you playing 
 on to the end to find out just what happens, and why this all started. I think the player will 
 enjoy the fact that it's at least a new spin on how zombies are created. The Case system is also 
 a great idea which leads the player through the main story line of the game. You can either choose 
 to follow it or go off on a total rampage, and the freedom of game play is greatly appreciated.
 
  
  Game Play: When they say every thing is a weapon , they mean everything!! From benches, potted 
 plants, and manoquins to Shotguns, sniper rifles and my personal favorite the machete. There are 
 plenty of ways to dispatch the zombie hordes. OMG are their hordes, thousands of zombies! Let's 
 just say there are so many in game that one achivement is to kill over 53,000 of them.
  
  Summary: This game is a must own for any fan of zombie games. Gamers who have never entered into 
 this genre before, be warned the grusome display of animated violence is not for those with a weak 
 stomach. Props to the graphical design team and modelers, and engine designer for this ultra realistic 
 looking zombie bashing adventure.
  
  When's the sequal comming out?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muppetguy21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost. I love Frank West. in my 20 years of gaming he is my favorite game hero. There 
 is just something about him. His outlook on life. his energy and the voice acting is great. the 
 fact he looks good in underwear helps a bunch to. the storyline is fantastic. lots of naysayers 
 want to complain that its just a rip on dawn of the dead. How can you do zombie anything with out 
 borrowing heavily from the granddaddy of the genera. Lots of folks have complained about the save 
 system but i have to say that I think it fits in with the game very well. it keeps with the feeling 
 of story. the different endings ad a bunch and I think the achievements even ad to the quality 
 of the experience. If I have a ruff day there is nothing like coming home and running over a few 
 thousand zombies with a car. or taking a lawnmower to a jam packed entrance to the mall. or Killing 
 a chainsaw wielding clown.
  
  I cant wait for the next installment of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FistandantilusX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for the people that fufill these requirements:
  1) Like Zombies
  2) Don't take their games too seriously
  3) Like Zombies
  4) Want an actually somewhat interesting 
 story wrapped around fun gameplay
  5) Like Psychopaths
  6) Don't mind a little (okay a lot of) blood
  and
  7) Like Zombies
  
  Dead Rising pits 
 you in a mall for three days, while the mall becomes progressively more full of zombies and psychopaths. 
 You are just there to get the story of a lifetime, but end up wrapped up in something a little 
 more interesting. The big thing that drives the fun gameplay is that just about everything is a 
 weapon. Run out of pistol rounds? Grab that bench and knock them side to side. Or even better grab 
 the potted plant and crack them over the head. Or the best, grab a baseball bat and hit a homerun 
 with the zombie's head. This type of gameplay is highly innovative, and loads of fun to do.
  Graphically the game is A+, with excellent graphics and animations, while the sound is awesome 
 also, with everything sounding differently, and as you would expect when hitting someone with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Deadrising is by far the best game I have played on the 360. From the outset it oozes quality and 
 inspiration, and as the game progresses it never fails to offer both a challange and an exciting 
 and unique experiance.
  
  Visually the game is very impressive with nice character models, a great looking Mall to run around 
 in and by far the most enermies on screen at any one time that I have ever seen in any game (Around 
 100 zombies is not uncommon!) . The sound is excellent and adds a great deal to the atmosphear of 
 dark humour. With Cheesie Elevator Music playing out as you run around the Mall interspaces with 
 daft announcments and other great snippets. There are some nice tracks to add tension during boss 
 fights and when the action becomes tense. The gameplay is fantastic and nothing can really compaire 
 to the feeling of mashing the Undead with any of the crazy weapons you will find (and there are 
 litrally hundreds of them) . Having played this game all the way through twice I am still finding 
 new, mad ways to dispatch zombies.
  
  On the down side Capcom decided to only allow you one save game, now this is a bit of a double 
 edged sword. On one hand it changes the way you approach the game and gives the various challanges 
 and alternative endings more relavance (And there are several) on the other hand it can be bloody 
 annoying when you loose by a silly mistake and have to play a whole section again.
  
  The second downside comes in the form of the human adversaries (Bosses) and the army (In the last 
 12 hours of the game) who all feel way too tough. The boss fights feel like they lack any real 
 skill and rather require the abstract exploitation of their routines (standing so they cannot reach 
 you etc) - the army are just way too strong and so the fun that the game offers (Namley the mass 
 killing Woohoo mayhem) is lost to frustration
  
  Dispite this slight failings Dead Rising remains a birlliant game that continues to hold my attention 
 long after I have played through and seem most of what it has to offer - it is very open ended, 
 has a great story, brilliant combat (for 99% of the game) and tons of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the second XB360 game I have played. I have to say I am a little bit disapointed. 
 Maybe it's all the hype my friends put around it, or that it was closely based on Dawn of the Dead, 
 but Dead Rising has some good points and bad points.
  
  The graphics aren't the best I've seen thus far on The Box. I know it's capable of more, and Capcom 
 themselves have produced some highly graphic games (see R. E. and R. E.4 on the GCN) so I feel like 
 I'm looking at something that could have been done on PS2, the original XB or the GCN. A lot of 
 the speaking is in very small text which is difficult to read, so you're not quite sure what to 
 do.
  
  The controls have their flaws as well. It's difficult to control the camera. The buttons aren't 
 placed out very well and aren't very responsive. Although it's fun to make just about anything 
 a weapon (from children toys to umbrellas to guns) . Although the implimentation of them can be 
 difficult at times, and there are SO many zombies that it's difficult to believe that you can take 
 out an army of them with a water cooler.
  
  There isn't really much to speak of for music. Just the usual mall music which adds to the atmosphere. 
 The voice acting is ok, but the sound effects are what really hold your interest. The idea of the 
 game as stated earlier is based on Dawn of the Dead. You're a reporter that looking for the scoop 
 of the century and end up hold up in a middle american mall while uncovering a government plot 
 . While the idea of the game is a sound one, and looks good on paper, it gets old quickly. I think 
 Capcom need to lay off the Zombies for a while, or at least leave it to the R. E. series. I was 
 looking for this to be an above average title and it just didn't cut the mustard. It's not a bad 
 title, but don't expect anything earth shattering. It's like Capcom's own version of GTA, just 
 with Zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonedFox324
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This review is targeted towards people whose first impressions of the game makes them want to give 
 up on the game completely. If you haven't played the game yet and want to read a more in depth 
 review, Gamespots official review is a good place to start.
  
  I'm gonna come outright and say that the first time I played Dead Rising, I was pissed. I saw a 
 game that had the potential to be one of the best games the 360 had to offer, but was hindered 
 by a convoluted mission system and menacingly difficult gameplay (the bad kind of difficult that 
 makes you want to off yourself) . I was ready to log onto Gamespot and write a scathing review about 
 this abomination.
  
  So I put the game down for a day and took a breather. I rationally tried to figure out how I was 
 expected to save all these people and kill psychopaths all in the limited amount of time given, 
 not to mention with zombies eating these survivors without remorse. At this point I actually logged 
 onto Youtube and looked up videos of people playing through the beginning of the game.
  
  These people miraculously managed to pull off just the task I was so frustrated tryin to pull off. 
 The difference was, these people were for the most part, fully leveled up. It was then that I had 
 a realization. I had to stop thinking about the game as a traditional adventure game where you 
 hve to do everything perfectly, and started looking at it more like an arcade game, meant to be 
 replayed.
  
  The first time you play through this game your probably not going to kill all the psychopaths (especially 
 not those idiots in the jeep) or save all the people. Your best idea would be to save who you could 
 and fight who really mattered, go for perfectionism during another run through.
  
  If you're an impatient person or one who hates going through games more than once, Dead Rising 
 is probably not for you. If you have some time on your hands and want to play a fun game and don't 
 mind a BIG learning curve, then try this out/ give it a second chance. It's a great game once you 
 understand it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mentalfred
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is basically Dawn of the Dead in a videogame form, in that you (Frank West, photo-journalist) 
 are trapped in a huge shopping mall in the middle of a zombie holocaust. You have 72 hours (game 
 time) to uncover the mystery surrounding the outbreak through cutscene driven missions, to save 
 any of the 50+ survivors in the mall, to defeat any or all of the 20ish psychopaths (humans gone 
 bad for whatever reason) roaming the mall, or to simply have fun killing as many zombies as you 
 can, or try and do all these things in one playthrough.
  
  As you progress, you level up, gaining a larger inventory, new skills, more health etc to help 
 you in whatever quest you decide to do. This progress is then carried over into any new game once 
 you finish the timeline, so you can use your newly gained special abilities etc from stratch.
 
  
  The great thing about choosing the story mode is that it goes deeper than I thought it would. For 
 example, you can miss deadlines to do missions, and consequently lose any other opportunity to 
 uncover the mystery, and leave the mall after 72 hours fine and dandy like. This is what I did 
 the first of my third time with this game (read above to understand what I mean here) because I 
 decided I just wanted to mess around. On my second playthrough I stuck to the storyline, and found 
 that there is almost another game after the end of 72 hours, I won't say anything else to spoil 
 it, but it was a pleasant surprise. Of course, multiple playthrough's are required to get all the 
 achievements (some of which are inspired) .
  
  The gameplay is pretty great, despite the controls feeling a bit clunky at times it never gets 
 annoying, with the amount of things you can use to combat the undead. Being stuck in a mall clearly 
 has its advantages, namely the fact that mostly anything you see can be used as a weapon, from 
 the downright crap (CD cases, coat hangers etc) to the ultimately awesome (various kinds of chainsaw, 
 excavator drills, cars) it never, ever gets old.
  
  Speaking of weapons, each item makes the sound you'd expect it to make in a similar bizarre circumstance, 
 I really hope there are awards for sound in the game industry, and that this won all of them, its 
 really deserving. The satisfying 'thwack' of a baseball bat smacking undead flesh, or the crap 
 clatter of a CD case uselessly smacking of a zombie's chest. Its great.
  
  Your enemies are primarily Zombies of course, and they behave exactly how they should. They are 
 dumb, they are slow, and they are hella funny to mess with. Their strength is in their numbers, 
 which really shows off the 360s power in a lot of instances, multitudes of adversaries can surround 
 you, which makes taking them all out, or mowing them down all the more satisfying.
  
  I give this game my own personal hurray, its truly great. I also nominate Frank West as one of 
 the great heroes of gaming. What a guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargersROCK42x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I was soo damned excited. When I bought it, I was excited. When 
 I played it, I was having fun... until the case mission starts. 1) The AI is soo terrible
  2) Not enough save points, its annoying
  3) Barely any transportation
  4) Having to be on time 
 sucks
  If those 4 things were corrected this game would be a ten... definantly. I had so much hope for 
 this game! It is still really good though! The graphics and sound are phenomonal! The weapons are 
 the best part! And the hugeness of the mall, it makes it lots more fun! This game couldve been 
 so much better, and I hope the sequel will be better! We all hope... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calzoony
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Well i think it is, its depth of weapons and storylines are outstanding. This game offers you a 
 unique gameplay option, you don't need to follow the story line. Well you start at level 1, with 
 minimal health, item storage, throw distance, speed and one special move. As you progress through 
 the game you gradually build up your level looking for the ultimate level 50 (achievement) . As you 
 gain levels your health, item storage , throw distance, speed and u get more special moves all 
 increase. This will halp alot and is an essential when you come to defeating physcopaths and escourting 
 survivors. When you first start playing Dead Rising you think that it is unbelievably hard until 
 you get your level up and find the gun shop and knackery shop. These two shops will be vital for 
 survival in the gun shop you will come across a easy boss called Cletus, kill him and you have 
 a free supply of handguns, shotguns and sniper rifles. The knackery shop is very useful with the 
 hunting knifes, katanas, swords and clevers waiting for you in a cabinet. You will go through the 
 game being very careful of getting to all the cases at the right time a little slip up will spoil 
 the whole game with the truth has vanished into darkness meaning all the missions have ended but 
 the game is not over as you still play on but not follow the storyline. You come to the end of 
 the game waiting for the hellicopter that seems to take for ever to finaly arrive, i found myself 
 waiting for 10 hours. But don't forget to go and see Isabella or you wont get the true ending. 
 Well you know feel great and are looking back on them 72hours you have controlled, thinking is 
 this the best game ever? Well then that is not the end of it with overtime mode, what a add on 
 to the game. You complete that looking for as many queens as possible and find out Carlitos evil 
 plan. Survival mode is also unlocked when overtime mode is completed this is amazingly fun with 
 you have to kill for food which now is on limited supply unlike overtime mode and the normal storyline. 
 You will find this hard as it is a constant battle to get food. You will bump into all of the physcopaths 
 again and have to kill them once more but they make this considerably easier. All in all i think 
 this is the greatest game to date. with its depth in storyline, endings and also weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bartiemuss
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  This game is the best zombie killing game out there you start of the story as a man named frank 
 west a photojournilist looking for A story you then hire a helicopter pilot to flow over a small 
 town that is barcadied by the army you are then droped of in a mall with 72 hours untll the helicopter 
 picksyou up. Once you get in the mall you find that thet he game killling zombies you have 72 hours 
 untill the helicopter comes back what you do in that time is up to you. you can find out how the 
 town turned into zombies rescuse surviours kill zomvies or just hide in a closet untill the helicopter 
 shows up and takes you away or you can do a mixture of all 4. The best thing about the game is 
 the share number of sombies in it there are hundreds on screen at any 1 time and in turn there 
 are hundreds of diffrent weapons in whihch to kill zombie with raging from shotguns to paint buckets 
 guitars to knives and tvs plus 100s more. this is such a great game there is one bad thing about 
 this game it is the save system it is extremely bad you can only save in the secubut securirity 
 room were you take surviovrs once you rescuse them or in rest rooms througout the mall if u chosee 
 a bad place to save it can mess up ur entitre game that being said your lelvel and stats carry 
 through each game making life that much more easir this is a great game you should play it period 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyinfinity
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  With the thousands of zombies, hundreds of weapons, and all the different characters in the game, 
 you really don't get bored of playing. There are at least 3 different endings to the game, so you 
 don't always end up the same way. The replay value is strong, and there are 3 different modes you 
 can play in, although you only start off with the default story mode, and must unlock the other 
 two. Almost any item in the game can be picked up and used to kill zombies, so you never have to 
 worry about running out of ammo. There are many characters that you can meet, and in most instances 
 either save, or kill, which keeps you going throughout the game. When it comes down to it, this 
 is a great zombie killing game, and worth your time if you want a good zombie game for your 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is truly a real breath of fresh air for the 360, and is unquestionably an instant classic. 
 Dead Rising is gory, macabe, and humorus all at the same time, while offering vast room for creativity. 
 It is just an out right blast to play.
  
  The gameplay is smooth, except for random loading screens. The game is so good though, that you 
 tend to overlook them. The controls are nice and responsive, and has a very easy layout. Graphics 
 are also very good, especially for this type of game.
  
  The only real con of this game, and it is a pretty big one, is the save feature, which will only 
 allow you to save in a restroom, or a security room by a couch. So, if you are low on health or 
 time, sometimes you have to make your way through HORDES of zombies in order to get to the other 
 side of a pretty damn big mall in order to save your game. Otherwise, you have to start ALL OVER 
 AGAIN from your last save. If you did not save, then you start THE GAME all over again, lol.
  
  If it were not for the HORRIBLE save feature, this game probably would have gotten a near perfect 
 score from me, as it is just that good. It is such a great game, however, that I am still giving 
 it a 9.0, because it is one of those games that can provide HOURS of ridiculous, gory fun.
  
  All in all, definitely one of the best games that I have ever played, regardless of the terrible 
 save game feature. Instant classic all the way, and I cannot wait for Dead Rising 2. I never thought 
 that Capcom would make a game to rival Resident Evil, but this one is definitley a fine candidate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Ever since I was a wee little child I've been playing games from the company Capcom, and with so 
 many efforts in trying new and different things they all to often fall into patterns that worked 
 in their favor. Never something I'd rag on as long as it worked and entertained, but with all the 
 hype about next generation gear and such what is a gamer to expect from an old dog who's been around... 
 that would be GREATNESS!!
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  Right away&nbsp; any person who has seen a good zombie movie would expect the first 10 minutes to 
 either have intense action or images of immense horror. Dead Rising tosses you into the&nbsp; thick 
 of things with all this in mind,&nbsp; so after getting familiar with the simple things&nbsp; you&nbsp; end 
 up&nbsp; at a&nbsp; mall full of other survivors who socialize until zombies hit the scene. Shortly 
 after, the game really takes off with a few approaches towards story or absolute zombie killing 
 mayhem. Your main character is customizable in&nbsp; the sense that you can change his appearance 
 and level&nbsp; up which leads to new abilities. As you go thru this mall complex you can explore 
 the numerous stores which all have something to offer, a huge garage level with vehicles,&nbsp; a 
 walk around park, and plenty of characters to interact with.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS&nbsp;
  A lot of people were very skeptical about how a company such as Capcom 
 who is known for stuff like Mega Man would approach a new franchise with a realistic look. For 
 some&nbsp; reason I'll never understand, people forget these guys worked on Resident Evil and Devil 
 May Cry, all long running series that have no problem&nbsp; presenting realism. So when you do start 
 the game and notice that&nbsp; within 30 mins you've seen more blood and gore than you'd ever see 
 in hours of RE, you begin to numb your senses with more blood using any weapon you can find. Beyond 
 finding its own look to seperate itself from many others, the characters, zombies, environment, 
 all the attention to detail is spot on. The best&nbsp; part is if you have a keen eye&nbsp; you can 
 actually take snap shots with your camera and save the pics.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  Nothing beats running down a hallway in clip-clop dress shoes&nbsp; laying drop kicks on 
 anything dead in your way, finding a sword shop, busting open some glass and grabbing the meanest 
 blade you can take to the litter of flesh eating corpses that cover your exit. All this and many 
 other scenerios with burn themselves into your memory as you roam the entire mall taking note that 
 just about every object, collision&nbsp; effect, and weapon has its&nbsp; own distinct sound. Sometimes 
 if you find a nice spot where zombies haven't noticed you, listening to the environment feels like 
 the good memories you maybe had when playing stuff like Ecco or Shenmue. No matter how much you 
 understand that your taking part in a fake digital world, the flawless sounds you hear even from 
 a crappy&nbsp; TV will keep you on edge. The voice acting is pretty solid too!
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  So I tend to complain when playing thru a game that offers&nbsp; little to no value. Either 
 the game itself has to be just right so that I can enjoy myself until I've played my fingers sore 
 or there has to be some purpose to playing&nbsp; thru all the nooks and&nbsp; unlocking every door. 
 Many games in general, especially ones on the 360 which should be more conscious of their achievements, 
 lack any real replay value&nbsp; or luster for completing as much as one gamer could. Not Dead Rising... 
 no sir, if you want a game that pushes your skills and earns you braggin rights to awesome achievements, 
 this is&nbsp; THE game!&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  You could be an insane zombie fanatic like myself and expect big things from a game such as Dead 
 Rising, or you could be the average casual Joe who likes action video games. Which ever person 
 you are this game offers a&nbsp; great gaming&nbsp; experience and that is no lie. Take caution when 
 making a purchase&nbsp; because this is one of the few 360 titles that won't budge in price.&nbsp; If 
 you tend to fly thru games without any regard to story&nbsp; or completion percentage, you may walk 
 away with a sour taste. The lack of online anything seems a little lame, but if you like Capcom&nbsp; you 
 can easily see this game was&nbsp; an important&nbsp; building block to what online action takes 
 place in games like Lost Planet or possible future versions of Dead Rising. Good for a rental&nbsp; no 
 doubt, but even better as a classic game to own that offers&nbsp; tons of side missions and equipment, 
 crazy plot turns and twists, awesome visuals and audio, fun and easy controls, and most of all... 
 endless hordes of zombies to massacre any way you see fit. Which earns numerous&nbsp; achievement 
 might I add ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duel_Rocker_101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the most addicting games I have ever played in the whole twelve years of 
 my life. It offers great oppurtunities for those who need to relieve anger. All you simply have 
 to do is find something in Willamette Mall and beat a zombie senseless with the object, or firearm. 
 The graphics are realistic, but there's just a slight tweek it needs to make the graphics what 
 they need to be. The best thing about the graphics, and maybe the whole game is the blood. Blood. 
 Blood. Blood. the gameplay was excellent, just needed a little bit more of a tweek too. The sound 
 of the zombies comingfor is absolutely marvelous. That gets a ten out of ten all the way in my 
 book. Well, my favorite content about this game is that the boss fights are fun as crap. That's 
 all the time I have my fellow gamers. I like to keep my reviews short and easy. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torque1599
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  I bought this game believing the hype. That it was a massive, involving romp through a zombie infested 
 mall. Sadly, while it is uninvolviing, the game failed to immerse me. I found the quest system 
 to be broken and frustrating. With that annoying janitor buzzing you at the most inopportune times 
 and dumping some stupid, repetitive task in your lap while your knee deep in the undead. Also, 
 the map is incredibly difficult to read and it is very hard to reach any objectives at all.
  
  I also found the controls to be unresponsive and frustrating. Targeting any enemies at all 
 became a chore and the game would often swarm you with zombies and give you no way out.
  
  To be fair, the graphics and sound were impressively brutal. The bone crunching action looked and 
 sounded great. Too bad the gameplay couldn't live up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDove
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Haunted mansions, police stations and laboratories, all in which have been unsuccessful hunting 
 grounds for zombies in the past, but now they set to invade a shopping mall and this time they 
 are in force. All that stands in their way from complete assimilation of Willamette, Colorado is 
 one photojournalist Frank West. It is easy at first to assume that all Dead Rising is, is no more 
 than mass zombie killing game influenced by George A. Romeros, Dawn of the Dead. However, wrapped 
 inside this feast for the undead, is a surprisingly deep game that has incredibly lavish visuals 
 and will keep you thinking of the million and 1 ways to kill a zombie long past your initial play 
 through. However, the save system can make the game feel very broken during the earlier stages 
 of game.
  
  The premise of Dead Rising is that youre Frank West, an experienced photojournalist who has specialised 
 in covering wars. Frank has been given the hot tip that something bad is happening in the little 
 town of Willamette and has hired a private chopper to take him there. The game starts when you 
 land on the heliport on the shopping mall. You will end up meeting with survivors at the malls 
 entrance, all of which are trying desperately to keep the zombies from getting inside. However, 
 their attempts only delay the inevitable and thanks to a stupid old woman in search of her dog, 
 the zombies easily invade the mall and kill all in their path and take complete control of the 
 mall.
  
  The gameplay present in Dead Rising is very balanced and very tight. The game is moved forward 
 by and actual real time present within the game, Frank has been given 72 hrs (which equates to 
 about 10-12 hours real time) to get his story and get out of there. They story itself is laid out 
 by case files, in which you have to be at a certain place at a certain time to unlock the next 
 case and progress through the story. Surprisingly given that there does seem to be a main focus 
 on the combat aspect of the game, the narrative is just as good, and you literally wont know the 
 whole truth as to how and why the zombies have invaded Willamette until the final hours of the 
 game.
  
  The combat is definitely where Dead Rising shines. All the weapons present in the game have a great 
 feel and balance. Heavier weapons will deal more damage, but their attack speed is slow and Frank 
 will have to recover between each use, whereas lighter weapons will allow Frank to use attack combos 
 with little to no recovery time in between uses. Each weapon is susceptible to damage and over 
 time and will break. However the mall provides a ridiculous amount of wacky and conventional weapons, 
 so you wont need to travel far to refill your arsenal. As you progresses and level up during the 
 game Frank will learn different moves which can help him out of sticky situations when your weapon 
 arsenal becomes depleted. The button combos used to perform these moves are simple and some can 
 have very satisfying effects.
  
  The graphics in the game are phenomenal with each character model and zombie animated individually. 
 The game also looks just as good as if not better then the RE1 remake for the Gamecube. The sheer 
 number of enemies on the screen at any given time, whilst running at a consistent frame rate, gives 
 testament to the power of these next generation consoles. The sound quality is very satisfying 
 and really adds not only to the atmosphere that you are in a shopping mall but the satisfaction 
 of every zombie you kill throughout the game due to the incredible and detailed sound effects of 
 each weapon, slicing, chopping and beating a zombie to death, again. However the game is without 
 its dubious features. The AI within the game is plain dumb whilst this may pass for the undead, 
 the human psychopaths that Frank will encounter, show no sign of intelligence and just beating 
 them to ground will usually work well in most occasions. The survivors that you will encounter 
 and attempt to rescue throughout the game show no sign of intelligence, give them a gun and they 
 are easily mistake you for a zombie. The survivors can actually slow the excellent pacing that 
 the game establishes, and rescuing survivors becomes very tedious. The only reason why you might 
 try rescuing survivors is to either grab the achievement points on offer or the very helpful rewards 
 some of the survivors can offer. The save system used in Dead Rising flat out sucks. Each profile 
 is allowed one save per memory device and most of the time the hard drive is on the only memory 
 device most 360 users have. Auto saves are very few and they automatically overwrite your last 
 save point. This can be very punishing. If you stuffed up something earlier you may not realise 
 it till later in the game and by then you have probably overwritten that save point in which the 
 only way to succeed is to start the game over (However, you will maintain your character stats 
 that you have obtained whilst playing the game) . Despite everything Dead Rising does well, the 
 game is aimed at a niche market and doesnt try to try to break any audience barriers. The game 
 is mainly an opportunity to find new and creative ways of sending the undead back to the grave 
 and given that the RE series has been our only real zombie killer franchise in the past, Dead Rising 
 can be very satisfying in that regard. What is even better is that beyond the general appeal there 
 is a great story and a very deep and balanced gameplay to go with it. Dead Rising is a definite 
 must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girl_Jedi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game and non stop bloody fun that you could play for hours! Even though 
 there is a story line to it you don't have to follow all i really do is just kill zombies. The 
 only thing that could be better is the saving mode which only allows you to overwrite your saved 
 files. Also you can pick up almost anything in the store like a shower head you simply just shove 
 it in the zombies head and you get a delightful shower of blood, but there's not just that there 
 are stuffed teddy bears, guns, water pistols, and just the basic stuff you would find in a shopping 
 mall. The game si about how you are a photographer and you go to a town that has been taken over 
 by zombies and that's where the fun begins! Over all it's a great game!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Open world game Dead Risng , is a fresh look at zombies with even some humor dashed in to the mix 
 . You play as Frank West , photojournalist who gets a hint that something big is going on in the 
 town of Willamette . When he gets there , he tells his pilot to pick him up in 72 hours . He finds 
 that theres been an outbreak of zombies , with a great storyline , Dead Rising is one of the top 
 games for 360.
  There are almost endless posibilities as weapons eg. frying pan , plates and even cans of drink 
 . There are survivors to save and psychopaths to kill.
  The graphics are great and so is the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Well i was pretty P. O. ed when I only got the C ending, oh well.
  
  Dead Rising is an excellent Action/Adventure game in which you kill Zombies, Psychos and Federal 
 scum, oh and more zombies. The story is pretty well done, the voice acting is mostly good but sometimes 
 hilarious when its not supposed to, but it does cheer you up and makes you feel that something 
 good must happen. All the sound effects in this game are well done and everything sounds like what 
 it should, its satisfying to hear zombies heads being smashed in. The graphics arent the greatest 
 youll ever see but the fact it still looks good with all the zombies on screen and never gets a 
 framerate slowdown gives it extra kudos points. Is the game worth a $60 purchase, realy depends 
 on what type of gamer you are, if you tend to play the death out of games (litteraly) then this 
 should last you a while. The achievements are asorted and unique which stretch from killing a number 
 of zombies to bowling a strike to falling 3 meters. This game has something for everyone, and that 
 is everyone's urge to kill a butt load of zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dibbsy69
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  Everything is great about it, there are no down, its just perfect. It has a long story mode which 
 isnt easy and gives and you have to work for the facts about the shopping mall and the shopping 
 mall is the greatest idea ever. It has new swarm tecnology for the zombies and killing things has 
 never been so fun. Its packed full of violence and gory scenes which make it ohh soo goood.
  It also has extras which will last you for ages. i recommend it to the new xbox owners and the 
 resident evil fans and house of dead fans as it is related to that but simpily better and one of 
 the greatest games ever.
  for now its my ALL-TIME favourite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarer1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best and unique games for the 360. The difficulty of this game is just right 
 because it is hard in some parts and I like that because instead of just a game that you run around 
 killing zomibes and get bored, this game has storylines and is actually fun and funny. The missions 
 may take you a couple of tries to beat but it never gets old because you can play it different 
 every time! The achievements in this game are the best I've ever seen. They make you try things 
 different and some of them can be just funny. For example the Costume Party achievement where you 
 put novelty masks on 10 zombies. Now how can you not have fun doing that? Also some of the achievements 
 are challenging to get like Saint and Zombie Genocider. If you have a 360 you should for sure have 
 this game. I can guarantee that you will have fun playing this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  The perfect zombie game, better then any resident evil. Graphics are gorgeous, the mall is massive 
 and will provide hours of pure enjoyment.
  Combat is perfect and the sound of the weapons hitting the bodies of the zombies is spot on. Multiple 
 endings and open-ended gameplay give this game an massive amount of replay value. The only thing 
 that was a little annoying was the weak A. I. on the survivors and the save system. The sequel hopefully 
 will fix these minor issues. All in all this is a great game and should be enjoyed by any zombie 
 fan and horror fan alike. Capcom i hope you will make the sequel soon, because we all want to ride 
 drive that tank! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anths1987
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Well for some time i have been a fan of Capcom's excellent zombie-infested video games. Great titles 
 such as Resident Evil Remake, and Resident Evil 4 were enough to keep me occupied for hours. So, 
 i indulged into my pleasures and bought a copy of Dead Rising. At first glance, i noticed this 
 game has very crisp and clear graphics. They may not be Gears of War graphics, but nevertheless 
 very good. Also, the sound is very well done. From the slashing of the zombies, to the sound of 
 blood oozing out of their bodies, it never gets old. Some of the negatives included gameplay, and 
 the sort of overall gaming mechanics were a bit off. It took me a bit to get used to the controls, 
 and it may take several hourse for you to get it down pat. Especially when you have 100s of zombies 
 breathing down your neck. Some of the controls were very slow and tedious, like aiming and firing 
 a weapon, which in this game seems very unnecessary, since you need to be quick to avoid the masses, 
 and the PSYCOPATHS, which could be very hard the first time around. Overall, the game is extremely 
 fun and worth the money. But do not be surprised if you find yourself getting mad and frustrated 
 becasue of some stupid occasions which cannot be explained sometimes. However, do not put this 
 game away, this is a game that grows on you and you need to give it time. Once you do, and get 
 the controls down, you will not want to put it down.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSlideTail
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  We finally get another horror game, yet another from Capcom that involves zombies. But this game 
 is very different from Resident Evil, not taking itself too seriously.
  
  In Dead Rising you play as Frank West, a photojournalist trying to get the scoop of his life by 
 investigating what is going on in Willamette, Colorado. You are dropped off by helicopter on the 
 top of the city's mall. You have three days to survive, get your story, or just do whatever you 
 want and then get out. As far as the story goes, Frank slowly uncovers the truth about the incident 
 by interacting with the mall's survivors. The cool thing about this game is that once you are dropped 
 off by the helicopter, you can do whatever you want. The player doesn't have to play the main mode, 
 they can just go on a zombie killing rampage or just stand there for three days and still technically 
 complete the game. Of course most of the fun is in the story. In the story you will encounter other 
 survivors and if rescued they will have a positive effect on a meter called Prestige Points. These 
 points slowly add up eventually causing Frank to level up. Leveling up allows access to new skills 
 Frank can use to fight the undead with, raise his total life blocks and allow him to carry more 
 items. Just like the survivors, Frank will also encounter enemies known as Psychopaths. Killing 
 these enemies warrants prestige points as well.
  
  This game has tons of items, weapons, food and vehicles. Almost anything in this game can be used 
 as a weapon. They range from water guns and toy swords to real guns and real swords. Any food item 
 in the mall heals Frank and depending upon the food, can warrant more of a health gain. As far 
 as vehicles go, there are bikes, a motorcycle, cars, and box trucks.
  
  This game is addictive but may scare away (no pun intended) casual gamers. Your first play through 
 of this game for the most part can be frustrating, especially in the beginning. I wanted to throw 
 this game out the freaking window on a couple of occasions simply because Frank is so weak in the 
 beginning of the game. So obviously, perseverance pays off because the higher your level gets the 
 easier the game gets.
  
  The other modes in the game can be unlocked once you meet a particular requirement. You unlock 
 Overtime mode once you complete the 72 hour mode and all its cases. The Overtime mode is just an 
 extension of the 72 hour mode. Now once both of those modes are completed, Infinity mode is unlocked 
 and is basically a survival mode. In that mode you basically try to survive as long as you can 
 and your final time is posted to an Xbox Live world leader board.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't anything outstanding, but they are pretty clean nonetheless. The 
 sound is pretty good, not a whole lot of music which is actually kind of good in this game. The 
 sound effects do the job fine, nothing special there either. The voice acting in this game isn't 
 real great but thats not a bad thing in Dead Rising because the game has a campy feel to it anyway. 
 The game will have you have you busy for hours trying to get all the achievements as well.
  
  Dead Rising is a must have title for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zergablue2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that has not already been said. Dead Rising is the best 360 game so far! It just 
 has that feel to it where you can sit down at 3:00 P. M. and look back at your clock for what seems 
 like a minute later and it could be midnight already. Another reason I like this game is because 
 even when you beat it, you want to go back and beat it again and again and again, and it is good 
 when a game can do that to you because A) you dont get ripped off when you sell it back to EB Games 
 for a quarter of the price. B) It doesn't sit on the shelf and take up space for you old copies 
 of Duke Nukem. And C) You truly get the gaming expierience the second time around. When you play 
 this game for the second time you can focus on the details and extras that you were to busy to 
 notice before. Another great thing about this game is that there is more than one storyline. With 
 the Xbox 360 achievment system you can work to unlock the serious and the silly awards to unlock 
 special things in the game like the Real MegaBuster. (those of you that drove down in the maintenance 
 tunnels for 7 straight hours you know what I'm talkin bout) But when your done you feel good knowing 
 that all you have to do now is get the punisher and unbreakable accomplishments (and a quick trip 
 to Colby's) to get the entire Mega Man outfit. This is truly a once in a lifetime game that revolutionized 
 the very basis of zombie games. So go out and buy this game right now or start up your 360 if you 
 have it and do every last thing possible in this game because shooting a zombie in the face point 
 blank with the mega buster and entire mega man outfit feels just as good as ripping out the insides 
 of the next zombie after that. Thanks for reading and please comment.
  
  &sect;&sect; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is amazing. This game is perfect for those guys who just want to kill zombies, like 
 me! Dead Rising delivers that, no, in fact it surpasses it! You start off in a mall as a photographer 
 named Frank West, who is trying to find a scoop of a lifetime and he thinks he's found it: Zombies. 
 You arrive by helicopter and you tell the pilot to pick you up in 3 days time. Once he drops you 
 off, its all up to you on how you want to go through it. This makes the game very free-roaming 
 and its never the same every time you play it.
  
  Dead Rising's main success is the amount of weapons and items you can use to slay the undead. If 
 you've been thinking There's no way they could literally put hundreds of zombies in a mall that 
 would make the game too difficult then think again! The mall's swarming with hungry zombies and 
 you're not the only one in their either. There's survivors all over the place, and you could save 
 them or just let them die if you want to. However, saving them does give you a benefit (See LVLing 
 up ) .
  
  Dead Rising's ridiculous amount of weapons makes the game's novelty value rise up, making the game 
 feel next-gen. Like most folks say, Graphics don't always make a game next-gen. Alot of the 360s 
 hardware is used in this game, such as very realistic character models (particulary the main characters) , 
 and the large amount of zombies. There's no chance all of this could be done on the regular Xbox. 
 The zombies aren't the most detailed characters in the game, but they look great anyway. The environments 
 are also pleasing to see as well, as it does indeed make you feel you're in a mall.
  
  LVLing up: This is a feature used in Dead Rising to level up stats to make your character stronger 
 and have more abilities. Everytime you kill a zombie, or an enemy, you get something called PP. 
 As you reach a certain amount of PP, you LVL up. Everytime you level, you earn either a stat point 
 or a new skill. You can also earn PP by rescuing survivors. You can LVL up a maximum of 49 times, 
 and to be honest, if you really want to benefit in this game, you do have to LVL up. When I was 
 first playing the game (1st day) I had no combat skills to fend off the undead and the game was 
 rather difficult at first, particulary the story missions. So what I did was mess around and not 
 bother with the story missions at first. This made me LVL up faster and there were paticular places 
 which gave you more PP than others. Once I got new skills and had a better chance of surviving, 
 I started to enjoy the game alot more than before,
  
  Dead Rising has many other unique gameplay elements as well. You can use the camera (Since you're 
 a photographer) to take snapshots of things in the mall, such as zombies, survivors, or just sightseeing. 
 Sometimes, camera shots can earn you PP and sometimes you have to use them it in story missions. 
 You also have an option to do optional missions which give you a benefit of rescuing more survivors. 
 Another cool thing about Dead Rising is the health and food system. Instead of having to look for 
 medkits all you have to do is find some food or drink and use it. It gives you your health back 
 and best of all there's a huge supermarket so you'll never run out. Some claim this makes the game 
 far easier but you can only carry a limited supply anyway so the gameplay is still balanced and 
 fair.
  
  Dead Rising's mall is rather large and has plenty of shops for you to look around in. Restaurants, 
 Clothes shops, Sports shops, it's all there. Unfortunatly, alot of the shops aren't safe to stay 
 in so for all those campers its no good here as the zombies tend to just follow you in. There's 
 also an outdoor leisure park which has plenty of zombies and great water reflections, plus a car 
 park (which I won't spoil to much I'll just say if you want a hell of a lot of zombies to kill 
 you go there!) all of its there. You can't mindlessly save anywhere in the mall and many have complained 
 that this makes the game difficult but the save points are scattered around perfectly. You save 
 in the toilets, rather odd but its one of the safest places to be in the game! :)
  
  Once the three days are up, you have an option to end the game however you like it to be. There 
 is a total of 7 different endings and if you just mess around you tend to get the bad endings, 
 though of the endings have good and bad points. !SPOILERS! The best ending (Ending A) is actually 
 a rather bad ending because you don't escape the mall anyway. !END SPOILERS! If you get the correct 
 ending, you get a new game mode which I won't spoil to you. There's another mode you unlock called 
 Infinite Mode and you stay in the mall the whole time and you're health goes down constantly and 
 the only way you can get it up is by eating. You can't save in this mode either and everyone is 
 against you!
  
  The sound used in Dead Rising is pretty good. It has some nice mall music and the satisfying sounds 
 of using your weapons against the zombies never get old. The voice acting is pretty good in this 
 game, and you'll hear alot of groaning zombies the whole time you play. :) Now, the replay value. 
 Yes, one of Dead Rising's strongest points in the whole of the game. There's no doubt you'll come 
 back to this game. Maybe just for mindless zombie killing like I do. But there's more things to 
 do. You can try and go for all of the Xbox 360 Achievement points. I admit, these are pretty well 
 thought out, and the majority of them are rather easy to get. There's about 5 difficult ones so 
 for those who want a challenge in Achievement Points there's a couple of them in Dead Rising which 
 I still haven't got at this time of posting. That's not all the replay value of Dead Rising either, 
 you might just want to explore the whole of the mall, or try to rescue everyone in the mall. It's 
 a game like GTA which has tons of replay value and somehow the game never gets boring.
  
  So that's all there is to tell you about this fantastic yet addicing Xbox 360 game. it's a game 
 all of you need to own, paticulary fans of Survivor Horror and Resident Evil games, or those who 
 just want to kill loads of zombies. Dead Rising is just an amazing achievement and has stunning 
 features, but most of all a whole load of fun and killing. If you've always wanted to be a zombie 
 slayer wanabee, then look no further than Dead Rising! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  Who doesn't like killing zombies? Even a baby would kill a zombie. Deadrising is a really interesting 
 and highly addictive game that spices zombie killing up a ton. It's not scary, it's more along 
 the lines of silly and fun. There is a story behind this game, but really you can do what ever 
 you want by going to stores and using whatever you can as a weapon to leading civilians to a safe 
 location and getting experience. You can meet many interesting people and use many interesting 
 weapons and skills. You can also take pictures to increase your exp along the way and save it to 
 view later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackjack4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as Frank West stuck in a mall with zombies. One of the games best qalities 
 is the freedom that the user has to go any where and do anything i give this game a 8.8 out of 
 10. If you have just bought an xbox 360 this is the first game you should buy. The caracters and 
 places will leave you with hours upon hours of awsum gameplay. There are also ove 350 weopons so 
 you wont get board of using the same weapon on a zombie. there are many achievments that are really 
 fun to do try to get all 50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincecfc2k6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  First of all, don't listen to people saying boring, repetitive, all you do is kill zombies because 
 that's not the case.
  
  This is an extremely good game with more than enough to keep you busy. Good achievements, good 
 storyline, missions, rescuing survivors , lots of psychopaths. At the start though, this game can 
 be frustrating because you feel theres too much to do in so little time (72 hour mode) . But the 
 key is to not go along with the story at first, just get a feel for the game, have fun, level up. 
 Usually i find that people try to complete it straight away then they get frustrated with the game 
 and leave it on their shelf and give it bad reviews. I got frustrated with this game at the start 
 and then left it on my shelf for a while, but i was convinced to give it another try, so i did. 
 And guess what? I loved it and never regretted buying it. The good thing is that you can just play 
 through it as many times as you want, so then you can concentrate on having fun one time, doing 
 the cases on another playthrough, then concentrate on achievements.
  
  Well i hope you liked my review and don't listen to people who say it's repetative. They know nothing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon0987
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun to play all the way through with great graphics and brilliant game play. However 
 they are downsides like the saving system, it really bothered me to begin with but as you get better 
 at the game and do not die as often it becomes less annoying also the subtitle's are to small to 
 read I find myself having to sit really close to the T. V screen to be able to read them. The controls 
 are quite difficult to master but as you play more you get used to them. Over all this is a brilliant 
 game with a very good story line that you don't have to do, you can spend ages on this game and 
 not get bored. I'm very glad I bought this game as it's very fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword-man
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is so special of its kind. There are so much zombies and also so much wepoans and that 
 what makes this game so awesome and special also you can drive motorcycles and cars and crush an 
 endless numbers of zombies in the tunnels. Leveling up is great you can learn many skills and boost 
 your speed and atack and much more when leveling up. The story mode is great it takes place in a 
 mall you can save people and take them to a safe place and do a lot of missions. Every thing in 
 the mall is yours. You gotta play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing iv had it for 3 months and iv only just compleated it. the story is good and 
 hard the free roam is realy fun and clever and the wepons to kill the loads of zombies is never 
 ending. the levling up is fun but can take along time and this game is very addictive. you may 
 think you will get tierd of this game quick you wont the things you can do is endles and im still 
 playing it today the only thing that sucks but you can get use to is the saveing system like i 
 say you can get use to it and you can save in the nearest toilets amd you dont need a hd-tv to 
 expiriance the hole game its just as good on a avrige tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aveiga1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Dead rising was an amazing game, yet I feel that they could have done some tweaking. First the 
 good news; The open world environment where you can use anything to smash up zombies, baseball 
 bats, swords, Guns, Park benches, etc. Also coupled with some cool, but frustrating boss battles 
 can give you some fun times. I personally liked the music track to some of the boss battles in 
 the game, which added to the craziness of the whole game. Yet the big downsides to the game can 
 lead you to start cussing loudly. One thing is the saving feature in the game, there is no quick 
 save feature or automatic checkpoint save function. I always have to go somewhere and save at a 
 save point if i want to progress any further. I mean come on, this is NEXT GEN! I should at least 
 have a quick save feature so at a key point I don't have to start over. All vices aside, This was 
 a fun game to play. I recommend a rental at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game is excelent. Your in a huge mall and you can go in to any store and pick up cd, kids 
 toys, golf clubs, chairs, trash cans, magazense... anything and fight for your life.
  
  Excelent graphicsbr / 
  Sound sure freaks you out alot.... great horror movie/game totally fun 
 and addicting. And you gotta buy it!
  
  If not buy it .. then this game is a fantastic rental.
  Take pictures, fight zombies, live!
 
  
  I love this game and I am glad I bought it. You can take my advice or not but I think its great 
 and totaly worth it. Good story great action anything in the mall is yours fantastic graphics great 
 sound... a must buy.. and be prepared to be scared!
  
  Buy it or rent it you have to pick one.
  
  In one word... Amazng
  
  The Good
  
  Graphics, 
 superb graphics.
  Realistic, totaly realistic.
  Fantastic sound.
  Great horror action game.
  
  The Bad
  
  Bad save system.
  Pretty short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  I have to say, when I first played this demo, I thought it was great! The first time I got to pick 
 up an HDTV and smash in a Zombie's head, I flipped out, yelling to my room-mate, You have to check 
 out this game. 
  
  I went out, and purchased the game on release day. Got home, played for 30 minutes, and died. I 
 was somewhat excited to realize that my stats carried over into my new game, so I wasn't devastated.
 
  
  This however became one of the downfalls to the game. I had the hardest time using the aiming setup 
 to shoot those convicts tooling around the park area. It became a real frustration, rather then 
 fun. I don't expect my games to be simplistic and easy, but also not impossible for the first 20-30 
 attempts at on early on area.
  
  This ended up leaving a sour taste in my mouth, which caused me to shelf the game for so long. 
 Recently however, because of the Xbox Rewards program, I decided to give it another go, since I 
 had not completed so many of the tasks for gamerscore points.
  
  My main task was the Zombie Genocide reward. After spending hours driving from one end of the maintenance 
 tunnel to the other, I finally received this bonus. For the first time in a long time, I had a 
 real sense of accomplishment. Now, since I was so close to the end of the game, I made my way back 
 to the security room.
  
  I beat the game, albeit on the second most pansy ending, but beat the game none the less. But that's 
 when I got re-hooked. I unlocked the real Mega-Blaster. This was my equalizer, and allowed me to 
 survive through much of the monotony of the Level 20-40 section of the game.
  
  Psychopaths... no problem anymore! Allow the Real Mega-Blaster to clean up those unsightly stains 
 from American History!
  
  Ultimately, I realized that Dead Rising is not for the typical gamer. This game is a blast early 
 on, but really drags through the middle of game, becoming frustratingly difficult when you have 
 to hear Otis's updates time and time again. But once level 40+ is achieved (or the Real Mega-Blaster 
 is unlocked) it's a whole new game; fresh and new from the get go. I'm excited to see the real 
 ending, complete with overtime and everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thumb1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Anyone that's ever seen Dawn of the Dead (1978 or the remake) and thought to themselves, you know, 
 that'd make a great game. Guess what, you dream has come true. Think of the setting of DotD, and 
 the brutality of the bloodbath, Dead Alive, and you've got Dead Rising in a nutshell.
  
  Story- 8.5/10
  You are Frank West, a photojournalist (He's covered wars, y'know) investigating 
 the town of Willamette. You see, the town has been sealed off by the national guard, and he feels 
 it's his duty to get the story to the public and maybe win a pulitzer prize or two. After a pretty 
 tense helicopter ride, Frank is dropped onto the local mall (really, why is there such a huge mall 
 in a town like that?) . He soon learns the horrible truth- zombies. you have 72 hours to survive... 
 have at it. I won't spoil any more than that. The story can get a bit preachy at times, which is 
 a nice contrast to the 6+ hours of mindless killing you'll be doing.
  The dialoge is presented quite well, too. While there are bad lines every now and then, it never 
 reaches the level of pathetic older Resident Evil games have.
  Summed up, the story here is actually pretty good and not something one would expect from a Capcom 
 game.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  Whoever was in charge of sound design over at Capcom deserves a raise. Sound has been added for 
 everything from a chainsaw ripping through rotting flesh to a lone casing hitting the floor in 
 a lifeless room. The shear amount in the variety of the sounds perplexes the mind and stimulates 
 the ears. The work that must have been done to ensure this experience should not go unnoticed. 
 Well done, guys.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  This game isn't for the weak of heart or stomack. There is plenty of gore, and uses it's M rating 
 to it's full potential.
  In all honesty, Dead Rising has some of the best graphics to be found on the Xbox 360. The amazing 
 motion blur makes everything look picture perfect, and the game doesn't rely too much on bump mapping 
 to give us the scenary. These are real 3D objects. I challenge you to find a point in the game 
 that actually looks bad. The high reslolution textures cover absolutely everything, though this 
 is to be expected. Welcome to the next generation, friends.
  
  Gameplay- 8.5/10
  Let's get this out in the open. Dead Rising is a hard game. It's psycopath boss characters can 
 really give you a wallop. Don't go into it expecting a cakewalk. You WILL get frusterated, and 
 you WILL restart the story multiple times before you finish it completly. My suggestion, level 
 up. Level up untill you're at about level 30 or so, then you can really show the zombies who's 
 boss.
  The story mode is presented in missions, as one would expect. These are timed based, so if you 
 miss one, you can't continue the story (don't worry, you're given the option of continuing, restarting, 
 or loading) .
  The game boasts the usual Zombie game enimies... zombies. There's a twist, however. You have access 
 to anything in the mall to use a weapon to slaughter these zombies, unlike in Resident evil, where 
 you have a few different guns only. Out of ammo? Here, use this plasma screen TV instead. My only 
 complaint here would be that the aiming is a little slow, and can sometimes screw you up in the 
 middle of a tough boss fight.
  The game uses experience points, or prestige points to allow you to increase your level and learn 
 new abilities. The abilities range from increases speed or item space, to disembowel (I'll leave 
 this one to your imagination) . These skills really help in the long run and really justify the 
 hours you will put into the game trying to obtain them (plus they look frickin' cool) . It's just 
 sad that there's a half-baked save feature. You can only have one save slot per device (one on 
 the harddrive, one on a memory card) . This means that every time you save, you have to overwrite 
 the previous save. If you die, you have to reload. You can only save in restrooms as well, so if 
 you die feet away from your lavatory riddled sactuary, you'll have to reload your previous save, 
 or restart the story mode.
  
  Value- 7/10
  While the controls work, for teh most part, very well, and the game itself is a blast to play, 
 it does, sadly get old. The prospect of beating things to death with anything you want is really 
 great, it's just that it's all you do. Sure you can drive 2 or 3 different vehicles to run them 
 over, there just isn't enough gameplay variety to make this one appeal to you for as long as you'd 
 like. There are two unlockable game modes, Overtime, which is a continuation of the stroy mode, 
 and infinity mode, which is a test to see how long you can survive in a mall where your health 
 constantly decreases. These add plenty of replayability, but dont change the repeditive nature 
 of the game.
  
  Overall- 8/10
  If you're an action game fan, you owe it to yourself to buy this game.
  If you're a horror game 
 fan, you owe it to yourself to buy this game.
  If you're a zombie fan, you owe it to yourself to buy this game.
  If you're an Xbox 360 owner, 
 you owe it yourself to buy this game.
  It will last you many hours, though it may get a bit repetitive after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloismylife17
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Spectacular game! It was definatly worth all of the money paid. The gore graphics are also great. 
 I have been fascinated with zombies my whole life It's great they finally made a game with one. 
 I hope that they make a 2nd one. Even though the quests aren not very good and neither is the storyline 
 it makes up for it in graphics, gore, variety, freedom, and funness (funness?) !
  This game is by far worth over one hundred dollars! I love this game!!! It's almost as good as 
 Halo 2. Yah... now I have to keep typing so I can have one hundred words... Boring... yes ok that 
 should be one hundred right about now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAPK1NS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has made many, many games involving zombies, horror, and plenty of guts and gore. In case 
 you didnt already know, I am speaking of the Resident Evil series. This is arguably the best zombie/survival 
 horror series ever created. However, despite the sheer polish and quality of these games, they 
 really are all about one thing: Suspense. This is good, but it is also constraining when you just 
 want to go gung-ho on some zombies. This is where Capcomss latest zombie killer comes in. Dead 
 Rising put you in the shoes of one of the coolest video game characters ever: Frank West. He is 
 a freeform journalist who doesnt play by the rules. There is a small Colorado town named Willamette 
 that has been shut down for a few days now. No one knows what is happening over in little Willamette, 
 but Frank intends to find out. He hires a chopper to fly hm over there, so he can get his big story, 
 and become a big shot. Trouble is, the second you being to hover over Willamette ground, you find 
 that the place has been overrunby zombies. The citizens are running in panic, and you get to take 
 pictures of it all from the helicopter in a neat opening sequence. Watch as people are pulled from 
 their cars, and torn to shreds, some will hit the bottom of a clip, and decide thats its over 
 for them, as they dive off buildings. Needless to say, the opening sequence is brilliant.
  
  You copter steering buddy decides to drop you off on top of the ever-popular Willamette Park 
 View Mall. As he lets you down, he tells you that he will return to pick you up in 72 hours. The 
 only question is: Can you survive that long?
  
  As you get into the mall, you see that everyone has barricaded the door shut, a smart move. Unfortunately, 
 a foolish old lady decides to knock down the wall of junk to get to her little doggie that is trapped 
 outside. From here, the undead push their way into the massive mall, and the massacre begins!
 
  
  Once you make it to the security rooms, you find the games other main characters. Brad and Jessie. 
 They are both DHS agents, and are trying to track down someone within the mall.
  
  The security room is basically the only safe space in the game, and you will travel back to it 
 many times. But the second you leave its cradle, prepare to have to kick some zombie taila whole 
 lot of zombie tail. One cool thing about Dead Rising is that basically the whole game takes place 
 inside the huge mall. Within its walls there are roller coasters, a movie theatre, and a whole 
 park that the mall surrounds. With five plazas, 79 stores, and all of the space between, I think 
 you will find enough to do here for many hours.
  
  The Dead Rising storyline focuses on the remaining survivors, and Frank trying to get his get your 
 story all fit and ready to hit the print. Dead Rising actually has a very good story that thickens 
 as the game progresses, and you feel deeply satisfied by the end.
  
  The game runs off two things in the way of missions, Cases and Scoops. Cases are basically the 
 meat and potatoes of the single player, and the thick of the game. In order to complete the game, 
 you have to get all of these done. Scoops are side missions that you receive by a guy named Otis. 
 Otis is a grumpy old guy who sits back at the security room and tells you what he sees on the monitors 
 via your hand radio. All these are optional, and they mostly involve saving lucky survivors strewn 
 throughout the mall. However, the Scoops can also differ to include some really great boss fights 
 that you wont want to miss! Despite the interesting set-up of the game, its built on an awkward 
 time structure. We know from games like Majoras Mask that being on time isnt really a fun gameplay 
 mechanic. In that respect its sort of annoying that its seen here. If and when you make it late 
 to one of the games Case missions, thats it. Game over. You have the undesirable choise to just 
 keep playing until the helicopter comes to get you, but when it does you will only wind up with 
 a let down ending, and a violin.
  
  All of this could be aided, but the game only has one save slot. Just one. If you are foolish enough 
 to save where you dont have enough health, or you current case doesnt have enough time clocked 
 in on it, you basically screwed. Although I never really had a problem with Dead Risings structure 
 and save system, I can see the average gamer getting deeply aggravated.
  
  Dead Rising also features a really great leveling up system. The only way to fill your level bar 
 up is to credit yourself PP points. Killing zombies, taking down bosses, saving helpless survivors, 
 and taking pictures, can achieve these. As Frank progresses in level, he will learn truly awesome 
 hand-to-hand moves. In no time he will be karate chopping limbs off, doing roundhouse kicks, and 
 ripping the organs right out of a zombies abdomen! There are 21 skills you can learn, and they 
 are all really, really great. Taking pictures is a lot more fun then it sounds! Just pull the left 
 stick, and you will enter a first person camera perspective where you can drain you batteries on 
 whatever you want! (And yes, you will have to stop at a camera store to refill you film) . Your 
 snaps are sorted into horror, outtakes, and erotica. There are a few other little categories that 
 are given for poor shots and otherwise great ones as well.
  
  There is a mess of other optional gameplay mechanics too. You can take any of the malls food (which 
 is normally used to heal yourself) and stick it in a blender and see what comes out! For example, 
 mixing two bags of chips will give you spitfire. If you unequal your weapon, you can then spit 
 in a zombies face, and he will drop to the floor deadfor the second time. You can also read any 
 of the malls books, and you will advance your skills. Some teach you how to do tricks on a skateboard, 
 and some even teach you how to speak Japanese! This becomes helpful when a bunch of foreign tourists 
 are trapped, and you cant tell what they are saying. Along with pictures and books, you can also 
 change into any of the clothing the mall has to offer. Dresses, childrens cloths, a big horse 
 hat, if you can name it, Frank can wear it. Also, you current outfit will carry over seamlessly 
 into all of games cut scenes, and this can be downright funny.
  
  I have mentioned that you will be killing zombies, and that is pretty obvious. But, the game doesnt 
 limit you to that. Some of the malls workers have gone insane due to the outbreak, and they all 
 want you dead. Throughout the game you will find absolutely insane storeowners, a Vietnam solider 
 who believes Frank to be a communist, and a crazy chainsaw juggling clown named Adam. All of these 
 tormented souls are extremely well developed, and will make you shudder at how crazy they all are. 
 The duels in which you fight these maniacs in are some of the best boss encounters around. The 
 intensity of some of the fights can be shaking, and you are guaranteed to eat up every second of 
 it.
  
  Now, something Dead Rising is known for, and everyone wants to hear about are the weapons. Can 
 you really pick up everything? No, you cant, but you can pick up a whole lot of it. Dead Rising 
 boasts the usual suspects, like knives, hammers, shovels, and guns. These alone are really awesome, 
 but you will soon find that the weapons get a little bit more interesting. You can also desecrate 
 the dead with bowling balls, baseball bats, skateboards, golf balls, hockey pucks, and de-tongue 
 them with cloth hangers! Then, things get even odder. You begin to kill you enemies with dinner 
 plates, potted plants, chainsaws, dumbbells, fences, buckets, brooms, and so much more. You can 
 also use useless things, but things you would find in a store none-the-less. These include teddy 
 bears, jewelry, soccer balls, Frisbees, and water guns. If all else fails, you can also just throw 
 a cabbage at an enemys crotch, take that, zombie! Through all of Dead Risings 200+ weapons, there 
 are a few that are just so great; they deserve their own paragraph. I dont want tell you all of 
 them, but just a few. The lawn mower is amazing. Start this baby up, and plough through tons of 
 zombie meat, while the blades reject bone matter and guts out the side. The next is the excavator. 
 This is normally used as a digging drill, but you decide to use it as an instrument of death! You 
 can rev it and plunge it through a zombie, and hold him up in the air as he spins around on the 
 drill. His body parts break and fly off in every which way. Gears of War is known for its infamous 
 chainsaw bayonet, but I can tell you that the excavator in Dead Rising is 10 times more cool. My 
 friendsthis is pure gaming nirvana. All of the weapons in Dead Rising feel really great to use, 
 and they all feel unique. Some of their effects will have you pissing your pants they are so imaginative. 
 You know its Dead Rising when you can clock someone in the face with a TV. To back all of the great 
 weapons Dead Rising has to offer, it even has some unlockable weapons that are really freaking 
 cool. Some of these will have long time Capcom fans shrieking with joybut I wouldnt want to spoil 
 those.
  
  From a technical stand point; Dead Rising is a near masterpiece. The graphics and textures seen 
 here are very well done. The mall looks and feels like a real one, and all of the stores differ 
 from each other. The different plazas in the mall also serve to change up the art style, and it 
 really does. As a side note, Dead Rising has some spectacular looking blood. When a zombies head 
 is crushed, brain matter and crimson is spewed everywhere, hitting the walls and floor, and even 
 splashing onto Frank! It helps the game to feel that much more brutal.
  
  However, the game isnt perfect, there are some clipping issues where objects seen in the game 
 world will stick out through walls and floors. Its not a real big issue though. Also the AI on 
 the survivors you will have to rescue can sometimes be really terrible. Although they all act different, 
 (depending on their age and physical standing) they are all generally stupid. They will mindlessly 
 run into a group of enemies and ignore your orders. However, I never really found a real glitch, 
 so that is definitely something that you dont have to worry about. The frame rate on Dead Rising 
 is pretty outstanding. You will sometimes be in a space with 800+ zombies on screen, and not notice 
 a hitch. This sort of tuning really sells the whole outnumbered thing. The cinematic movies in 
 Dead Rising are superb. The camera shots they sport really draw you into the story. You will sometimes 
 feel like you are watching a high-end action movie as these scenes roll. They are really that good. 
 The voice work is also very good. Each character has a distinctly different voice, and this supports 
 their personality. This is good because all of the main characters in Dead Rising are glowing with 
 personality. This is mainly seen in the psychopath bosses, and Frank himself.
  
  Dead Risings audio is among the best my ears have ever had the pleasure of experiencing. I dont 
 know how they got it to sound so good, but the burst of a zombies head is perfect. A mower tearing 
 through flesh is satisfying to the teeth, total perfection here folks. Dead Rising also features 
 an alternative/hardcore soundtrack that mainly plays during the boss encounters. It really brings 
 the ferocious fight even closer, and fits the brutality of the title very well. The Achievements 
 in Dead Rising are all very good. They require you to go back through and play following the completion 
 of Dead Risings 12-15 hour single player. They ask you to do some very challenging, but doable 
 things, and some are even worth a chuckle.
  
  So what else is there to say? Dead Rising is one of the best action/adventure games ever. It is 
 one of the few games to do almost everything right, and do it well. This is the complete package, 
 and the real deal. With a lengthy single player, unlockables, and some fun achievements, Dead Rising 
 will wander back into your drive time and time again. (Not to mention Dead Risings continuation 
 after the single player, which I dont want to spoil!) At the end of the day, Dead Rising is not 
 only one of the best games on the Xbox 360, its one of the best games ever made. Brimming with 
 blood, guts, gore, and a whole lot of personality. You would be a total fool not to have this game 
 in your collection, buy it and enjoy!
  
  Final Score 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshmellowmix
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game (so far) is the best game on the 360. There are stunning graphics, great combat moves, 
 and unlimted choice of weapons. You can do whatever you want. You dont even have to follow the 
 story line if you dont want to. The gore in this game is unimaginable. Chopping of limbs, heads, 
 and cutting zombies in half! Now if you dont call that fun i dont know what your problem is. The 
 only thing i would recommend on improving is the saving system, which sucks. When you die when you're 
 level 1 or somthing and you haven't saved yet you have to start the whole game all over. The bright 
 side of that is that all of your skill status is transfered to the new game. So in general........... this 
 game ROCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  A console could never call itself complete without some sort of blockbuster zombie affiliated game 
 lying around in its library. Capcom, who has always been there for the horror genre, has released 
 another zombie thriller to the market. However, in Resident Evil's case, the consumer always fed 
 off its haunting, bloodcurdling mood and atmosphere for desire. In Dead Rising, there are little 
 to no survival-horror traits. Instead, there is only survival, and mindless brain-bashing festivity 
 to be had. Surprisingly enough, Dead Rising makes zombie killing more enjoyable than ever before, 
 while doing many other things right as well. At the same time, Dead Rising also has its fair share 
 of slight flaws. But if you can stomach your way around these issues, you may quickly find yourself 
 having an exceptional amount of fun.
  
  In Dead Rising, you play as an eager freelance photojournalist, Frank West. Equipped with only 
 a camera for his expedition, Frank contracts a helicopter to investigate the military quarantined 
 town of Willamette, Colorado. After seeing what he believes is a town riot, Frank directs his pilot 
 to drop him off on top of the Willamette Park View Mall, and then convinces him to return in three 
 days. Within a few minutes, Frank quickly realizes that the little town was not in distraught, 
 rather mindless flesh-eating zombies-tens of thousands of them, were bringing the town to its knees. 
 Which, after they break into the mall, Frank unintentionally meets up with a main cast of survivors, 
 who quite happen to be Homeland Security agents. Together they strive to find out the mysterious 
 truth that has sent this town chaos. And after casting out from the impervious zombie safe house, 
 Frank is virtually by himself.
  
  Within the provided three days, Frank's main objective is to investigate why the entire town has 
 suddenly converted into zombies, and then make it out alive. But is there a more sinister plot 
 behind the works? The story itself does open up to a rather ridiculous, yet interesting scheme. 
 Unfortunately, no matter how much you are willing to enjoy it, the ending winds up feeling very 
 inept once all is said and done. Interaction with the story is executed through case files. To 
 receive a case file, you must be within a designated area at a certain time of the day. After receiving 
 it, you must complete the file within the time allotted. If you fail to meet either ends of the 
 stick, the entire story goes stale and you cannot pick it back up. From that point, you have two 
 options-reload from the last save point or restart the entire game.
  
  Adjusting to a time restraint in a video game is obviously not the most care-free entertainment 
 to have, and it's no different here. Time never seems to be on your side, and it would not be a 
 problem if the save system wasn't as punishing as it is. There are only a few select number of 
 save points throughout the mall, and because the watch is constantly breathing down your neck, 
 you don't always necessarily have the time to find a save point. Because of this, reloading the 
 game could result in losing a few appreciated hours. And restarting the game from the beginning 
 is obviously even more time costly. However, if you do choose to restart, you get to keep all of 
 Frank's beneficial stats that he's gained thus far. Potentially making it an easier play-through 
 the next time around.
  
  Frank's helpful stats include attack power, running speed, and other abilities. You also have the 
 more exceptional bonuses such as health, inventory slots, and physical abilities. Health obviously 
 allows you to withstand more damage, as more inventory slots will help you make important decisions 
 when balancing between weapons and items, and physical abilities involve hand-to-hand skills that 
 Frank may use at any time. Whether it is knee drops, roundhouse kicks, or simply pulling out the 
 innards of a zombie's stomach, it works pleasantly for the weaponless. Moves are mostly performed 
 fluently, as are the controls throughout the game. However, moves that required the odd button 
 pressing of the left analog stick felt clunky at certain times. But for the most part, these abilities 
 add some extra spice on the violence for the game, as it is ultimately fun to watch zombies eat 
 dirt in any situation-especially when done by your own hands.
  
  Obtaining levels is the key to receiving these assets. Leveling requires for Frank to acquire Prestige 
 Points, and many of them to do so. Prestige Points are accumulated in various ways and usually 
 come in heavy doses. Many side missions offer valuable points, which vary from dangerous psychopath 
 battles, to survivor-escort tasks. While psychopaths are undoubtedly another term for boss battles, 
 escort missions involve transport of a survivor all the way back to the Security Room. Although 
 the escort missions can start to feel tedious with its long distanced A-to-B escorting presentation, 
 they serve as a good break from the main storyline. The only slight annoyance that you may encounter 
 is the survivors A. I. issues. Often times it's hard to tell between survivors acting realistic, 
 or plain idiotic. Survivors will either be crawling on the ground helplessly, or they will be so 
 aggressive that following you is their last intention, as killing every single zombie around them 
 is their first.
  
  Having a simple problem such as following can be a bit frustrating, especially when you're running 
 around an astonishingly stretched piece of property that is the Willamette Park View Mall. With 
 five different plazas, a full-blown movie theater, an enormous outdoor park, an indoor amusement 
 center, and much, much more-there is an exceeding amount to explore, and it's all a fitting tone 
 for a stereotypical mall. However, even though it looks gorgeous, and is designed extremely well, 
 zombies have come to mess that all up. Luckily for Frank, he's trapped inside an anarchist's playground 
 of weapons. You have Frank, zombies, and hundreds of different weapons at your disposal. These 
 weapons provide different gory, and often times hilarious outcomes. Shoving a showerhead into the 
 scalp of a zombie, then watching as the bloods leaks out from the faucet are reasons to give Dead 
 Rising a chance.
  
  Of course, there are your typical firearms and blades-also your standard blunt weapons, such as 
 lead pipes, 2x4s, and baseball bats. But don't limit yourself to regular weapons such as these. 
 Perhaps try out a bowling ball, a mannequin, or a fistful of jewelry. It only gets stranger from 
 there, throwing in soccer balls, guitars, dumbbells, and many more uncanny items. Zombie killing 
 definitely shows a favorable aspect to Dead Rising. It's something the game strangely holds close 
 to its heart, and it's enjoyable for just about anyone to pop a flesh-bag's head off using a sickle. 
 And surprisingly enough, it never begins to feel old from start to finish. The sound of these weapons 
 smashing against a slump body, or the spray of a blood fountain that is now coming from the zombies 
 neck is something that's wonderfully fitting, gruesome, and peculiarly dead-on in its own right.
 
  
  You will also encounter an average amount of exceptionally good sounding music, which ranges from 
 your common mall jazz while you run about, to hip-hop beats and heavy metal when you're squaring 
 off in a challenging fight. While it seems cool at the time, you unfortunately don't run into the 
 favorable tunes often enough. What you do encounter does sound good, but there should have been 
 more of it. Aside from musical affairs, Frank also has a camera hanging around his neck. At any 
 time you can take pictures of zombies, tourist attractions, and even up women's skirts. If you 
 take a considerably good picture, it will score you a small amount of Prestige Points. So it's 
 not a bad addition, as it is remotely fun trying to take a picture of a psychopath while he's giving 
 a quick special PP opportunity. You don't need to use the camera, but for those who like taking 
 hilarious, brutal, and sometimes erotic pictures, the option is there.
  
  Dead Rising is also a graphical delight, showcasing a great use of bloom effects, textures, shadowing, 
 and animations. The mall looks very detailed, having a clean set of textures, store placements, 
 and lighting. Character models look sharp and their actions look smooth as well. The cut scenes 
 are a joy to watch, even though some of the facial expressions for certain characters look a bit 
 goofy at times. But the environment is very open, clean, and it all ties together to bring a very 
 cinematic experience. It's also an amazing accomplishment to see hundreds of zombies on-screen 
 at once, with little to no frame-rate drops at all.
  
  Since there are no zombie killing related missions during the entire game, it may sound a bit redundant. 
 However, this is not the case. A few of the achievements are related to killing many, many zombies. 
 Besides replaying the game just for fun or a better ending, achievements definitely make replaying 
 the game many times a worthwhile experience. The achievements are fleshed out extremely well. From 
 bowling a strike using zombies as pins, or putting on every piece of clothing in the mall, Dead 
 Rising is an example of the achievement system done right. It is all very fitting and somewhat 
 eccentric at times, but it does a great job of keeping things fun for two or even three play-throughs. 
 Which is the least amount of time you'll be spending to get all of them, making the game even more 
 of a blast to play well after you've finished the story.
  
  At first, Dead Rising might feel as a game that you have to learn how to play, as it throws some 
 aggravating flaws at you early on and never lets up. But it never feels as if there is enough bad 
 to outweigh the good. The game will obviously put many people off with its pressuring real-time 
 system, while at the same only having one save slot. But never has a game been so unique, innovative, 
 gruesome and hilarious all at the same time-making one of the most enjoyable titles on the 360 
 to date. Once you learn the ropes, you will find yourself enjoying Dead Rising on a higher scale 
 than you ever imagined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is best described as a good ideas and bad ideas that seem good but actually arent. 
 simply put the game has executed many ideas and they are hit or miss mostly miss. the game has 
 a real time system so if your too slow or face an obstacle.... you are stuck... there are plenty 
 of missions to tackle but you probably wont see or play through all of them... unless you are super 
 strong and replay... so its frusturating. anyways the game has lots of shining moments... great 
 graphics and sound... and voice acting. the gameplay and action is tight and there are plenty of 
 weapons to get. the zombies are stupidly smart and fun to hack and slash. the game doesnt let you 
 live of one weapon though... they have a limit which isnt good during bossfights. the save system 
 is murder too... the story is engaging and interesting but some events arent needed to be timed 
 so fast... the boss fights are incredibly hard too so be ready. overall dead rising is a great 
 game with very few but great problems its definetly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Zoidberg34
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 1, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Its a great concept, isnt it? George A. Romeros Dawn of the Dead, I mean. An entire towns population 
 is mutated into flesh-eating zombies while a handful of survivors take refuge in a shopping mall, 
 having to fend off the undead to save their lives. Over-the-top violence and gore ensues. A movie 
 pretty much writes itself with a premise like that. Its really one of those ideas that you see 
 and say to yourself why didnt I think of that? While the idea may have sounded simple, Romeros 
 cult classic was actually full of social commentary and cultural satire. The movie was smart and 
 thought-provoking, and many people saw all the zombie action and gore of the movie as a graphic 
 disguise for Romero to send a message regarding American culture. The movie is remembered as one 
 of the greatest horror movies of all-time, and honestly, how could it not? You have a simple, yet 
 ingenious concept, bucket loads of blood and gore, with Romero, in his prime, behind the camera. 
 Thats a winning formula, and watching the film now, you really have to wonder why this hasnt 
 been made into a game.
  
  Enter Dead Rising, the video game adaptation of the 1978 horror classic. Okay, not really. Yeah, 
 youve got a zombie-infested hell on earth wherein a few survivors take shelter in a mall, striving 
 to get out alive, but dont let the surface of the game fool you. Dead Rising isnt any knockoff. 
 In fact, while its premise may be familiar, this is probably one of the most original games to 
 come out in years, and many would say, one of the most fun. Capcom, a developer that knows zombies 
 better than any game company, has decided to do a complete 180 with their approach to a post-apocalyptic 
 zombie hunt. Their staple franchise, the Resident Evil series, is all about atmosphere, tension, 
 and horror. Such is not the case with Dead Rising, as this is a game all about pure action, going 
 out of your way to kill hundreds upon thousands of flesh-eaters, rather than avoiding them and 
 playing smart. This is a completely different style of game, as its not about keeping the player 
 glued to the TV, captivated and intrigued by horror. This is about giving the player no limits 
 and to grab anything in sight and plow down any zombie within a ten-mile radius. Its about pure, 
 unadulterated, carnage and fun. And just by looking at the game, how couldnt it be fun? Youre 
 trapped in a mall filled with millions of zombies, using anything that isnt nailed down to re-deaden 
 them in the most visceral and creative ways possible. How couldnt you have a blast playing this 
 game? As it turns out, while Dead Rising may be a lot of fun at times, there are others where the 
 game turns flat-out frustrating and other times where it turns flat-out infuriating.
  
  In this undead adventure, you control Frank West, a freelance photojournalist that has built his 
 career on covering mostly wars and other national crises. However, Frank is about to stumble across 
 the most bizarre and shocking story the world has ever seen. In the small town of Willamette, Colorado, 
 something seems to be terribly wrong. Nobody outside the town knows what, as all entrances and 
 exits of the town have been blocked off by military convoys, leaving the town completely isolated 
 from the outside world. Frank is tipped off about the strange events, and charters a helicopter 
 into the town to acquire what could be the biggest story of his career. However, what he finds 
 is far more horrifying than he what he ever would have thought possible. The town has turned into 
 a wasteland with what appear to be groups of zombie-like creatures destroying the town and whats 
 left of its population. After nabbing a few shots of the carnage and horror, our ambitious reporter 
 instructs his pilot to land on the roof a shopping mall, a colossal, decadent metropolis that seems 
 as big as the town itself. In hopes of uncovering the cause of this outbreak of mutants and exposing 
 it to the public, Frank tells the pilot to come back in three days after he is able to solve this 
 mystery. After that, it appears Frank is flying solo.
  
  However, he quickly finds that that is not the case. As he ventures fourth, he discovers a big 
 group of survivors, barricading the entrances, and is instructed to help. However, it isnt long 
 until a massive horde of zombies is able to break free and run a muck in the mall. While most of 
 the survivors are made into zombie chow, a handful, including Frank, are able to take up safety 
 in a completely sealed-off security room. Two of these people, Brad and Jesse, inform Frank that 
 they are federal agents, and are after someone else inside the mall, who they believe is responsible 
 for the outbreak. Although they keep Frank in the dark, Brad and Jesse are apparently after the 
 same thing he is, the truth. They decide to work together to get to the bottom of this mystery. 
 However, it turns out many people who have survived the deadening have fled into the huge shopping 
 emporium, and along the way, Frank must escort them to the safety of the security room as he finds 
 them. He has 72 hours to do this, and get the heck out. If not, he, and his companions, is doomed.
 
  
  So yes, as you can see, the game resembles Dawn of the Dead in many ways. So much so that the box 
 states that This game was not developed, approved or licensed by the owners or creators of George 
 A. Romeros Dawn of the Dead. Dead Rising also resembles Romeros movie so that both contain humor 
 and social commentary. However, Dead Rising differs from the movie in both ways. The games humor 
 is much more ridiculous and over-the-top than its unofficial counterpart. The humor from DR doesnt 
 come subtle. It comes from the creative, unlimited way of killing the gangs of zombies you encounter, 
 such as jamming a shower head into their heads and watch the blood rain down, and many other methods, 
 which are always hilarious. The wacky, over-the-top boss battles youll encounter are also quite 
 amusing. Its satirical message is also different. Instead of using the mall as a symbol of American 
 culture, DR comments on a different American social issue. Unfortunately, it falls flat. Its about 
 as contrived and shoved down your throat as was that of Romeros latest  
 cinema debacle Land of the Dead. Im not going to spoil it, but lets just say that weve already 
 seen it done, and it was called Super-Size Me.
  
  By the time you solve the case, however, and reach near the end, youll find the entire story going 
 downhill. It would be impossible to say much of anything without spoiling it, but the situation 
 you find yourself in after the zombie menace has been exterminated is completely absurd, and the 
 final two bosses have not been present the entire game. In fact, you are first introduced to them 
 only minutes before their respected fights. The plot just reaches a level of extreme ridiculousness 
 in a stupid way, and when the plot of a comedy-horror zombie gore fest is able to slip that far 
 out, youve done something quite strange to your game.
  
  Graphically, however, Dead Rising consistently looks great. The environments are particularly sharp, 
 as are the items and weapons abundant in them. All the textures are very detailed, with no muddy 
 or blurry distractions within them. The character models are a mixed bag, though. The main characters 
 in the central storyline are nicely detailed and look excellent during cut scenes, but the zombies 
 and survivors are blander and lower in overall quality, and a lot of them are recycled over and 
 over. Not too big a deal, and its understandable when you have this many enemies on one screen. 
 The sheer number of characters onscreen at once in every environment is an impressive feat by itself, 
 and the game runs exceptionally smooth despite the numbers. The frame rate only really seems to 
 slow down when you're using particularly massive weapons against particularly big groupings of 
 zombies, such as a park bench, but other than that, frame rate problems are minuscule at best. 
 But one of the best things about Dead Rising is its graphical style. Again, the game goes for the 
 complete opposite of what made Resident Evil a household name, trading the dark, creepy, atmospheric 
 environments for bright, colorful, cheerful landscapes. The mall is packed with cheesy themed shops, 
 a huge outdoor park surrounding the mall in the center, even an amusement park in the eastern wing. 
 All of this serves as an amusing, ironic counterbalance to the chaos and destruction happening 
 around you.
  
  Whats even more impressive is the audio, due largely in part to the phenomenal sound effects. 
 The weapons all feel fantastic to wield thanks to their ingenious sound design. Every gun sounds 
 distinct, from the handguns weak fire to the assault rifles booming rapid-fire shot. But the 
 real winners here are the melee weapons. The awesome slashing and gushing sound of the bladed weapons 
 never gets old and the dull thud of a soccer ball making contact with a zombies head, or the extraordinary 
 effect of hitting masses of the undead with a good baseball bat swing is simply amazing. Every 
 weapon makes its own distinct sound, and all of them sound authentic. It makes wielding and attacking 
 with the weapons really feel right, and its simply some of the best sound work Ive ever heard. 
 Voice acting is also well-done, but not to the caliber of the sound effects. Although none of the 
 performances will blow you away, each actor gets the job done with the right level of gravity and 
 camp in their delivery. The various psychopaths especially do a great job. The same really cant 
 be said for the soundtrack, unfortunately. Its not terrible, and it can build tension at some 
 points, but most of it is the trademark, campy piece that plays in the main menu and thats really 
 it. During bosses, you are treated to various hard rock tracks, but none stand out and are pretty 
 generic. Really, the best part is the cheesy, uplifting mall music that randomly plays in certain 
 areas and times, but the sound effects overshadow it when zombie hunting.
  
  Dead Rising is absolutely packed with content and things to do. Other than the main missions and 
 side-missions, and of course the standard zombie killing spree, there is an abundance of achievements 
 that can be unlocked. Dead Rising makes more use of the 360s reward system than almost every game, 
 on the same level as, if not surpassing, Oblivion. Any task and feat you can think of, you will 
 be rewarded for it.
  
  Surprisingly, the game features a few RPG elements as well as action. For completing missions, 
 bringing survivors to safety, defeating a boss, taking pictures or just killing a lot of zombies, 
 Frank will be rewarded with experience points. If he gets enough of them, his life bar gets bigger 
 and he may be able to learn new hand-to-hand combat moves. From spinning around, holding your fists 
 out like an eight-year-old, to disemboweling a zombie in one swift motion, to over-the-top wrestling 
 moves like German suplexes and giant swings, Dead Rising offers variety in its zombie killing. 
 Pulling any move off is simple and entertaining, and odds are youll use them more than youd think. 
 Beyond the combat, there are also items that enhance Frank in many different ways. Throughout the 
 mall, there are books that, when read, can boost ability or knowledge in a specific area. For example, 
 finding a book at a health food store might be able to boost your health more than it usually would 
 when finding food. Or, it might be able to tell you how to blend certain foods together and obtain 
 different attributes. Same goes for the many other books. One might enable you to make your weapon 
 last longer without breaking, or just make that weapon pack more of a kick. Of course, reading 
 these books isnt necessarily crucial to game completion, but they definitely help. And since Frank 
 is a journalist, taking photos of the most disturbing things is second nature to him. Taking pictures 
 of certain things, such as a petrified survivor for drama, a tribe of savage zombies for horror, 
 even zombies slipping on cooking oil for comic relief, will net you experience points. Again, you 
 can go through the game without messing with any of this, but its a neat touch.
  
  Healing Frank requires finding any food item in the mall, a simple task, but any old food wont 
 necessarily give you a decent amount of health back. Food considered healthier, such as fruit, 
 milk, and wine, will restore much of Franks health, whereas unhealthier foods, like cookies or 
 chips, will only rejuvenate Frank by a little.
  
  But the main goal, of course, is to find out just what happened to the towns population within 
 72 hours and make your escape. How Frank goes about doing this is in an essentially linear fashion. 
 From the moment the zombies are able to breach the mall, Frank has started his way on the path 
 to The Truth. This path is laid out in a series of case files, the games word for individual 
 missions. These missions range from a variety of fetch quests, boss battles, escort missions, and 
 more. Each case file takes place a certain time of a certain day at a certain location. The missions 
 range in difficulty, but a big part of the challenge is being able to get to the area where the 
 mission takes place in time. If you dont make it in time, you fail the mission, and the trail 
 runs cold, leaving you unable to progress and thus, game over.
  
  In addition to the main quests, there are an abundance of side missions that will frequently become 
 available as the game progresses. One of the survivors will contact Frank via cell phone, and inform 
 him of survivors scattered around the mall that you can opt to escort to the safety of the security 
 room for experience boost. You only have so much time to save them, though, and that time various 
 from person to person. These are entirely optional, and its impossible to save every survivor 
 if you expect to complete the main mission. These secondary goals consist only of escort missions, 
 but theres usually a twist to it. Some survivors need to be convinced to go with you through one 
 method or another, some are too scared to move, and youll have to hold their hand to guide them 
 to safety, and others are too wounded to walk, and youll have to carry them. Of course, the hordes 
 of zombies will be out for you and your companions, and regular escorts are usually a painful challenge 
 (although you can equip the escorted with weapons to fend for themselves) , but I found that when 
 having to hold a survivors hand, or carrying them, the zombies would not touch either them or 
 Frank, neutralizing the attempt at an added challenge.
  
  But really, the main draw of this game is obviously the zombie genocide, and as expected, its 
 awesome fun. With the shopping metropolis now becoming a war zone, everything that was once an 
 item for purchase is now an instrument of death. Frank can use just about every conceivable object 
 he comes into contact with as some kind of weapon. There's the standard affair, guns, blades, and 
 blunt objects of various strengths, but it doesn't stop there. Guitars, soccer balls, cooking oil, 
 CDs, soda cans, lawn mowers, chainsaws, battle axes, shopping carts, buster swords... these are 
 just a small portion of whats available in your post-apocalyptic playground of a mall. What's 
 more, there are tons of bizarre and hilarious ways to use these objects. Ive mentioned the jamming 
 of a shower head into the skull, but whats more is finding a Lego mask in the toy store and fitting 
 it on a zombie, watching it stumble in the dark. Or how about yanking heads off with a garden sickle. 
 The skys the limit.
  
  While Dead Rising can indeed be great fun, there are way too many moments where the game comes 
 to a screeching halt. There are numerous problems with the game that prevent it from being the 
 classic that it appears so destined to be. Its an incredible disappointment to see a game with 
 so much raw potential be so bogged down by stupid, and what would often times seem insignificant, 
 design choices. Unfortunately, such is the case for Dead Rising, and the need for improvement in 
 many different areas is clear.
  
  One big problem is the balance in the many different weapons. With so many objects of defense in 
 the game, inconsistency in weapons would be understandable and all but impossible to avoid. However, 
 Dead Risings weapon damage inconsistency turns out to be a big problem and especially noticeable 
 when you find a favorite weapon you use often. As far as firing weapons, the handgun is pathetically 
 weak. Even if a zombie is centimeters away from you, a handgun shot to the head is still as effective 
 as throwing a wad of paper. Possibly the most glaring inconsistency in the weapons is when up against 
 living foes with armor and power weapons. Even if youre up against one of these guys with their 
 own heavy machine guns, getting headshots every time, youll still need to unload about a clip 
 to bring him down. Why is this such a big problem? Well, besides having very limited ammo most 
 of the time, it only takes four shots with a lead pipe to take them down. So these fully-armored, 
 trained soldiers have a Superman immunity to bullets, but when it comes to a blunt object, hey, 
 forget about it.
  
  Another gripe would be a little quirk in the healing system. You wouldnt think it would be too 
 big a problem at all, as long as you stock up on effective items and play smart, but the thing 
 is, once youve selected to use a food item, the game brings you into a complete stand-still while 
 Frank consumes the item. Not cool. You can imagine how frustrating it is to try and find refuge 
 when low on health to use a food item, only to get killed by a zombie or bum rushed by a boss, 
 leaving you completely defenseless. If the healing process is interrupted, you wont recover. Its 
 little flaws like this that can really take someone out of a game.
  
  Speaking of boss battles, they can range from being picked off easily by an exploitive strategy 
 or down-right impossible. Some bosses are fought in more or less enclosed spaces, or only have 
 a ranged attack. These types of enemies can be dealt with via a circle-strafe technique or simply 
 just chasing after them with a powerful melee weapon. Other times, they just seem flat-out impossible. 
 Take one particularly memorable battle, for example. I was making my way to the hunting store to 
 stock up on effective weapons for a future mission, but I find that a big guy behind the counter 
 is blocking my way to the shotguns behind the counter, so I have to take him out. Okay. Fine, three 
 problems, though. First, theres very little cover in the shop, and even if you have it, hell 
 eventually blast it away and leave you a sitting duck fast. Second, for a shotgun, the guy fires 
 off shots with absurd rapidity and range. Not only that, but hes able to reload at super speed 
 as well. And third, more likely than not, all youve really got is a handgun, maybe an Uzi if youre 
 lucky, and as mentioned before that handgun is one of the most worthless items in a game. And youre 
 going to need a lot of them, because before the boss health is even depleted by a quarter, youre 
 going to run out of ammo. Obviously, the idea is to come with heavy, powerful weapons, but I wouldnt 
 be going into the hunting shop if I didnt need heavy weapons, would I?
  
  This brings up another fatal boss battle error. Another personal experience of mine, I had just 
 completed a mission that had given me a lot of trouble. I had low health, no healing items, and 
 my meager arsenal of weapons were all on the verge of breaking. Im rushing to a save point, and 
 stop at the hardware store. I figure I might run into zombie trouble, so I might as well see if 
 I can find some good weapons there. I step in, and unwittingly find myself in a boss battle. I 
 obviously have no chance, so I flee. Okay, fine. Ill just save, up my arsenal and go take on that 
 boss. I do just that, but once I step into the store, the boss is nowhere to be found. You only 
 have one chance to fight a boss, and if youre unprepared or didnt know of one in a certain area, 
 too bad. Gah.
  
  Worse than that are the side missions. As mentioned before, theres no real variety, other than 
 a twist to the formula. Its all boss battles or escort missions. And when its all said and done, 
 thats what much of the game turns into, one big, glorified escort mission. Of course, all of these 
 are completely optional, but odds are you wont ignore them due to the extra XP and getting more 
 from the game. The problem with most escort missions is that the AI of the escortee is usually 
 as dumb as a pile of bricks. If youre looking for a classic example of this, just take a look 
 at any escort in Dead Rising. No matter what you try, the survivor will always find a way to jump 
 right in the middle of the pool of zombies you were so careful to avoid. That means you now have 
 to jump right in the middle of that pack, wasting valuable health and weapon durability in the 
 process, all because the guy youre forced to baby-sit cant simply follow you. You can call them 
 to follow you with the Y button, but it hardly makes a difference most cases. It all becomes one 
 big test of patience, and if I could do it all over again, I wouldnt waste my time with any of 
 it. Its not like you really absolutely need any of the abilities anyway. Another thing I cant 
 stand is when your phone rings to give you these missions. Frank has to completely stop what hes 
 doing, put his weapon away, and wait for the slow dialog to pass so he can fully receive the mission. 
 You cant skip this. If you hang up because a zombie is approaching, the phone will ring again 
 and you have to wait for the dialog to pass all over again. Yeah, you can simply not answer it 
 until youre free from danger, but that annoying ring will not stop until you pick up. Its unbearable.
 
  
  And now comes the killing blow, the problem that Dead Rising suffers the most for. This is the 
 save system, quite possibly the most abysmal data-storing system ever to be conceived. The only 
 places to save are bathrooms, which are few and far between, and the security room. The problem 
 with this is that because the main mission is set up into such a rigid fashion with a tight schedule, 
 if you happen to save in a situation where you simply cant get to the mission in time, thats 
 it. Youre done. Theres only one save slot. Think about that for a second. This is absurd. It 
 is perhaps the biggest faux pas in game design Ive ever seen. If youre going to make your mission 
 structure like this, one save slot is simply inexcusable. Its inexcusable for any game, really. 
 Should this happen to you, however, you are granted the option to restart with all of the upgrades 
 and abilities youve already acquired. Yeah, its a nice gesture on Capcoms part, but the point 
 of saving a game is so you dont have to replay it. If theres one thing that prevents Dead Rising 
 from being an instant classic, its this.
  
  Once youve completed the 72 Hour Mode, the games main mode, you unlock Overtime Mode, which is 
 simply the epilogue to the game, or the official ending to the story. Once thats completed, 
 youve unlocked the mode that many people undoubtedly played Dead Rising for, Infinite Mode. No 
 missions, no timed game, no distractions, just zombie killing. Unfortunately, theyve made a big 
 mistake here by having your health deplete over time. The title of this mode is quite misleading, 
 as its much more of a time attack mode than a free game mode, which isnt a bad thing, but not 
 being able to just kill the undead with anything and everything, with no restrictions whatsoever, 
 is essential for this game. Capcom, youve advertised this game as a zombie genocide free-for-all. 
 Let us have that. No constrictions. No challenges. I would have figured that adding this mode would 
 have been academic. In short, Dead Rising has a lot of awesome features and a lot of potential. 
 Its a good game. You might even go as far as to say its a great game. But let me say that the 
 love that Dead Rising got in 2006, in my opinion, was undeserved. I would say that it is the most 
 overrated game of the year. The complaints I talked about might seem insignificant, but once you 
 really get into the game, all these problems accumulate into one massive headache. While Ive heard 
 many people address the very problems I talked about, they still love this game. And for good reason, 
 most of the time, its fun, its original, and its an all-around great concept. But I havent 
 run into anybody who didnt agree that the best part of the game is that you get to kill zombies. 
 I really would like to know why people think zombies are so badass. They are by far the slowest, 
 weakest, stupidest, and least-dangerous monsters to ever be conceived. Even if they were in massive 
 numbers like they always are, you can get away somehow or another, and even if you cant, youll 
 be able to hang in there for a long time. Of course, this is entirely off the subject and has nothing 
 to do with the game or the final verdict, but shut up about the zombies, people. Another thing 
 that I really love is how you see gaming websites, magazines, what have you, have written big articles 
 on how bad escort missions blow, yet turn around and praise this game to no end. I dont get it.
 
  
  But I digress. Can Dead Rising frustrating? Yes. Can it be infuriating? Yes. Are there aspects 
 of it that need some serious fine-tuning? No question. Is it overrated? I think so. But, is it 
 funny? Yes. Does it have you coming back for more? Yes. Is it still some of the most fun to hit 
 store shelves with an awesome premise and immense creativity despite its numerous problems that 
 I had a blast playing? You bet. Would I love to see a sequel that continued the zombie-killing 
 fun and touched up on the problems of the first game? Definitely. I know Im going to be burned 
 at the stake for this review, but understand that while Dead Rising was a repetitive chore at some 
 points, it was an absolute blast at other times. It wasnt a GOTY candidate for me, but it was 
 a game that, without a doubt, earned a spot on the highlight reel of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crispy12A
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising has been one of my favorite games if only for the huge ways to kill the zombies. The 
 chainsaw would have to be the best method but also running over them in a car is very funny. Unlike 
 Resident Evil the game doesn't try to scare u instead its more focused on the comedy side of zombies. 
 Thats not to say sometimes u can be running a little scared especially when trapped in a room with 
 hundreds or even thousands of the moaning and groaning monsters. Luckily though they can only walk 
 along very slowly so most of the time u can just walk straight past them, or give them a healthy 
 knock to the head with an iron bar.
  
  The only real downside to Dead Rising is the save method which means if you die unfortunately your 
 forced to start the game over albeit with the skills your character has learn' t whilst playing. 
 So long as your careful once your health starts to get low however this is not too much of a problem.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anybody who enjoyed any of the recent zombies movies. Based in a 
 supermarket it is very similar to the film, Dawn of the Dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcoregamer77
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is probaly the greatest zombie game out to date in my opinion. It has an awesome story 
 line and has replay value. The game uses the full power of the 360. The graphics are awesome and 
 they are even better in HD. You are Frank West trapped in a mall filled with zombies and alot of 
 stores. One word Hell Yeah! You can use anything as a weapon from dishes to gumball machines. Can 
 can choose a bunch of different paths. You can get the story and find out the msytery behind the 
 zombies, you can run around the mall and save the surviors, or you can do me and my friends personal 
 favorite just run around and kill zombies with everything you can find. The game is awesome, the 
 story line is awesome, and the graphics are awesome. I would recommened this game for anyone who 
 has a 360 or is a zombie fan. You will hours of fun and your 360 will thank you.
  
  Review by
  hardcoregamer77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The unforgivable flaw in this otherwise wonderful game is the horrible, broken save system. The 
 game is very well done in almost all other regards and could have been easily one of the best existing 
 games for the 360. There are some bits that could use tweaking like I'm constantly eating my food 
 by accident when my weapon breaks; they easily could have used the Y button to eat since it isn't 
 used for anything else. But overall I really find the game a lot of fun. What isn't fun is the 
 constant redoing of stuff because you don't want to risk overwriting your known good save spot. 
 Another annoying aspect is you can't exit to the main menu to reload your saved game if you know 
 you just screwed up. You have to dump the whole game by exiting to the 360's dashboard. Very annoying. 
 So, rent this one first. Even with all its faults you'll have a blast playing it and if you can 
 handle the cruel save system you can go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You are Frank West a freelance photojounalist that has come onto the scoop of anyones 
 life. But once you get to the story you have been waiting for you find that the town is overruned 
 by Deadly, Gory, Bloody, Hungry zombies. The game kinnda starts off slow but in about 5 min into the 
 game you see what the hype is about. The main attraction in this game is the use of weapons you 
 find in the mall and their are ALOT of them. Beside the fact that their are 100000000 zombies to 
 kill you can also do your job and take pictures of the zombies and they love haveing their pictures 
 taken before they eat your brains. The main story of the game is very very good for such a simple 
 idea of wacking zombies with a giant stuffed bear. Their are three modes so it dose keep you ocupied.
 
  
  Graphics: If zombies were real this is what it would look like cutting off their heads. The graphics 
 are unbeleaveable their very very good and the little deatals that are made in the games graphics 
 are very cool from the water around you to the blood of a serverd head.
  
  Sound: The funney thing in this game during the day when their is gore and zombies around you their 
 is mall music playing in the backround you are in a mall after all. The voice overs for every charcter 
 in the game is very well done even if they never talked that is what i would think their voices 
 sounded like it was a very good choise. The music in boss fights is also very cool somevery good 
 mood music and is made for that boss.
  
  Value: You can play this game 1000 time and it will still be fun. Also the main game is about 10 
 or 15 hours no matter how hard you try. I mean think about it giant stuffed bear + zombie + wacking 
 a zombie = FUN this will never get old.
  
  The Good: Awsome hand to hand combat, Big mall to run around and kick some zombie ass, LOTS of 
 wepaons to choose from to kill the zombies in fun ways, good way to get off some anger, lots of 
 bosses, The Bad: The A. I on the surviors that you can save are dumb as dirt. text is very very 
 very small so much that it looks like a trail of green and yellow.
  
  The Ugly: The infinate mode is very lame it is not very fun. No multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevenus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  This game has it all!!! The looks, The laughs, the replayability value. Any zombie fan will love 
 it.
  
  The only way i can describe this game is a cross between Shawn of the deads humor. And Dawn of 
 the deads viloence. You are never likley to experience so much fun whilst killing someone. From 
 beating a zombie to a bloody pulp with a baseball bat, to chopping them literally in 2 with a headge 
 trimmers. You are thrown into a fully interactive world in whch you can use almost any of your 
 surrondings as a weapon. There are options of using firearms to dispose of your enemies, BUT the 
 sheer joy you get in throwing a bowling ball at a crowd of zombies and hitting them over like bowling 
 pins is too appealing to resist, Or taking a new golf clup from the local sports shop and teeing 
 off into a zombies open chest BOOM, unforgettable. The game looks great, feels great and above 
 all plays to the mark. With the possibility of up to 300 enemies being on screen at any one time, 
 its then a difficult choice wheater to simply get in a car and plow down a endless horde of human 
 cattle, or leap onto the head of the nearest zombie and crowd surf your way to safety. OH did i 
 say SAFETY, the only time you truely get oppurtunity to feel safe is inside your security room 
 base, but hen you are still haunted by the groanong and moaning of neayby undead. The game is high 
 paced all out action horror from the kings of action horror, CAPCOM. With that in mind all you 
 have to do is thing of timeless classics within the Resident Evil Franchise and the game developer 
 reputation speaks for itself. The game is laced with with hidden humor. There is the dark hidden 
 humor side of the game, then there is the bam in your face humour. Capcom often use the opposite 
 sex to supply you laughs within the game, anyone you has defeated Jo Slade will know what i mean, 
 in this case i refer to the fashion in which she dies, complete south park moment. Superb soundtrack 
 consisting of mainly heavy rock tunes, works very well with the game.
  
  You will find some of the acheivments very difficult, example the genocide acheivment, I cannot 
 see me ever acheiving it.
  
  Overall, honestly, the truth, buy the game, you will not be disappointed it is epic and in my opinion 
 an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD - wide array of weapons to use for a beat 'em up style; unique approaches to the action 
 genre; steady framerate considering the massive amount of enemies on one screen
  
  THE BAD - terrible save system; 72 hour clock puts you on limited constraints; unimpressive unlockables; 
 button combos somewhat difficult to use at times
  
  All zombie focused games have the same premise. They may be broken into chunks, but in the end 
 it's still the same thing. When you think 'zombie', you think of a scary looking fellow that thirsts 
 for blood. Imagining that this zombie would be placed in a horrifying environment is sufficient 
 as well. Resident Evil is a prime and glorious example of what you'd come to expect from a zombie 
 style game. The sad part is that these zombies are usually chewed up and tossed aside. In almost 
 any zombie game, zombies are usually the most torpid and rugged enemy in that specific game. However, 
 this isn't what Dead Rising aims for. What it's trying to execute is fairly different.
  
  If you didn't catch it before, Dead Rising has zombies. Oh, and not just zombies that pop up spasmodically, 
 or zombies that just appear in portions throughout the game. Dead Rising has hundreds of blood 
 thirsty freaks on screen at once who are trying to flesh on your blood. You'll also notice that 
 Dead Rising was published and developed by Capcom, the same team that is responsible for the popularity 
 of Resident Evil. So, that alone would make you purchase Dead Rising, wouldn't it? A superior developer 
 working on a brand new game may quench your thirst, but you're overlooking some ugly flaws that 
 need to become acknowledged before it's all said and done.
  
  In Dead Rising, you assume the role of Frank West, a photojournalist who's purpose is to figure 
 out why the fictional setting of Willamette, Colorado has been blocked off by the National Guard. 
 Frank West arrives via helicopter to his destination where he sees all hell break loose. He enters 
 from the roof of a mall nearby and explains to his pilot to come back for him in 72 hours, which 
 is a span of three days. From here on, you are the minority against the large onslaught of zombies 
 that want you dead. Of course, it isn't as easy as clobbering zombies, as there are many other 
 objectives to complete before your time in hell reaches its end.
  
  Dead Rising gives you an array of storyline missions along with some side quests to go with your 
 main plate. Most of the missions tell you to go to one area to retrieve something, and others may 
 include rescues and the like. The side quests are a tad different, as they consist of rescuing 
 a survivor, and escorting him to safety. The sad part is that they aren't flexible enough, meaning 
 you're bound to keep doing this over and over again. There are 53 survivors you must escort to 
 safety, so that gives you a feel of exactly how many times you're supposed to do this. Fortunately, 
 for saving these survivors, they may give Frank some useful items, but others may rebel against 
 you for some odd reason. Successful side quests net you PP (which are called Prestige Points) , 
 which in turn are experience points that help you level up. More on this later.
  
  Like in your everyday mall, you have access to use anything and everything to clobber your enemies. 
 Baseball bats, cash registers, bowling balls, skateboards are all accessible, and that isn't even 
 a handful of weapons you can use because there are plenty more. Each weapon have different characteristics 
 than others. Some do more damage, some have longer reach, and some have 'special' uses to deliver 
 even more excruciating damage. Guns are also available, but to put it short, they're not as enjoyable 
 and hilarious as the melee weapons. You can even use your own hands to deliver devastating combos 
 to your foes that give you some gritty tension in return. All this gives you some fresh gameplay 
 throughout, so becoming bored with Dead Rising the first time through is quite a feat to say the 
 least.
  
  Like earlier, Frank West can level up by gaining Prestige Points. Leveling up is much more important 
 than you'd expect. Upon leveling up, you are awarded more health points, increased damage, quicker 
 speed, among other things. Garnering PP is as easy as killing zombies, but you also gain PP by 
 completing the suggested side quests and taking photographs of certain events. Photographing sounds 
 quite enticing at first, but it proves to be an otherwise useless added feature that you most likely 
 won't take note of when you're too into the game. Sure, they increase your PP, but there are more 
 alluring ways to do it.
  
  Unfortunately, an ample problem with Dead Rising is its save system. So far, you're looking at 
 a great action game until it's pummeled by a pathetic save system. Dead Rising comes with only 
 one save slot, so that in itself creates frustration that needs no explanation. Since the game 
 requires you to run through the mall on a 72 hour clock, if you miss a particular mission, you 
 are unable to go back and try it again unless you start all over again. This in itself is a very 
 limited approach that seemed to go unnoticed, which is a shame. However, you are able to save your 
 current level you possess and start again from the last save point, but that isn't enough to override 
 the horrible save system.
  
  Dead Rising looks decent at best. It sure does not showcase what the XBOX 360 is capable of, but 
 I could understand that this is an exception because of the hundreds of zombies on screen at once. 
 Frank West himself looks clean and smooth, but his mortal enemies lack that 'zombie feel'. Some 
 of the mall environments look quite stale, but others have a distinct feel to them. What is amazing 
 is that the framerate is very steady throughout the game. I never once had any type of slowdown 
 whatsoever, and that should definitely be worth noting. An onslaught of hundreds of zombies moving 
 towards you all at once and yet there isn't any slowdown? Seems quite impossible, but Dead Rising 
 pulled it off with flying colors, no doubt about it.
  
  Each weapon has an exclusive sound to it, whether it'd be wood crashing right through the head 
 of an enemy, or a bowling ball clashing through a group of zombies. Capcom is known for its ambient 
 sounds, and they are up there with the likes of Resident Evil. The voice acting could have been 
 a little better, but there isn't any major problem here. The music feels uninteresting and basically 
 blights through the great audio. It doesn't give the music that Capcom is known for, but if anything, 
 Dead Rising strives to go for something different in the audio department, and it does succeed 
 in some instances, but in others they aren't as cracked up as they were meant to be.
  
  Dead Rising pushes you with a 72 hour clock. No, the clock doesn't go by real-time. Instead, the 
 clock speeds up to about 12 times what the normal speed is. This gives you plenty of time to work 
 through the mandatory and side quests. After defeating the initial 72 hour mode, you unlock another 
 mode, and after completing that, you unlock yet another mode. Both of these modes are pretty much 
 pointless, so Dead Rising offers meager replay value when it comes to its unlocked modes. Dead 
 Rising was meant to be played by its 72 hour mode, and that will please you for some time. However, 
 eventually it becomes a tedious exercise after experimenting with the new weapons, and afterwards, 
 there isn't much else to do.
  
  Dead Rising offers some quirky, yet fun thrills. While it lasts, expect yourself to be immersed 
 into the game, with an wide array of weapons to use against the zombies that creep towards you. 
 But, don't mistaken Dead Rising for a survival horror game, because it's anything but that. Dead 
 Rising caters more to the action fan than it does to the survival horror fan. If you're willing 
 to give this game a spin, be prepared to suffer from some shortcomings. The save system is atrocious 
 to begin with, and some quests are repeated to the point that they're plain dull to partake in. 
 While potential ideas may have been flushed, the end result concurs that Dead Rising is an adequate 
 action experience. Anyone thirsty for action won't mind some of the shortcomings Dead Rising possesses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProphetOfValor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a prime example of why games should focus on gameplay. The core of the game, as 
 you may have heard, is killing zombies in a mall. It is also ridiculously fun. But you can expect 
 more than that during your 72+ in-game hours of story mode. There a plenty of surprises that keep 
 the game exciting. And as far as single player games go, Dead Rising is a Holy Grail of replay 
 value. You will not discover everything the first time through. As far as difficulty goes, I found 
 the game to be very good, with some things more challenging than others. And believe it or not, 
 the stories plot is very good, not just for a game of this type, but for any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Believe me when I say that because if you have played another game like this, you probably bought 
 it in another country with a foreign title but it was the same game. Graphically, while it is not 
 the best looking Xbox 360 game, it certainly isn't the worst. Probably the first graphical accomplishment 
 you will notice is the detailed facial expressions. Other then that the graphics accomplish what 
 they need to. The sound effects in this game are really good. Every weapon has its own impact sound 
 and the variety of weapons is just huge. The gameplay in this game is the hooking point. Killing 
 zombies in infinite different ways just never gets old and the story is really captivating. This 
 game is probably one of the best games yet for the Xbox 360 and it may just offer the most gameplay 
 options yet. In the end Dead Rising is by far one of the most original Xbox 360 games and is a 
 definite must own for anyone who likes killing a lot of zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Lets see... Your Frank West. a journalist stuck in a shopping mall filled with 58,654 Zombies... could 
 be wrong with the number though.... anyway. The objective... To kill as many zombies as humanly possible 
 in the most funniest and violent ways, uncover a government secret and get your story. So... that 
 right there has me completely sold.
  
  I can't get over how much ass, this game stomps. A Gun Shop filled with shotguns, pistols, sniper 
 rifiles along, with a jeep being driven by three convicts that after you kill them, you get to 
 steal their rail gun and mow down literally, 300 to 400 zombies with a couple of rounds? Aight... aight. 
 Thats awesome
  
  Whats that? A Home Depot like store filled with chainsaws, scythes, lead pipes that you can impale 
 zombies with, with the ability to take a lawn mower, and ether throw it at zombies, or run them 
 down with it? Sign me up.
  
  What?!?! Two versions of the Mega Buster are in it? One that shoots tennis balls.. well.. thats pretty 
 beat... but... you can unlock the real Mega Buster that can clear out a big space filled with zombies? 
 Pass me the Kool Aid!
  
  Dead Rising is bar non, one of the greatest, funniest, ambitious titles to ever come out... and 
 you know it just sets up for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallboy13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a brand new innovative horror/thriller from Capcom is enough to make anyone buy 
 an XBOX 360. If you didn't like the 360 before, you will buy one just to play this game. Playing 
 as Frank West you are a photo-journalist who is investigating the zombie outbreak in Willamette. 
 Little does he know of the horrors in the mall...... On arriving he is thrown straight into the 
 action with the zombies and has his first taste of zombie action. Dead Rising will definitaly surprise 
 you with it's vast inventory of weapons ranging from shotguns to baseball bats to gumball machines?!!? You 
 are not alone in the mall...... There are 78 survivors but not all of them are willing to be saved, 
 as a majority of them are just normal survivors, the rest are PSYCHOPATHS!!!! These guy/girls can 
 be defeated throughout the game and you can recieve PP (Prestige Points) . These account to the 
 levelling system in Dead Rising. Starting at level 1, you must defeat psychopaths, take pictures 
 and save survivors to gain PP to level up and recieve better moves and more storage for weapons. 
 Overall - This game is fun for anyone looking for a laugh and good long play.
  
  Thank You - tallboy13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_guy44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first got dead rising I was exicted. I have already played RE 4 and that was good but this, 
 is excellent. You play as Frank West. Nice name, huh
  
  After about 10 mins of door opening, you finally meet some of the survivours. After an INSANE lady 
 opens the doors to the zombies, killing everyone but you, JUST FOR A STUPID DOG THE ZOMBIES ARNT 
 GOING TO EAT ANYWAY!!!!!!
  
  The story was good but it was hand in hand with another feature that most games havent touched. 
 Real Time. Of course it doesn't go in REAL time, but its about 12 faster than real time. Its a 
 curse and a blessing. If you dont get to a certain place for a mission and the time runs out, well 
 your screwed. But it does make the game seem more..... real.
  
  The worst thing about this game is its HDTV exculsive. So if you have a SDTV like so many of us, 
 you may as well only buy it as a zombie massacre simulation. Another thing Capcom Stuffed up is 
 the AI. You will run around setting waypoints and keep calling, but they will wander of STRAIGHT 
 INTO A PACK OF ZOMBIES
  
  The best bit about the game is the zombies. Slow, stupid, they just wander around the certain stores 
 like they did in their before life. There can be almost 1000 on a screen at once. And yes, you 
 can plant a bullet, chainsaw, kantana, frying pan, skateboard, CD ninga stars, plates, handbags. 
 The list goes on and on and on. Since its a mall. why dont well play on consurism, grab anything 
 thats not nailed down, and kill zombies
  
  This game is one to definatly buy, its fun, its bloodly, its got the same feel as DotD and its 
 as funny as hell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robingyohood
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This is Honestly the best Zombie game ive ever played and is the game ive been waiting for. Sensless 
 killin of zombies w/ any thing and i mean anything
  
  Pros.
  1. The Graphics on this game are pretty good though could be better, coming from Capcom. The Zombies 
 are all detailed and you can definitly admire the design of the mall.
  
  2. The Overall Gameplay is enough to keep some1 from going crazy w/ boredom. The best weapon is 
 usually the worst things to use. The 1st time u pick up this game i garentee u will be laughin 
 while bashing a zombies head in w/ a wide screen Tv and kickin soccer balls at them. 3. Storyline: 
 The Storyline in this game is unbeliveable. It has it all. The Hot mysterious women, The hot Cop, 
 The badass, The Hero, The Crazy ass motha F#~! er, Evil Cultist i mean everything. Its Worth sitting 
 through the cutscenes. Cons.
  1. Ok the Sound Quality isnt the best.
  2. Too Many Loading screens.
  3. and It gets to repetitive.
  4. Escorts get borin because u 
 take them to the same place everytime
  5. Otis is very anoying
  
  Those are the only things i found wrong with the game it has plenty of modes to play so u wont 
 get bored anytime soon.
  
  Im not sure if u might want to buy it when its 40$ because its a pretty quick ending game and it 
 does get repetitive after a while.
  
  But its at least worth a pick up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is made by Capcom, which is kind-of surprising because Capcom does not make any games 
 that are just like this game. DR is a great game because in this day and age, it's all about finding 
 a great game and making 5 sequels to it. As a matter of fact, there is a sequel coming out for 
 this game, which is a very welcome.
  
  DR was one of the first xbox360 exclusive game that could make you buy a 360 just to play this 
 game. Basically your a reporter who is stuck in a mall that Is filled with blood thirsty zombies! 
 Armed initially with your camera and witts you must save yourself and others (if you want) from 
 the zombies and figure out why or how there are all these zombies in the mall.
  
  DR actually does have a decent storyline as well as other people you will meet along the way and 
 get to know all about them. Almost like your a new third party that nobody has known about and 
 they're not sure if you should trust them and vice-versa. Gameplay in DR manages to be very exciting 
 the whole way through. Just as you get tierd of killing zombies with barbells, you get to kill 
 them with a lawnmower. It's much more satisfying that what I could possibly make it sound, sometimes 
 you will just wander around looking for new items to use, because not only is the mall your in 
 huge but there are a huge and varied amount of places to go and weapons/items to use.
  
  Gamerscore-wise, good luck getting to 1000 points, if you do manage that, well than you should 
 be bragging. After one pass through the game I ended up with 280 points. The points in this game 
 are very specific and require all attention to be put toward that one achivement. You really need 
 a lot of time and focus to get a full 1000 points, don't buy if your just looking for points.
 
  
  Dead rising requires a couple play-throughs to actually experience the whole game, becuase there 
 is a real-time clock that won't allow you to do everything the first time, you will actually WANT 
 to play it more than once, and you will enjoy it the next couple of times too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  this game i've played for about 3 hours, i borrowed it from my friend, and im sort-of glad that 
 i did. Theres no online, but why would there, but still, 60 bucks for no online. I've played the 
 game for about 3 hours, and its basically all your doing it trying not to get killed, if you get 
 into a mush of zombies, your dead pretty much, and if you get hit 4 or more times before you recover (you 
 have to eat something, hard to find sort of) then your dead basically. Ill just say, grab the apples 
 in the janitors monitors if you plan on getting this game. i plan on getting the acheivements** 
 before i return the game, but its totally a rental, after the first couple of hours, if you buy 
 it, you'll quickly realize oh great, i just payed 40-60 bucks to kill some zombies. The aiming 
 system is ok, so far i've only gotten the chance to have the pistol, at about 45 minutes in. Also, 
 all your items will basically.... die after you've killed about 10 kills, even a knife, i mean, 
 come on, why would a knife be ruined after you kill some zombies. There are some fun items, like 
 you can pick up a bench, and kill 3-5 zombies at once, but yeah, totally rent, fun at first, later 
 you'll realize im right (haha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomismocl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Amazing game.
  Excelent drama, blood, pasion, blood, action, blood, thriller, blood and more blood.
  
  You 
 can kill a zomby using thousand of ways: your own body, sword, knifes, guns, electric machine, 
 furniture devices or even a dead zomby.
  
  The campaign is lengthy, about 15-20h, and has A LOT to do. Also after you finish it, you have 
 to play for 11hrs in a row without saving, to unlock some great awards.
  Between the timed case files, you can always go out and take pictures, save the game, rescue survivors, 
 or simply go out and hack some zombies to hell!
  Also theres the ever fun overtime mode, which adds another 24h to the game, and theres a full-out 
 awesome arcade unlimited mode, where you have to survive as long as you can with EVERYTHING against 
 you, living or dead. Now with all the good, there has to be the bad. And its worst feature has 
 to be its saving system. There is very few auto-saves, and you can only save in the handful of 
 bathrooms and the security room. If you die, you have to go ALL they way back to your last save, 
 which could be fine, or it could be the worst thing in the world. Also the fact that the cases 
 are all timed and if you miss one of them, you have to either re-load your last save, or even worse, 
 if theres not enough time, START ALL OVER again. Thankfully you can carry over your Characters 
 data...
  
  Is a MUST game of xbox 360, and probably we need a 2nd part of this game.
  
  Best game 
  This game will be a Classic one, you MUST BUY IT!
 
  PD: if you havent buy it, try it from a used one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andries-Willem
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  I bought this game 4/5 weeks ago. I immediately liked it, even though al critics say it's just 
 more of the same and the saving system is frustrating I immediately got caught in the action. There 
 happens to be a thing that almost every critic forgets to talk about: The Storyline! Alright, the 
 missions themselves might get annoying after a while, but you've got to admit, you have a lot of 
 freedom to kill those bosses! I will not put Spoilers in this review, but the storyline of this 
 game is the best one of all the games I ever played. Leveling up is fun, you've got some nasty 
 Achievements in this game and even walking around can fun. The save system is, in my opinion, a 
 +, it keeps you focused and is another challenge. It can be frustrating, but with a little bit 
 of planning, you should be fine.
  The only minority of this game is the gameplay:
  WHY DID THOSE JAPANESE PEOPLE FORGET TO PUT A COOP MODE IN THIS GAME, BIGGEST ****** MISTAKE IN 
 THEIR LIVES. Ah well, nothing's perfect...
  And now, for the grand finale, I'm going to make a ridiculous statement: I like this game more 
 than Gears of War... You think about that, because I've got both of those games, if I should choose 
 between DR and GoW I'd choose Dead Rising!
  
  Andries-Willem
  
  P. S.: The time I played this isn't entirely correct, I only have 3 1/2 days a week to play Dead 
 Rising, so double my time... As I said I bought it 4/5 weeks ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timdabrat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  lo and behold, another Capcom masterpiece, Dead Rising. This game has great graphics, extremely 
 fun gameplay, and its one of a kind! Sure, we still love Zombies ate my Neighbors and resident 
 Evil , but as they guy on gamespot said, sometimes you just want to take a chainsaw to a zombie's 
 face , and thats EXACTLY what this fantastic game delivers.
  
  The campaign is quite lengthy, about 15-20h, and has A LOT to do. Between the timed case files, 
 you can always go out and take pictures, rescue survivors, or simply go out and hack some zombies 
 to hell! Also theres the ever fun overtime mode, which adds another 24h to the game, and theres 
 a full-out awesome arcade unlimited mode, where you have to survive as long as you can with EVERYTHING 
 against you, living or dead. Now with all the good, there has to be the bad. And its worst feature 
 has to be its saving system. There is very few auto-saves, and you can only save in the handful 
 of bathrooms and the security room. If you die, you have to go ALL they way back to your last save, 
 which could be fine, or it could be the worst thing in the world. Also the fact that the cases 
 are all timed and if you miss one of them, you have to either re-load your last save, or even worse, 
 if theres not enough time, START ALL OVER again. Thankfully you can carry over your Characters 
 data...
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game, except for the previously mentioned downsides, and is a must 
 for all 360 owners. Also its really fun to try to get all 50 achievements!
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be my favourite survival horror game of all time. I have to congratulate Capcom 
 here, for making such a wondrous game. I'll start of by saying that this was made by Capcom pretty 
 much as a filler between Resident Evil 4 and Resident Evil 5 for all the zombie lovers who just 
 couldn't wait, but what they created is a game, in my opinion which even surpasses the amazing 
 game series Resident Evil. Yup I said it this game is even better than Resident Evil (now I hope 
 this didn't turn you off my review, please keep on reading and don't just Recommend this review? 
 No (because it is just my opinion and even if you dont enjoy this as much as RE, youll still 
 enjoy it thoroughly) . Now onto the part you have been waiting for.
  
  Gameplay: Hundreds to thousands of zombies on screen, using almost anything you can find to fight 
 off the hordes of evil, uncover the truth at the mall about what happened or just hide your self 
 away in a closet for 72 hours and wait for the helicopter to pick you up and rescue you. Sounds 
 good doesn't it? Well it is but there are some problems with this game no question, there are some 
 glitches (sorry can't think of any at the time) , the saving system can be a pain even though its 
 not really as bad as everyone says it is and the calls from Otis can be annoying with their tiny 
 text and stuff. But the combat is just so fun that the impact of those problems is fairly minor. 
 There are also these things called psychos in this game who are basically bosses who you usually 
 can choose to fight or not, if you do you'll get some experience, some good weapons maybe some 
 survivors and maybe access to a shop (Gun shop, hardware store, etc.) after a tough fight with 
 them, but if you don't take the case then survivors will get killed you'll miss out on experience, 
 and probably a cool new weapon. Now to the story, it may not be the best one in the world but I 
 though it was underappreciated considering it is reasonably interesting, and it made me feel compelled 
 to complete it. Youre basically going to go through a few stages in terms of how well you will 
 handle zombies. When you first start out you are probably going to be quite intimidate by zombies, 
 youll avoid them when you can and only fight single zombie to small groups, the next stage (middle 
 of the game) you will still be a bit a cautious around zombies even though basically you can handle 
 most zombies situations. The next and final stage (later to end stages of the game) is close to 
 the end of the game, you start to think nothing of zombies, if one latches on to you kill twenty 
 of them in return (Twenties for half of an eye is what I call it =P) you will know where to find 
 all the bada$$ weapons, and food, you might even put yourself in danger just to kick some zombie 
 butt. Those are basically the three stages you will go through in this game.
  
  Zombies also start to get smarter and stronger as you progress through the game, but so will you, 
 in this game you level up and start finding better weapons but the zombies also start to use weapons 
 which can be dangerous. As you level up in this game your stats will increase, such as your strength, 
 speed, throw distance and the like. I think this game is probably set in the near future (5-10 
 years) as youd excpect there are some unusual things for example ***SPOILER*** Floating special 
 ops cameras with guns ***END SPOILER*** there are some other things in the game but I cant remember 
 them so sorry =P. Oh and a few more things you can also change into a lot of costumes in the mall 
 silly and cool, I find the fact that you can change into soooo many different outfits really cool, 
 sure its not the most original thing in the world but it is done like no other game before. The 
 zombies also become stronger, smarter, more aggressive and tougher at night and you eat food to 
 get health. Overall the Gameplay is amazing with some minor problems (Otiss calls etc.) 9/10
 
  
  Graphics: Wowzers, it is bloody amazing seeing thousands of zombies on screen, in fact this is 
 the only game that I can think of which pulls it off. There are shots in this game you will never 
 forget they are just stunning. The character models in this game are very nice, even though occasionally 
 look a little ugly (think slightly better character models than Saints Row but you know zombie 
 =P) . These graphics are beautiful, funny, scary and intense all at the same time, somehow. You 
 will feel intimidated maybe even scared when you see a horde of zombie slowly lingering towards 
 you, so you turn around to run away and BAM!!! A zombie latches right on to you, you struggle 
 to shake it off, eventually you do it slams to the floor you try and run away again but now they 
 are running towards you!!!
  
  Not only that but it also has beautiful environments, they are all very varied. There arent many 
 games with graphics like this, it is truly beautiful. 10/10.
  
  Sound: What sounds more intense than 50 zombies shambling and moaning towards you? 500 zombies 
 shambling and moaning towards you, thats what, and thats what this game has. Not only do the 
 zombies sound scary and intense, but also the weapons sound great when they are smashing against 
 the zombies skulls getting smashed or zombies are being crushed by a car or torn to shreds with 
 the excavator (man I love the excavator) , or sliced in half with a katana oryou get the idea
 
  
  The voice acting is also superb, some really convincing lines in there. Also the music in the game 
 is surprisingly great! Overall I give it 10/10
  
  Value: Unfortunately this is where the game falls a little short. It isnt particularly long &amp;#61516; 
 itll probably take you around 10-20 to finish it once then youll play it again once or twicethen 
 you will leave it for another couple of months before you play it againit doesnt really have 
 much re-play value which is a shame because it seems like a game which could. But anyway its still 
 got pretty good value 8/10.
  
  Overall: This is my favourite survivor horror game I have ever played &amp;#61514; It is under-appreciated. 
 If you buy this game you wont be disappointed :D Enjoy! 9.6/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThumbsUpDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't the longest but it sure is fun and funny. The deaths of psychopaths and their battles 
 are awesome! So many zombies so little time will be your thought through most of the game also 
 you'll hate the movie theater cult but other then that you'll enjoy this game its a must buy!
 
  
  There are about 50 achievements all worth 20 points.
  
  Also as an added fun there is alternative costumes one of them being megaman!
  
  8 cases
 
  
  15-16 Psychopaths
  
  250 Weapons
  
  And much much more!
  
  The game does die out after a while and you may not enjoy overtime mode so much but it is still 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm... So your telling me ugly Ebgame employee, that i can pick up just about any weapon and brutally 
 dismember zombies for 72 hours and to top it off; there is RPG elements... SOLD!!
  
  Story: You play Frank West a Photojournalist that finds the greatest scoop of all time when a small 
 town in Williamette Colorado becomes infested with killer zombies. The plot in this game is extremely 
 well done and this game has easily the best voice acting from a Capcom game ever. As you progress 
 through the game you soon find out that there is more to this whole zombie story then you though. 
 The story is structured in a way that allows you to uncover certain scripted events when the time 
 is right. To put it simply, the story doesn&amp;#8217; t disappoint; it has twist and turns that 
 would never cross your mind. I would have never though that a game based around the genius principle 
 of just going around killing zombies with anything humanly possible would also inspire Capcom to 
 surround this game with a brilliant story. The gameplay is simple; find a weapon and kill as many 
 zombies as possible until you destroy said weapon. It's a simple mechanic that never gets old. 
 Unfortunately only a certain amount of weapons have special attacks which usually involves the 
 player holding the attacking button as oppose to just press it. These special attacks lead to an 
 even more gruesome death for our lovable zombies. Though it may seem like it has short comes, you 
 really don't get bothered by that since there is so many weapons to play around with. It gets to 
 a point where you have to make decision on whether you want to keep a weapon based on effectiveness 
 or hilariousness. Either way you win in the end because it&amp;#8217; s so fun killing an endless 
 amount of zombies. Graphically, the game doesn&amp;#8217; t impress as much as Gears but it is impressive. 
 Technically, it&amp;#8217; s a marvel, to have so many zombies and NPC&amp;#8217; s on screen at 
 once with little to no hit on the frame rate is amazing. The controls are easy and simple to use. 
 The only problem is the Survivors that need your help; are kinda stupid which will lead to them 
 dieing and you not getting your pp points to level Frank. The game was made to be replayed. From 
 the different modes you unlock after you beat the game to the addictiveness of just killing zombies 
 and trying to max frank out by leveling. Its potential is limitless due to the fact that killing 
 zombies in endless number of ways can never get old. At least for me, this will be a game that 
 falls in the ranks of Katamari Damacy or Shadow of the Colossus, because it will always be fun 
 and bring me enjoyment for years to come. These types of games are the ones that i get my moneys 
 worth and some. In the end, I love this game and the concept behide it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitfire357
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I rented this game, and thought it was going to be a freaky sorta game. But then when i see all 
 the thing that make it fun. The thing i did not like about this game was the saving stuff. I hated 
 how the only place you could save was the security room and the bathroom and that carpet in the 
 hideout. As i was about to get to the end of the game, i ended up staying in the security room 
 and not going back to see Isabla, and it screwed me up, and i didn't get the true ending and i 
 accidently saved it, and had to restart the whole game. I was pretty pissed. But still the game 
 was pretty good. Loved the cutscence's, and the weapons. Did not like Carlito. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZXX_Razman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is by far the funniest, scariest and most darn right ridiculous games of 2006. Where 
 else are you going to be able to smash the heads of infinite amounts of zombies with weapons such 
 as chainsaws, lightsabers, trolleys, bikes, hammers, scythes, hedge trimmers, a 50 cal machine 
 gun! and even a fish! The list of items to fight and play with is endless.
  One interesting feature is the ability to change ur clothes, so for example you feel like being 
 a lady simply go to any Ladies shop and put one on.
  The most astonishing part to this game is the massive scale of it. There are so many different 
 paths to follow, the whole game storyline is down to you and your actions.
  If your the kind of person who enjoys a good game with a good storyline and the very frequent head 
 explosions then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olgeir
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:   ohhh Now that i got that out of my head 
 lets get to it.
  Now the Graphics are just fine the sound has this effect on one that says plz mom can i just kill 
 one more zombie. The controles are handicaped **** up frustrating thay suck... and i could keep 
 on going. the gameplay is good enoug but those damn zombies i mean zombies are so cool but here 
 thay just feel like objects in the way of the story and bosses. the story is just plain bad and 
 the escort missions are so bad that i can't explain it i mean the people are like plants !! it 
 would almost be easyer to get a plant to follow you than get a survivor / if im playing ''deadman,, 
 to safety. and the bosses are the only thing that i really feal thats alive in the game i mean 
 until i kill them. but in the end of the day i love to critisise games that im not good at like 
 this one so.
  
  P. S. Sorry if my English sucks im Icelandic and live in Denmark so i currently got 4 languages. 
 thx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maneclash
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Wow! I was so excited to get home and play this game, and i had a lot of fun at first, then i realized 
 how many flaws it has! I thought i would get used to them, but now i realize that i shouldn't have 
 to! The hit detection is horrible, the guy runs very slowly, the graphics are glitchy, the aiming 
 is a problem and not a help, loads of lame escort missions, and a horrible save function. I bought 
 this game used, and for 10 dollars cheaper, and I am still upset because i wasted 50 dollars on 
 it! OK so it's not the worst, but it definitely isn't worth 50 dollars! Wait until it goes down 
 to 20 and becomes a classic . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corroonb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very impressive game initially. For the first few hours of game play you will 
 admire the detailed graphics, great character models, the huge number of onscreen zombies. The 
 shopping mall is huge, well-designed and genuinely interesting. After the initial honeymoon period, 
 some things started to annoy me. There is a strict schedule in the game and nowhere near enough 
 time to investigate every scoop. You only have 72 hours to solve the mystery and do all the side 
 missions (scoops) . Frank West, the player character. levels up after receiving sufficient photo 
 points (PP) and his abilities are upgraded. PP are got from killing zombies and taking interesting 
 photos with Frank's camera. At the lower levels the game can be extremely frustrating as you are 
 slow and easily killed and can carry very few items. In fact it is very difficult to advance the 
 main story line as the bosses (psychopaths) can be very difficult to defeat. The save system is 
 also a cause of some annoyance. You can only have one save game at a time and can only save in 
 bathrooms and the security room. This is mostly not a problem but sometimes it is easy to loose 
 track of time and save, thus making the main story impossible to complete. After a while these 
 problems become less annoying as you adapt to Dead Rising's peculiar gameplay mechanics. The combat 
 is well designed and satisfying, if repetitive. The sheer volume of different items is amazing, 
 although you won't find much use for the toy lazer sword and other purely humorous inclusions. 
 The graphics engine is extremely effective and all the environments are highly detailed. The explosions 
 and blood effects are especially memorable. The game rarely if ever suffers from slow down despite 
 the enormous numbers of zombies on screen. The AI is a little stupid both for the psychopaths and 
 survivors who often have predictable and repetitive behaviour routines. The controls for melee 
 combat are excellent, responsive and surprisingly subtle at times. The opposite is true for firearms, 
 which leave your character highly vulnerable if you want any kind of accuracy and the aiming is 
 painfully slow.
  
  As you increase in level and make more discoveries, the game becomes far more enjoyable and less 
 frustrating. The zombie slaughter never really gets boring no matter how many you kill. Overall 
 Dead Rising is a love it or hate it kind of game and can be overall punishing due to it save mechanic 
 and strict real-time schedule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Deadrising is one of the first, if not the only zombie game on the Xbox 360. The game is brilliant 
 on one part, then average on the other.
  The reaction of the game beginning is, sweet! Killing thousands of zombies never gets old! Then 
 you get sucked into the story. The story is a time demanding, get there before time runs out procedure.
 
  
  The save system really comes into question there. The save system for most of the game is you run 
 back to the security room, your safe room, and go to the couch. Well when doing some cases that 
 can be fairly difficult. When I'm on a different side of the mall, I've beat two cases, and I'm 
 about to die. Well, looks like I'm going to have to do those two cases again.
  Save system is absolutely terrible. Yet it adds to the difficulty pretty nicely.
  
  Another 
 flaw, the text. Now luckily, HDTV'S can run the text and a bigger, readable size, but SDTV'S really 
 have a problem reading it. Now, the text isn't needed for the most part, but it really is nice 
 to have it there.
  
  Now for the sandbox part of this game, amazing. I've never seen a game where you can change clothes, 
 weapons, pick up anything, and at the same time kill tens and thousands of zombies.
  
  Deadrising's story is very complex. There are 6 different endings and each takes a unique method 
 of getting. The true ending isn't what I would've wanted. The storyline is very realistic, and 
 what plays in that part is definitely the graphics. Once you advance in the game you unlock overtime 
 mode and infinity mode, both explain themselves.
  
  The graphics make you feel like zombies are attacking your feet, and your only option is to find 
 what happens and try to escape the mall. The graphics on humans are simply amazing, though they 
 don't quite match up to Gears of War. The sound, unfortunately, doesn't either.
  
  The sound is pretty basic, with many weapons and gun sounds. You can really tell Capcom put some 
 time into the sound. The zombies and weapons all make some pretty good sounds, but they don't go 
 well all together-at the same time.
  
  The value of this game is incredible, six endings in one game. Plus the game doesn't get old. I 
 mean, running around changing clothes, picking up random katanas, killing thousands of zombies, 
 what sounds better?
  
  Now, this game is great and all, but it does have some minor flaws, here's the recap
  
  The 
 Good: Awesome game play, tons of material to kill and play with, never ending story goes well with 
 zombies.
  
  The Bad: Small text is incredibly hard to read, and saving system is a real frustrater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  before i start telling you about this game. this game rocks!
  you are a war time photo journolist you are stuck in wallmart (a very big mall) for 72 hours untill 
 rescue comes to help. while you are in the mall as i said you are stuck for 72 hours, Having fun, 
 reeeeaaaal fun punching kicking killing threaterning your own life. as i said its real fun. this 
 game can realy tire your fingers of all the kick-punch action. whats cool bout this game your in 
 wall mart asnd you can pick up anything in the mall. ANYTHING. from pans to toys to hangers to dolls! 
 anything... buy this game now if you an action game lover... but dont blame me if you wet your pants. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgamer159
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  well overall its a great game it has some flaws but i could still kill zombies all day! the bad: 
 saving is crap i dont even get how to do it you can run any faster than you are running and the 
 first level is boring taking pics
  
  the good: using everything in the mall to kill zombies is fun especially when you use certain things 
 blood splaters everywhere STUPID OLD LADY HAD TO LET IN THE ZOMBIES FOR GER FRIKIN' DOG!!!!!! BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH WHY DOES IT HAVE TO BE 100 WORDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer434
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is fun very fun I loved it the only problem I thought would be at first was 72 hours 
 are you kidding me but than 72 hours seems alright because you can go through the game with same 
 level again and again. This game has over 500 weapons I loved the mini chainsaw and the katana 
 if you love very bloody games that are 69.99 you will adore this game and one thing that I really 
 loved is that the survivors are so STUPID I was being sarcastic when I said I loved that part there 
 so stupid when you want them to follow you they start getting them selfs eatin by zombies but the 
 cut scenes are pretty fun so all together this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is so gory that it makes it funny some how, and that is the real great part, it has just 
 the right amount of action, and the bosses are so well spread out on the scary spectrum that ranges 
 from pee yourself scary to so funny that that you pee your self laughing. plus I love the blood 
 level as it right off the charts, the best part is that it can have up to 1000 zombies on screen 
 and more weapons and blood than you can shake a stick at which oddly is not a weapon, it is just 
 all around fun to blow a zombie's head off with a shotgun, why? dont know, but trust me I am looking 
 into medications for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Capcom takes the Zombie survival horror gaming to the next level with Dead Rising. Zombies and 
 Photography are two of my favorite things. I love zombie movies, games, I even dream about zombies, 
 eh... fighting and killing them of course, I am also an avid photographer. So when heard about 
 this game I eagerly anticipated playing it. I got Dead rising about a month ago and I can not seem 
 to put it down. I've never had more fun Killing Zombies, and there are literally hundreds of weapons, things, 
 and ways you can do so. I personally love beating a zombie to death with its own arm as much as 
 blowing its head off with a shotgun. The first time I played through the game I didn't do any of 
 the missions. I just killed zombies and rescued as many survivors as possible. Now I'm working 
 my way through a second time focusing on the mission. The replayability of this game is amazing 
 there is so much to do and you choose what you want. The graphics are awesome, and really stand 
 out best in high def.
  The sound is great but the in game music gets a little boring, but I usually
  listen to my own 
 stuff like Rage Against the Machine anyways so that's no big deal. I highly recommend Dead Rising, 
 so go out now and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomshakkalakka
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game promotes anger. This game encourages frustration, cursing, and the trowing of near-by 
 objects. Why? Well, for starters, you can only have 1 save slot. That's right: You can save the 
 game, go out, do whatever in the mall, and go back to either the save point in the security office 
 or the bathroom, and it will overwrite your previous save.
  
  Here's another kick-in-the-huevos dillemma: Say you're out and about, far from a save point, and 
 your guy has leveled up big time since you last saw the security office. But whoops! You die. So, 
 now you get this option: Do you want to quit the game, deleting all that leveling up you did, or 
 do you want to save your character's stats and start the game ALL OVER AGAIN. You heard me.
  
  Me personally, I've re-started this f#*&amp; ing game four times already, and I haven't even 
 beaten it yet. So why don't I sell it? What makes me hold onto it for so long?
  
  Like the disease that plagues the undead throughout the game, it gets under your skin. It's one 
 of those projects that you sit down and say, :No, dammit! I am going to beat this thing, if it's 
 the last thing I do! From graphics to gameplay, this is a solid title. If you're a horror movie 
 fanatic, you'll love the cheesy B-story that goes along with it. Anything's a weapon. And as much 
 as I hate starting over, I love the level ups your character (Frank) earns, and killing a zombie 
 several different ways never gets old. And all to the sound of crappy mall music? Count me in. 
 - B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sickest game of all time! I want someone who read this review and has actually 
 played Deadrising to say that this isn't the goriest and most entertaining game ever. Whats better 
 than killling thousands of zombies with 10000 different weapons. I cant find another game as entertaining 
 as Dead Rising. I've played Gears of War, Lost Planet and Rainbow Six LA but none of these games 
 are even close to as funny and entertaining Dead Rising is. I gave this game a 9.4 for a good reason 
 and that reason is that this game has the best gameplay and graphics I mean come on have you ever 
 seen a game with such realistic blood like Dead Risings. This game is just one of Capcoms greatest 
 achievements. DEAD RISING  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild-Bill-3
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  this game is truly a work of art but the easy bosses and easy levels realy makes me think they 
 could have done better with this game than they did. Because they dont have what i truly expected 
 as far as bosses the endgame boss can be beaten but pushing the same combo over and over. This 
 game is not challenging but for those not interested in a challenging game and more interested 
 in killing thousands of zombies then this game in your eyes is a 10. But for those interested in 
 challenging levels and hard bosses this game wouldnt be your best pleasure. But the best part about 
 the game i felt was the interesting and inventive story board. And what i belive has a underlining 
 tell about how the goverment will do anything to cover up a mistake. Yes i admit i love killing 
 the zombies but if that is the hardest part of the game it aint what i wanted. I dont truly care 
 for the infinite mode becuase by jsut standing there for a few minutes your dead. But the inventive 
 weopons are quite the intising pleasure such as the toy chainsaws, paint buckets, giant lipstick, 
 paintings ECT. The costumes are decent but i didnt think the little kids clothes that made you 
 look like micheale jackson or the womens clothes that made you look like a transvestite where not 
 needed and for me not appreciated. this game is good but not one i would keep forever and every 
 you can play through the game in a weekend and get all the unlockables. This game could be a alot 
 better with some type of online mode. overal i give this game a 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 70% : The Game is well made you can take weapons and trow it to the zombies or hit them 
 and the gameplay looks short but it kinda long but when you play the game in the begining its impressive 
 and you've got allot of things to do but when you go far in the game. Its getting hard its getting 
 frustrating and its like you play the game over and over again. And the place where you save the 
 not allot of save station like you can die. And Then you restart from your last save like sometime 
 its getting really boring especially when your far in the game.
  
  Graphics 90% : The Graphics are really awesome it looks like all the other 360 games.
  
  Sound 
 100 % : The Sound is awesome i really like the sounds of the game when zombies are hitting you 
 and all that. It Looks really realistic.
  
  I Reccomend This game For Action Game Fans And for RPG fans too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick917
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game with tons of fun, action, a smart soundtrack and great ideas. However for 
 a game where killing zombies is the main objective, Dead Risings timed objectives in 72 hour mode 
 are incredibly frustrating. I know that although Dead Rising is an incredibly popular game there 
 are a long list of improvements for the games much anticipated sequel, and I cant wait to see how 
 Capcom improve this game, especially if they take into account all that the fans want putting into 
 number 2.
  
  -Good Points
  Great Graphics, fun to play, nice and violent, many zombies on screen, a variety of objects/weapons 
 to interact with
  
  -Bad Points
  Annoying timed story, many zombies look alike, too many loading screens, story is too short, not 
 enough choice of clothing, dumb AI for survivors 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeygogo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Dead rising...... this game.... words cannot decribe dead rising as much as people have said its 
 good but meh but when you think about what you are playing, its perfect. It has everything pretty 
 graphics and gameplay great story line for a zombie game it goes on and on, dead rising is a game 
 you can play and play and play then look up and realise you've been playing for 8 hours. Its ridiculous 
 but so much fun, the only thing is; is that for a while when your a lower level it can be frustrating, 
 but after that arkward scenario it gets hilarious, melting a zombie's face with a frying pan then 
 ripping his head off will never get repetetive.
  
  On the downside you find after about 90 hours of gameplay it gets a bit 'mehhish' but never-the-less 
 'wow' for the first few hours its fun ridiculous all round fun gameplay then things start happening, 
 the storyline gets amazing and 'bamn' it hits you dead rising is dead serious.
  Apart from about 500 ridiculous ways to kill zombies and stupid but laugh-out-loud costumes there 
 is nothing to laugh about its about romance, disaster, and plot-twists. Capcom's way of getting 
 you to keep playing is two silly but quite good game modes; overtime which is abit of a rip of 
 dawn of the dead like the game itself, you get put in the mall and your life is constantly depleeting 
 due too 'starving' there are no cases or scoops (story-line main quest etc) and the only way to 
 heal is by defeating bosses. The other mode is 'Infinity-mode' no story no starving just the game 
 for aslong as you can bothered to do.
  
  All in on capcom's first 360 attempt is bloody amazing I recomend as its great. GO OUT AND BUY 
 IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorblade-616
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is just plain fun, takin a sledge hammer &amp; cracking off a zombies head or a chainsaw 
 and cutting off there limbs never gets boring. The story line is great &amp; interesting although 
 the 72 hour mode seems a bit short at times. The saving system is the worst aspect of the game, 
 only having one save slot can be a pain if you don't make it to your next mission on time. The 
 graphics &amp; detail of the mall is superb it rly feels like a real life mall. Killing zombies 
 hav never been so fun Capcom have realy made an amazing game here so if your into killing zombies 
 in many different ways whether it be using a sledge hammer, a chainsaw, a fire axe, or a lawn mower 
 i highly recomend ttis game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donnyp
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Capcom is the leading Zombie game Creator. They made the classic Resident Evil Series. Even when 
 changing how a game such as Resident Evil is played they still pull it off. But with the new Zombie 
 game it looks like they were just trying to get a game with zombies out because they haven't in 
 awhile. Since its for the XBOX360 sure its pretty, but the game doesn't cut it. Hours of running 
 around killing zombies is fun and a good way to relieve your anger and angst for teens. But the 
 game offers only a few fun aspects that run out fast. It seems as if Capcom is releasing this game 
 just to say, We still got it . Its true they do, when making zombie games. But this is just a hack 
 and slash game with no real story to become involved in. When it boils down to it this is a good 
 game BUT. You should definitely rent it first. Then if you don't beat it to your standard Borrow 
 it but don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatzombiepigeon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of those games you never forget. It's unique, innovative, and just plain fun. 
 Sure, your enemies are about as intelligent as a gym bag, and the lack of boss fights can be disappointing, 
 but Dead Rising is a solid game and one of the better titles available on the Xbox 360.
  
  Once you've gotten past the boring introductions and camera level, Dead Rising immediately kicks 
 into high gear, letting you slaughter countless zombies in a number of gruesome and potentially 
 humorous ways. You've got your standard zombie killing tools: swords, axes, guns, cars, but there 
 are also a lot of other objects that you can use to make mince meat of your zombie pals. Everyday 
 appliances and possessions become weapons of mass zombie destruction in the hands of photojournalist 
 Frank West (Who must have been taught how to commit mass genocide as a child, because he makes 
 quick work of hordes of zombies.) , and thanks to the 360's powerful hardware, 90% of what you see 
 in the giant Willamette mall can be used a weapon, and there are hundreds of zombies onscreen at 
 once, so the fun never ends. Frank also levels up and gains new melee abilities, and gains more 
 life, strength, speed, and inventory space as time goes by. These new moves might take awhile to 
 get down, but if you actually bother with it, they can add a lot of fun and will end up saving 
 you quite a few times from winding up a group of zombies brunch.
  
  Fellow survivor and obvious professor in the field of proper manners Otis Washington calls you 
 on your walkie-talkie to tell you where other survivors you can save are located, and where more 
 mysterious survivors are located. Your typical survivor is not very bright, and youll have to 
 constantly call to them to follow you unless you want to watch them wind up zombie chow. The mystery 
 survivors almost always turn out to be crazy wackjobs who are out to kill and torture fellow survivors 
 (And yes, that includes you.) . Capcom even spices things up by adding weird characters like a chainsaw 
 juggling clown and a lesbian security guard who repeatedly tortures young and attractive female 
 survivors. Im not making this up. Dead Rising has some memorable boss fights and its fair share 
 of WTF moments. Other bosses have more sorrowful personalities and pasts, but youll still look 
 back and think, That was such an awesome boss fight.
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising are impressive, especially when there are so many enemies and items 
 on screen. The game doesnt look as good as others on the 360, but other games dont pit you up 
 against angry zombie armies. Textures are top notch, and character models look impressive, but 
 not as great as the textures. Dead Rising has an excellent soundtrack. Each boss has their own 
 song that fits them perfectly, and all the songs are excellent. Zombies moan and groan, and music 
 plays in the background, like you would hear in a real mall. Everything in Dead Rising sounds great, 
 even the voice acting, which is excellent except for a few cheesy lines.
  
  There are few other faults in Dead Rising, but the minor faults with the game can get annoying. 
 A frustrating save system only lets you have one record, and the cases are sometimes far apart 
 with short timers, making saving when doing missions, saving survivors, or hunting for bosses sometimes 
 difficult. The control scheme can be slow, especially in intense scenarios where you need to be 
 moving quickly, and managing your easy to clutter inventory can pose as a problem. Aside from these 
 and some other minor problems, Dead Rising is an excellent game that most people will find very 
 enjoyable. There's even a lot of unlockables and multiple endings for gamers who like a lot to 
 do. Anyone with a 360 should look into Dead Rising, because it's one of the better games available 
 for the system. If only there was some kind of survivor multiplayer, the game could have been even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGamer121
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This is a good game for anyone who loves to smash, crash, bash, shoot, and drive over hoards of 
 zombies. Running around putting on cloths from random shops and getting achievements, and who could 
 forget the first time you find that hidden katana near the cafe'. Or that first time you take and 
 umbrella through hords of zombies and get the achievement raining zombies . But, there are a few 
 down sides like the fact that the words when people talk are in really really really small print, 
 so, unless your on an hd 32' inch tv screen. And, if your new at the game, it is really hard to 
 figure some things out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me start by saying that this is a great game, developers are finaly starting 
 to sit down and have a think at what gamers would really enjoy rather than the same old crap over 
 and over again. however it is such a tragic shame that instead of appreciation at the fantastic 
 attention to detail, novel gameplay and gory nature of the game I found myself screaming in frustration 
 at the inexcusably terrible AI of the npcs, anyone who has played and completed this game will 
 know exactly what I mean; characters you are trying to save will run in to walls and get stuck, 
 or when you have more than 2 people with you they will run into each other and get clogged up giving 
 zombies time to pounce on them which means you are constantly forced to run back and and try to 
 beat back their attackers in a bid to save them which is enough to make to scream-out -loud as 
 you are always pressed for time. More time for main and side quests would have also saved me from 
 alot of stress as I have never been a fan of time limit games, and it is almost impossible to do 
 all side and main quests unless you know all the shortcuts and avoid any unnecessary detours. even 
 though the poor AI does detract from the game, it is still a must have for all 360 owners and was 
 indeed the main reason I purchased a 360 in the first place as I am big on zombie related games/movies 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erag0n298
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The start was perfect like no other. Any body who has ever seen Dawn Of The Dead probably felt 
 a connection between that and this. The weapons were excellent. I mean who thinks of using a cash 
 register as an effective weapon? Since i played this i was thinking if my friends and i were stuck 
 in walmart wed be safe. Lol yep. Frank is the perfect role for this hes mysterious and dark. And 
 wayy into his job sorry girls. Capcom did a good job on extras. I was just messing around in a 
 fitness store and i destroyed the sandbags and got PP! Same for running on the treadmills. I mean 
 also the zombies are just the perfect kind of dumb. ANYWAY PLAY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battle_Chest
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  I like this game because you can use many things like one time I jumped on a zombies shoulders 
 and the jumped off kicked one in the face and then landed and stabbed a shower head into another 
 ones head took a picture and then got sorrounded and needed food lol. The worst thing about this 
 is that npc sucks ballz. they cant do crap. frank is like cmon cmon and thoose npc are like stuck. 
 But luckily they did many other things good like frank can spit and when you spit on someone they 
 have this huge wad of spit hanging on their heads and the guys are like you son of a **** and noooooo 
 way and stuff its halareous.
  and thats my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside5675
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Amazing fun, althought a bit repetitive. The game has alot of items you can use against the tens 
 of thousands of zombies that will be surrounding you in the mall, including shopping carts, hand 
 guns and my personal favourite - a lawn mower.
  
  The games has some good graphics and voice work aswell as a nice combat system in place. The save 
 system can get a bit annoying, but if you miss an important scoop you can still run around the 
 mall for the remaining days killing hoardes of Zombies which can still be fun.
  
  Every now and then you will run into a psychopath which can be rather challenging fights and sort 
 of act as bosses. The majority of them are not needed to be fought to complete the game for a good 
 ending, but it can help.
  
  Overall it's a nice, addicting game if you ignore a few minor flaws. You should rent it first and 
 see how you go from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-trades
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  When i sat down and played the game with my friend for the first time, i was kind of shocked.... it 
 was a very addictive game... you can get a hang of the controls pretty quickly... in about ten minutes 
 to be exact...
  
  The game starts off with a couple of cutscenes... but after that its right into the action... you 
 find yourself submerged completly from day one... you can use almost everything as a weapon of some 
 sort... and its a real 'survival' game... you have to help survivers... you have to eat or die... the 
 only thing you dont have to do is go to the bathroom (which i think would have been a cool feature) .... you 
 can save survivors or watch them die... there are also alot of ''psycopath's'' in the mall... hunters, 
 criminals, and a crazy cult in rain coats and matching mask's (by the way... why cant a zombie bite 
 through a rain coat...) anyway... you have a great time playing this game... i promise that...
  
  all in all its a great game.. that is re-playable forever... anyway... just pick it up... you wont 
 be sorry.. and if you are.. i dont want any hate mail... lol.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I really, really tried to like Dead Rising. This is a unique game with a good story. It's a game 
 that manages to succesfully blend action, adventure, and even a little bit of RPG-style character 
 leveling thrown in. It's a fun, zombie-bashing action games at times. I really applaud the developers 
 for finding a way to get so many zombies on screen at once, still have the game look good and run 
 very smooth. The voice acting is surprisingly good, and the game is set-up for multiple playthroughs 
 if you like it. But after playing this game for quite a while now, I could no longer overlook how 
 many MAJOR design flaws that absolutely killed the game for me.
  
  The first annoying thing you will notice is the save system. I know this has been much talked about, 
 but it's definately worth mentioning. I have no idea what the developers were thinking when they 
 implemented this. There is only one save slot and while there are several locations in the game 
 to save, it needed several more. On top of that, the game places you in a situation where you need 
 to be in a certain place at a certain time to complete the main story. If you save your game, are 
 too close to the deadline, and you can't get there in time....... tough rocks. You then have to 
 start the game over from the beginning. This is completely insane to me to even think about making 
 a player do this, but it's what Capcom chose to do.
  
  The controls are just as bad as the stupid save system. While you are running around, the controls 
 are basic enough. It's when you decide to aim your firearm is when the game goes out of whack. 
 You play the game as a character named, Frank. He is a journalist who decides to investigate what 
 is going on in a small town in Colorado. Obviously when you get there, you find things have gone 
 haywire and zombies are running amok. Of course, one of your main goals is to take pictures of 
 your findings. These controls are pretty good, as you hold the left trigger and take a picture 
 with the 'X' button. While in aiming mode, you move your view around with the right thumbstick. 
 In what is another terrible design flaw, that is not the case when you aim your firearms. When 
 you shoot a gun in this game you have to hold the right trigger (if you shoot without going into 
 first-person mode, you won't hit anything) and press 'X' to shoot. The problem is that you move 
 your aiming view with the LEFT thumbstick for some reason. It makes no sense whatsoever to have 
 the controls different from the camera view and I never really got used to it. Not only that, but 
 your aiming is very loose and it's really hard to hit anything unless they are standing still. 
 Thankfully, zombies move very slow. But the bosses in the game are all human and don't stand still 
 much. This ends up being VERY frustrating and it didn't have to be like that.
  
  While you are running around the mall killing zombies and completing the main story, you can also 
 do 'escort missions'. These involve you getting a call on your transmitter (basically a cell phone) 
 from the janitor telling you where living (not undead) people are stranded in the mall. You have 
 to go to them, convince them to join you, and get them back to the security room (your base of 
 operations, basically) alive. Like the terrible aiming controls, this is made way more difficult 
 than it should be due to poor design. The A. I. of the people you are trying to save is terrible. 
 They will often run directly into zombies and usually don't last long unless you help them. If 
 you help them, then YOU usually don't last long either. By the time I stopped playing the game, 
 I had completely given up on completing these missions as they were too annoying for me.
  
  Then there are a bunch of other flaws that just make me wonder what the developers were thinking. 
 For instance, when you get a call about a survivor from the janitor, you are vulnerable to attack 
 while answering and listening to his call. Some of these stupid calls take over thirty seconds 
 to complete. When you are surrounded by hundreds of zombies, this is obviously a problem. And why 
 is the on-screen text so small and hard to read? Better yet, why am I reading on-screen text in 
 the first place?!! Capcom couldn't pony up the $$$ to get all voice acting in the game? Give me 
 a break. For some reason, the game will not let you change the brightness. This is a huge problem 
 while you are trying to run outdoors and can't see anything while trying to navigate through hundreds 
 of hungry zombies. Especially since the zombies become much stronger once the sun goes down.
  
  While running around outdoors, you will eventually come upon three escaped convicts who have 
 stolen a jeep and are running over/shooting everything they come across. This is a very hard battle 
 made near impossible due to the terrible aiming controls I mentioned earlier. What's even more 
 puzzling is that even if you do manage to kill them all (which I did) , they RESPAWN shortly thereafter 
 and are back for more. Huh? Did I miss something? Wouldn't they be friggin' zombies?!!! It makes 
 no sense.
  
  While it is fun to use anything you can pick up for a weapon, the weapons they are actually useful 
 'break' after a very short period of time. And when you do find cool guns to use, you have to deal 
 with having limited ammo and if you want more you have to trek across the gigantic mall to get 
 more. All while fighting this ticking clock, the save system, thousands of zombies, and terrible 
 aiming controls if you do get the weapon.
  
  I could go on and on, but I think you get the point. This game should've been one of the best games 
 on the Xbox 360 (and many think it is, for some reason) , but it's easily the most frustrating game 
 I have played in a long time. It's frustrating because this could've been SO good if the developers 
 wouldn't have made such stupid design choices. And most of the choices, I have no idea why they 
 would even THINK of putting them in this game in the first place. Even the achievements don't make 
 any sense. I get twenty points for killing 1,000 zombies, but I still get twenty for killing over 
 53,000?
  
  Dead Rising is a great game hidden underneath what ends up being an overly, uneccesarily frustrating 
 experience. I would urge you to rent this game first before any purchase if you are interesting 
 in buying it. It's still got a high price tag ($60 at the time of writing this) , and I would hate 
 to see another gamer drop that kind of cash on a game that is essentially broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pazy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought dead rising along with my 360 thought it looked really good, i mean what more can u ask 
 of in a game blood, violence and comedy. So i set my new xbox up and was ready to go put dead rising 
 in and fired it up. At first it was fun i enjoyed it but as more and more gaming went on the zombies 
 and the killing just became hassle and the fact that there is a shortage of save points is also 
 rather annoying. I would recommend this game for a weekend but once you have played the game for 
 a few hours you have played the hole game basically nothing new comes at you at the end just the 
 same old zombies. Definetley Rent this Game but it is not worth a buy.
  
  Cheers
  
  Pazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kill_Bot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game i thought was a good idea .. but now ive
  played that idea this game is simply amazing the
  zombies are great the weapons are even better
 
  and theres so much to do!!!!!
  
  This game is one of the best!
  the only down side is the save system its so
  anoying only having one slot, and then not being 
 able to save after a mission!!!
  
  Overall the graphics are great
  the sound sounds amazing [zombie flesh tearing! YUM]
  the gameplay is fun and very good
  the 
 save system is crap
  
  :) very good game :)
  shame about the save system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Zombies. And lots of them.
  
  Dead Rising is a zombie infested, horror action adventure game, which is the best, ever zombie 
 game ever made by a legendary game designing company. Capcom.
  
  First Ill start of with (of course) the story in the game. The game starts off when you have a 
 view of a mountain and a helicopter appears and it is you (Frank West) and his friend who pilots 
 the helicopter Ned. Frank wants to be known as a famous photojournalist so he goes to a small town 
 known as Willamette and the population is rather staggering53,594. Yeahwhich means that is how 
 many zombies will be at the mall and you get a 20 point achievement if you kill that many zombies. 
 Anyway your first task is to take pictures of the area and youre amazed on what you are witnessing 
 (this first task will get you started off with some extra pp points) , until Frank and Ned arrive 
 at a mall which is huge and the military sees you and chases you away and you jump out of the copter 
 on the roof of the mall etc. This is when all the action starts a crazed old lady opens the door, 
 which is keeping all the zombies out just to get her stupid dog and the zombies all come in and 
 you got to make it to the stairs etc. Now Im going to talk about the gameplay. The gameplay is 
 really good as there are thousands of zombies surrounding you EVERYWHERE! But It isnt really really 
 good because when you are running it looks kind of goofy looking and I know it isnt much of a 
 driving game but the car movements arent top notch. The mall is structured very well; there are 
 plenty of weapons to annihilate stenches (zombies) with. The sound effects are good when you make 
 contact with a stench but when you move and stop you still hear a couple of footsteps when youre 
 standing still but they stop. The textures of the weapons and people, environment, youre character, 
 clothing, objects and the blood effects is so cool that when you attack a lot of zombies you get 
 blood on your face and clothes.
  
  However, there are some negative points about dead rising that lets the game down quite a bit.
 
  
  1. You have to do missions in a certain amount of time other wise your scoop vanishes and you 
 have to start it all over again from the beginning.
  2. The mini bosses are damn frustrating as hell and always get in your way.
  3. Saving is poor
 
  4. If you die and you have hardly saved the games you start off when you last saved (so much for 
 sucktacular
  5. Story mode is quite frustrating
  6. You have to collect survivors to get your pp up.
  7. And the thing that bugs me quite a bit 
 is when Otis constantly contacts you and in order to get an achievement you have to answer every 
 single time he contacts you!!!!
  
  But this doesnt mean that dead rising is rubbish there are some good points about it.
  
  1. 
 Tons of zombies to Muller
  2. A big variety of weapons to use
  3. Graphics
  4. Sound
  5. When you gain a level you get more health, abilities, speed, strength, more weapon slots.
 
  6. The look of the cutscenes look staggering
  7. And it is a hell of a lot of fun which will keep you occupied for a long period of time
  
 
  If you are the type of person who likes gory, action packed games well Dead Rising is definitely 
 the game that you will enjoy and is worth the price it is sold for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erg_the_Noid
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I enjoyed the demo, but wasn't blown away. I read great things 
 about it, thought I was missing out, so I decided to buy it.
  
  RENT FIRST!!! This game has limited replayability. Granted, the developers are banking on the fact 
 that you will play this game through a number of times to get different endings. However, this 
 assumes you can stand to make it through just ONE ENDING...
  
  Where to start? Okay...
  1) Horrible aiming scheme. Trying to shoot someone before they shoot you is a difficult enough 
 task. What makes it worse is the fact that five shots can kill you, while it takes fifty or sixty 
 to kill the other guy! Not exaggerating!!
  
  2) Stupid time limits!! This takes a lot of fun out of the so-called sandbox-style gameplay. When 
 there is so much to do, you can't sidetrack because you're on the clock. No fun!
  
  3) Bad Save game mechanic. Only One Slot!!!! If you mess up, TOO BAD, you have to start from scratch!!! 
 4) I am too bored to continue complaining about all the ways I am disappointed in this game. And, 
 no, I will not be interested in a Dead Rising 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSteve88
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is the type of game you can bring to parties and everyone will enjoy it, and plus any 
 game that lets you mow down zombies with a lawn-mower or shopping cart is a funny/good time. the 
 game is more funny that scary, matter of fact you'll be laughing at how to kill the zombies than 
 running away from them. this game delivers in more than one way. and plus owning zombies but ripping 
 their head off or disemboweling them will make you feel like could take every single zombie down. 
 if you have a 360 and love gore, etc. this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaster299
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  First and foremost you need to have patience to play this game. Level Up Level Up Level Up Level 
 Up Level Up if you don't Level Up you will not be able to do what needs to be done. The fun factor 
 from the game of course comes from killing hordes of zombies. If you want to have endless fun with 
 this you need to unlock infinity mode and the laser sword. You must complete every aspect of the 
 game in order to unlock those things so get your self a game guide and follow it. If you want to 
 have any chance at all, Level Up Level Up Level Up. You should spend at least a few hours just 
 going as far as you can, killing as many zombies as possible along the way. Saving people gives 
 you the most XP so that's what you should concentrate on. I know following a game guide sounds 
 like cheating but if you don't want spend the rest of your life having to rebeat this game over 
 and over, get a game guide. The game play is fantastic, cut scenes are awesome and the story line 
 is twisted enough to keep you guessing. You need to have this game in your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButterBuddha
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  My disappointing view of the game is centered around the idea that if you playing a game that requires 
 you to do a lot of killing... setup the controls and actions in the game like a third person shooter..... but, 
 in Dead Rising, you come across a firearm and try to the cross-hairs, you can't adjust the sensitivity 
 to a speed where a gun is practical.... and as far as other weapons like metal pipes... a metal should 
 be used up after 20 kills.... It also bugs me that text was way too much for communications between 
 characters... It seems that this game was made to be easily multilingual... i. e. changing text to 
 display a different language simpler than having to actually having to record a voice in a different 
 language..... it feels too much like a port of a Japanese game to an American audience..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redphazon2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising, you play as Frank West, a photojournalist sent to the small town of Willamette 
 to uncover the mystery behind the madness. Frank spots the town's mall and asks the pilot to drop 
 him off on the mall's heliport, and tells the pilot to come back for him in 3 days (72 Hours) . 
 When you make your way out of the security room and encounter your first zombie outbreak, the fun 
 begins. It takes about half an hour to get used to the controls (aiming with guns, throwing stuff 
 etc) . Anything item you're able to see that has an icon over it can be either used as a weapon 
 or used to heal yourself and there are PLENTY of weapons/healing items lying around the massive 
 mall. The graphics are nothing you haven't seen before but the game is polished and nice to look 
 at, especially when you hack and chop a limb or arm off. Yummy. Sounds are nicely executed and 
 are often creepy especially at night. The story is pretty easy to follow although those who don't 
 manage to solve all the cases in time won't get the full understanding of who or what caused the 
 zombie outbreak. The gameplay is the one thing in this game that'll keep you coming back for more. 
 You can take picture for PP, which add up to upgrade Frank's stats at random (Attack, Speed, Throwing 
 Distance etc) .
  
  In the end, Dead Rising is a MUST-BUY for ALL Xbox 360 owners. Good job Capcom, good job. NOW GIVE 
 US THE SEQUEL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this is one of my favorite games for the Xbox360. Technically, it has good graphics 
 and sound but nothing like Gears of war. What is technically amazing is having this life real world 
 with sometime dozes of fully animated/detailed characters on screen without loosing frame rate, 
 it really shows what the xbox 360 can do.
  Some say that game can end up being repetitive after a while and that missions are very similar. 
 I do agree, but killing zombies is fun here. Once you finish the game you will try to unlock some 
 achievements and there are two additional game modes Overtime and infinity mode . Definitely, Capcom 
 knows about zombies, Resident evil series was an excellent game and this one is another hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Dealer654
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites, and you should totally go out and buy it if you haven't. Look 
 at the scores web sites have given it, this is incredible. And for those of you being skeptical, 
 shut the fudge up! You obviously have no taste in games. You probably are a hippy and are against 
 killing anythin, even if it wants to eat you. That or you are just a plan nerd that is only open 
 to comic book games. Here is an idea, get a life, a girlfriend, and some exercise you tubby piece 
 of crap. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Now this game came with my 360 then i bought it. i also got along with perfect dark zero thias 
 game made me think this looks like some resedent eivil rip-off but it was so much more. the idear 
 of killing thousonds of zombie can be anoying but you can kill them with just about every thing 
 you see in the ginat shopping center. the game is a long game you have to finish it like 4 time 
 each ending is different and during the game as a fun treat you acan get in a car in the car park 
 and just kill 100 zombie per 5 second as you plow up to the top of the car park. and in the shops 
 you can get motot bikes. there anrt many flaws int his game at all you wont be dissapionted when 
 buying this CAPCOM did a bloody good job on this so you wont a funny and cool game that seems endless 
 go buy dead rising you wont be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slugger59
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the best games i ever played. I thought that it got cheaped out of not wining 
 the game of the year. Gears of War was a great game, but not as a joying as Dead Rising. When i 
 first played it i wanted to get to the true ending the first time. Well that didnt happen. I got 
 letter C and i was very mad. but the second time i got letter A and the true ending. For some reason 
 i learned something from that game. I say it was so far the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising puts you in the place of Frank West, a photo journalist who is looking for a big story. 
 As it happens, there is a big story underway when Frank hires a helicopter pilot to fly him over 
 a small town. The small town is overrun by zombies! Frank is dropped off at the local shopping 
 mall with 72 hours to get the story he needs.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising are truly next gen. The sheer amount of zombies on screen at one time 
 is pretty amazing. I can honestly say, amidst all the action, I have not noticed a single frame 
 rate issue. Although the graphics and animations are supposed to be on the violent cartoonish side, 
 the cutscenes and character models are really believable. The game isn't the BEST I've seen, but 
 it is certainly up there, considering the sheer number of characters on screen at one time.
  
  Controls
  
  The game's got what I call the standard action adventure control setup. You 
 run around, there's a jump button, an attack button, a throw button, and a pick up/use button. 
 In some ways, it's set up a little bit like Metal Gear Solid, with the left and right bumpers being 
 used to access your stock. The controls are tight, and once you start to get into the game and 
 level up your character, it becomes insanely fun. You acquire new moves and capabilities as you 
 level up.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is clear and crisp. If you throw a bat at a wall, it sounds just like a 
 wooden bat hitting a wall. Also, the gory blood gush noises are all there, and on surround sound 
 can become slightly creepy :P
  
  The voice acting is pretty good. Again, I think that the dialogue, in the game and in the cutscenes 
 is a bit exaggerated because this is supposed to be an over-the-top game. The music, when there 
 is alright. I like the eerie cutscene music. I do not like the battle music, such as when you fight 
 Carlito. I'm not sure, although I will say, once again, that's what an xbox 360 is for, putting 
 on custom music, is it not? Besides, this game is soooo full of things to do, that I really don't 
 pay much attention to the music.
  
  Replay Value
  
  Although this game lacks an online multiplayer, it does allow the player to replay the 72 hour 
 mode with the previously kept stats. This means that if you finish at level 20 and start a new 
 game, you'll be at level 20 at the start. There is so much to explore in this game, so many characters 
 to meet, and so many different scenarios to go through. For example, upon beating the game, you 
 can go into overtime mode and try to fight off the army that seeminly wants you wiped out.
  
  
  Overall
  
  This game is highly addictive if you like to pick up an action game quicly 
 and jump right in there and just bash some zombies. There are numerous stores to explore in the 
 mall. Lot's of different quirky things you can do, such as changing your outfit etc... Overall, 
 great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoGoose
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is Capcoms very first game for the next gen system. And It is a Big one! Dead Rising 
 takes place in a little town in Colorado named Willamet. Your Frank West a Freelance Journalist 
 that got a big tip that somthing big was going to happen there. Once Frank arives at Willamet he 
 see's strange things that seam to be riots and eventually he lands the Hellacopter on the roof 
 of the Willamet Mall. Once he reaches the mail lobby he comes across a few survivors trying to 
 barricade them selves from what you find out are Zombies! The game picks up from there when you 
 despretley fight your way to the stairs through crowds of rabid zombies. This is just a little 
 of Dead Risings gamplay. This is what Dead Rising is, Fight thru thousands of Zombies with whatever 
 you can find and Anything and Everything is a weapon! But the game is prety strait forward kill 
 zombies save people and wait. But it is Great fun! But there are times when the game can become 
 increasingly annoying and repetative if you aren't uhh... up to par with the games unjustable difficulty. 
 Some of the things that Dead Rising is strong. The Graphics arn't the best on the 360 but it isn't 
 that they are not good. The Sound is AMAZING! Everything sounds exactley how it should, even taking 
 a lawn mower to a crowd of rabid zombies! Gameplay is very fun and has a high replay rate, but... 
 it dose get old after the 5-7 time you beat the storie. The game has tons of different ways to 
 take things on and lots of customizable stuff! But overall the game is great and very well made. 
 I would recodmend it to any Zombie fan, I give Dead Rising a 9.9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorty-06
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  i thought this game was great great graphics nice sound and brilliant gameplay but it does have 
 its bad points such as and i think is the worst the saving system wich is the most fustrating one 
 i have ever seen and also the main storyline which is very good but quite short and slightly challenging 
 but back to to the fun parts the gameplay is fun and the weapon choice is brilliant but it does 
 get boring as for the level up system i think this one of the more positive parts of the game it 
 makes you want to carry on playing just so you can see what you are about to unlock example health, 
 speed, throw, stock and new skills that you master all in all i think this is one the more fun 
 games for the xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimLesh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  The game has great graphics and is really gory, in a good way. Too bad for Germany.
  
  Anyway, the game's story is one huge conspiracy. You are a photographer put into this mall and 
 when you investigate a little, you learn that the entire town has becmome infested with zombies. 
 I don't want to give away any spoilers, but expect the unexpected.
  
  There are so many different objects to battle these monsters (I prefer the katana) , that the gameplay 
 doesn't get stale. But make sure you always have a large number of weapons or durable weapons because 
 they do break, especially the strong ones like the katana and the chainsaw; fo balance is my guess. 
 Along with these zombies, you will be fighting people as well, which are boss battles and give 
 you special access to weaponry or whatever.
  
  
  
  CONS
  Unless you have an HDTV, it's practically impossible to read the text on the screen. Capcom, 
 when making the game, must have assumed that everyone that has a 360 has a HDTV. Small, but inconvient.
 
  
  The other is save points. To save, you have to get to a bathroom, which is ALWAYS too far away, 
 and use the urinal. Cute, but again, inconvient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capital_cx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  really creative and funny actually. once you get used to the controls and learn to manage your 
 time it's really addicting. each weapon/makeshift is great and sounds unique to all the other weapons. 
 the only issues are the save system, the strict time limits, and the really stupid survivors. the 
 save system and the time limits sort of combine into a single problem becuase you may save at a 
 point where it's impossible to complete a mission with a given amount of time left, and since there's 
 only one save slot to save in, you have to start the game all over. thus I recommend you only save 
 at the security room where you are most likely to receive main-story-vital missions. and the stupid 
 survivor AI is actually realistic, seeing as most people would be scared of a zombies in the 100s, 
 so really not so bad there. all in all this is a great game if you like action games, and killing 
 lots of things with an array of weapons (such as a baseball bat, a bench, chainsaw, purse, lawnmower.. 
 etc) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wamzip
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of Resident Evil and Grand Theft Auto (GTA) this game looked like a godsend and didn't 
 entirely disappoint.
  
  The Engine is very impressive with open ended GTA style gameplay (i. e. go wherever you want whenever 
 you want) but with vastly superior graphics than any other GTA to date. The game plays similar 
 to GTA with drivable vehicles (although not many) and interactive items spread all over the game. 
 Food and drink item are used to increase health, while clothing items can be found to change your 
 characters appearance. Other items are used as weapons with everything from chainsaws to frisbees 
 available. The gameplay is much fun with massive, highly impressive hoards of zombies coming at 
 you from all angles. The game features story driven missions as well as survivor rescue and psychopath 
 killing (Psychopaths are survivors driven insane by the situation that must be defeated to save 
 innocents/yourself ) side missions. The game also features an XP/character expansion system which 
 encourages you to rescue survivors in order to increase your stats as well as learn new skills. 
 This part of the game cant be faulted, it even encouraged me to replay the game. The story and 
 voice acting is spot on with many cheese B-movie overtones, just the way it should be. The one 
 major problems lies with the story though unfortunately. The game progress' in what is called 'real 
 time' . This means that you have a watch with which to check game time and you must be at certain 
 locations in order for the story to progress. This. coupled with limited save options result in 
 destroying the games open ended and highly involved game play as are constantly rushing from place 
 to place and never have time to enjoy the games depth. Despite it's shortcomings 'Dead Rising' 
 is a highly enjoyable game. It's polished to perfection (I never noticed a single bug) and is great 
 fun. Highly recomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sensui1986
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Cool animations when killing zombies. Lots of blood. The only bad thing about the graphics are 
 the small letters, I have trouble reading the subtitles... But oh well, you shouldn't need to worry 
 about that if you have a giant HDTV :)
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  The sound has been implemented very well, though sometimes repetitive background noises.
  The 
 Psycho's voices are also fantastic, I think I'm scared of clowns now.
  Also the sound part of the animations when killing zombies are super. Every weapon you have makes 
 its unique cool sound.
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  Too much you can do in here:
  You can dress youself up in all kinds of clothes, from a woman's dress to running shoes, to humility 
 masks.
  There are dozens of things you can pick up to kill the zombies, in fact you can use all you can 
 pick up to kill them.
  You can ride vehicles.
  AND there are very cool mini-bosses. (Psychopats) .
  You've never seen psycho's like these, I 
 don't know who thought up on them but he has a sick mind eheh.
  One bad thing is that there are a lack of places to save your game.
  9/10
  
  Storyline:
 
  You arrive by helicopter in a city invaded by zombies, and the governement sealed the city with 
 roadblocks.
  You told your pilot to put you down at the mall and that he has to come back in exactly 72 hours.
 
  It seems like there are a lot of survivors in the mall, you will have to bring them back to safety 
 and find out what the hell happened in that city.
  A very good storyline but I'm not gonna spoil everything by telling how it goes, in fact it has 
 different endings depending on what you do.
  10/10
  
  Use of Achievements:
  I don't think there is a game using the xbox360's achievement so creatively. I'll give you a few 
 examples:
  Kill 10 zombie's with a bowlingball.
  Place 10 humility mask on zombies.
  Also there is an achievent where you need to kill +/- 53500 zombies within the 72 hours.
  Acutally 
 the game is a little based on the achievements, and it's fun to achieve them.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbro8521
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game would without a doubt be in my top ten games if it wern't for the fact that you can't 
 save whenever you want. Constantly repeating the walk to find a boss and a few cut scenes made 
 me go back to S. O. E. (State Of Emergency) for my pointless carnage. Another problem was being forced 
 to play through the 72 hour mode before playing a true sandbox game. On a better note this game 
 has an excellent story line and great graphics. If you don't have HD then youll either have to 
 skip the side missions or get a migraine trying to read all the tiny writing that passes on cell 
 phone calls. During this game you will be side tracked with mindless zombie killings which make 
 up for alot of the other problems. Multiple weapons start off in small numbers but grow dramatically. 
 So i would highly suggest waiting for this game to drop in price, or at least get it used and exchange 
 it for money down on Spore (you know you want it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great Horror action game that is highly fun!!!.. The funnest part is you can just 
 Kill Zombies All Day, With many diffrent ways to kill them, You can use almost anything in the 
 mall to kill the zombies: Tvs, Lawnmowers, Rakes, Beach Umbreallas, Skate Boards, Gardening tools 
 and more!!!!!! the fun thing is all you are is stuck in a mall with nothing else to do but kill 
 Zombies, It never ever gets old its just non stop hours of fun you can enjoy over and over!!! it 
 is also like the Fil Dawn Of The Dead which Rocks!!! So i highly Recomend this Game for any Dawn 
 of the dead Fan!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite games for this newest generation of games. My reasoning is probably 
 the reason a lot of people don't like it though. It is NOT an easy game if you are trying finish 
 the game 100%. It will take you time, practice, and you will have to play through the game a number 
 of times to learn the ins and outs of the Willamette Mall.
  
  Frank is a photojournalist dropped off in the apocalyptic village of Willamette Falls, with just 
 3 days to solve the mystery of what happened in this town? That means you as a gamer have a time 
 limit (cue casual gamer turn-off #1) . Anyone that has ever played a game with a time limit knows 
 that it adds to the challenge, but also to the difficulty of the game, and the drama of the story.
 
  
  With just 3 days to discover the truth, and help save any survivors in the mall, Frank has to quickly 
 get to work exploring the Zombie infested corridors and shops of the mall. Most of the storyline 
 and rescuing survivors, involves returning to the safety of the mall's security room, which just 
 so happens to be only accessible through the roof. After battling your way through hordes of zombies 
 and returning for a breather in the security room, you might just want to save your progress. Saving 
 your progress can only be done in the security room, restrooms, and a few other safe places in 
 the mall (cue casual gamer turn-off #2) . What? you mean I can't just hit the start button and push 
 save? No I'm sorry, this game goes back to old school styles, where you can't save every two seconds 
 to ensure success in all your ventures. The save system adds to the challenge, and sense of urgency. 
 The one thing lacking in the save system though, is multiple saves. Only having one save slot can 
 wreak havoc on your storyline sometimes when you save your game only to find out that you do not 
 have enough time to complete your mission. Nobody likes the Truth vanishing into the darkness it's 
 about as annoying as losing your keys when you are late for work!
  
  I highly recommend Dead Rising to not just Zombie Enthusiasts, but also to gamers that are looking 
 for a challenge. There is enough easy games out there that have autosave features every twenty 
 seconds (or the lack of being able to die at all) ... the new generation lacks games that my grandma 
 could beat without much difficulty. I hope Dead Rising can inspire more Developers to create games 
 that I will play again and again before I finish the game with the best possible ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I know, Dead Rising is one of the killer apps for the XBox 360. And there is a lot of good in the 
 title. But the title has some HUGE problems that simply cannot be overlooked.
  
  The story is decent horror movie fare. You're a photographer investigating unusual events in Williamette, 
 CO and you head off to the mall to see what is going on. Apparently, what is going on is a whole 
 lot of zombies. Tons of the things. Thousands upon thousands of the slack-jawed shuffling undead. 
 You need to figure out why they're here and be done within 72 hours. So, yeah, it starts off with 
 a good story and the time limit part of this really cranks up the intensity appreciably.
  
  The game is a beautiful game. The zombies look properly dead and everything looks appreciably next-gen. 
 And the game is comically interactive. If you can pick it up, you can use it to dispatch zombies. 
 There is no shortage of weapons --- my favorite was actually the lawnmower, which sliced things 
 up nicely. There is, as you'd expect, a lot of blood and gore (though, if zombies are undead, the 
 volume of blood seems a bit odd --- there aren't that many living people left for them to feed 
 on, right?) . I also wish to praise the voice acting, which was top-notch. It's easy to condemn 
 bad voice acting, so I'm going to praise good acting when I hear it and this game has a lot of 
 it. Sure, some of the characters are over-the-top, but the audio as a whole was spectacular.
  
  The bosses, though, are not the zombies, but your fellow living humans. So, yes, the game also 
 has a message. And the psychopaths you deal with are all unique and extremely difficult. From the 
 gun shop guy who can just pelt you wish buckshot constantly to the psychotic clown with 2 chainsaws 
 and gas balloons, the one feeling you won't get is deja vu. None of the bosses, for me, were terribly 
 easy to kill. Most took time to wear down and this was made more difficult with the existence of 
 all of the zombies that you ALSO had to deal with.
  
  In addition to handling bosses and zombies, you are also expected to take pictures of the goings-on 
 --- after all, you ARE a photographer. And you get bonus experience for good pictures in several 
 categories, with the erotica category always being the weirdest. Nothing in the game screams sexy 
 to me, personally. You also have to help the few living survivors in the Williamette Mall escape 
 out of the mall and to safety.
  
  This is the first of the problems. I have never, at any point, enjoyed escort missions in the past. 
 They were the worst part of flying games, vehicle combat games --- any kind of game you can imagine, 
 escorting somebody/something somewhere was always the biggest of headaches. The AI of your fellow 
 survivors, by and large, is horrible. The police captain you meet early on is useful, but the rest 
 are just as bright as the zombies. They straggle behind you so badly that even though you cleared 
 a lane for them, they get to it so slowly that it closes off on them. It's an annoying problem 
 that really drags down the fun factor.
  
  Another flaw is aiming. If you have a gun, you basically have to go into first-person mode to hit 
 anything. Stay in third-person mode and you will be lucky to hit a wall. This makes such battles 
 as fighting the convicts in a jeep a nightmare as they drive quickly in circles around you, firing 
 a huge machine gun and you have to deal with zombies all around you. Just a bad, bad choice by 
 the designers.
  
  Finally, the save system is inexcusably bad. You can only save in a few small locales, which makes 
 doing things like trying to save hostages not really worth the energy since if you die while saving 
 them (which happens a lot) , your game isn't saved and you have to backtrack a lot. So, I would 
 bypass a lot of hostages because it'd been a while since I'd been able to save.
  
  Dead Rising is a good game with some serious problems that hurt it. It's the kind of game that 
 will probably have an amazing sequel. As for this game, it's not BAD. It just isn't great. A lot 
 of annoyances exist here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamboneForever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the next great zombie killing survival horror game that comes from the creators 
 of the Resident Evil franchise Capcom.
  This game has alot to offer, such as a good story, various interesting characters, a wide variety 
 of weapons and not to mention a whole shopping mall full of zombies with a bunch of delirious and 
 dangerous psychopaths to go with them.
  The game is very well detailed in how zombies act, the walk slow, have a little burst now and then 
 and they even trip over themselves or objects around them, and then there were times where they 
 just fell for no reason at all.
  The weapons you have at your disposal are some generic ones you could find in a mall and then there 
 are the ones you just wouldn't find in an ordinary mall, like a shotgun ,a handgun or even a sniper 
 rifle from a gun store, at least I don't know of any mall that has a gun store or one that sells 
 antique swords and axes, but ok. Other weapons are chainsaws from the nearest hardware section, along 
 with a very useful weapon that pretty much tears them zombies apart, but also uses them as a weapon 
 too, sickles, sledgehammers, and other useful hardware tools, there is also baseball bats, bowling balls, hockey 
 sticks and golf clubs from the sports stores {the hockey sticks comes with pucks you can shoot and 
 the golf clubs come with golf balls you can hit} , then there are 4x4's and lead pipes in various 
 locations that come in handy if you are running low on a weapon and just wanna bash some zombies. All 
 in all there are alot of weapons you can cause damage with and combined with books... yes books, you 
 can hold onto them longer and do more damage as well.
  
  They could have made the survivors you have to save a little bit more smarter as some just walk 
 right into a group of zombies and make you effort to save them a waste of time, but it's still fun 
 to kill your way to them. Some survivors are smart and only need a weapon and they will follow you 
 closely, but the ones that do get killed sometimes turn into zombies themselves and the cut scenes 
 for them are pretty cool sometimes.
  
  Now we come to talk about the psychopath's in the game, some are at different points of the story, some 
 are on side missions and 3 of them are just there to make your walk between the court yard and 
 wherever it is you wanna go a living hell. The psychopaths are a great addition to the game tho 
 as they add more drama and more challenge to the already challenging feat of getting through thousands 
 of zombies to get places and figure out the mystery of the zombie outbreak. Also some psychopaths 
 hold some key items that will help you through the game.
  
  Now finally the story, it's got some original parts and some unique parts, but it makes you wanna 
 solve the mystery which is the key factor to a story, you wanna know the answers to the all the 
 important questions. It has twists and turns and surprises and in between a whole lot of freakin' 
 zombies that seem to fill up the mall slowly each passing hour and some parts that were once not 
 so populated are swarming with them, which is another cool part cause the parts you think will be 
 easy to pass through are made not so easy, in comes a challenge.
  
  You have 72 hours to solve the case, if you don't you will have to try over again, but you keep your 
 level and the upgrades such as inventory slot, life slot or a special move for you to use when you 
 don't have or want a weapon to kill with. Your able to move faster, hit harder and pretty much kill 
 more of the undead.... that are alive. You can also take pictures of certain situations to get you 
 major points towards your next level.
  
  Bottom line is that Dead Rising is a great, fun, button mashing, challenging game that has a good 
 chance of you wanting to play it over again and again and not care. Now if Capcom inserts some of 
 Dead Rising's moves and maneuvers into the future Resident Evil games, then the Resident Evil series 
 will see a good upgrade.
  
  The next generation of survival horror begins with DEAD RISING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is a mix between zombie killing and manic pysco battles. The game involves Frank west 
 a free lance journalist which sets his eyes on going to willamete because of a roumer. The only 
 thing to do in willamete is go to the mall which frank discovers later as a bad idea... While he 
 is there he finds out that he needs to survive 3 full days in the mall and its surroundings. He 
 then finds out about a suspect named carlito and his plot to destroy the mall and wreak havoc. 
 There are many good things about dead rising such as the level up system, every few thousand zombies 
 you kill you get a bonus which goes towards your level and also your level goes up when you find 
 survivers and also when you take them back to the security room. The other good things are that 
 there are so many weapons in the game you can never get bored, the weapons range from pistols, 
 shotguns and machine guns to Lawn mowers, chain saws, pipes and even a laser sword... The achievments 
 in dead rising can take a very long time to get, i have been playing dead rising since september 
 (it is now febuary) and i am still finding achievments i need to pick up, dont be fooled by the 
 names of the achievments because it can get very difficult... Over all dead rising is an amazing 
 game which every one should join. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The main zombie game that I can recall is Resident Evil. If you ask anyone about zombie games, 
 anyone will tell you that the Resident evil series not only dominates, but is probably one of the 
 best existent video game series present in the video game world. Dead Rising which is made by the 
 same people who created Resident Evil is very different. You are not in a spooky place, which brings 
 a very scary setting, you are at a mall with hundreds of zombies everywhere. There is no surpises 
 around the corner you have hundreds of zombies that you could kill, with various weapons to choose 
 from. You basically save people and have certain side missions to choose from. Basically you could 
 go around and kill a bunch of zombies if you want. The only problem is you have one save slot and 
 the missions are timed. If you are not in time at a location where you need to be, you lost. The 
 only good thing is your level ups are saved. Overall I enjoy this game very much and I recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeEhEiK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  To say shopping's a drag is an understatement... Especially when you have to fight an army of mindless 
 corpses to get to your local Footlocker...
  
  I bought Dead Rising slightly apprehensively... I shouldn't have, but I didn't know what to expect. 
 What I got though, was worth the 60 dollars, in every lead-piped, chainsawed, sledge-hammered, 
 toy plastic-sworded zombie!
  
  72 hours, a mile of shopping, 53,594 zombies and an infinity of weapons. These reactants, when 
 mixed at 27 degrees centigrade, yield the perfect mix of action and adventure.
  
  I recommend Dead Rising to anyone who wants a good action adventure game with a fun intuitive story. 
 Moreover, the endless combination of killing devices accounts for countless hours of fun... If 
 only there was some sort of co-op... Great game nonetheless, not to mention one of the best examples 
 of good achievements yet for Xbox LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game puts in the shoes of a photojournalist named Frank West. When he hears that something 
 big is happening in a small town out in Colorado, he goes out to investigate by helicopter. He 
 is dropped on top of the local mall and tells the pilot to pick him up in three days. What he finds 
 when he gets there is that the town is getting overrun by zombies. You then begin the task of completing 
 various missions, trying to get to the bottom of the story. Some of the missions include escorting 
 survivors or defeating psychopaths, ect. The gameplay is fun at first, but gets old quickly. The 
 graphics are good, along with the sound. The voice acting is pretty good, but what really makes 
 it good is the sound of the weapons coming in contact with the zombies bodies. *Beware*, this game 
 can get pretty violent and gory in some parts. The save system is horrible. There are no auto saves, 
 and you can only save in a few places throughout the mall, such as bathrooms.
  
  Overall, though, this game is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budchevolet
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game from CAPCOM, I thought it was pretty cool. The longer I 
 played it, the more disgusted I became with the overall gameplay! First and foremost, there is 
 NOT enough locations and opportunities to SAVE YOUR GAME! If you are a NOVICE player and new to 
 this type of role playing, you may struggle to get anywhere without throwing a fit of rage! This 
 game would have been a whole lot better if CAPCOM would have added more AUTOSAVES into the game! 
 I need to be fair here, I have not given myself much playing time to familiarize myself with some 
 of the controls. Which brings me to my next gripe... Player controls are lacking and slow (aiming 
 the pistol is not as smooth as firing weapons in some other console games) . I want to be fair with 
 this game though, so I will add to and edit the reviews as I go, but for now, this game has me 
 frustrated! Check back!
  - budchevrolet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_4_lyf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  got the game on the 31st of december and di not think much of it and then i started playing it 
 around begining of feb and i cant stop playing it its reli good
  just amazing running around a mall free style mashing zombies up with chains saws and a wide range 
 of dudey weps hehe like ryding bike and skate boards and gold balls to hite and zombies now how 
 cool is that. hehe
  im playing it 24/7 at the moment
  the thing is wen i brought the game i thought it would be scary but there is nothing scary about 
 hehe .......
  there is my review of dead rising cant w8 intill number 2 comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxpxrawks802
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  pretty easy achievments and everything just sometimes a little camera out of wack still and sometimes 
 its hard to have the people follow you to safety but what can you say its all bout taking a chain 
 saw and slicing them in half right eh?!? or plowing them down with a lawn mower just the visuals 
 are stunning and amount of weapons you can use is awesome from cds to plates to sniper rifles to 
 chain saws to even tanks i have seen ( never have gotten to use it yet) but its a great game worth 
 every penny game informer gave it 9.5 i think and its a well worth 9.5 too just give it a try and 
 you all will fall in love with it trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seifervii
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  After playing the Resident Evil series for years I thought I would not play another Capcom game 
 with the same B movie plot, interesting characters and similar zombie premise. Lo and behold Capcom 
 has done it again. A new series with plenty of flair and signs of promise.
  
  The gameplay is fairly standard with the typical action oriented style that most new and old 3rd 
 person action games are displaying (God of War, Devil May Cry, and the decent Lost Planet) . I actually 
 decided on Dead Rising vesrus Lost Planet and am happy with my decision. Throughout the game you 
 have the ability to pick up virtually every item in the mall (or interact with them) . Items can 
 be used of course for combat, health, given to NPCs and completing quests.
  
  Most of the game consists of finding other NPCS (survivors) that are stranded about the mall. I've 
 heard many state how silly or dumb the NPCs are, but I think that under the circumstances perform 
 very well. Yes you'll find some running back towards the entrance instead of following you out 
 the window, but just like real life everybody responds and acts differently.
  
  The zombies are challenging enough (especially in numbers without weapons and at night) and it's 
 nice to see a number of different zombie models. They're bosses called psychopaths sprinkled around 
 the mall and pose a bigger challenge if you're ill prepared. Some of them will have lives at stake 
 so it's good to always be prepared with health items.
  
  The graphics and sound of the game are hit and miss. Maybe due to my inability to go to HD and 
 surround sound, but my 32 Sony Wega does little justice for the textures and character models at 
 times. Graphics are definitely next generation I just can't get over the small text used for speech 
 sequences. It will literally take you adjusting your set to understand what is being said. The 
 sound is actually really good with the moans and groans of zombies and clanging or sounding of 
 weapons.
  
  The story which I won't touch on for spoiler reasons is actually quite decent. It involves real 
 life agencies and your typical Capcom surprises as you progress. The case part is the most interesting 
 part and my favorite of all. I believe the save system was used appropriately (albeit a little 
 maddening at times) and the time sensitive events really give you a sense of urgency on what you 
 choose to do. Save a character; you might miss a clue, don't settle the survivors there might be 
 a mutiny. I believe the developers used this scheme for people to replay the game and see different 
 scenarios. You'll progress through the game and not see a boss or miss a survivor you might have 
 beat the first go around.
  
  Overall the game was a valid entry into a worn and sullied survival horror genre. For fans of the 
 Romero movies and Resident Evil alike I would invest my time into this treasure knowing more good 
 stuff (story and better mechanics ) is to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewelder1830
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  this game isnt all its hyped up to be. all you do is run around and kill stuff so i have one peice 
 of advice RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT 
 IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT RENT IT. you can probably beat it in 2 days anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is just one of those games that's really addictive. You could play it for hours on 
 end because there is so much to do and so little time. You play as a photographer who has been 
 told to take as many pictures as he can of this horrific zombie desease that's spreading throughout 
 the world. You find yourself on the first mission taking pictures from a helicopter and watching 
 helpless people get their brains ripped out by the zombies. Then you land on a huge mall and take 
 a little look inside. Luckily, there are only those pesky zombies outside, inside the mall are 
 many survivors who really don't wish to be eaten. So, you continue to take pictures until you come 
 to rather strange man who blames you for freeing the zombies. Unluckily, the zombies manage to 
 break inside of the mall, and that's when all the fun starts.
  
  Now your helicopter buggered off and left you, you have to survive for several hours inside this 
 zombie packed mall until another helicopter arrives. During that time, you can do what the hell 
 you like. You can break into shops and get what you want, you can mess around with the zombies 
 like put masks on their head or even spit on them. However, you may get too carried away and get 
 too daring, and before you know it, you'll be getting a little bit too close to the zombies and 
 you'll become their dinner. The game is basically set for you. You need to see how long you can 
 survive in this mall before air travel arrives. You can also do side missions and help others who 
 are not as erm... what's the word... advanced as you.
  
  Dead Rising is really fun and highly addictive, buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the most fun I've had with games featuring zombies. Contrary to the usual nature 
 in which zombies are portrayed, Dead Rising opts to make it a lot of fun killing zombies. In Resident 
 Evil or another such game, zombies will strike fear in the player. But in Dead Rising, zombies 
 are just another way to test out the new weapon you found. Zombies are portrayed as comical now.
 
  
  While zombie massacre isn't essential to this game, the zombies are roadblocks, preventing you 
 from getting from Point A to Point B. And as such, you'll utilize one of many weapons to take care 
 of the mobs in front of you. If it isn't nailed to the ground, chances are it can be picked up 
 and used. You'll wield everything, from handguns to katanas to sniper rifles to giant Lego heads 
 to frisbees to toy laser swords to battle axes to cash registers to giant flower pots, etc, etc. 
 There are many more ways to kill zombies, as even when you don't have anything around you to pick 
 up, you can utilize melee attacks to dispatch them. There are simple punches and jump kicks, but 
 as you level up , you'll utilize more, from somersault kicks to deboweling to picking them up and 
 throwing them. At one point, you can literally walk like a zombie so they don't attack you. All 
 are done with comical animations. For example, one of the more useful melee attacks is the double 
 lariat. With this, Frank literally spins around in circles with his arms outstretched, and kills 
 any zombies he comes in contact with. Fun as hell, and when you have so many weapons and attacks 
 to utilize, zombie combatting never gets old. Trust me. And when you notice that zombies are limitless 
 and gradually come in bigger and bigger mobs, you can literally lose hours just killing zombies.
 
  
  For a game with so much emphasis on zombie killing, I was surprised to notice that Dead Rising 
 actually has a nice storyline. You are Frank West, photographer and zombie slayer extraordinaire, 
 sent to examine the Willamette mall incident. A virus was taken from Santa Cabeza but was failed 
 to be contained. Zombies then overran the mall and killed most survivors. There are LOTS of zombies. 
 I can't emphasize the word LOTS enough. Even your average mall store, even small in size, will 
 probably contain more zombies than the original Resident Evil game.
  
  Anyway, you have 72 hours to gather information and then go to the helipad for a helicopter rescue. 
 Miss something important, and chances are you're ruined. Which is unfortunate, since the game's 
 focus on weapons and zombies practically screams 'sandbox game'. But unfortunately, for the most 
 part you can't just keep killing zombies forever. And it's also unfortunate that the save system 
 sucks. You have one save file, and there aren't many save points around the large mall. If you 
 save somewhere where it's unavoidable that you'll miss an important newspoint, you're pretty much 
 screwed. Thankfully, you can choose to start a new game (but keep the same stats and attacks) at 
 any point, and Dead Rising is a game you'll want to play a lot, but it's just unfortunate how bad 
 the saving is.
  
  Anyway, zombies aren't the only thing littering the mall. Occasionally you'll run into survivors, 
 who'll need to be escorted to safety. These survivors literally have some of the dumbest AI I have 
 ever seen. If you give them a gun, for example, they'll have no problem shooting you just to kill 
 the zombie near you. Also if you tell a survivor to come near you, oftentimes they will go out 
 of their way to kill another zombie, even for a long distance. Actually, the survivors tend to 
 aggravate more than make the player want to save them. You may have the patience to save a couple, 
 but for the most part after a while I grew tired of them and bashed their head in with a sledgehammer 
 or blasted them point-blank with a shotgun. Cruelly inhumane, I know, but its a load off my shoulders.
 
  
  You'll also occasionally run into psychopaths. They were normal people that grew insane from the 
 outbreak, and serve as the game's bosses. They are widely varied, from a killer clown to a gunshop 
 owner to a trio of snipers to the owner of a grocery store, etc. There are more, and are all varied 
 in their attacks, which will make you think more about how to defeat them. They are very well done, 
 and some will outright surprise you.
  
  Dead Rising looks great, but lags behind other Xbox 360 titles in terms of detail. However, its 
 main visual draw comes from the fact that it contains loads of zombies onscreen, the number approaching 
 1000 at many times. It keeps a perfect framerate despite this, and the only time you'll notice 
 slowdown is when there are 1000+ zombies onscreen, and you use a large attack on a big group of 
 zombies. Which thankfully, is rare and isn't a detriment when it happens. The environments are 
 ironic considering the zombie outbreak. Unlike the dark, narrow hallways of games that usually 
 feature zombies, Dead Rising's environments are bright, colorful, and cheerful. You are in a mall, 
 and will see things like clothes stores, toy stores, gun shops, and grocery stores, even the obligatory 
 escalators. The sound effects are wonderful and realistic, or downright quirky. Also, the music 
 is fitting, and is either elevator-style music while in the mall, or licensed music used for the 
 boss battles. Some of the music is forgettable, but for the most part the sound works great with 
 the style of the game.
  
  While I support zombies being used in dark and scary games, Dead Rising taught me that scary monsters 
 should be at times made fun of. While I doubt this would work with many other types of monsters 
 used in horror games, zombies were an easy target. And it built a very solid and fun game even 
 though killing zombies is the main attraction. There are flaws like survivor AI and the save system, 
 but anyone looking for fun ways to decimate your opponents should look no further than Dead Rising. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melfencik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing amount of zombies and a great variety of weapons to kill them with, Story is 
 intriguing, Great Graphics engine and amazing sound work, Good amount of lasting value, Real time 
 structure is surprisingly effective
  
  The Bad: Save system is very poor, NPC AI is rather stupid, Poor support for non HD tvs, Can be 
 a little to gory in places, Some very small design decisions that get in the way.
  
  Dead rising is one of those games that goes out of its way to be unique and for the most part succeeds 
 very well. There are a couple of definite areas for improvement but this is still one of the best 
 games to come out all year.
  
  The story follows a journalist named Frank West who gets a tip that something big is going on in 
 the fictional town of Willamette, Colorado. He hires a helicopter to fly him into the town to see 
 what is going on and soon finds that it has been overrun by zombies and the only safe place is 
 the mall. Soon enough though the zombies break into the mall and start killing everyone inside. 
 So its you, a ton of different weapons and even more zombies for the next three days as you try 
 and figure out what is going on with the zombies.
  
  The core game play is simple yet very effective. You hit zombies with stuff. That stuff can be 
 anything from chainsaws, to shower heads to lawn mowers although there are about 200 weapons in 
 total. This is probably the best part of the game and although it gets repetitive it never gets 
 old. There are also some boss fights against humans who have gone insane, and they are also worthy 
 of recognition of being some of the most unique, albeit frustrating fights in the genre. The game 
 takes place in a real time structure running at about 10x the speed of real life. It is set over 
 72 hours of game time so will take you about 10 hours to beat including restarts. The game is highly 
 re playable though and the unlock able achievements are a great incentive to go through the game 
 and again to see what you can find
  
  The storyline is surprisingly well told. It has a great premise, some intriguing and likable characters 
 and manages to keep your interest throughout the game and sets it up very well for a possible sequel. 
 Technically the game is very impressive. The graphics are well done but the main thing thats great 
 about the graphics engine is able to display about a thousand zombies on screen at a time. The 
 sound effects are really something else though. Every single weapon has a unique and horrible sound 
 that really fits with the mood of the game. The voice acting is very good with all of the characters 
 sounding convincing and realistic although the most credit must go to the voice actors for the 
 psychopaths who simply do a terrific job. The music is for the most part good and the soundtrack 
 during boss fights is especially good. There isn't that much music within the mall usually so you 
 may consider putting some of your own music on.
  
  I have said a lot of good things about Dead Rising for the reason that this is one of the best 
 games i have played all year. Unfortunately it is not perfect though and has some major gripes. 
 The most important one is the save system. It is royally f***ed. You only get one save throughout 
 the entire game and the fact that it has a real time structure means that is is very much possible 
 to be unable to finish the entire game and have to restart. Also, all the side quests are escort 
 missions and there are way to many of them. This wouldn't be so bad though if the people you were 
 escorting weren't about as smart as the zombies. They will often stay and fight the zombies even 
 when you are screaming at them to run past to safety. Other times they will hide and refuse to 
 run past them and there have been many times were i have wanted to shoot my survivors for being 
 so ridiculously stupid.
  
  Another thing that i didnt like is the fact that the game can be a little overly. When you shoot 
 a zombie in the head, blood will literally fly everywhere and if you are using a lawn mower to 
 run zombies over with then blood will literally go all over the grass. There is the point that 
 i am probably a bit squemish and this is the first game of this type i have played so i am sure 
 i will get over it.
  
  In all Dead Rising is a must have game. It has flaws, sure but nothing truely crippling. The story 
 is good, the gameplay is good and the technical aspects are good. Personally all i needed to see 
 was the lawn mower and i was sold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathman7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  It's just so good, I can't describe it. The graphics, story, weapons (definatley da weapons) , the 
 AI, all of it was just so fantastic. Taking a frying pan to a stove and ensuing chaos on the zombies 
 is just hilarious. The story is well placed out and very suspicious, the very suspition that makes 
 players to just want to find what happens next. The only downers are that it is hard to beat Carlito 
 most of the time, and that your on a strict time schedule. But the leveling up and stuff was just 
 unexpected in a game like this. Getting new moves and stats in a free roming game like this is 
 an RPG fans dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonWrath
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  So, I bought this game when it first came out and I must say that it's one hella ride. The setting 
 for this game takes place in a mall, which I think is a really good idea. Zombies are everywhere 
 in this mall, How do they get there? Do they like to shop for clothes? Do they love Hotdog on a 
 stick? or are they there for a good deal? They're there wating to be hunted by you!! Gameplay is 
 very awesome. Capcom is the master of zombies and whatever capcom tosses out will be bought by 
 me. If you love the RE games mixed with no rules, then this is the game for you.
  
  Weapons on here are so cool, I mean they have almost everything in the mall that you could think 
 of. CD's are so funny in the game, I won't go too much into detail... but you won't be looking back 
 twice unless a zombie is trying to bite your back.
  
  Gotta wrap it up soon, but Overall this game rocks so much that your socks will come off.... well... I 
 hope so haha. Zombies don't like cars I could tell you that, but thats the best part of the game 
 KILLING ZOMBIES.
  
  TRUST ME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  You are Frank West. You are in a helicopter and see the national guard and riots. Oh my! you think 
 to youself, since you are, in fact, a photojournalist. Frank tell the pilot to drop him off at 
 the city mall and pick him up in 72 hours for. He thinks this is just enough time to get the scoop 
 on this story. He soon meets people from Homeland Security and realizes zombies have taken over 
 the mall. But wait! I know what your thinking! no! This is not a clone of George A. Romero's Dawn 
 of the Dead and this is not a Resident Evil clone (even though it's also made by Capcom) . This 
 is not really a survival-horror game because it does not try to scare you, but rather make you 
 laugh at times. Since you are in a mall, you go through the stores and use ANYTHING as weapons. 
 And when I say anything, i mean anything. From katanas to coat hangers, from electric guitars to 
 chainsaws, if you see something in a store or in the mall it can be used as a weapon. The main 
 story is divided into case files . Case files can range from a series of 4 missions to just one 
 cut-scene. Since you have 72 hours, Frank wears a watch and time is a key factor. Every 10 minutes 
 in real life equals 1 hour in the game. Sometimes you'll have free time in between missions or 
 case files. For example, irt might say: Case 3 starts at 6:00 pm. So, you would have untill then 
 to do side missions (or scoops ) , level up, or just go to stores to stock up on weapons. Most side 
 weapons are ecsort missions. This means you go to a store thats marked on your map and find a survivor 
 and take them to safety in the security room. This is good because it helps you level up. But it 
 is sometimes frustrating because you push the Y button, which means follow me! , and they just 
 walk into a wall and get stuck. So you have to attack them to change their dirction. Yes, that 
 IS sad. The escort missions do have variety though. One man broke his leg and you must carry him 
 to the station and one girl is so scared you must hold her hand to take her to the station. But 
 not all the survivors are nice and innocent. Oh no. Pschycopaths are the bosses in the game. They 
 are survivors but have a huge arsenal of weapons. Some you fight in scoops and some you must fight 
 in case files. They range from a chainsaw-weilding clown to a crazy mexican, and from crazy convicts 
 to a crazed store manager w/ a shotgun and a shopping cart of doom. They are often difficult and 
 take straegy but they level you up like mad. Now, this game also has the RPG element of leveling 
 up. The experience points are called Prestige Points (or PP... haha, i sad PP!) . These are gained 
 by escorting survivors to the security room, taking good pictures, defeating Pschycopths, or for 
 killing every 50 zombies (and yes the game counts how many you kill) . When you level up, one of 
 many things happen. Your life, speed, throwing distance, item slots or attack increase. Or sometimes 
 you will learn a new skill (attack) . Another great element is picture taking. Since you're a photojournalist, 
 you can take a picture of anything in the game. After each picture, you are rated on different 
 categories: drama, brutality, erotica, horror, and (i forgot the last category &gt;_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Capcom... when you think of that name, you think of Resident Evil, right? Well, Capcom introduced 
 another zombie game last year called Dead Rising for the Xbox 360. Resident Evil used a lot of 
 stealth and forced you to use your cunning and brain. Dead Rising breaks away from that and relies 
 totally on pure violence and brutality.
  
  Dead Rising puts you in the role of war-covering-journalist Frank West. Frank goes to Willamette, 
 Colorado in search of a scoop. When he gets their, he sees riots and people eating other people. 
 He travels to the town's main attraction, its hugantic mall. When he gets there, the helicopter 
 pilot talls him that he will be back in 3 days (72 hours) to get Frank. While on the roof he meets 
 a mysterious human named Carlito. Frank goes down to the mall entrance and sees other humans blocking 
 the entrance so that the citizens can not get in. The man tells him to go get more things so that 
 they can keep the zombies out. Although he is bewildered, Frank helps. A woman who is looking for 
 someone named Madonna goes and pushes everyone away so that she can rescue Madonna, who turns out 
 to be her dog. Thus, letting all the zombies in the mall.
  
  After the introduction scene, Frank can do whatever he wants. He can go up the stairs with a man 
 named Brad, or he can battle the zombies for a while. After he meets Brad and everyone he is set 
 free in the mall. There really are a lot of stores in the mall. Everything from gun shops to a 
 movie theatre. From a blade store to a grocery store. Its all there. Virtually everything is a 
 weapon. There are powerful weapons like the katana, battle axe, baseball bat, and of course, guns. 
 Then there are some really wierd weapons like CDs, jewelery, purses, and even the cash registers 
 in the stores. There is a huge selection and most of the weapons handle differently than the others. 
 The zombies in the town are litterally endless. They never stop coming at you. In addition to the 
 zombies, you have psychopaths, which are crazed humans who, for some strange reason, want to kill 
 you in horrible, horrible ways. There is also something that happens to the zombies at 7:00. Their 
 eyes turn red, they bacome stronger and more resistent to damage. I'm not going to spoil why, but 
 you can find out for yourself.
  
  Of course, this couldn't be a good game without a top-notch story. Unfortunetly, this game does 
 not have a top-notch story. They do, however, have a pretty good story filled to the brim with 
 twists, turns, and conspiracy theories. The game is not all free-roaming. There are missions, called 
 scoops. These may involve rescuing another trapped human or taking down a boss. These get repetitive 
 after a while, espicially the rescue missions.
  
  Dead Rising has some problems however. The saving system is extremely bogus as you only get one 
 save slot throughout the entire game. Also, the real-time structure, while a good idea, is not 
 as good in execution as it was on paper. The problems are small and do not effect the game very 
 much.
  
  If you like Resident Evil and stealthy games, don't play Dead Rising. However, if you like Capcom 
 and Resident Evil and don't mind a bit of violence, I highly recommend picking this game up. You 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  We see the name Capcom, and the we see zombies on the front, and most of probably go, Oh they did 
 Resident Evil 4, so this has gotta be good! Well I was thinking that, and when I brought it home 
 and turned it on, I discovered this was nothing like RE4. But that doesn't necessarily indicate 
 a bad thing. This game was fresh, original, and intense. It combined features from all sorts of 
 games put into a game that was almost too large for itself. The setting is huge, there are zombies 
 everywhere, and then there are weapons everywhere to help you get there. Gameplay is ridiculously 
 satisfying. The effects and sounds are so pleasing, you never thought ripping off a zombies head, 
 or roundhouse kicking them in the face Chuck Norris style could be so fun. Well you could, but 
 this was more fun than you would think. My only qualm would be with the projectile weapons, such 
 as guns, which proved difficult to aim and shoot, and frankly just not as much fun as the other 
 stuff. Some of the fighting moves were difficult to pull off at times, but they were amazing once 
 you got them down. There is a pretty good variety of weapons, and it keeps the game interesting. 
 So gameplay is solid here. Oh, and the game is intense enough to make you scream, especially the 
 bosses, who prove to be either too easy or way too cheap. The graphics are some of the best to 
 be seen on the 360, minus GRAW and Gears of War. There are sometimes a thousand zombies on the 
 screen, and it never bogs or even hiccups. The blood effects are gory and overdone to perfection. 
 Weapons look real enough, and the Mall is believable. A+ to the graphics. Sound was also outstanding. 
 Music changes a lot, there are some awesome grudge tracks for the bosses, and killing things sounds 
 like your watching Saw through surround sound. It sounds great. The game isn't perfect, by all 
 means, but it combines enough originality and intense action to be way too much fun. Some complain 
 about the save system, but its a new take and makes the game much harder and more thought provoking. 
 It isn't incredibly long either, but you will most likely have to restart a few times to your disliking. 
 However, you will also want to play again and again to get more stuff after you win, plus see the 
 various endings. If you have a 360, this may not be a must own, but if your looking for something 
 new thats different than everything else, this game is it. Its very fun, and its over the top action 
 is frickin awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally bought this game. I couldn't wait to slay hordes of zombies with everything from gumball 
 machine, shovels, chainsaws, sledgehammers, and even giant yellow teddy bears (I saw all the screen 
 shots!) . And I did get to do that. But I also had to sit through endless load screens that popped 
 up as if I were playing the PSone again. I also had to stop what I was doing and listen to the 
 stupid janitor tell me he thinks some people might be in trouble in all sorts of locations in the 
 mall. Gee. Ya think? Did he notice the thousands of undead shuffling about the stores? I'll give 
 the game credit for sheer number of characters on the screen. There is something very effective 
 about walking into a courtyard with literally hundreds and hundreds of zombies. But there isn't 
 any real fear factor as you can easily outrun them. And it's a bit disappointing to be surrounded 
 by brain-munchers and suddenly have that broomstick you've carried from the bathroom disappear 
 because you haven't leveled up enough to be able to make your weapons last longer. The trouble 
 with this game is it tries to cater to two different gamers: hack and slashers and mission geeks. 
 Hack and slashers will find plenty of raw, decidedly exhilarating fun rippin' heads off blood spewing 
 undead. And mission geeks will surely love trying to accomplish the myriad go-fetch scenarios that 
 pop up seemingly every two or three minutes. The problem is that one is constantly sucking the 
 fun out of the other. For instance, early on, you may have five missions going (which are all mostly 
  jobs . . .and maybe a boss battle) while a clock is ticking. 
 Meanwhile, you're smacking the snot out of dozens of zombies in the way while trying to escort 
 your survivors to safety. Sometimes you even have to carry them on your back, and the game constantly 
 throws something at you that doubles the difficulty. Worse, out of nowhere, the screen will flash 
 somebody's name, exclaiming they are dead, which I guess means you won't have to worry about saving 
 them. Certainly, you could ignore all these missions as there are multiple endings, and leveling 
 up is fairly easy if you keep a good supply of batteries for your camera at the ready. Overall 
 though, I'm with Gamespot on this about the repetitive go-fetch angle. I'd much rather try to fend 
 off a swarm of zombies than try to pick and choose who I should save, and try to uncover the secret 
 to why the whole story started. Graphically, the cut-scenes look good . . . not great, but good 
 enough to pass for next-gen. But gameplay is teetering close to current-gen, and though occasionaly 
 you'll come across something that looks pretty sweet (the water effects are nice, but come on already, 
 how many times can we say, wow, the water effects are great in this game'? Okay already, developers 
 can do water.) I'm getting a little down on this, and I don't mean to. I'm having some genuine 
 fun when I'm tearing up undead, and it's kind of satisfying to save someone, but this game needed 
 a few more months in the cooker and I'm not getting that I'll be playing this for a long time feeling. 
 And one more gripe: What the heck is with the lame RPG-style subtitles??? Is it too much to ask 
 to have our hero actually SPEAK when he meets someone other when he's not in a cutscene? Rent this 
 slasher before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieDr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has taken my love for zombies, killing, mysteries, psychopaths, and malls and shoots 
 them out of this galaxy. It makes you want to kill anything and everything in your path. Although 
 it can be rough at first, there is a really nice ability for you to restart the game with your 
 new abilities that you gained from the last time you tried it. The only disappointing part in this 
 game is that there is only 1 save file so if you save at a part of the game in which you don't 
 have enough items, health, or time and you want to beat the game then you'll have to start over. 
 In this game you can do whatever you want almost whenever you want. You can choose the way you 
 wanna do things. If you want to save every single person you can then go for it. If you think screw 
 everyone else, I'll save myself then you can. If you want to be a quick killer and just go on a 
 zombie killing spree then you are just like me and you like it. Almost anyone can pick up the controller 
 and start this wonderfully gut-wrenching game and say let's go kick some zombie butt . I don't 
 know anyone who doesn't like killing lifeless corpses, psychopathic store managers, crazy chainsaw 
 juggling clowns, and much much more.
  
  If you think this is just a boring shoot em up then you're wrong this is the game of a lifetime 
 that should be game of the year but isn't due to a lack of people hearing about it.
  
  thank you for reading this review from ZombieDr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising features a fairly unusual disclaimer on the cover: This game was not developed, approved 
 or licensed by the owners or creators of George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead. Of course it is necessary 
 to make this clear because Dead Rising could very easily have been called Dawn of the Dead: The 
 Videogame without any significant changes being made. The mere fact that it takes place in a zombie-infested 
 mall is enough to draw immediate and obvious parallels.
  
  The bummer is that the game was not licensed and instead has to play out like a cheap knockoff. 
 The good news is that zombie stories in general aren't all that original at this point so it (ahem) 
 isn't the end of the world. The story Capcom came up with for Dead Rising is passable but not terribly 
 engrossing such that you may find the cutscenes intriguing enough to watch or easily skipped; either 
 way if you're looking for a Capcom published zombie game with a riveting story, the game you want 
 is Resident Evil 4.
  
  If what you are looking for is an impressive number of zombies to slaughter in all kinds of novel 
 ways, this is the game for you.
  
  Dead Rising casts you in the role of Frank West, a freelance photojournalist who charters a chopper 
 into a military quarantined town in Colorado. He has 72 hours to get the scoop and get out, a formula 
 the designers manipulate by giving each playthrough of the game a time limit. The main story unfolds 
 through a series of Case missions which operate on this same timed mechanic such that if you allow 
 a Case to expire all the following Cases are closed off and a message appears telling you the Truth 
 has vanished into the darkness... As you work through the game you gain experience via Prestige 
 Points for various activities. These points level Frank up, increasing his maximum life, number 
 of available inventory slots, attack power, special moves and so on. If you lose the Case mission 
 thread you can continue to play the game until the 72 hour mark when your chartered chopper returns 
 and get one of the bad endings or you can always restart the game while maintaining any level advancement 
 you have earned to that point.
  
  The time-based system works well except that Capcom has decided to implement it along with an unusual 
 save system that allows you only one save game per storage device. This system has come under some 
 warranted criticism because it often works at odds with the time based mission structure. It is 
 not unusual to find yourself saving into a place where you simply cannot reach the next Case objective 
 in time, forcing a restart. It is probably possible to circumvent this a bit with a hard drive 
 and a memory card in tandem, but even then it is a half workaround at best. In the end it seems 
 as though Capcom wanted to make an old-school style game like many in the NES era where continues 
 were sparse and save games were simply not possible which meant replaying large portions of the 
 game over and over until mastered. Whether this is a welcome throwback or an unexpected step in 
 the wrong direction will largely depend on the individual, which is why the game probably warrants 
 a rental first to see if you can stomach the system or not.
  
  Though unlike some rental-first games, Dead Rising offers plenty of replay value. Even after beating 
 the game and obtaining the true ending there are still plenty of interesting things to do and plenty 
 of obscure Achievements to unlock. It can certainly be enjoyable to kill a number of hours just 
 experimenting with the vast array of ways to kill hundreds or thousands of zombies. Dead Rising 
 offers a couple hundred various items that can be used as weapons ranging from the comically useless 
 to the brutally effective.
  
  The graphics in the game are very impressive, and make superb use of in-engine cinematics. The 
 sheer number of detailed onscreen characters (mostly the hordes of lumbering zombies which can 
 reach into the hundreds onscreen at one time in an inspiring display of the 360's capabilities) 
 is wow-inducing and the close-up renderings of the slightly stylized character models feature impressive 
 texture work and articulation.
  
  The sound in the game is remarkable as well with stellar sound effects featured throughout. However, 
 the game's music is mostly limited to the appropriately cheesy but eventually grating mall musak 
 and a few select instances of generic rock primarily found in boss fights. The voice acting is 
 solid throughout but the actors suffer some with having to deliver highly cheesy dialogue ( I've 
 covered wars, you know ) . Also a bit baffling is the fact that a lot of the game's non-cutscene 
 dialog happens only in text boxes that were optimized for HD displays leaving standard definition 
 TV owners with poorly scaled and tiny lettering that may be practically illegible on smaller sets. 
 Since almost all non-Case scoop missions (primarily rescuing survivors) is given via these text 
 sequences, you may be forced to reply on the (mercifully useful) direction finder to get where 
 you need to be.
  
  The game's controls are tight and responsive although some of the unlockable special moves are 
 a bit difficult to pull off when you want/need to making them less useful than they could have 
 been. For the most part fighting through the throngs of undead is a fun experience that has enough 
 built in AI to allow you to focus on timing attacks and choosing the right tool for the job rather 
 than positioning cameras or precisely directing your aim. Of course, some of it depends on which 
 weapon you're using and each one has its own feel and strategy for best effect.
  
  One thing about Dead Rising is that the game doesn't have selectable difficulty levels and it skews 
 a bit on the hard side on occasion, especially with such a large sandbox to play in and so many 
 secrets and optional missions/activities. Combined with the funky save system and time-based story 
 it can get a bit frustrating at times, but on the other hand the game is pretty clearly designed 
 for the veteran gamer and not the casual. And in case you were at all unclear, Dead Rising takes 
 its M rating very seriously. A lot of the gratuitous gore and violence is so over the top as to 
 be amusing, but there is enough raw brutality to give squeamish or youngsters some serious pause. 
 The game also features some mild but not explicit sexual content that is truly optional but still 
 something parents ought to be aware of.
  
  The end result is a game that is very enjoyable but whose design decisions may divide the potential 
 audience into camps with people who can overlook the oddities and enjoy the underlying game and 
 those who simply can't get past the strict format and frustrating save system. Consider it a recommended 
 game that you may or may not be able to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, great graphics, great story, great everything. Satisfaction comes out of 
 games like this... the satisfaction that you just chopped a zombie up with a lawn mower.... Best 
 game zombie game ever!
  
  Graphics: As far as a 360 game goes, these could have been a bit better. Overall they're really 
 good because of the detail on models and on objects. Physics were phenomenal, and realistic until 
 you start leveling up.... After which Frank goes on a roid rage....
  
  Weapons selection: Do I even need to go over this? Near everything is a weapon. Cars in the parking 
 garage, excavators (you have to play the game to get this one ) in the north plaza, katanas in 
 the Entrance plaza. Clothing customization: Great, loads of fun, especially in the entrance plaza. 
 Hats are very fun too, especially the lego head. **Warning**
  Dresses can be worn by Frank... Nuff said.
  
  Sound: It's a capcom game, the soundtrack is 
 wonderfully brilliant, hardcore rock to elevator music in the score. But voices aren't that great.... 
 Like in almost every capcom game....
  
  Controls: Not the best mapping ever, the way it's set up makes your character more prone to accidents...
 
  
  Bosses: Way too hard, they're fun for the most part, but they're frustrating....
  
  Otis: Worst. Character. Ever. He calls you every 20 seconds to tell you about things going on, 
 but you can't attack while you're talking to him...
  
  Save System: CAPCOM really screwed up here, it's horrible, you have on place that's safe that you 
 can save at. And several not safe bathrooms that you can save in, and you can save during boss 
 fights, what's up with that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  A disaster. A town under seige by a unknown reason. Roads blocked, special forces cover as much 
 as they can. And you; a photojournalist named Frank West. You hire a helicopter and decide that 
 this Riot will get you pulitzer. This is the only part I'll divulge.
  
  Dead rising is the new zombie game by our Romero loving game company Capcom and this BLOWS the 
 socks off of all the compatition... even RE4.
  
  Gameplay is simple; You find something that you always wanted to beat the crap outta someone with 
 and well... use it, that simple. Over time you will level up and get powered up or learn to use 
 new skills like a neck twist or something as gruesome as disimbole [drools] . Zombies will be on 
 your ass for this 72 hour monster mash. They WILL stop you and there will be times where you say 
 How the hell am i gonna get outta this?!?! and times where you progress through and kill a boss 
 only to get killed by a stray zombie or gunfire and than its game over but don't worry because 
 capcom made this game for replays in mind. after you die you can carry along you stats and skills 
 for a new game so go ahead and don't worry about getting killed a few times. Capcom put alot in 
 this disk. Don't wanna go through the story than why not try on clothes or eat a whole grocery 
 store's supply worth of food. GO NUTS!!!
  
  Graphics are good but i really don't feel like seeing Frank's body hair. This game uses the 360s 
 engine to the max. 100s of zombies on screen and A full mall with everything that makes a mall 
 a well... a mall; trust me. this is really as much as ive seen the greatest use of the 360 ive ever 
 seen. The soundtrack is well done and each blow from a weapon has its own unique sound but the 
 only problem is that some of the survivor voice work is a little repeditive.
  
  Now we all heard of the problems the small text and WEAK A. I. but mostly the crappy A. I. is the 
 worst problem you'll have. but capcom actually put a little helper for this in the game; just look 
 and you'll find it eventually.
  
  All i have to say is that everything is totally up to you here so GO NUTS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatcher146
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I've played it for about 4 hours so far.... i like it... its fun.... but capcom didnt really do a 
 good job with how you save... if you die you have to start all over (but having all your current 
 stats, like you have to go through the whole story mode) but you can save in bathrooms and the 
 security room... but just make sure you dont get your life down too much... cuz then your in trouble 
 if you didnt save!... but other than that... killing zombies is fun.... the missions are'nt all that 
 great... but you have to do them cuz you'll get bored doing everything else. good game though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Of all the screens and hype of this game i expected this game to be one of the best of 2006. On 
 release date i got my copy put it in the machine and after an hour or two took it out and got one 
 of my more enjoyable games to play. People will tell me that im wrong and this is a great and fun 
 game. But i can not see what the fuss is about . When you start the game and are in the chopper 
 it does catch your interest but as you soon start playing the real game you are faced with the 
 repetative task of killing zombies the same way over and over with something different. I love 
 to kill zombies and love zombie games this one is one of the worst i have ever played. Sure you 
 get multiple endings and sure you have to beat the clock on tasks and people will say thats what 
 makes the game great. But thats not what make a good zombie game. There are too many things to 
 do in the clock and see and i dont want to spend hours killing all of the zombies to get that stupid 
 achievement. Overrated before it hit the shelves, Very repetative and very boring. I think ill 
 stick to Resisdent Evil. Thanks for reading. Cooper182 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tech_Viper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The game itself as a whole including the overall balance of gameplay, graphics, and interactivity 
 is excellent. That said this game is long and arduous and the save system could have much more 
 well done to ease the agony. If you dont have long periods of time to play a game then this is 
 not for you, however if you enjoy mindless gore with weapons and actions that on occasion just 
 seem so wrong, or you just like slaughtering zombies then this game is for you. The combat system 
 with non throwing and aiming items is good but could have used a little more style than just the 
 standard whack attack. Now sadly the system used for thrown items doesnt always have crosshair 
 which does lower the effectiveness of a weapon like the golf club, and the control setup for aiming 
 weapons like guns of throwing, is poorly thought out and gets sort of irritating as you constantly 
 mix up which control stick to use, plus when aiming the accuracy is jittery and you cant move. 
 The game does get repetitive when you are repeatedly dying, but there is a solution for this, have 
 some friends over and just take turns going through. Ive found that this helps keep the game from 
 getting old and repetitive and along the way youll level up and be able to last longer and go farther 
 until you finally beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  As a HUGE fan of Capcom's Resident Evil series Dead Rising is one of the main reasons I purchased 
 an XBOX360 and I must say I am pleased with the results.
  
  After beginning the game it becomes pretty apparent that you will not be able to finish it without 
 at least half a dozen restarts to level up your character so he will be able to handle the thousands 
 of zombies that at times are an absolute blast to kill but can also easily overwhelm you in sheer 
 number (especially at night) . The beginning can be a little frustrating but once you get stronger 
 and are able to hold your own the fun will truly begin. Although as has been said several times 
 before it would have been much better to just give us multiple saves instead of the one.
  
  The boss battles are of the games truly strong points and definetly some of the most original you've 
 probably seen, from crazy grocery store owners with carts tricked out to evicerate you to old shell 
 shocked army vets bent on getting and hanging you Predator style, not to mention the very cool 
 heavy metal soundtrack that accompanies the battles themselves.
  
  The frustration lies in the sometimes incredible stupidity of the survivors you will try to escort 
 as they constantly run into mobs of zombies or run into stores and get stuck behind walls, etc. 
 This makes escorting multiple survivors very frustrating and time consuming and usually resulted 
 in myself saying the hell with it, you can die if your that stupid lol.
  
  All in all I had a real good time with this game and look forward to playing through again to see 
 the different endings, now bring on Resident Evil 5!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjdanetti
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good for zombie fans cuz in some zombie games you can only shoot them or punch 
 them. But in this game you can just pick up some DVD cd&acute; s and throw them to the Zombies! 
 And in the mall there are like 1000.000.000.000.000.000.000. Zombies! But he weapon value is very 
 big example: Katana, Shotgun, Pistol, Sniper, Battle Axe, Sword, wood, axe and lots and lots of 
 more! I recommend eveyone to buy this game expecially who likes zombies. But in this game there 
 are like 70 peaple somewhere around the mall and you can eiher escort them to safety, if you do 
 that you will easily get up to lvl 50, or give them and axe or something and let them help you. 
 But i&acute; m gonna name some bosses in this game like: Adam the Clown, Cliff the Macete man, Carlito 
 the Terrorist (Game&acute; s main villain) , Steven The Grocery store man, Cletus The Gunshop owner, 
 Paul the Psyhco kid, Sean The Cultist leader, Larry the Buther and Brock the Military man. This 
 game is just fantastic and i recommend you buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix715
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising. I am a HUGE zombie fanatic and this game did not do anything for me. I borrowed it 
 from a friend because i was skeptical about its gameplay. After the inital couple hours in which 
 you find LOADS of weapons to kill those undead beasts with after you use them repeatedly it gets 
 boring. The missions in which you transport somebody gets repetitive. When you give a stranded 
 a weapon they will stay back and take out the zombies. When you go to save them you end up dying 
 because you cant fight off the amount of zombies aroudn you and them. The convicts are impossible 
 to beat unless you ahve a weapon and when you go to the gunstore to get a gun the owner of the 
 shop decides to kill you. lovely huh? I wont deny Dead rising this. It has a great premise and 
 it gives you LOADS of zombies and MANY ways to kill them but the main story mode is boring and 
 repetitive and unless you want it to just kill zombies then this game is for you. But if you want 
 a good game. Then don't buy this. BORROW IT at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper20001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. alot of people believe this game gets extremely repetitive but it doesnt. 
 How can running around killing ruthless zombies with the occasional psychopath like the Clown that 
 juggles chainsaws ever get old. One of the greatest parts of this game is the fact that if you 
 get tired shooting zombies you can run to your nearby antique shop and bust out the battle axe. 
 Or if you get tired of that you can go to a sporting goods store and get the old skateboard to 
 shred the halls of the mall. This game is definitely worthy of its 8.4 rating and is definitely 
 worth playing before judging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game, But the only reason that I stopped playing is because the save system is so 
 awful that it would chase you away after you die.
  
  Graphic wise, this is a very good looking game, the environments are very well done, The textures 
 were done at 1600X1280, which is good on hdtv. The sound is kind of repetitive once you've killed 
 enough zombies, its gets often annoying cause it sounds like random water...
  
  The action is quite intense it I do say so myself, thick layers of zombies that you can choose 
 to dispatch in a variety of ways, and as a bonus, the framerate does not drop once, only when the 
 action really starts to fly, specifically when there are alot of physics.
  
  Wouldv'e appealed to me with a coop mode and a support for 480p and low res tv's but thats just 
 me, but this shouldn't stop you from buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheatdealer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Dead Rising is one of the best games I have ever played for the 360 (besides 
 Gears of War) ! The idea of being trapped in a mall with zombies and the ability to rip zombie's 
 organs out is awesome. This game features some of the coolest things I have ever seen in a video 
 game. The weapons are classics such as chainsaws shotguns and giant teddy bears! If you ever saw 
 Dawn of The Dead and loved it, than you willfall in love with this instant classic!
  
  The Story: You are tough photojournalist Frank West on a mission: to uncover the truth of Willamette 
 Mall at all costs! Use anything and everything from katanas to actual zombies! Uncover the truth 
 and survive!
  
  The Verdict: Best game! Buy it all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisfles666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you are a journalist that start's of in a helicopter taking pictures of what seems 
 too be a riot in a small (used too be) peaceful town. But when you get a closer look, you soon 
 find out that's not the case. The town seems to be filled with rotting zombies :) . When you are 
 dropped at the mall a little later, the game begins...
  
  The game play is very fun cause first of all, you get too kill zombies with any thing you can think 
 of! And that's what you are going too be doing allot of the time, but that's what make's this game 
 fun. A few cool objects are: lawnmower, frying pan, lego heads and ALLOT more :D.
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch, bashing heads never looked and sounded so good :) . Also the 
 movies between the action are nicely done. The voice acting is also better compared to other games 
 these days.
  
  The game also has a long lasting playtime and replay value, because of the achievement points that 
 make you play the game more then once and the freedom in the game. You can follow the story or 
 you can just wait on the rooftop until they come back to pick you up. The only bad thing is the 
 save system. It really bugged me cause i had to start a new game three times already cause i got 
 stuck with one life bar in the damn toilet.
  
  But overall Dead Rising is a fun and long lasting game that could be even better without the crappy 
 save system. I would recommend this to anyone that want's something different for a change or even 
 more if you are a dawn of the dead and shaun of the dead fan :p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markscpu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Yep I said it. This is the most frustrating and stress inducing game I've played in a long time. 
 I hate being late to places, and being held to time constraint within Dead Rising makes this game 
 a task to play. I'm a huge fan of the movie Dawn of the Dead (both of them) and I love survival 
 horror. There is something about staying alive under unbeatable odds that I've always had an interest 
 for. From Resident Evil for the original Playstation all the way to Call of Cthulu and Condemned. 
 Let me be honest here: I DID NOT like this game when I first began playing it. The opening scene 
 consists of roughly 10 innocent people becoming zombie bate. Each of their names flash across the 
 screen BILL NYE IS DEAD and so on. I could only hopeless fend off zombies for long enough to save 
 my own hyde. Not to mention, I was COMPLETELY overwhelmed by the size of the mall.
  
  I continued to force myself to play, even though my health was always in poor condition. (The game 
 really starts you off as a wuss and you have only a few inventory slots) without the jump kick, 
 the beginning of this game is very hard.
  
  It took about 5 hours of forceful play to appreciate (not enjoy) this game. And only until I lost 
 the scoop about midway through the 3rd case, I saved and started over with all my upgrades. This 
 is when I began to finally ENJOY the game. I had a better sense of control and a knowledge of the 
 mall layout. I was no longer a wuss and was ready to kick zombie ass. This time though, I honestly 
 was going to try to save ALL people while doing the main mission. HA. F U T I L E ! Anyway I was 
 able to save 20 people by the end. Let me tell you though - I am not a fan of BOSS enemies and 
 this game has about 10 too many. Frustrating? Yes. Try shooting a chick on a motorcycle as she 
 zooms by. Get her in your sights? She comes to a stop, draws a pistol and shoots you so fast you 
 cuss at the screen. Shoot her 20 times, 20!! to the head with a SHOTGUN and she is still alive!!!! 
 C'mon Capcom make the boss's more realistic.
  
  I won't bother explaining about the graphics, sound and all that. I'm sure my personal description 
 has given sufficient depth on why this game isn't for everyone, but given LOTS OF TIME, you may 
 begin to find yourself really enjoying Dead Rising. Now, if only this game would end. One last 
 gripe; Dead Rising would've been fine if it ended at the helicopter pad. All of the tasks in overtime 
 mode is really just a big pain in the arse. (Finding 10 queens?) C'mon Capcom, you can do better 
 than that!
  
  I normally don't review games, but this really gave me 'the itch' as I have a love/hate relationship 
 with it. Addicting and fun, but difficult, tedious, stressful and frustrating until you get the 
 hang of it.
  
  Thanks you for reading!
  -Mark markscpu@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgoku2833
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm a bit late coming onto the 360 scene. Personally.... did not like the Xbox. If the 360 keeps 
 coming up with games like these. I will be on board for a long time.
  
  I was a bit skeptical about the whole time structure of the game. 72 in game hours. But it suprisingly 
 it works. It adds a tension to the game. So many people to save so little time. And a plethora 
 of zombies and a handful of Psycopaths in the way. Suprisngly there are no mutated bosses or crazy 
 ass dogs to deal with. Which suprised me. The acutal threats in the game are the people gone mad.
 
  
  By now most of you know the story. Dumb dude jumps down onto the mall after seeing this things 
 kill people. He sees all this safley from the chopper. That would have been good enough for me.... but 
 not Frank. He has to find out the cause of all this mayhem. Everyone is safeley baracaded by one 
 of the entrances to the mall until one stupid old lady sees her dog in the middel of the zombies 
 trying to come thru the door. Me personally would have put a bullet in her head. Hey one sacrafice 
 to save many. And you know the rest. Zombies have a field day once they get in.
  
  From there begins you trek thru the now zombie infested mall. The game is mostly made up of escort 
 missions and fighting bosses a. k. a Psycopaths. Which is one of the drawbacks of the game. The escort 
 missions get tedious after a while. Get them from point A to point B. Which is the security room. 
 But the action to me is the meat of the game. You gain levels as you pummel zombies and escort 
 people by earning prestige points. Another way to earn these points is to snap pictures of certain 
 situations. Say for instance you blow the head of of a zombie and are quick enough to snap a shot, 
 that can earn you some very good prestige. You can try for some erotic shots and blooers. You'll 
 be amazed at some the shots that you can get.
  
  Well as you get gain levels you learn more moves. You can only punch in the begining. You can learn 
 move like jump kicks, bulldogs, and even ripping the guts out of the zombies with your bare hands. 
 There are also a plethora of weapons you can use, besides the shotgun and pistols. Come on.... we've 
 all done that before. Almost everything in the mall that is not nailed down can be used as weapons. 
 Park bences, sledge hammers, lawn mowers, pots, pans... anything you can get your hands on. The 
 weapons you use do break. So you can't just start wacking away at all the zombies. When you think 
 you have cleared a room and leave. The room is filled back up with zombies as you return. Sorry.
 
  
  The story is well written and the voice actors are top notch. The sound is awesome. Bashing the 
 living dead has never sounded more satisfying. The game is sheer fun. It has a high replay value. 
 It may be hard for you to find all the cases in your first play thru. So you may have to play it 
 again to get them all and find the true ending. Don't worry. Your skills and levels carry over 
 to your next game. The game also only has one save spot. So if you save your game and you do not 
 have enough time to get to a case file in time, you may get stuck. But you can always start the 
 game over again with all your levels in tact. May be a headache for some but I never had a problem 
 with this. Any all I can say that if you just came into the 360 scene like me. This game is a must 
 have.
  
  Pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettsk8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising.... let me say I have never been an xbox fan until the 360s release, and this is the 
 only game I really cared about getting. I'm a HUGE Resident Evil fan. Dead Rising is one of my 
 favorite games, the gameplay is absolutely great! Just like Grand Theft Auto with the missions, 
 I even found myself so captivated by the imerse gameplay that I forgot about the missions and wondered 
 around for hours killing zombies picking up random weapons such as chainsaws, lawnmowers, shovels, 
 and machine guns. Dead Rising also has a ton of replay value and unlockables to keep yourself occuppied 
 more longer than standard games.
  I was totally blown away when I got the game last month and still am. Dead Rising Deserves so much 
 more than a perfect score of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxale
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Capcom seems to be steering away from the survival horror games lately and into action/adventure. 
 This game is the perfect example. Stuck in a mall full of zombies for three days, anythings a weapon, 
 have fun. This seems to be the entire game in a nutshell. But there are quite a few things that 
 are overlooked that really make this game unique. For example, in every clothing store in the mall 
 you can change into a different outfit for your own preference. Or the fact that you can take a 
 picture of anything, anytime and could save the picture forever. This game looked shallow to me 
 before I played it, but then I realized while playing it that Capcom really took this project seriously. 
 Awesome visuals, a crap load of replay value, insane music (or realistic mall music for some areas) , 
 and some memorable boss fights make this game an amazing experience. Also I must say that this 
 game has the most satisfying array of weapons I have ever seen in a video game... ever. From boomerangs 
 to lawn mowers, shotguns to umbrellas, sledgehammers to motorcycles almost any inanimate object 
 that is nailed to floor can be used as a weapon. And on the same note, the kills in this game are 
 really quite satisfying too. Ever want to rip the intestines out of a zombie with your bare hands? 
 It can happen in this game. And for every boss fight after you finish them off you get a satisfying 
 cut scene showing their gruesome death. God I love this game.
  
  But now for the bad. The artificial intelligence is atrocious, and I'm not talking about only the 
 zombies. Zombies are supposed to be stupid, but a significant amount of the boss battles has the 
 boss running around in circles, sometimes even getting stuck in place. Not to say that the artificial 
 intelligence is always kinda slow, but it is noticeable that not enough effort was put into the 
 A. I. This is especially noticeable with the countless escort missions you have to do. A survivor 
 that you have to escort will commonly stand still right in the middle of a group of zombies, this 
 usually ending in you having to turn back and taking out half the zombies that are even remotely 
 in the way of your survivor. But chances are they will die before you reach them or you will accidentally 
 hit them with your weapon as you swing away.
  
  Overall this game is highly addicting, sometimes frustrating, but most of the time a very enjoyable 
 experience that you will return to again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Okay, the save system. It's not so much the fact that there's only one save slot. It's not even 
 the fact that the instructions when you save are so vague, you could easily and inadvertently wipe 
 out all your in-game progress. It's not even the fact that if you want to stop playing, there's 
 no save option from the pause menu (you have to hunt down a save location) . No, what really offends 
 me about the save system is that the developers couldn't be bothered to write their own save screens, 
 so you get Dashboard pop-up windows flying in from the left and right when you save a game. Whenever 
 you load this game up, it always asks you which storage device you want to use... again, seems 
 like the developers couldn't be bothered to store that information for you.
  
  This is extremely ugly and unprofessional. I am struggling to think of another Xbox 360 game that 
 uses the Dashboard pop-up windows quite so much as this game. Although I am a programmer, I'm not 
 an Xbox 360 developer, but it's obvious to me that Microsoft provide a bare-bones save game API 
 that requires extremely little effort to implement. And Capcom decided to use that in order to 
 save time. Or maybe they just don't respect their customers very much.
  
  The control system is also a mess. You move your character around with the left analogue stick, 
 but the developers, again, couldn't be bothered to write a camera control system so you have to 
 control the camera manually using the right stick. If you hold down the left trigger, the view 
 switches to camera and you can still move around with the left stick and aim with the right, although 
 the aiming it extremely jittery... more on that in a second. However, should you want to aim a 
 weapon or throw an item, you hold down the right trigger and... get this... your aiming is now 
 done with the left stick instead of the right... and you're rooted to the spot!
  
  I can't get over how ridiculous that is. One minute you're controlling the camera with the right 
 stick, then next with the left stick.
  
  But, even worse, although you're using the analogue sticks, the movement in the game is not really 
 analogue at all, especially for the aiming. In most games, especially first-person shooters, the 
 extent to which you move the analogue stick determines how fast you move. In Dead Rising, no matter 
 how far you push the analogue aiming stick, the camera starts of moving slowly and then accelerates 
 very quickly. This is really difficult to get used to and makes using guns or the camera even more 
 difficult than it should be.
  
  The bad controls don't just stop there. In the game, you very soon pick up a special move that 
 makes you do a forward roll across the floor. According to the on-screen instructions, this is 
 achieved by pressing the direction stick twice rapidly in any direction. In practice, you can leave 
 a full second between presses, which means that you frequently end up performing this move when 
 you don't want to. The move rolls you forward but then leaves you vulnerable to attack for a couple 
 of seconds afterwards, so it is particularly frustrating for it to happen when you don't want it 
 to.
  
  There's not even a brightness control in this game... don't all Xbox 360 games have this somewhere 
 in their options? If you think you have your TV already set-up properly... think again. Then only 
 way to adjust the brightness in this game is by adjusting the brightness on your set. Pathetic.
 
  
  To make the game even more irritating, there's a character called Otis who keeps phoning you. If 
 you answer the phone, you can't attack any Zombies and you can't even jump to safety (jump is disabled) , 
 so you're completely wide open to being killed and, let's remember, you can't pause and save this 
 game.
  
  Although there is proper speech in the cut scenes of this game, there is no in-game voice-acting 
 at all. This is a very old-school approach already but, to make it worse, the on-screen text is 
 tiny. I have heard that it is even unreadable on a standard definition television, but even on 
 my 37 HD plasma screen at 720p, it's difficuly to read unless you are very close to the screen. 
 Capcom claim they can't fix this, as there is too much text to change. If that's true, it's another 
 case of inept programming. Common sense would tell any programmer to have the text sizes as global 
 variable, thus allowing one small change in order to change the font size throughout.
  
  Finally, there's the awful item selection. Everything you pick up in the game is an item and, when 
 you pick it up, that's the item you are now using. there's no way to switch this auto-selection 
 off. And your weapon items expire after a time, so that katana sword you were happily slashing 
 away with can suddenly turn into and apple (which you stand still and eat for a few seconds) or 
 a book (which you stand still and read for a few seconds) .
  
  I strongly suspect that Capcom spent so much of their development time on the mall and filling 
 it with hundreds of zombies (the only impressive aspect to the game) that there was no time left 
 to dedicate to these other important parts of the game. Either that or some key developers left 
 Capcom part way through the game's development.
  
  The best I can say about this game is that it is funny and satisfying to hack away at zombies for 
 20 minutes or so but, if that's what you want to do, then I recommend the Dead Rising demo (downloadable 
 from Xbox Marketplace) instead, as you have unlimited time to explore one reasonably large area 
 of the mall, and many of the full game's better weapons are available to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game rocked my socks i mean it i could not put it down to save my life specking of that this 
 game will show you want liveing was like it there was a out break of zombie ppl anyway this game 
 i have to say is on my fav list now and will always be in the rising you can pick up just about 
 anything and use it throw it hold onto it if it is small and hand like a gun happen to say but 
 you don't really come bu that untell after the start of the game are they trying to make it hard 
 for us yes i think they are this game will freak you out at time and make you keep the lights on 
 weather you think you want to or not I love this game and everything was great about the only thing 
 i think could have been better was how it was layed out to play how thw person moved and everything 
 like that other then that i will give this game a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSmileyFace
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I like playing the game. The story line was real fun. If your into a game of just MASS KILLING 
 than Dead Rising is for you. The one flaw i saw in graphics is the text is hard to read on most 
 TV's. I bought a kit to hook my 360 up to my PC Monitor and that problem was solved. The sounds 
 of just zombies moaning all around you make the game feel more realistic. The story line i thought 
 was short and sweet but kind of left me asking some questions but not many once you do Over Kill 
 mode. The save thing is the #1 thing that really bugged me in this game. Just 1 save and if you 
 die you can save your XP but not your spot. Just not something i was used to. All in all i liked 
 the game and like most games they do have their flaws but i liked this game more than others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBizbo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I love the inventive ways to kill the zombies. Pretty much anything 
 you can think of using in the game can be used as a weapon, which will make for some funny moments. 
 The graphics are good. The only problem I have with it is trying to read the text that comes across 
 the screen when you get a phone call. It's very small &amp; a little blurry. Plus it is not on 
 the screen long enough to read some of the messages. Other that minor little difficulty, I really 
 do enjoy playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdeerdte
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  one thing that i didnt like at all about this game was the way you save it completley ruins the 
 game. When you have one life square left and you want to save you have to go to a restroom and run 
 the risk of getting killed and having to do evrything all over. the good thing about this game 
 is all the zombies you can kill with alot of weapons in your disposal. another good thing this game 
 has is the sound... it is very realistic. the missions are very good and the stroyline is also good. hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm 
 so yea this game is alright. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This is just a sub par game that is largely overrated. The health system is not good.... at all... as 
 a matter of fact its flat out terrible and so is the saving system. The game makes you save at 
 restrooms which may sound fine but it won't when you spend 10 minutes walking to a save point. 
 The voice acting is really bad and the story isn't much better. The game does offer a whole lot 
 of fun running around killing zombies and this is a fun game to play with your friends ( no multiplayer 
 but you can have a lot of fun switching off) . It gets fairly repetitive and the missions aren't 
 fun. I couldn't believe it got an 8.4 and an 8.8 player review score. This game does provide simple 
 fun but to me it's just sub par, rent this sucker first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  I introduced a new person to Dead Rising today and played it for the first time in months after 
 clocking the game.
  
  It made me realise that the people who made the game really are geniuses!!!!
  When you take aim 
 with a pot plant in hand, and you see a group of zombies wearing teddy bear and horsie heads, you 
 can't help but think - I can't freakin wait for the sequel!!!!
  
  The are a few downsides to the game that would make it better. The slow opening from the chopper 
 to walking through to the Madonna... Madonna cut scene is a pain, and also the single game save 
 function is extremely frustrating.
  
  And sometimes the repetetive soundtrack gets annoying.
  
  But still, minor complaints about 
 an awesome game. This is the first game I have bought after watching a game trailer, and I bought 
 a 360 as soon as DR was released. Two firsts for me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamebird428
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Before i start, I have to say. THIS IS NOT A GAME FOR YOUR 10 YEAR OLD KID. The amount of violence 
 in the game reaches critcal mass here, people. I mean, when HASN'T capcom made an almost-unsafely 
 violent game?...... Now onto the game.
  Gameplay:
  Almost downright perfect. Its a zombie sandbox game! But of course, there's a little bit of snag 
 that prevent it from becoming perfect. First, the boss fights. Sometimes the bosses (psychopaths) 
 are so insanely cheap you'll start throwing your controller and swearing at the TV. (TanTip- Orange 
 Juice+SMG=good) one of them even has a motorcycle! And the save system could use some work. Its 
 not that bad, i just wish it had a quicksave or something, just in case i had to leave then and 
 there. You level up by killing psychos, taking pictures, or many other things. Once you level up. 
 it's like an RPG. Your character improves, with stats and new moves.
  Graphics:
  It's incredible what they have pulled off. 800 zombies on screen..... with no slowdown whatsoever. 
 The cut scenes look exactly like the game itself, which shows how far we have progressed with graphics 
 in the last 10 years. It's got motion blur, lighting and all that good stuff. The only gripes i 
 have are what I call the Dead Rising Syndrome and periodic skipping of frames. What is Dead Rising 
 Syndrome , may you ask? Small text on nothing but an HDTV. Solution? Play it on widescreen. And 
 sometimes, when you hit a zombie, the game will seem to lock up for like a half-second. I THINK 
 it's because it has to compute a lot of things, but im not sure.
  
  Sound:
  Where else will you hear the sound of a 2x4 hitting a zombies head projected with such accuracy? 
 I MEAN REALLY!?!??!?!??!? Some of the moves sound so painful, like the decapation move, followed 
 by the shower of blood. Some of these moves are truly cringe-worthy in the sounds they make. And 
 the boss music is just right.
  
  Controls: It's might take a little while to get used to, but it will feel natural after a while.
 
  
  All in all, an incredible zombie killing blast of a time (Just look out for the rumor of this game 
 in particular crashing your system :D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is ridiculous. Totally ridiculous. The story is pretty terrible, Frank is kind of a 
 lunkhead and Otis, well, who doesn't just want to give that guy a good whack with a lead pipe. 
 Or a mannequin torso. Or a baseball bat. That said, who doesn't love killing zombies? This game 
 is great fun to just blow off some steam or randomly run around for an hour or two. Just the sheer 
 amount of ways you can kill zombies, or just mess with them (stairs + teddy bear masks + cooking 
 oil = hahahahahaha) . Also, there are few moments in video games that are as fun as using the chainsaw (s) , 
 rototiller, and the lawn mower. These three devices have got to be some of the most gruesome, gleeful 
 fun in all of gaming history.
  
  Dead Rising deserves the awards it has won without a doubt. Any Xbox 360 owner definitely owes 
 it to themselves to play this game. My only question is, when is Dead Rising 2 going to get here?
 
  
  Footnote: The achievements in this game are probably the best in all of Xbox 360 world. The zombie 
 genocider is my proudest achievement by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth360snipa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is mindless fun and full of humor. There are so many funny and twisted ways to kill a 
 zombie. The whole idea of having the game take place in a mall is brilliant. x x x x x x x x x 
 x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xn x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x zx x x x x 
 x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta-08
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has a catchy title and blends in to the background now this makes customers to buy 
 it. This game is some what a strategic game. The main character in this game is hideous so is the 
 zombies. The game is hilarious killing zombies has never been so much fun instead of being scared. 
 Now the bosses also known as psychopath are weird and also dumb its like they don't know ABC or 
 123, and their sometimes easy to beat depending on the weapon they wield. The greatest thing about 
 the game are the weapons you can use anything you want like a beach umbrella, swords, flat screen 
 T. V, swords and other stuff thats in the mall. This game is alright to me its not really a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabloooooooooo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is truly a great achievement. I has a complex and intriguing story line that can be 
 changed through your actions and the ways in which you kill so many zombies will bring long lasting 
 fun.
  
  Gameplay: I think this game has stunning gameplay. There are so many things to do and so many ways 
 that you can do them. There are three modes, 72 hour mode, Overtime mode, and Infinity (Survival) 
 mode. Each mode is unique. In 72 hour mode you have 72 hours in which you can pretty much do anything. 
 You can choose to go along with the main story (case files) , do side quests, or just do whatever 
 the heck you want. Overtime mode is a continuation of 72 hour mode and you have 24 hours to complete 
 it. Infinity mode, unfortunately is not what we all expected it would be. You have unlimited time 
 but you loose health every 100 seconds which is a major disapointment in my opinion. Nevertheless 
 killing zombies and unveiling interesting twists and turns in the story make for a great game. 
 The achievements are very well layed out because they add major replay value to the game.
  
  Graphics: Over 1000 real looking zombies on the screen at once, distinct facial characteristics 
 and a mall that could be real... need I say more?
  
  Sound: The sound definitely adds a great deal to the score of this game. Every slice, sound, moan, 
 splatter of blood, and word is clearly heard and sounds real. The guns sound more real than in 
 most shooters in my opinion.
  
  Value: Just like any other 360 game, expensive but worth your money this time.
  
  There you 
 have it. I definitely recommend this game for anyone because it has so many different genres of 
 gaming expertly put together to make a truly awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  dead risin is genuin game with some flews thati goin to tell you
  
  1-the story is only fun at the first time but them is borin and borin and you now
  
  2-the 
 bosses are easy and borin to kill because you have to kiil them with guns and more guns.
  
  3-some tools are stupids and no efectives
  
  good things
  
  1-the voice actin is gorgeus 
 2-the game is long and have bad bosses but its have their grates bosses too like the clown
  
  3-alot of sombies and weapons to use and change frank appereans'
  
  DEAD RISIN IS A GREAT 
 BUT A LITTLE BORING GAME FOR SOME PEOPLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game once you get used to the controls.. which might take you a while. The graphics 
 are really good.. but I have to admit the text is very hard to see on a regular TV. Hopefully I'll 
 be getting a HD-TV soon. It is fun going around killing zombies with various weapons.. such as 
 broom handles, TV's, rocks, tool boxes, the list goes on and on. The only things holding this game 
 back from getting a perfect rating is there is only one save slot.. which I forgot about and had 
 to start the game over.. I wasn't that far.. but still.. it kind of ticked me off. And as I mentioned 
 at the start of the review... the controls are hard to get used to. Which can also be very annoying. 
 So all and all this game is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  I had played the demo of this game.. and thought that one day that this would be a game that I 
 will own.. from this day I have played this game for over 20 hours and it is without a doubt the 
 best zombie game every, there is so many zombies to kill and so many different things you can find 
 to do other than completing tasks.. Its just AWESOME a game that you can just pull out and easily 
 start having fun... its perfect for Resident Evil and well of course Zombie fans.. I wanted to 
 own a cool zombie game for my only current new generation game console. and this was the best choice.. 
 I do not regret this game at all.. and despite how long its been out its still one of the top xbox 
 360 games that sweet as it gets a zombie game that has more zombies than you could imagine on a 
 game.. and you can hack an slash your way right through them.. its as if this game could be a simulation 
 game to what would happen if zombies really did exist ... VERY NICELY DONE I highly recommend this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: user127
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is a good game, but does it hold up as a next gen title? yes indeed and heres why: 
 dead rising follows frank west, a photojournalist who investigates a small city called williamete. 
 frank, convinced he can get the scoop of the century goes to the heart williamete, a mall but what 
 he doesnt realize is by doing his everyday job frank will uncover a story so terrifying, no man 
 would dare to read it, except frank that is. dead rising is, at heart, a kill fest, a bloody, gory, 
 and downright gruesome kill fest, but who says im being negative? the twist on this game that sets 
 it apart from any generic game is its setting, a mall in which happens to carry a zombie slayers 
 dream. want a battle axe? go to the antiques shop and see how many zombies you can hit in your 
 gruling axe tornado. so basically dead rising is a game you can enjoy hours at a time, so if your 
 tired and just want to relive some stress, pick up dead rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmbf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Dead Rising I was a little skeptical. I tried out the XBOX Live demo, and 
 that along convinced me to buy this game. When you first pick up the controller you'll only be 
 controlling the camera, but as time goes on you take control of Frank I've covered wars, y'know 
 West. The longer you play, the larger your arsenal of moves gets and the more fun this game is 
 to play. You'll find yourself simply ignoring the main storyline just to kills zombies with a variety 
 of weapons ranging from guns and swords to stuffed bears and Frisbees (sorry, no cricket bat) . 
 The sound effects in Dead Rising are incredible, it seems like they recorded a sledge hammer actually 
 smashing through flesh. The graphics in Dead Rising aren't quite up to Gears of War level, but 
 the number of zombies on screen will amaze you. The story can move slowly at times, and the save 
 system will have you throwing your controller as you're taken down by zombies on your way to a 
 bathroom, but the flaws are so minor you can ignore them and simply focus on zombie killing. No 
 360 owner should go without this game in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Now when i first saw this game i though it was a Resendent eivil rip-off but it had much more to 
 it it was great fun for hours this game came with my Xbox 360 at X-mas and is crazy but fun action 
 and it made me not buy another game for 360 for a month and a half its that good so this is a game 
 worth playing to keep you amused for hours and hours and every thing about it is perfect in almost 
 every way and the sounds of people getting hit sound real but they dident use real people so thats 
 one amazing thing about dead rising and you pick up just about any thing in the shop or on the 
 ground so this is a game that you will love and laugh at while playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_47_needle
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  K ... So first thing tht i should to talk abt ... it is a gameplay ... De gameplay was a cool ... 
 exactly de fighting and killing zombies and ride on a car etc ... But i didnt liked a most thing 
 was a save location ... It is a hard game ... But de save location is too short ... I always die 
 on a full of zombie ... even de bosses ... De hardest boss is a gun store owner and he is a human 
 but exactly as like zombie or a crazy man ... I need a gun or even a rifle ... if without a gun 
 i always die ... if de game has a checkpoint it is a easy game i expecting ... and i need to save 
 a game in restrooms and sleep on a security sofa ... it is a crap to go on abt miles to security 
 room ... thx 4 capcom abt de save location ... And de story was a crap ... the lead actor is a 
 frank and he is photojournalist and need to wait abt 72 hours and heli is coming woo de end ... 
 it is kind of crap ... Oh yea, and graphic was cool eventually on hdtv but de subtitle is hard 
 to read ... thx again ... I wanna say as it is just a good game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denomaniac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is another masterpiece of capcom
  BUT THE **** SAVE SYSTEM **** IT UP
  
  Gameplay
  Gory when u grab an item u go crazy with it hit the zombie on the left on the right
 
  in front of u and there are thousands more
  items from a bat to a.... mariquete
  
  Graphics
  next gen surely!!!
  lots of detail in the mall especially when it's night
  
  
 Sound
  Good to very good. well i prefer hearing music from my profile than the dead rising soundtrack
 
  
  Results: a must have that all the xbox gta lovers will... love The missions are repetitive but 
 it gets nasty when u grab a chainsaw or a gun or even the weightlifter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  SAVE SYSTEM RUINS IT. That's it. That's all there is to it. What could have been a great game was 
 destroyed by yet another **** save system. There are some other things, like Otis. He's your annoying 
 girlfriend throughout the game, calling you all the time and when you're always surronded by hordes 
 of zombies - its annoying as all hell and dangerous to have to stop and answer your two way. I 
 just stopped taking his calls at the start of the second day - so screw the side missions for me. 
 (and once you've done one escort mission, you've done them all in the game anyways)
  
  That leaves the main mission and it wasn't enough to make this a title to own. I mean the graphics 
 are good, sound is fair, and running through zombies with a lawnmower is freaking sweet. But two 
 major problems and some smaller things (weapons should break not after a set number of hits but 
 at random times depending on certain factors) .
  
  It has its moments though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is indeed an interesting and different approach to zombie games. It's fun to kill zombies 
 and use all the different ways to kill them, but when you get down to it, it's really kind of boring. 
 I mean, you just kill zombies with the same kinds of weapons, except for the instances when you 
 find things such as the lawn mower which are fun, but not so common. The gameplay is not the problem 
 in this game though.
  
  My biggest problem with this game is the save system and the whole way you play. You can have only 
 one save at a time, and so if you save at a bad time, to where you cannot accomplish the mission 
 goals, then you will just keep failing all goals and have to start the whole game over. Another 
 thing, there is way too much backtracking at the beginning of the game, and after doing it several 
 times because if an ill-timed save, you'll become very frustrated.
  
  This isn't a particularly bad game, it's just too irritating the way the game makes you save and 
 what not. If you can get over that though, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game recently so I've only begun playing it. Therefore, my review will be 'at first 
 glance'...
  
  GAMEPLAY: There's certainly a lot to do in Dead Rising. When just starting out, the controls can 
 be a bit overwhelming. I'd say a good hour (for me anyway) was needed to fully understand all there 
 is to do and how to use it. To many things to remember is frankly both a plus and minus for the 
 game. One particularly frustrating thing is the stop and load times with cut-scenes throughout 
 the game. Can be very annoying. GRAPHICALLY: this game displays pretty decent graphics, not sure 
 if there nex-gen worthy though. Specifically the up-close character movements tend to remind me 
 a little too blocky and not as polished. The zombies and overall character actions are well done, 
 can't complain about that. To be fair, it's not as if Dead Rising was being bulit up to be some 
 power house game or anything. Aside from minor misses, it's overall I was pleased.
  
  SOUND: Great effects and overall sound use, with the exception of the voice acting; although good, 
 it's a bit dated and quite off at times with the character. Super mall music though, just gotta 
 love that.
  VALUE: As mentioned above there's plenty to keep you busy in this game. I feel it has a lot to 
 offer, especially in multiplayer. The game can be bit repetitive and therefore, replay value may 
 not be a strong point.
  TILT: There is very little to not like. It's original, it's fun and it's frustrating; but then 
 what good game isn't without it's challenges? Challenges are good, helps the mind think. Great 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  A game that borrowed its entire beginning from Dawn of the Dead may have been thought to be a gimmick. 
 This game is actually a pretty decent title. You are Frank West, a photojournalist investigating 
 riots in a town in Colorado. You drop in on a mall filled with zombies, and you try to solve the 
 mysteries of why the zombie came about, and what happened. The game's main story is set up into 
 cases 1.0- 8.4 - The Facts. You only have 3 days in the mall, so each case is timed, which may 
 seem to limit your possiblities of going into each highly detailed store. (I, Myself completed 
 the game without knowing there was a gun store) . If you miss a case, the game is ruined. You can, 
 however, restart the game with all your stats. You level up by saving survivors, and killing crazed 
 citizens, and taking good pcitures. You gain skills, and you can increase your inventory, health, 
 speed, ect. However the AI (artificial intelligence) is horrible. The survivors will try to fight 
 zombies instead of following you. This is especially frustrating when you go to save a survivor, 
 whom frank can not carry or hold on to. (Only major flaw of the game) There is also one save slot 
 only, which makes saving seem almost a risk, if you miss a case, or waste time. Another slight 
 flaw is the overpowering skills of some bosses, vs. the weakness of your skills. For example, the 
 dodging roll skill, barely even works. For, even if you are in mid-dodge, anything that strikes 
 you still does damage. Also, when picking up key items, you can still be struck, which gets slightly 
 aggravating. Overall, the game is exciting, and will hold attention for the shear fact that you 
 want to save the people around you, and you want to make it out. If things were a little more forgiving, 
 such as the timed schedule, Dead Rising would be even more of a great game then in already is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: A lot of great weapons, skills and items. Intense violence and gore. Lengthy quest and 
 satisfying boss fights.
  
  THE BAD: Weapons break too easily. Stressful time system. Constant annoying transmission calls 
 to rescue survivors.
  
  Dead Rising is an insane zombie killing good time.
  
  GAMEPLAY is great. Photojournalist, Frank West, is off to investigate a mid-west small town after 
 receiving a reliable lead. To his surprise, the city is infested with thousands of zombies. It 
 is up to Frank to get the scoop of a lifetime within 72 hours; the only things in his way are hordes 
 of the living dead and plenty of crazy psychopaths.
  
  Fortunately, Frank has an entire mall of goods at his disposal. His weapons include but are not 
 limited to chainsaws, pistols, shotguns, katanas, bowling balls, benches, trashcans, fire extinguishers, 
 CDs, golf clubs, skateboards, frying pans, teddy bears and much more. Although some weapons are 
 clearly more powerful than others, there will be many desperate times where anything is better 
 than nothing.
  
  What's more, Frank gains levels after earning Prestige Points for killing enemies, taking good 
 photos, or escorting survivors back to safety. Leveling up increases health capacity, strength, 
 or speed and unlocks a variety of skills to fend off zombies like jump kick, disembowel, or judo 
 punch.
  
  Probably the only bad things about Dead Rising are its stressful time structure and lack of convenient 
 save points. Since Frank has to be at a certain place and time to progress the story, it's very 
 difficult to squeeze in extra rescue missions without jeopardizing the main objective. If Frank 
 doesn't make it in time, an option to choose to either load the last save point or restart from 
 the beginning with levels and skills intact is given. Obviously the former is more appealing so 
 having to replay a certain event will occur often.
  
  GRAPHICS are excellent. The environments are sharp and look great. Additionally the character models 
 have a lot of detail especially up close, however, some characters like Brad, Isabella and Carlito 
 do look better than others. One of the very cool things about Dead Rising is that it is all in 
 real time. Which means there is a lot of fun changing how Franks looks and dresses and seeing his 
 new duds in the cut scenes.
  
  SOUND is superb. Not only is Dead Rising full of unique sound effects it has an excellent score 
 as well. The music is creepy and eerie at times while being completely original. The voice acting 
 is overall great and has memorable dialogue.
  
  VALUE is good. Dead Rising will take about 15-20 hours to complete the first play through. It has 
 6 different endings so there's plenty of reason to replay the game from beginning to end. The extra 
 modes Overtime and Infinite are interesting enough to try out, but the meat of the game lies in 
 the 72 Hour Mode.
  
  OVERALL Dead Rising is an interesting take on the zombie horror genre. It would seem killing zombies 
 over and over again would get old fast, but it never does. There are simply so many weapons to 
 use and so much to explore in a limited amount of time that the experience is fun from start to 
 finish. Dead Rising is an easily recommendable title any Xbox 360 owner should definitely play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamizhim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  ok... dead rising.. good game...... good game
  
  Ok so first let me start off by saying this game has literally defined Gory once i picked up a 
 katana... the fun and blood begain PROS
  
  -Your in a freakin mall
  -Tons of weapons, one has to fit your liking
  -Zombies respawn very fast
  -Zombies are fun to 
 kill
  -Its an rpg/action/adventure/strategy
  -cool special moves
  
  CONS
  
  -Mall has more Outside space than Inside
  -some wepons aren't available and sometimes hard to 
 find
  -Sometimes a load of zombies respawn where a survivor is
  -zombie can be hard to kill when low on health
  -Horrible NPC
  
  Well i could go on for both... but 
 i wont
  
  So ur a photo journalist named Frank and u go t a small town to write a story then u see zombies 
 attacking the town, u get dropped off at the mall which is filled with zombies because.. well i wont 
 say why your gonna have to play the game yourself
  
  GAMEPLAY
  -Large mall area
  -Plenty of things to smash
  -Plenty of zombies
  -Bad NPC, but somehow u do get connected with 
 each one
  
  GRAPHICS
  -Blood is great
  -characters are good, look better from far away
  -All items are almost life-like
  -In some cut 
 scenes graphics could be better
  
  SOUND
  -Cool zombie noises, some are a lil odd..
  -Great voice overs and voices
  -Awesome weapon noises (sludge hammer, Sword,4x4's, etc.)
  -Sound 
 track is pretty lame, theres like one heavy metal song
  
  Value
  -This game was definitely worth buying at a high price
  
  TILT
  wtf does that mean... uhh 
 good game
  
  (Please tell me if this was a good one and i will make more) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwright38
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Dead Rising, I have to say the first thought to come to mind was, simply, 
 dream game. For many years I've been a fan of the zombie genre of film and even though games like 
 Resident Evil are great, nothing really captured that genre. Basically, from the very first video 
 I saw of Dead Rising it hit my anticipation list hard. I couldn't wait to get my hands firmly grasped 
 around this.
  
  Unfortunately, the fact of it's exclusivity to the 360 kept the game from me until I finally was 
 able to get my 360 and finally get this title. I can honestly say, I was absolutely not disappointed. 
 From the get go you are basically swarmed by zombies, it's just like watching a good zombie flick 
 overflowing with the lovely undead foes. In all seriousness, I mean it's hard to step one step 
 with a huge group of zombies just being there.
  
  One thing that comes with the massive amount of zombies is the equally numerous weapons to use 
 to crank the skulls, cut in half or blow the heads right off the zombie menace. If you can see 
 it and it's probable for a well-built man to pick up, you can pick it up and use it against the 
 hordes. Whether it be shelves, lead pipes, knifes or assortments of guns, it's most likely a usable 
 weapon.
  
  Now, though the game's main attraction, for me anyway is the huge amount of zombies and ways to 
 re-kill them there is a story and it's not a bad one at all. In truthfulness, the game is fairly 
 light on story, basically a cut scene here and there to unravel the mystery behind the zombie menace. 
 Though it may not be all that heavy on the storyline, it's not a storyline you'll sit by itching 
 to get back to the action.
  
  Now, on to the bad. Personally, I hated the save system, now I know it makes the most sense for 
 the setup of the game, but I can't say I liked it all that well, plus the fact that there's not 
 enough save points for my taste. I look forward to the day instant in-game saves become a necessity.
 
  
  Another bad thing is if you don't have an HDTV, then prepare to squint, because playing on a SD 
 TV myself, the text is so small I can barely read it. No kidding, I mean it becomes a serious problem 
 since the calls about Survivors and other things of that nature are not VOed and requires reading.
 
  
  Otherwise, the game has few flaws worth actually mentioning. The graphics won't knock you out of 
 your seat but it's still quite good. The sound is just great, from the background music, which 
 simulates a mall very well, to the splats and sounds that weapons make when used.
  
  Bottom line: This game is great. It's fun, addicting and engaging enough to keep you coming back 
 for more, if not for the multiple achievements you can unlock. If you are a fan of the zombie film 
 genre, this is most likely the game you've been waiting for and definitely needs to be checked 
 out. Even if not necessarily a fan of zombie flicks, I have to say I still highly suggest this 
 title for at least checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is a zombie slaughter fest that can unfold itslef in many ways and can end in only 
 so few. For example, in one game playthrough, you could choose to do the story. But wait, the story 
 got boring so you go and kill some psychos and save some survivors to gain PP and levels. Then 
 when you've got the desired level, you attempt the story again and beat it. This is, for the most 
 part, how you'll end up playing Dead Rising.
  
  To start, the gameplay is extremely addictive. Even though smashing a zombie to death seems like 
 it would get boring, the number of ways in which you could do it would keep it from getting that 
 way pretty well.
  
  The graphics though, are another story althogether. For a next gen game they really arent all that 
 stunning. The way everything looks is still pretty good, but overall, they generally dont come 
 close to the way GoW or even CoD 2 looked. However, this doesn't subtract from the game all that 
 much.
  
  The best way to keep from getting bored here, is to just do side quest (aka Scoop Missions) and 
 killing non-story related psychos. Other than that, this game has a pretty large amount of replay 
 value. Hope you enjoy if you do decide to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game basen on The hit movie Dawn of the Dead. I speek for alot of gamers when 
 I say this game has ben wanted for a very long time. This agem you take the place of photojournalist 
 Frank West. You have 72 hous until your helacopter comes back to get you out of the mall. The game 
 features great graphics and a great gore system. I dont think choping someones head off has ever 
 ben so fun. The mall features a food store a gun shop and a great sword store. This game has long 
 lasting apile. There are some problems such as having to save at rest rooms and being unable to 
 save any where. The font is hard to read on regular definition Tv's. The psychopaths are extremly 
 hard to kill and can be shot 100 times and still have half of a life left. Overall though this 
 game is a good game that should last you a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtGizmo92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has some problems, but overall this is a game worth playing. I'll go through the negative 
 points of the game first. Number one is the save system. You can only have one slot, and save in 
 specified points, but this is made worse by the fact that the game's time is constantly moving, 
 and you have to be at certain places on time. If you save yourself into a corner where you can't 
 get to the mission on time, you must restart the game. However, as long as you are careful, you 
 can easily avoid this. Another bad point is the loading time. Everytime you enter a new area of 
 the mall, the game must load it, which is odd, because the mall isn't even that big, compared to 
 games like Grand Theft Auto, which doesn't have loading times. Some controls are hard to use, especially 
 when you get into the higher levels of the game's leveling system, and get advanced moves. Another 
 thing is that you can't move while you shoot, but this doesn't feel like too big of a problem when 
 you are used to it. However, the good points outweigh the bad points of Dead Rising. First, this 
 game is the most fun zombie-killing ever. You can use a variety of makeshift weapons, and normal 
 weapons like guns. Also, the boss battles are awesome, and the story is presented extremely well, 
 with good voice acting and cool cutscenes. There is also an incredible amount of depth to the game. 
 You can mix ingredients in a blender to make special drinks, use books to increase your power, 
 and do many different things with each weapon. Also, the achievements in this game encourage multiple 
 playthroughs (I've already beaten it 3 times, different ways each time, and I am going to play 
 through it at least 2 more times) , and playing it different ways each time through. Overall this 
 is one of my favorite games on the X360 and I highly recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisZewski
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Hello
  Let me start by clarifying a few things for you people: i'm not a survival/horror fan. I tried 
 playing Resident Evil 2 Platinum a long long time ago and i thought it was a great door-opening 
 sim but i never felt motivated enough to return to the series or genre for that matter. So why 
 am i bothering to write a review for a game in a genre i have little interest in? THIS. GAME. ROCKS.
 
  
  Game-play
  Premise: spend 72 game hours trying to find out as much as you can about the tragedy affecting 
 the small town of Willamette. What you actually wind up doing is far more than that. There are 
 over four dozen survivors in this mall that need to be escorted to safety. You don't want to save 
 em all, you don't have to. Most are side quests that you can take or leave but ALL quests are time 
 sensitive. Main quests, or CASES have to be followed or the trail of the story runs cold. (You 
 can choose to continue killing zombies and exploring the mall or going after achievements without 
 any time constraints.) Most of the quests require you to get from point A to point B in X amount 
 of time. Sounds tedious, i know, but never in my life has simple escotrt missions been so much 
 fun. Picture this... You are traveling through the mall looking to get to the security room with 
 three survivors following you and one on your back when you enter the main enterance plaza only 
 to find that you are in the cross-hairs of three psychopaths wielding hunting rifles. You place 
 priority on keeping your survivors safe by telling them to stay put in the back of a clothing store's 
 dressing room while dodging rifle rounds as they zing past your head. oh, yeah, you have to face 
 off against faster moving, smarter, better armed HUMAN opponents as well.
  
  Difficulty - unadjustable
  But thats okay. The difficulty is just right. Oddly enough, this game 
 is harder earlier rather than later and not because of a learning curve. Your character (Frank) 
 is a pretty weak and wimpy guy at first: small ammount of life, short throw distance and only a 
 few punches and kicks to keep you alive. Spend a few (game) hours with him and all of a sudden 
 he can carry more stuff, tackle zombies, walk on their backs, and most important, live longer.
 
  
  Skills Somewhat Explained
  Without increasing Frank's skills you are zombait. Frank can gain experience in a few ways: taking 
 pictures, rescuing survivors, or, of course killing zombies. Although the biggest boost comes from 
 rescuing survivors and taking pictures of them at the right time. You can level all the way to 
 Lvl.50 but the game incorporates an interesting way of letting you keep your experience and level 
 when you end up as a zombie's warm lunch. When you are killed, you are presented with two options: 
 reload from your last save point (and throughout the entire game you only get one save game slot 
 and although it is possible to save yourself into a corner, i never made that unfortunate mistake) 
 or you can save all of Frank's experience and restart the game. I will admit i used this mechanic 
 to cheat a bit, but it enabled me to progress through the game a little easier in the beginning 
 when the game is hardest.
  
  Graphics
  I first bought this game in its original week of release and since then games are looking better 
 and better for the 360. Dead Rising had arguably the best graphics of the summer and at that time 
 i was playing on a SDTV squinting to read the text at the bottom of the screen (more on that later) 
 and sitting amazed at the detail and sheer number of zombies on screen. The graphics have stood 
 the test of time so far (seven months) and look great on my new Samsung HDTV. And the text messages 
 at the bottom of the screen are SO much more legible now (yeah i'll explain later) . The mall is 
 very detailed and store signs and advertisements are rich and persuasive. The zombie dismembering 
 devices look as they should and overall the game deliveres on the visual side of things. Sound
 
  Wow, the foley work on this game is superb. Ever wonder what a hunk of meat sounds like when it 
 hits a zombie in the head? Play this game and you'll find out. The weapons sound just like their 
 real life counterparts (just throw a can of paint at a zombie's head and tell me it doesn't sound 
 real) or drink a gallon of orange juice and immediatly you'll understand. Might be the best sound 
 in any game. Now that i'm done gushing about the sound effects, time to move on to music. Not much 
 music to speak of. Just the music you'd expect to hear in a mall during business hours. Some stores 
 have their own exclusive tracks and out in the mall's courtyard you'll actually hear the game's 
 only real atmospheric soundtrack, but for the most part you won't miss an overt orchestral score 
 for this title.
  
  Weapons
  Without going into too much detail, i'll only list a few of the many (many) weapons for you to 
 bash against a zombie's skull. There's the requisite sharp objects like knives and swords, but 
 a good rule of thumb is that if you can pick it up, you can use it to ruin a zombie's day at the 
 mall. That means benches, store signs, displays, etc. You also have a limited selection of firearms 
 like a handgun, shotgun, and sniper rifle (hunting rifle w/ scope) , and later a machine gun , but 
 they are better suited for the game's human enemies. You are encouraged to use mele weapons against 
 the undead since the guns have small clip sizes. Mele weapons can also be thrown (please throw 
 the lead pipe at a zombie early in the game. I mised out on that one for a while) and will do slightly 
 more damage depending on Frank's throw distance. Other than firearms, weapons fall under categories 
 like sports (baseball bats, golf clubs, skateboards) construction (2x4, lead pipe, sledgehammer) 
 entertainment (tv's, chairs, benches) bladed (knives, swords, axes) and some even overlap, like 
 a saw blade is construction and bladed, or adam's amall chainsaws are construction, entertainment, 
 and bladed (hint hint) . This knowledge comes in handy when you figure in a weaon's durability (or 
 number of swings/throws that make contact with a zombie) and a skill book modifier. You can increase 
 the longevity of a baseball bat by keeping a sports book in your inventory, or heal yourself more 
 efficiently by keeping a cuisine magazine and drinking some coffee creamer. One thing you must 
 do if you decide to purchase or rent theis fine, fine game is to head over to the Home Saloon (kina 
 like a Home Depot) and check out the excavator. Never gets old.
  
  Flaws
  Even the best games have imperfections (remember the Xen levels in Half-Life?) and Dead Rising 
 is no different. The standout flaw is that the game's text is almost unreadable on a SDTV (i played 
 on a 21 SDTV poor, 36 SDTV readable but fuzzy, and a 32 HDTV best.) and after a while it made my 
 eyes hurt from straining to read the fuzzy text. This wouldn't be such a problem if most of Dead 
 Rising's dialogue wasn't text based. Most of your side quest or scoop info is relayed to you in 
 this manner and it makes things difficult when you have to spend extra time trying to decipher 
 the language at the bottom of the screen. Which brings us to the next complaint. Although not as 
 large of a problem, the time constraints for some of the CASES and SCOOPS seem impossible if you 
 are a save fanatic. What i mean is, you only get one save slot for the entirety of Dead Rising. 
 This means you must save over your previous data every time you chose to save the game. The chance 
 to save Frank's stats and start over helps greatly here and aleviates some of the pressure to get 
 things right the first time but you may need to repeat a lengthy ammount of time to return to the 
 point that gave you trouble. Anoher problem is saving yourself into a corner by saving your progress 
 ahd not giving yourself enough time to complete your task. I never had a problem with this since 
 i just used the autosaves after each CASE as a starting point, and again, the save Frank's stats 
 and start over option balances things out nicely but since all other reviews i read included this 
 as a minor grievance, so too shall mine.
  
  Fun Factor - Through the Roof!
  Small list of complaints but i never truly felt any of them detracted from the game. The acheivement 
 list alone can keep you busy for days and the rewards will help when you decide to save all 52 
 survivors, or attempt to tackle survival mode. The fact that Dead Rising is an exclusive title 
 to the X360 is reason enough to pick up this wonderfully fun, gaming experience but in case you 
 need more persuasion, if you have a 360, you should have Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloGuy616
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has got gore, action, and violence all in one. Dead Rising for me has been a great experience 
 in the land of the dead. The story takes place In Willamette, CO. At the local shopping mall. You 
 are Frank, a reporter who is looking for the best scoop. On your way there you spot wierd looking 
 people, who look like zombies reeking havoc in the small town, from blowing up gas stations, to 
 trapping a girl on the roof and killing her. You land on the roof at Willamette Mall and meet up 
 with a man who will be your future enemy in one of the missions.
  
  If you have ever seen Dawn of the Dead then this game will definately remind you of it. From the 
 zombies all over the mall, to the safe spots in the mall. You start out in the security room with 
 the rest of the survivors in the mall. You are sent out to the roof of the mall to take the elevator 
 down inside. You meet a couple on the roof and they are the typical 2006 couple.... except they 
 are a little aged *old*. You bring them back to the security room to be safe.
  
  This game meets my requirements to the first best zombie game ever, except for Resident Evil of 
 Course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbshaffer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Phase I: In the first phase you will be a little timid and shifty. The zombies may frighten you 
 a little and you will avoid them, sometimes leaping through glass to take a breather in a nice 
 empty store. Once you are comfortable with the zombie noises, speed, and sheer numbers, you will 
 feel more comfortable about closing in on them for the kill. At this point you will move into Phase 
 II.
  
  Phase II: In the second phase you are more comfortable with your enemy but still cautious when 
 you have your back to them, often turning around just to make sure there aren't any sneaking up 
 on you. When you kill you kill out of necessity, to protect the survivors or to clear a path to 
 a store or food. As you kill more and more zombies in this manor, slowly a bloodlust will build 
 up inside of you. After the taste of blood is permanently embedded on your brain and you are completely 
 comfortable with how slow and dumb zombies are you will enter phase III.
  
  Phase III: Third phase killers are cool cats, casually strolling through the mall annihilating 
 everything in their path just for kicks. When you are focused on something, the noises of zombies 
 slowly creeping behind you couldn't bother you less. You will mock the zombies with novelty masks 
 and cone heads and then beat them ruthlessly just because. Blood will be permanently stained on 
 your clothes and you'll like it. Killing zombies with guns will be too easy, you will satisfy your 
 bloodlust with baseball bats and 2 x 4 's. You may even keep a zombie arm for a snack during those 
 boring trips to the Security Room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_last_devil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  One thing is worth mentioning at the beginning. If you're looking for an ambitious game, where 
 you have to do tons of thinking this game is definitely NOT for you. However if you're looking 
 for a game with a superb gameplay, the one which is extremely fun to play and which doesn't get 
 boring after a while - get Capcom's Dead Rising.
  The story? Very simple, but don't worry - it exists. Just to say - Frank West, a reporter (who 
 did wars!) finds himself in a mall full of zombies. He arranged a helicopter to come and rescue 
 him after 72 hours of game time - that's more or less 6 hours of real time. That's not much - you 
 probably think. But those 6 hours are packed with a non stop action, and believe me, you will NOT 
 stop after ending the game for the first time. So what can we do for 3 days in a mall full of zombies? 
 This is up to you - you can hide, and wait (yes, you will finish the game this way) , you can rescue 
 some survivors, or you can kill hordes of zombies, or you can try to find out the mystery of zombies.
 
  About the graphics - you might have some problems when using the standard TV. There is a lot of 
 in-game text, and it's almost impossible to see it on normal TV screen. You have to sit really 
 close and gaze into the depths of your screen, deciphering what is written there. But after a while 
 you can get used to it, and you forget about that small problem. The graphics are really good, 
 the zombies move and look like they should, and yes... there may be hundreds of zombies at screen 
 at one time. So what can you do to get past your enemies? Almost anything you find in a mall. Sports 
 shop? Sure - baseball bats, bowling balls, golf clubs. CD shops? No problem - cash registers, cds. 
 Antique shop? Now that's fun - old swords, katanas, axes... And of course a gun shop - with handguns, 
 shotguns and even sniper rifles! There is little level upping to be done throughout the game. You 
 start as a weak journalist who is low on life, slow and can't deal good damage to foes. You can 
 get to level 50 - when you become the zombie killing machine, with many great moves allowing you 
 to forget about weapons completely and decapitate your enemies with your own hands. Rescuing and 
 escorting survivors is another thing. Their AI doesn't really exist. You can give them weapons 
 or tell them where to go, but they will surely be stuck on the first obstacle. Escorting them to 
 the security room takes some time and patience, as you need to watch them all the time, avoiding 
 hundreds of zombies at the same time. The sound? Flawless I suppose. Everything sounds as it should, 
 and there's some great music during the boss encounters. You have to know that this game is strange 
 and different from what you have seen so far. I haven't had so much fun playing a game for a long 
 time now, and after beating it for 5th time now (there are different endings) I still haven't got 
 enough. Looking for a fun game which won't get you stuck anywhere? Buy Dead Rising. And get poor 
 Frank out of there! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arterberry
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  **** my gut wrenching, Zombie afflicted, arm eating grizzle! Well - I have to admit, the write-up 
 from sogsifu is so right, especially at first glance. I thought the same exact thing, at least 
 the first time I played the game.
  
  Then after several plays and eventually completing it, I realized, the game is designed just a 
 little different, just slightly ahead of its time. In fact- to make us (gamers) want to play it 
 more and get lost in its simple, but crazy style, its annoying ways kinda pull you in, like with 
 a slick hypnosis, wrapped in a rather slick story (minus the trite dialog) ..
  
  I will admit - its annoying at first. This game and its stupid transceiver - that rings incisively, 
 repetitively, soul-sucking annoyingly - it made me put the tube on mute. I was so ticked off, I 
 hated the game play. Then after I just pushed ahead - and finished the game (thanks to some of 
 the pointers strewn about within the GameSpot guide) - I took a different approach to the game. 
 I played the game again.
  
  I ignored the annoying stuff - and I slaughtered zombies - as if I were in a free roam zone. I 
 went from spot to spot, to spot, to every spot in the mall, discovering hidden places, weapons, 
 and racking up levels and abilities in the game - that I almost became unstoppable. I started to 
 like the game, a lot.
  
  Heres a tiptreat the game like a free roamer, third person slaughter fest, and ignore the very 
 first Case mission (Saving Brad or some crap) and just do everything else. I tried this approach 
 - and the game was like a piece of cake. I enjoyed it more, I played it more, and I discovered 
 more. I even answered the stupid transceiver.
  
  And you know what - the game is better now. If you play it without taking on the Case files first 
 - you can rack up some nice points and level up quick. And if you take the time to practice running 
 rings around the zombies, you can discover some really nice stuff hidden around in that stupid 
 mall. I am satisfied with my purchase - but its time to try out Gears of War. I need some real-time 
 combat action. Dead Rising doesnt offer that. It offers some passive aggressive zombies - that 
 attack suddenly, and you have to respond defensively - and act like a hero. I hate that part of 
 the game - but I do like the side missions - way better then the Case files. The Case files have 
 Boss kill missions - which grow old after awhile.
  
  Before I go further, I should just curtail my tangent rant.
  
  Look -- the game is cool, and 
 you can kill stuff. I recommend it as a renter from your local Blockbuster - at least at first. 
 See how you like it. If you can stand it - then make the purchase. I have played it twice to completion 
 in less than 5 days - but I enjoyed it. Especially when I save 3 hot chicks from an oversized raging 
 behemoth, that looked like Rosie ODonnell in a way too tight cop uniform.
  
  Booya! I got those hotties back in one piece - and pwn that oversized backwater trailer hitch! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beeker12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of the game it did not look that good but as time went by there was stuff brought 
 out about it like videos or Images and I took A look at it and it looked pretty good and I could 
 not wait for it and when it came I quickly got it in my Xbox 360 and played it right a way. I loved 
 it because of its Next Gen swarm technology, long story short tons of zombies, blood and Gore O 
 ya Next Because you will never have weapon problems because you can get weapons in every store 
 in the mall, From small little Knifes to big Chain saws, Shot guns, Sledge hammers, Swords,50 cals, cars 
 even a teddy bear so cute Oh! and when all you weapons are broken you can break out A huge list 
 of moves that Kill zombies in style by pulling there guts out or a Face Crusher that will Bash 
 open there head. Sorry for saying that much there is just so much excellent stuff that had to be 
 said. So I say thank you cap com for making this game and it is the best game I have played after 
 The Elder Scrolls IV OBLIVION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is mainly about you're this freelance photojournalist who gets tipped about something 
 going on in this little town called willamette. You get a helicopter ride from this guy and he 
 flies you in and over this town. You notice that everything has just gone to hell like dead bodies 
 everywhere, people shooting at slow moving carcusses, and going insane. You get dropped off ontop 
 of a mall and that is where you begin to unravel this mystery. The game has a storyline, a real 
 twisted and turny one, but it mainly focuses on killing zombies, in which it does pretty good. 
 You can pretty much use about everything you see as a weapon like throwing pies in zombie's faces 
 and slicing them up with a chainsaw. You can even get pictureframes that i found in this hardware 
 shop and bash them in these zombies, which they just wonder around blind. Its really a whole lot 
 of fun when you can get a bunch of zombies wondering around like that, and just ultimatley torture 
 them by, lets say, mowing them over with lawn mower.
  Its amazing though, the number of zombies onscreen are so great and yet the game just keeps this 
 solid 40 frames per second. I'd say the number of onscreen zombies easily goes into the hundreds. 
 Its just so fun when you rev up your chainsaw and just slash it back and forth while running into 
 a huge crowd. It seems like it can never get old, but sadly, it does.
  
  When you completed the story line and maxed out your moves list and stats, You can go for the boring 
 alternate endings or play the game a little differently then you did, but then all there is left 
 is to do is kill zombies and that is where you get that repetative feeling. Basicly, you do all 
 the stuff listed above, but you just keep repeating it and repeating it. I fell asleep one time 
 becuase it was so unexciting. So, i'm not calling it a bad game, its a good game, it really is. 
 Just for the time being. Instead of buying it, you should rather rent it for about a week or two, 
 it only takes about 2 or 3 days to complete the storyline, the exciting version that is. After 
 that, it could take about 4 days to do all the stuff you can do in the game and the excitment just 
 stops there. Its good... then bad... and thats it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franky_10
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  i didnt spend much time playing this game after 2 days i stopped. killing zombies is fun for a 
 while but it has a horrible storyline and alot of bad features like pretty much startin over when 
 u die or fail although it has sum gud features like using anythinng in your way 2 kill zombies 
 i think that game is a waste of time the graphics r petty bad and i heard of alot of glitchs luckily 
 i rented it first and i would recomend it 2 any1 who reads this this game also can get very frustrating 
 and annoying and thats pretty much it ur call if u want this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogsifu
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is a great idea but was not planned out well. First of all, the save function of the 
 game is miserable. You basically spend the entire game running for dear life looking for a save 
 location while you're getting annoying cell calls telling you to save non zombies stuck in the 
 mall. After awhile even using a chainsaw to a zombie loses it's fun. It really is ashame because 
 this game had great potential but was designed (game play) wrong. If you can melt dead rising with 
 Call of duty, you may come up with a winning zombie kill fest game!!!! Wait until this game is 
 $10 on ebay or rent it. Otherwise, don't waste your money on the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxy42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to start!? I haven't finished it yet, so perhaps this is a little premature, but I 
 just had to say to anyone, this game is not to be missed. As a lot of you may be aware, in europe, 
 games are silly money... I'm a senior professional tech, but at 70 euros (yes, that's right folks, 
 OVER 90 DOLLARS!!) a pop here in greece, even I have to choose carefully which ones I purchase, 
 it's as much a principal thing... a game has to be DAMN good, to make me want to spend 90 bucks 
 on it, capiche?
  
  I usually rent them, make sure I'm gonna want to keep them, THEN go out and buy them. I have to 
 say, on Dead Rising I took a risk, and boy did it pay off, I saw it, read a review, went straight 
 out and bought it.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, it's difficult not to draw satisfaction from the ceaseless slaughter 
 of the zombie horde with absolutely anything you can get your hands on. Above and beyond that, 
 the way the weapons are implemented and the bonus touches like the sprinkler head just make the 
 game a joy and a riot to play at any time of day or night. Need a pick me up? Just grab a 2x4 and 
 start banging away, you'll be right as rain in no time, and cackling like a madman.
  
  I ceased to care about making it to that trapped couple in that store and escorting them safety, 
 when I could just go get a great big battleaxe and whirl it around until surrounded by zombie pieces. 
 If that sounds mindless to you, well, it is! What can I say! The story is however, not to be ignored, 
 what I've seen so far is well thought through and interesting. I actually DO want to know WHY I'm 
 slaughtering all these undead, fun as it may be.
  
  On a technical level it has it's good and bad points, the gameplay in general, as I said, excellent. 
 The graphics, top notch, especially on a 55 bravia, the sound, OUTSTANDING!! The frustration of 
 not being able to find the toilets? Frustrating... that would be it's only bad point. Either multiple 
 save slots, OR the ability to quick save would have solved this, and it is the only thing that 
 after a few hours of zombie mashing, makes me put the joypad down, until I feel like replaying 
 what is always a large section of the game that I have completed without having either ability 
 or opportunity to save. The implementation of the camera and the rolepaying element of levelling-up 
 is well done, although a little confusing and haphazard, sometimes you'll level up twice in one 
 section, without really having the opportunity to stop thrashing zombies and understand what you've 
 gained...
  
  ... Still, compared to the pros, the cons are virtually insignificant. This is a truly unique experience 
 not to be missed by anyone with a sense of fun (and I promise you've never had so much fun in front 
 of a TV) . Really, buy this game, not only is it truly outstanding the first time round, but I know 
 I'll be coming back to it for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOCATL
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really fun, tearing zombies apart is always fun to release anger, i like that 
 you can interact with a lot of thing in the game, like trow plants and chairs at zombies, that 
 really nice, and is a bloodstorm if you like horror movies is always sweet, the downside is that 
 take tha game is kind of slow from room to room, and that you have to repeat a lot of time the 
 same room, but when you reach a high level things get easier and more fun, in general is a good 
 horror game, but you need a little patience to have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacticalheavy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  I was particulary impressed by the clean graphics and the incredibly well done sound. The sound 
 of each weapon sounds great, and every weapon has his own charm. It's simply great to go with a 
 chainsaw to a bunch of Zombies and beat the crap out of them. There are hundrets and thousands of 
 Zombies that you can kill with hundrets of different weapons. The gameplay is good and the rpg 
 elements are a nice touch to this bloody game. Simply great. It's worth 60 dollars to kill so much 
 
  Really really great game that is a mustown for every kid who just wants to beat the crap out of 
 Zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  it cant say its original .... like comon there is a movie almost exactly like this game, plus there 
 is a rmake of that movie! But fo a game genre its pretty original... just killing anything that 
 moves.... helping stranded people... or just try to find out what the hell happend!
  But oyur super strengthed photo-journalist is kinda too bad ass (kinda looks like the guy in GTA3) 
 oh well u can change his cloth .. and put on a freakin mega man suit! come on thats just plain sweet!
 
  But the game gets realy repetitive and it gets boring after you dothe begining of the quest like 
 100 times.
  Worth to rent a couple of time but not to buy!
  
  yours truly.... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm normally not a fan of mindless fun, but in this case, I'll make an exception. Watching this 
 game is interesting, and playing it is even harder to talk about. It's fun, and ever so engrossing. 
 The first play-through will probably result in Ending B, which just leaves so much hanging...
 
  
  For the serious review...
  Gameplay: Just so difficult to describe. Somewhat of a hack-and-slash, but has so much more to 
 it. Weapons can be made out of anything. You play as Frank, a photographer, who mistakingly ends 
 up in a zombie-infested mall. He's not alone, however, with many survivors to save, as well as 
 other human psychopaths out for blood in this end of the world setting. As you play through the 
 game, you're lvl will increase, and your stats will improve, a well welcomed RPG feature. You can 
 increase a variety of stats., including Health/ Life, Inventory Capacity, and Movement Speed. Utilizing 
 anything you can as a weapon, of course some being better than others, Frank must battle his way 
 through hordes of zombies doing various tasks. Learning all of the controls isn't difficult.
  Graphics: The graphics are a good display of next-gen. capabilities, but I have one thing I hate, 
 THE MOUTHS. PEOPLE'S MOUTHES IN THIS GAME ARE SO ANNOYING. Other than that, nicely done, not many 
 glitches, etc.
  Sound: I didn't really hear much of the sound, other than sound effects and voice acting, as we 
 had music going for the last 2/3 of the game on my friends new 360.
  Value: High, so many people love mindless fun, myself not usually included, but regardless, a lot 
 of people are hoping on a sequel.
  My Tilt: High. A great game for it's genre. Then again, what would you expect from Capcom? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarple_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a game with multiple levels of hate - like. You begin thinking wow alot of zombies, and 
 then you grab a weapon and you beat the cr@p out of them, and your like wow this is fun then you 
 try to rescue someone and find that rescuing is a bit hard and then your like wow this sucks, but 
 then suddenly you find out if you hit the B button you can carry some people and your like wow 
 this just became a lot easier i likes now, but then you'll come accross your first boss who fools 
 you into believing your rescuing someone, and then you die a few times and say wow this is hard, 
 and you ultimitly avoid him till you start to realize where the good weapons are and then you'll 
 start to beat the cr@p out of the bosses with ease and instantly love the game again. But all and 
 all the mall is trully a rubik's cube. Once you figure out the secrets of the mall the game becomes 
 fun and easy, you'll trully feel like your in control, along as you have discovered how good wine 
 is to your health and to never go out with at least 3 bottles you'll start to trully enjoy this 
 game. I have a friend that gave up on this game too quick, he didn't realize how deep the gameplay 
 can be. It really does have a simple design to it, but there is alot to learn about the mall itself 
 to trully enjoy Dead Rising. Once everything makes sense to you, and i mean trully everything makes 
 sense to you, you cant hate this game, its just amazing when you get to that point. It trully is 
 a 1 of a kind experience when you hit the point of understanding.
  
  Great game all and all, a must have for the 360, but you must give it the time to figure out to 
 trully enjoy this master piece. Not many games come this deep, with being sooo simple, its really 
 something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hedgyness
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising overall is a very good game, it has decent graphics, great replay value and the thrill 
 of coming up against literally thousands of zombies is amazing. The the story you are a journalist 
 called Frank West that flies in by helicopter to investigate the closed off town, he is dropped 
 off at the mall and is told that the helicopter would return 3 days later at noon. You enter to 
 find zombies and a few suvivors, as the story progresses you find out more about why the zombies 
 are there and who caused it.
  
  The missions come in the form of casefiles that have specific starting and ending times, this can 
 be annoying since you are only allowed one save slot if you are unable to reach a casefile in time 
 the story is failed. There are also many opptional tasks that normally involve you escorting some 
 survivors back to the security room, this can get very repetitive and the crap survivor AI really 
 doesn't help. There are times where a survivor is injured or unable to walk properly so you will 
 have to offer a shoulder or carry them while you do this you can not attack or jump.
  
  There is a wide variety of weapons from guns and chainsaws to rocks and a mannaquin, all of the 
 weapons sound just like you would expect them to to the smallest detail. There is nothing like 
 the feeling of a katana slicing straight through a zombie, cutting it in half.
  
  The actual maps themselves are very varied and offer many different stores like cloth and gardening 
 shops, you can actually try on different clothes from stores around the mall. The regular elevator 
 music is very funny and very suiting to all the blood thirsty zombies.
  
  The game is heavily let down by its terrible save system, because there is only one save slot you 
 have to save carefully, if you save in a way that you cant reach the casefile in time you have 
 to start the story again, although you do keep all your stats and level (but not the number zombie 
 kills) . If you do start again it is not very hard to catch up since you will be higher level.
 
  
  Overall the game is very good and a must have for any zombie fan, the game is only let down with 
 it's terrible save system and crap survivor AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salizar11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Holy crap! This games has made my life complete! I think this is one of the best games in history 
 and stuff. You can go where ever ya want and you can pick up so many things like cactus's and metal 
 poles and everything! I sooooooooooooo recommend this game to anyone who's loved zombies and people 
 who love to just beat the crap out of zombies. Want to know why i spent over 40 hours on it, cause 
 it rocks and i can't stop playing it. Now i'm going to right random things. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  Try to find my name in this puzzle.
  
  
  
  
   
 r ;kanhthjm jj j ae jkl nsfsnbb bjjsjk gbkj jkg r ar'e agjhjgkj hghfkjgjhfgbfjgksjlfbgkjskflkj 
 RYAN 
  gjhfhgjf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok the first time i saw this game I thought it would be amazing boy was i wrong. After about 2 
 hours of playing this game I saw it getting a lot repidtive. You just keep on gonig through the 
 mall and killing zombies witch is fun but it gets boring after a while. Don't get me wrong im not 
 saying this is a bad game you just keep on doing the same things over and over again the boss fights 
 are some what amusing. The only thing you would have fun with is that your having a party with 
 your buds that is about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun from the moment you put in the disk. When I got this game i was so excited. I 
 mean come on seriously, what's better than killing thousands of zombies in a mall? Thats right 
 I dont think there is. All I did for a whole week was eat, sleep, and play dead rising. It's definitely 
 one of my top 3 games of all time. The gameplay is great. So is the sound and everything else. 
 The only thing that isn't perfect is the graphics but then again i'm playing it on a regular tv 
 and not HDTV. The people talking just looks a little odd but its ok because the rest of the games 
 features are completely and totally AWESOME... I suggest that you go buy it RIGHT NOW!!!! unless 
 you already have it... then GO PLAY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsjsjsjsd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is like a game that came from the creaters of grand theft auto!!!! yeah its that good!!! so 
 the graphics are perfect, the gore is phenomenol, the weapons are endless, and the psycopaths are 
 crazy!!!! the gameplay perfectly blends in and the camara feature to earn pp is pretty cool because 
 you can take a picture on whatever a zombie is doing and zap you can take picture a picture of 
 a zmbie dying, pushing a cart, getting there heads blown straight off and a mindless zombie just 
 walking. so you are frank west a hard eged photojournalist and is investagating the incident of 
 the willamette mall but mister frank west dosent know what he is getting himself into. pretty stupid 
 idea to jump in a mall filled with zombies huh? the game modes are 72 hour mode which is what you 
 first start with, then overtime mode is another day story mode into the game, and unlimited mode 
 is when you beat both 72 hour mode and overtime mode. unlimeted mode is where you can do whatever 
 you want but your health slowly depletes. then cases (in 72 hour mode) is very strict because if 
 you run out of time then its over, you have to restart from your last checkpoint or completely 
 restart the game. and there is another thing called scoop missons where you can escort people to 
 a safe place and earn pp points. but the survivors is pretty much brainless as the zombies and run 
 into trouble and gets frustrating. but overall the game is awesome and highly recommend you buy 
 this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game gets it right just as you see the first cutscene. Using about everything you see as a 
 weapon is just awsome i mean come on using a battle axe to cut zombies in half, or putting a fry 
 pan on the oven to heat it up than place the pan on a zombies face. This game's story is just weird 
 but it does have to do with a goverment. Graphics is very Next-Gen fitting thousands of zombies 
 on the screen at once is awsome to look at. Gameplay is mainly about pressing the X button. I bet 
 the people of Dawn of the Dead never had this must fun. Pick up this game when you get the chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloc1000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Yet again, Capcom made a game thats just plain fun. Dead Rising is about man named Frank west who 
 is a photojournalist investigating a mystery at Willamette, and discovers a ton of Zombies at the 
 Mall. Until the helicopter, which is 72 hours, u must save the remaining survivors and kill the 
 Psychopaths that are in your way. U can also take pictures of the zombies, survivors, psychopaths 
 and special PP sticker points that will last u days.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 Very satisfying gameplay. In a mall with most things are weapon and everything is 
 acssesable (mostly) . It is pretty hardcore with alot of violence and blood, so really its not for 
 people under 13, also there is a problem with the save. When you die it will say Save Status and 
 Quit DONT PRESS IT!!!. It will save the status but you will have to restart the entire game!!. 
 Last but not lest This game is Hard... pretty hard. Most of the psychopaths are hard and getting 
 the survivors to the security room can be a pain. Still, the game is fantastic overall.
  
  Graphics 7/10 Its pretty good but honestly i've seen better. You will probably think that the Xbox 
 can play it , But it can't , the 360 can put thousands of zombies and the Xbox can put a few hundred.
 
  
  Sound 8/10 The sounds in the game are pretty realistic and especially with voice acting But (of 
 course) when you are in a battle there is a metal song that dosent sound that good (unless you 
 like metal music) .
  
  Value 10/10 Trust me the game will last you a year. PERIOD
  
  Tilt 10/10 U just cant miss out on a game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomgod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising tells the tale of photo journalist Frank West as he looks for a brilliant new story 
 to get his now fizzled career back on track, in the quaint town of Willamette. The first thing 
 you notice about Frank is that he is just an average guy, and I think this is the first game to 
 successfully portray a regular, normal person effectively as the main character. Obviously Frank 
 realises he has stumbled upon a living hell at the mall, and it's his job to find out why this 
 has happened and who did it, which fits in well with his aim of getting a great story.
  
  Dead Rising's storyline is definately one of the best, originally just a game, storylines. I definately 
 won't spoil it but the plot is full of twists and turns that will make you keep playing, and the 
 addition of several multiple endings means there is more incentive to find out what becomes of 
 Frank each time. The basic plot is that Frank has to spend 72 hours in the mall until his chopper 
 arrives to pick him up, in this time you can do what you wish. Missions are dealt out from the 
 mall janitor Otis and are called scoop chances. These are spreaded out evenly throughout the 72 
 hour period so there is always something for you to kill or somebody to save.
  
  If the format of sandbox gaming in a mall full of zombies doesn't interest you, there is definately 
 something wrong with you. As I said, you can do what you wish in those 72 hours (around 6 hours 
 in real time) . You can just simply go around killing zombies with the vast array of every day, 
 and some pretty unusual but highly vicious weapons at your disposal which are scattered throughout 
 the mall. Or you can try and uncover the truth behind the breakout, or even help the other human 
 survivors trapped in the mall to safety. Dead Rising seems simple but there are more complex features 
 for expert players such as expanding your weapons lives with books and performing awesome hand 
 to hand combat moves, even wrestling manouveres too which you unlock as you level up. The level 
 up feature is pretty cool and it is run by a stat tracker called 'PP'. You get PP for just playing 
 the game, killing zombies, rescuing people or taking pictures, so the game can reward players of 
 all skill levels with whatever they are doing, which is a good feature.
  
  Dead Rising, gameplay wise is actually nothing advanced, but it works extremely well. Your basic 
 controls are just picking stuff up, attacking, jumping, commanding survivors, opening doors and 
 aiming. You are never struggling to do anything, which is handy seeing as there are over 53,000 
 zombies desperately trying to bite you. The only grumble with the gameplay is that aiming down 
 the gun is extremely slow, but then again what do you expect from an every day guy, he's not an 
 elite soldier. Melee attacks are very easy to perform whether they're hand to hand or if you are 
 using a chainsaw.
  
  Graphically Dead Rising may look dated now but at the time of release it was a very good looking 
 game. Still to this date I think the detail they put into the character's faces etc. is pretty 
 phenomenal, and you want good looking cutscenes to go with the great story. The zombies are all 
 easy to tell out and everything on the ground you can pick up is pretty visible too. It's just 
 a shame the extremely tiny writing lets the game down, as unless you are playing on a HD television, 
 you will have to literally sit next to the screen.
  
  The sound in Dead Rising is pretty much perfect. I always sense a slight feel of irony when the 
 casual mall background music is playing as I hit a zombie in the face with my trusty lead pipe. 
 The sound effects from your weaponary are all unique and are pretty accurate to what it would actually 
 sound like if you were to hit a member of the undead with it.
  
  The learning curve of Dead Rising is pretty darn steep, if you are intending to play this game 
 properly you will have to be quite good at games. The game has been designed for both casual and 
 hardcore gamers but to get the most out of the game, you will want to discover the truth, and that 
 does take quite a lot of skill and patience. Did i mention you have to be a patient person to play 
 this game? It can get extremely annoying and I have contemplated snapping the disc several times. 
 Due to glitchy AI survivors i'm trying to rescue and the unforgiving save system. In Dead Rising 
 you can only save the game at about 6 allocated points, there is no restart mission. Whether or 
 not Capcom intended for it to add to the desperation of fighting your way through the zombie horde 
 to save your hard work is unknown, but I must say, the feeling of relief is sometimes unbelievable 
 to say it's just a game.
  
  Value wise Dead Rising, especially now is excellent. I have personally done multiple play throughs 
 of the game, mainly due to the clever achievements the game has encorporated. The game was designed 
 to be replayed, perhaps a first playthrough to level up your character and build your skills to 
 tackle the main story, and this works well. 
  
  Overall Dead Rising is an extremely good package and is well worth the money. This is in my opinion 
 the best zombie game out on the marketplace to date as it manages to make a sadistic scenario absolutely 
 hysterical but it can also be a very serious and gorey game too, i recommend sticking to its certificate, 
 even though i'm only 15 (sshhh) . The storyline is definately one of the game's high points, and 
 it is actually pretty realistic and it demonstrates many problems in the world today, which was 
 surprising, but don't take my word for it, find out for yourself. Unless you have no patience or 
 you think this game sucks because it copied George A Romeros, Dawn of the Dead film, go and buy 
 it now, you will not regret it. Just don't forget your camera, and maybe a handgun or 50! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, Awesome, Awesome! Is how I feel about Dead Rising. It's got problems sure but you know 
 anybody who's seen Dawn of the Dead any versions or both get this game now. Before I talk about 
 the good I want to say that the save system it isn't exactly that evil it's just there's not much 
 saves to have in fact no saves that can save automatically, you can only save in safe spots and 
 bathrooms, which sort of sucks. Plus the way the game can play will be different for people and 
 similair for other people. Like I never restarted the game and started from the beginning my first 
 time through I just kept playing until the end and got to the True Ending which by the way is awesome. 
 So some people might be like me others would have a hard time leveling up and end up restarting 
 the game or in fact wouldn't find the game addictive and would rather think the game is boring 
 and return the game back to the game store they brought from or Gamestation otherwise. Now lets 
 get to the best stuff about the game after this long Intro. Gameplay: Like I said Save System is 
 a bit gay plus AI from all kinds of characters from bosses to people you need to escort are really 
 retarded but at least they won't run out of ammo on any melee or gun weaponry the carry with them. 
 Plus aiming the gun is a bit annoying because if your shot or hit or getting bit by a zombie when 
 aiming the gun you'll end up on Third Person view again plus you can't move when you're aiming 
 your gun which leads you vulnerable to zombies and bosses. Graphics: This game looks really good 
 when it comes to Gore and some textures look really sharp but they'll look unapealing because other 
 textures won't look too good but expressions look good and the game streams lots and lots of zombies, 
 although later in the game you find the game chugs more, god knows why. Sound: This game has some 
 funny Voice Acting but amazing cutting up of zombies sounds and other things like Machine Gun sounds 
 make those guns sound very realistic and powerful but probably the best of the sounds are from 
 Chainsaws. Value: There's tons of replayability mostly because of achievements and the fact that 
 you can level up and overall choose to just kill zombies in general. Tilt: I have begged for this 
 game when I played it and enjoyed this game the whole way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javes
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that just never gets old. It keeps you going and going. the only thing i 
 did not like was the fact your health drained on infinity mode. other than that this game is worth 
 every penny od the $60 you have to pay for it. because really, does it ever get better than zombies? 
 my favorite part is that you keep your experience and levels once you've beaten the game and start 
 a new one. all in all, its fun, looks good, sounds good, and plays good. if you own an xbox 360 
 this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyKung-Fu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  wow is the first thing I said when i played this game. the hordes of zombies, the awsome clothing, 
 the weapons, and the camera. The confusing controls can take some time to get used to but other 
 than that and the repetitiveness this game is perfect. Great replay value. looking forward to another 
 Dead Rising game. This time I hope for better controls and more usage of the battle cart. Over 
 all this game is pretty solid and very original but is you want this game make sure you got the 
 moolah because this game is a pricey 50$ ( at least where I live ) but so tottaly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising gives the gamer an oppurtunity that little other games do... kill thousands of corpes 
 and zombies in many imaginative ways. This game is great for people that enjoyed Dawn of the Dead, 
 and blood and gore lovers. Slapping around zombies is surprisingly quite fan, and there are many 
 things to see and try throughout your experiences in the mall such has weapons. The storyline of 
 Dead Rising manages to intrigue any gamer without pushing a lot of action into play. Also, the 
 game has some weird in a good way sound effects that keep you wanting more. The downfall of Dead 
 Rising is the outrageous save system that mixes with the real-time game structure which causes 
 a bit of problems. Next, some of the missions get annoying and repetitive after a while. Something 
 i found as a disappointment was that the graphics in the mall, of the zombies, and as your character, 
 are just good. There isn't anything really special about them. But you have to admit, blowing a 
 zombie's head off is a bit funny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwc0422
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay in this game is so much fun! You go around killing zombies and nothing 
 can be better than that!
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  
  Graphics - The graphics are somewhat of a let-down for a Xbox 360 game but they are still acceptable.
 
  
  Graphics : 8/10
  
  Sound - Oh boy, when you slice a zombie in half nothing can sound better than flesh and blood squirting 
 and tearing apart. :)
  
  Sound : 9/10
  
  Value - This game gets kinda old once you beat it but it still is a great game if you get used 
 to the save system.
  
  Value : 7/10
  
  I hope you enjoyed this review and it helps you make a decision to buy/rent this game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Capcom nailed it this time around by mixing Hollywood, horror and humor all 
 into one game. Dead rising lets you, Frank West fight within a mall to survive for 72 hours while 
 it is invested with 1000's of the undead. Find unique ways to massacre zombies from chain saws 
 and samurai swords to skateboards and CDs. Some of it cane be scary while other parts you actually 
 get points for taking funny photos.
  
  The game is very violent so I recommend not letting young kids or sensitive grown-ups even watch 
 the game play. All in all Dead Rising is the ultimate in zombie slaughter game and I look forward 
 to see this new genre expand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrumsIron
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Seeing the movies are one thing, but playing it is fantastic. The story is immersive and spectacular. 
 On a 1080i HDTV, the graphics are unreal (in a good way)
  
  Now I won't give all of the story away except, you play as Frank West a freelance photojournalist 
 looking for a big time story. You end up in Willamette Colorado, with only one thing to do kill 
 time at the shopping mall. 
  
  Gameplay: You can just about jack everything you see in the mall, from knives to guns and guns 
 to cars. It can get repetitive from time to time, killing 10,000 zombies can be boring but just 
 as fun as you'd think it would be.
  
  Graphics: No brainer, if you have a 1080i HDTV this game is AMAZING!! The textures, characters 
 and everything looks perfect, this game shows just how powerful the 360 has become.
  
  Sound: Great voice acting Capcom got almost everything right but, during cutscenes the lip motion 
 could have done better.
  
  Value: Not worth 60$ maybe 50$ like said before killing thousands and thousands of zombies can 
 get boring after a while.
  
  So all in all this game is great, the stories awesome, the graphics are amazing, and the sound 
 is great. If you are into action/adventure survival horror games definitely check this game out. 
 You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgukiddin123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  The most amazing rpg action game in a long time, thank god for Capcom!
  It has alot of action and the melee is extremely fluent. The game isn't exactly at it's best in 
 the beginning, but it gets really crazy when you are half way done. I would say this was a success 
 from Capcom and hopefully Resident Evil 5 is worth the wait. I am a big fan of action games and 
 this one is definitly a keeper no matter how old it can get. The game isn't scary, but the bosses 
 are crazy. That's a new thing to be happy about. This is definitly somthing you should try if you 
 havn't yet played Dead Rising. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaneyboy5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I just love this game. It has the best sound in a game i have ever heard. The only thing bad I 
 could think of was the save system. Only one save slot per game sucks. The gameplay is fun and gruesome. 
 The sound is the best part of the game. The sound of a chainsaw ripping someones head off is awesome. 
 This is a game every xbox360 owner should have. This game is really gorey so parents, dont buy 
 it for your kids please. But, if you do get this game please enjoy it. Okay, um, i guess i am done 
 bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeater015
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is extremely fun to play, you can use almost anything as a weapon.
  chairs, trash cans, barrels, tazers, throwing plates, a zombie hand, a fish, a TV, lots of guns, 
 motercycles, skateboards, bycicles, vans, a giant teddy bear, and so much more.
  gameplay:10, you learn more moves as you go, u collect secret items, and hundreds of items to use
 
  graphics:10, very gorey, putting a shower head into a zombies head letting the blood spray out 
 like the water in the shower you just took
  sound:9 once you rescue a lot of people... well even one, can be very annoying in your save/case/food 
 area.. wheres my husbend! what happend? *crying* *screaming* *whimpering* its pretty annoying, 
 but listen for some hip hop or something cause then you know the convicts can attack you...
  controls:6 the controls were a little... stupid... R trigger aim, X shoot/take picture, B pick up/use/zoom 
 out, its kinda stupid
  Worth 60 dollers? hell yeah
  
  bottom line, if you like the idea of driving a sports car through a thousand zombies (literaly) 
 or jump kicking a zombie in the face, then this game is for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assault999
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  you well had a Thousands and thousands of zombies to kill in a myriad of ridiculous ways; tons 
 of things to see and try throughout the mall; great sense of style; a plot that manages to be intriguing 
 without intruding too much on the action; fantastic sound effects. and fantastic killing you well 
 never going to get boring from this game ever !! becouse it, s like GTA go every way you want kill 
 what ever you want !! but the bad thing in the game is !! Save system and real-time game structure 
 are frequently at odds with one another; copious number of escort missions start to wear thin after 
 a while. but any way the game is great now go and buy it you never going to leave now see ya !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovealicea
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is not as good as what many people are saying and thats a fact (acorrding to me lol) . 
 The game involves you saving millions and millions of suvivours from flesh eating zombies in a 
 big shopping mall after u landed on top for a camera scoop. The game is so repitive it just becomes 
 a bore, killing zombie after zombie is fun at first but by time their limp bodies are in the thousands 
 it just becomes a chore. You dont care if the surviviours die because there not essential to completing 
 the game and the whole stopwatch idea is stupid too. The best bit about the game is finding new 
 and more powerful weapons to use, but for anyone over about 10 these are boring too! how many times 
 can u slice a zombie in two until you turn into one yourself??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3989
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game in summary is totally awesome on the plus side you have ordinarily slow zombies that 
 are only threatening if you find yourself in the middle of a horde that consists of several hundred 
 mindless flesh eaters.
  
  Furthermore, this game no longer plays into the over used concept of super zombies but instead 
 uses psychopaths for their more challenging battles, basically the psychopaths are human survivors 
 that have gone totally insane in the midst of the zombie rampage, for example a Vietnam veteran 
 begins to thing that every person he encounters is viet cong, needless to say he will try to kill 
 you.
  
  The best part is that no matter how much health or experience you gain in some areas the zombies 
 will simply overcome you should you become careless, lastly there are only two real things that 
 should be considered problems that regrettably become quite annoying throughout your zombie experience, 
 first, the words are nearly impossible to read unless you are playing on an HDTV you can make it 
 a little better by increasing the detail level on your TV but there is little you can do with it. 
 Secondly the entire game passes in time where you must be to certain locations by certain times, 
 sometimes this can be quite annoying when you must run across a mall in 10 minutes through a crowd 
 of at least 400 zombies.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a hilarious and action packed game, if you like zombies buy it and even 
 if you just like games in which you may free roam and do whatever buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me, and I know I am, you're not the most intuitive of gamers. Having grown up on 
 PC games, you expect a decent save game option, or at the very least regular checkpoints. Trial 
 and error has gotten you through many a difficult game.
  
  That's why I hate Capcom and its insistence on making a game save as frustrating as humanly possible. 
 Worse even than the typewriter ribbon collecting in their Resident Evil franchise, for Dead Rising 
 they not only insist on putting the entire game on a timer, but they offer only a few possible 
 save spots, and only one slot per hard drive.
  
  This makes Dead Rising, otherwise an absolutely fantastic game, one of the most frustrating experiences 
 of my many gaming years. Often you will go for hours, killing zombies, leveling up, rescuing stranded 
 civilians, only to loose all your progress just before returning to the save spot, or missing an 
 important mission timer.
  
  As a zombie enthusiast and a fan of Grand Theft Auto-style sandbox games, this should have been 
 a dream come true for me, but the insanely irritating (not to mention unnecessary) save problems 
 often made zombie smashing seem more like work than fun.
  
  What a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is genious game. The game will have you playing for weeks at a time trying to unlock 
 all of the achievements. You cant unlock all achievements in one sitting. There are many different 
 ending to unlock. The more you do in the game the better the ending. There are litteraly hundreds 
 of ways to kill the zombies. Whether it be by hitting them with a car or cutting them in half with 
 a chainsaw. The story is your a photographer that got some inside info on a small town. Riots and 
 whatnot are going on as you are flying in by helicoptor. You land on the rooftop of a shopping 
 mall and the fun begins.
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  So much detail inside and outside of this game. The zombies look pretty frightening and the character 
 models look damn good. Everything you would find in a mall is in this game.
  
  Sound - 9
  Every weapon has a unique sound. All of the elevator music that plays in the malls in this videogame 
 mall. The moans of the zombies and the screams of the people trying to stay alive are nicely done.
 
  
  Value - 9.5
  The game keeps sucking you in. Even when you bean 72hour mode you unlock yet an overtime mode that 
 finishes the story. Then you have infiniti mode to see how long you can stay alive.
  
  This is a must purchase for any 360 owner. You will definately get your moneys worth from this 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game but its not a superb game. Some graphics and gameplay glitches make 
 this game a little itchy. Overall it is a fun game to play if your bored. The fact that you can 
 run around and kill zombies makes a great game. The storyline was a little too much for me. It 
 was a good thought but perhaps too much for a simple story. The picture taking aspect of the game 
 was awesome. I've seen some hilarious photos and have taken some myself. I like how you can upgrade 
 as you go but I hoped for more categories, and maybe a few more weapons would help too. Not being 
 able to have co-op or online gameplay with others really hurt this game and nothing could be more 
 fun to me than having 3 or 4 guys running around slashing or beating zombies. Great game but not 
 enough for some and too much for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBR3MN3R
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I expected this game to be crap, just bank off the newest zombie movie craze. I was completely 
 astonished by how amazing this game was from start to finish. My first play through I thought I 
 had just about beaten the game then suddenly gameplay totally changed on me... then again unlocking 
 infinite mode,,, I was satisfied from start to finish. Even the achievements rocked my face off, 
 they are crazy and fun to get. How this game is below a 9 is a mystery to me, the only thing I 
 can think of that would have made it better is the ability to co-op it (I just have a thing for 
 coop) and better AI for the people you are trying to rescue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty6776
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Firstrly let me just say that i absolutely love this game!! I've spent more time zombie bashing 
 and searching the malls for survivors than i've spent playing any other game. When i first started 
 playing i was on the verge of giving up as it was just too hard but as you will learn the more 
 time you spend on this game the better (and easier) it becomes. One of the great things that will 
 keep you coming back is the varied achievements which have an impact on the game as you complete 
 more and are also at just the right difficulty level to keep you interested in trying to finish 
 them.
  
  There are however a few things in the game that drive me mad!!! I'm sure anyone else who's played 
 this game on a regular basis will have found this out only too quickly. Like the fact you kill 
 rampaging prisoners that take forever and then the next time you revisit the scene they are backonce 
 again. Secondly problem i found was helping survivors through the mall. It is so irritating when 
 a survivor will just refuse to follow you and after spending an eternity getting them through the 
 malls and near to home they are overcome by zombies.
  
  Overall though this is one of the best and most fulfilling games on the 360 and apart from one 
 or two glitches is a really worthwhile purchuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PainKiller93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is centered around the main character frank. he is a journalist and trying to get the 
 big scoop on something that is happening in a small town in colorado. when he gets there, what looks 
 like a riot turns into something much worse. as he gets in the mall he notices that the attackers 
 are not people, but monsters, thats right zombies. the whole objective of the game is to stay alive 
 for 72 hours in the mall. pretty much everything in the mall is a weapon from guitars and plants, 
 to swords and shotguns. there are tons of stores where you can test out new weopns, clothes and even 
 food. with the food you can cook it and boost you health, make it into smoothies and drink it to 
 get special abilities, or even use it as a weapon. the clothes shops in this game make you feel more 
 free (at least i think so) . you can go into a childrens store and get clothes that wont even fit 
 you, and you can wear them! or you can go get some nice threads at a pricey store. this is probably 
 one of the most anticipated title for the xbox 360, and if you have a 360 i would recomend this 
 game to you, and if you dont have a 360, go out and buy one right now, beileave me this game is worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gary_newman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but the are three things that really take away from what would be a an almost 
 perfect game.
  
  1. The ultra small text on a non HDTV makes my eyes want to bleed. Even going right up to the screen 
 doesn't help much. I tried it on mh HD monitor and it's perfect. Why the huge difference in text 
 size then (on HD it's huge) ? What where Capcom thinking?
  
  2. That damn phone!! I felt like ripping my ears off after a while. How many freaking time do they 
 have to phone you. And, should you hang up because you are too busy being munched on by a zombie 
 or something then the person on the other end of the line will have the gall to moan at you for 
 being rude. Cute at first. Damn annoying after a very short while!
  
  3. Okay one of my bigger gripes is the thick AI of the characters you need to rescue. They get 
 themselves into all kinds of problems. Trying to get them to follow you through a door - at the 
 gym for example, is like trying to thread a tree through the eye of needle. They will just stand 
 there with the door closing on them every freaking time. I eventually had to nudge them through...
 
  
  There are plenty of other things that really bugged me, but that would mean going on for quite 
 a bit here.
  
  Don't get me wrong I adore this title. I just wish more thought had been put into certain areas...
 
  
  ~GN~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TroutFuzTV
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I expected it to be gamble because after seeing the commercials it did 
 not look as good as Resident Evil. Although very different you can tell that Capcom knew what they 
 were doing.
  The Good: The good things of this game heavily overwhelm the the bad but I split it into sections 
 anyhow. The gameplay is incredibly addictive. I have not played a game this addictive since I played 
 Diablo II. The graphics are incredible, the action is intense and the zombies are quite aggresive. 
 You can tell this is sort of what real life would be like if you were stuck in that mall.
  The Bad: The miniscule bad in this game some may not even notice but I do. The NPC's aggravate 
 me and this is why I did not effect my score too much s because this is very opininated. All the 
 saved people do is sit in a room and cry about their losses. It could be worse they could be you 
 risking your life against the zombies. It is okay to cry but could you at least help! In the beginning 
 scene when the person leaves for the dog, some of the NPC's do not even fight they sit there and 
 look at me while I protect them. The reason I have noticed this because I have replayed the game 
 several times do to dieing. At points it is very easy to die such as when you are trying to kill 
 a NPC with a gun. They can take 20 bullets but you can take five. That does make sense. The last 
 bad thing is the incredibly scarce saves. When there are 1000 zombies between you and a save. It 
 is getting a little extreme 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising was a game I really wanted to like. Killing zombies in a mall? What's not to like? 
 As it turns out, there's quite a bit more to the game. Saddly, they throw all this stuff at you 
 to do right at the beginning of the game so it's a lot to take in all at once. I thought the built 
 in tutorials were very poorly done. For me, the game was very confusing.
  
  For example, Otis (the janitor) will call you on your cell phone from time to time with tips on 
 ways to earn points (you need these to level up in the game although they don't make this very 
 clear) . He'll give you a name of a store in the mall to go to. The only problem is, the map the 
 game gives you isn't labled with the store names. You have to look at the huge make and put the 
 cursor over each store to display the name. Talk about slowing the game down! Sheesh!
  
  It's a shame the game is so poorly explained because there are a lot of good things in the game. 
 Killing the zombies is great! How can you not enjoy smashing a potted planet over a zombie's head 
 or putting a horse head mask on the attacking undead?
  
  You take pictures during all this to earn points which is a very nice addition. The better the 
 picture the more points you get. The more points you get the higher your level of health and other 
 stats.
  
  Dead Rising is not a terrible game but it certainly wasn't for me. Rent this one before you shellout 
 the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foodclubdrinks
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  What makes the game so hard is that you have to do everthing on time and do a certain amount of 
 things to actually make it through the game. The save feasture isn't so bad it's just hard to get 
 to. You can save the game as many times as you want it'sjust that if you die... (in which it can 
 be very easy to die at certain points) you can either lose all the abilities you earned and go 
 back way when you last saved the game, or you can start a whole new game and keep your abilities. 
 The save points are so far out of the way, you really need to have alot of time on your hands to 
 even get to save points which makes this game not near as good as it could be, I think if theres 
 gonna be a game very similar to Dead Rising, that there should be respawn points in the game and 
 a certain amount of lives and a little less zombies and more character customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  When you play this game for the first time, you will be amazed how quickly you will know what to 
 do. The controls are well done and easy to master, even the special skills are simple to pull off 
 and easy to remember. Gun mechanics are slightly less friendly that melee, however you will rarely 
 find yourself using a handgun as opposed to a katana or a battle axe.
  
  In the beginning the game is anything but difficult. Zombies are well spread out and easy to kill. 
 As you begin progressing down the main story line however, they become more numerous and difficult 
 to kill. For example: a 2x4 will kill an early zombie in one hit before he can grab you, but a 
 zombie later in the game can take two or three hits and can grab you faster than you can swing.
 
  
  The story line too is very well done. The main story calls for you to visit all areas of the mall, 
 while allowing time in between to roam and explore side quests. The side quests include killing 
 psychopaths and escorting survivors back to the safe house. The escort missions are far too numerous 
 and some far to difficult, but are not necessary and can be bypassed all together. The psycopaths 
 are more enjoyable than escorts and offer some handy rewards for their defeats.
  
  The story line is not linear making replay value of the game surprisingly high, second, third, 
 and even fourth play thrus offer new things to be done and since you can ignore the main story 
 there is no tedium in repetitive missions. Overall, Dead Rising offers a long and engaging experience 
 with a lot to see and so many tools at your disposal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCaveRat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. The only bad things I can come up with are all relatively minor. You can 
 only save in bathrooms or in the safe room. If you like to use your own music when you play, it 
 covers up everything in cut scenes. The gameplay is good. Use almost everything in the mall as 
 a weapon. The controls may be hard for some people in the beginning, but you'll get used to them 
 in no time.
  
  At times the soundtrack is great, like during boss battles, but other times, there is no music 
 or it's crappy mall music. Voice overs are better than you'd expect in a zombie game.
  
  Graphics, are good, not great, but good. Better than Xbox could, but they could be better on the 
 360. Graphics don't matter to me, but I know they do to some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  positives: huge mall environment to explore. Over hundreds of ways to kill zombies from shooting 
 a shotgun to hitting one with a gumball machine. Taking pictures is fun. Very challenging achievements 
 allow for replay. Fun to get different endings.
  
  negatives: missions tend to lack in variety. Pretty much just kill zombies and escort citizens. 
 Saving points are scarce and tends to get on your nerves.
  
  Dead Rising is one of the most creative and open ended games on the 360. Definently check out if 
 your a zombie fan, or like to kill everything in your path. This game will keep you busy for hours 
 and hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising si a great 3d peron action game. You are a photojournalist and you have to investigate 
 a zombie-packed mall. Everything is a weapon, handbags, toys, cash registers, guns, knifes, bikes, 
 forks, sports gear, and a whole lot more! Every store has different merchandise where you can find 
 certain stuff. In clothes shops you can change your clothes and look like a girl or dress up in 
 a mascot suit and look like a retard while your choping people. You also have to take pictures 
 of the zombies. (How is everybody going to belive you?) You have 72 hours before your ride leaves 
 you there. what can be more fun than stuffing a ketchup bottle up some random zombies face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daffy101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  -The storyline is well put. You get a little bit of information at a time about where, why, and 
 how the zombies became zombies. It's has a few twists and has a more creative story than I thought 
 it would. -The graphics are pretty good, especially when sometimes you have a few hundred zombies 
 on the screen at once.
  -The gameplay is perfect. You can use endless items in the mall to destroy zombies. You can use 
 anything from a hanger or a stuffed bear to a chain-saw or a lawn mower.
  -Dead Rising has a Level Up system. You can level up by taking good pictures, escorting survivors, 
 defeating pshycopaths, etc. When you level up, you can have more health squares, can carry more 
 items, run faster, hit stronger, etc.
  -I've heard alot of complaints about the Save System. Yes, you can only have one save slot. It 
 can be a problem for some people, since everything in the game has a time limit. I've never had 
 a problem with it, it's mostly common sense. If you don't have time to do a side mission, skip 
 it, and go to the main mission. You won't fail the game by not doing side missions. Besides, if 
 you are behind, just save your status and quit. You will start the new game with the current Level 
 you are on, and you will know what to do in the main missions, and most likely have some extra 
 time. So how could you kill the extra time? Kill zombies. = ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsolo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, I love zombie games and this one looked pretty good. I played for the first 
 hour and loved it. It was fun and I loved being able to pick up anything to woop up on some zombies 
 with. The mall scene was alright but you are very limited in area to play in. This was the first 
 thing that was wrong with it then you begin to realize that you get annoyed by killing zombies 
 because there are just too damn much of them. Its overwhelming at times and gets very old after 
 awhile. Its fun at first... than just down-right irritating. I took it back to EB for trade in 
 about 3 days later... I just couldnt find myself to put it back into the 360. So if youre looking 
 for replay value.. dont go to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidmonzon12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This games is intense. If you dont watch what your doign and are not aware of your surrondings 
 your gonna get ur arse chewed up by zombies. So basicly watch ur back all the time and u might 
 survive. If you like action games i really recommned you get this title just because of the fact 
 that is is packed with actioon and is a challenge. if ur one oof those ppl who expect the game 
 too be over in 4-5 hrs play go away this is for hardcore gamers. SO when ur ready for some actions 
 go to the store and pick these title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondeano
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  well where do i start this is a class zombie game! plenty of action lol zombies everywhere and 
 anywhere! so dumb and stupid you can just bat the crap into them with anything you can get your 
 hands onto! the story line is not too bad its a hard game coz ure guna get eaten wheter you like 
 it or not at some point in the game! the graphics are wiked and suit the game the weapons and free 
 roaming is just gr8! the camrea is a bit wierd but easy to get along with i didnt enjoy taking 
 pictures at first but its not too bad! the sounds of zombies been hit over the head with a spade 
 and the splattering of blood is just mint! its just a realy fun game! if you feel like running 
 around beating up zombies in a big shopping mall with nything you can get ure hands on this is 
 a game for you! i wud recromend it to pretty much nyone i supose! :) 9 outa 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheapage
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  well... this is a great game... BUT this game also have bad and good gameplay well.... u know not 
 all game is perfect... lets start with the good wan... great idea capcom... i got bored of shoot guns 
 at zombie all the time... i mean... for resident evil 1 2 3 all is about shooting at zombies and 
 i wan is hitting zombies.... it is fun hitting zombies.... not need to carry bullets and guns.... just 
 carry slegehammer..... katana... and whatever.... the graphis is great... Check! sound of  
 for 1 thing... no music.... when fighting the pschopath (boss for short from) only got music.... but 
 it is ok... with no soundtrack and who care..... now come with the bad path..... and that is...... THE 
 WORDS!!!! the words is way too small BUT if u have a plasma or HD TV then u should cover up the 
 promble... capcom is disappointing too about the words.... they are written in newspaper.... but lucky 
 enough... the gameplay is fun.... that all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a fun, classic zombie game. It's a deviation from Capcom's usual serious zombie 
 about to chow down on you because you're running into a corner because of the wacky camera type 
 deal. DR is fun and addictive, if you're into gore and body parts and law mower action! Gameplay: 
 what more is there to say? Zombies are there. Find stuff to kill zombies. Kill zombies. That's 
 what the gameplay boils down to. The save system is wacky but manageable.
  
  Graphics: DR has its own good looks and blood spewing fun. Its not perfect in this department, 
 but its satisfying in you're not too critical.
  
  Sound: nothing says quality like the sound of crunching zombies under a lawnmower.
  
  Value: 
 the exploration and achievements will have your posterior glued to the couch for a good long while.
 
  
  Closing comments: GG kill zombies and hoping Dead Rising shows up on your Live GT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeAdMaN_88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the best (next to RE4) survival horror in my opinion to date!
  First anything (exept the kitchen sink... oh wait never mind it is!) is a wepon so your intitled 
 to your favorites weither its the bulky yet powerfull battle axe or the swift knife you will kick 
 zombie butt!
  However heres the twist, your not out to just hack away at zombie flesh... your here to take snapshots 
 to prove the world that whats really happening is BIG. The more edgy, sexy, or flat out gory your 
 picture is the better points you get which whene you beat the game can be used for some great unlockables.
 
  Ive only got a few complaints... it seems gun isnt in your main catagory for he is a terrible aim 
 and the auto aim seems to love shooting innanament objects (shopping carts, walls, etc.) and the 
 camera makes the text VERY small. But these are just minor complaints compared to this games awesome 
 free-feel.
  Oh, you can save people and do side missions but really... all horror movies are about your own 
 hide not some snot-nosed rag-tag.
  This is a great gift for the horror freak on your list! I hoped you enjoyed my review... see ya! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksoulhunter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Well lets see this game was made by Capcom, the ppl who brought you Onimusha, Resident Evil and 
 Megaman. This game combines a sort of GTA free for all with the zombie bashings from RE, with a 
 setting of Dawn of the Dead. Mix those three and you get Deadrising.
  You are Frank West a freelance reporter, who is hell bent on investigateing an odd disturbance 
 in an isolated town know as willamette. As you and your chooper pilot arive you both notice strange 
 events. Zombies killing ppl, thins blowing up, the army blocking all access to the town etc. As 
 you both fly through the town Frank tells the pilot to drop him off at the mall and come back in 
 3 days. After which, you have 3 days to survive, the horror that awaits you. Throughout the game 
 you'll meet other humans, some freindly some not so freindly. Some ppl you'll need to save others 
 you'll need to kill, it's the pure madness that has driven every1 to survive, the horror wether 
 they have to kill zombies or kill other ppl. Another aspect to the game is photo taking. you can 
 take photos of several types of events like these here:
  Horror
  Outtake
  Erotica
  Brutality
  Drama
  etc....
  The photos help you level up, depending on what it is of. As for 
 the enviornment practically everything is a weapon, from pipes, to plants, to baseball bats to 
 chainaws. you name it and you can probably use it.
  One major problem that bothered me was the story and the saves. you'll be handed several missions 
 but they must all be complete within a set amount of time. in other words if you save at a bad 
 time you have to restart all over again. the only nice thing is you get to keep all the skills, 
 and levels you master. overall its a great game, really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby182
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is about a photojournalist named Frank who goes looking for a story on the rumor that 
 has spread about its small town. He looks in the towns small mall to fing that it has been invested 
 by zombies. His helicopter is coming back in 72 hours so he has to survive for that time. This 
 is where you come in. You control Frank who meets a few survivors and set up a safe point in the 
 security room. You can choose to follow the story, you can escort and save as many civilians as 
 you can, you can kill as many pyschopaths as you can (there are many brilliant crazy characters 
 like Adam the Clown, the supermarket owner and many others) . You can do whatever the heck you want. 
 you can pick up more or less anything and use it as a weapon. The achievments system for the 360 
 is used incredibly well which range from the fairly easy to the difficult. Overall you're gettin 
 a kick-ass game that i highly recommend. The few faults are minor graphical problems in areas, 
 the occasioonal awkward shoot outs and the real time system can be a pain that you have to wait 
 in game time for an hour so there is no point leaving to do anything ( you'll understand when you 
 buy it) but apart from that it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _mik3y_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  this ame is wroth the money and the wait you will love this massive bloody killing zombie game 
 but thats what i think..
  
  well you start in a helicopter your character name is frank west you are a jornilist trying to 
 find out whats goin on withh the zombies..
  
  the game is cery highly not for children may cuase nightmares (bad dreams) and slepping problems 
 so if your kid is about 12 to play or when you think when hes ready for this game..
  
  the game is long triky you can grab up to anything you get your hands on for a weapon..
  
  
 my name is michael im 13 but stupid if you game freak **** you will beat the game you can see up 
 to 1-500 zombies in place??
  
  the game is like resident evil but more evil the game has good grafics and impressing gameplay 
 you love this game if dont like it discuss it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a amazing game but there is one mistake they made that made the game extremly boring 
 and frusterating. I would have given this game a way higher score if it didn't have this terrible 
 mistake. Otherwise I enjoy playing this game
  
  The Good: Getting 72 hours to explore a gigantic . Many weapons to use. Clothing of any sort you 
 can imagine. The missions are well done. The Bad: The Save Sytem is downright terrible. You will 
 have to walk all the way to one area just to save your progress and also for a surprise when you 
 die if you press save and quit you whole entire game gets deleted. Capcom sure puts the Suck in 
 Dead Rising. Having to walk for ever just to get to a mission. It takes about 10 minutes by walking 
 and if you die by trying to avoid all these zombies you have to start all over again. If you love 
 Capcoms work in the Zombie games get this game. If you are looking for a action game with some 
 good moves Rent this game. Dead Rising would have been selling like hotcakes if they didn't put 
 in those crappy saving ideas. Thus I give Dead Rising a 8.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealTow411
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising. One Good Game. For those of you who don't agree with me you should play the game for 
 more than 20 minutes and pay attention to the story. Being able to pick up almost anything and 
 whack a Zombie over the head is so cool. Having to listen to Otis's constant radio calls gets a 
 bit annoying but picking the transceiver up the first time gets him to shut up. If you want to 
 beat the game it's all about speed. Use the map markers to get you around the mall. Also being 
 a cowboy when fighting the boss's is best. Instead of standing back 30 ft and shooting the boss 
 with a pistol try running up on him and slicing him with a sword or jump kicking them in the face. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWIAB
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  I raved about Dead rising on its release, I even purchased a Xbox 360 to play it, but I have only 
 just bought it due to there being so many different opinions, but alas I purchased it off eBay 
 for a mere &pound;23 including postage Graphics: The graphics are clear and clean, there are some 
 minor clipping issues in some of the cutscenes, the zombies dismember very well, and they all don't 
 suffer the same injuries when attacked with the same weapon, such as the katana, as you slice your 
 way through a horde of the undead, there will be legs arms torso's and other parts strewn around, 
 the only major gripe is that some of the text is barely readable on a SDTV but apart from that 
 its very good.
  
  Gameplay: gameplay is simple and effective using a over shoulder view for throwing and shooting, 
 the main game is short but you want to play it at least twice, some people will just want to mash 
 zombies with hammers but for the more complicated mind the missions are well structured but are 
 very similar. the time system is hard to get used to but all I can say to those people who find 
 it too hard to get used to is that you are trying to do too much, make plenty of time for yourself
 
  
  Sound: well what can I say but ace there are plenty of groans and sighs and squishes and splats 
 all well sounded
  
  Other: The game can get extremely tense especially when cultists or SWAT are thrown in for good 
 measure, and your low on health, unless you are well healed and are more armed than Rambo I suggest 
 you avoid them after running past them they will lose interest
  
  Pshycos: most of them are solid, but a couple are really unfair such as Cletus (he hides in the 
 huntin shack gun shop) you must shoot him from outside the shop and many of the bullets miss at 
 that range,
  
  Conclusion: This game is fun and innovative, you won't see anyhting similar for a while, and it 
 is gonna set a trend just like GTA did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01SMELLY
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a must own game, a game that is what you expect. The saving sucks so bad that when 
 you finish playing for the day you feel like leaving the game on for the next day, but the game 
 offer a variety of ways to kill zombies that makes it satisfying to all players. From a coat hanger 
 to a chainsaw to a convertible this game might make you say, What is Resident Evil? ,well to me. 
 I loved this game so much I gave this game a perfect 10 out of 10 because, well who doesn't likes 
 to kill zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkeli
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is all you want in the xbox 360 for some time, but then it become the most boring game 
 after a while. The gameplay is fun at the start. Fighting hundreds of zombies with everything in 
 the mall. Throwing trash cans, knifes, shooting and crash there heads with a baseball bat. But 
 i have played it for some time, and its just not fun anymore. You do the same thing over and over 
 again, and it become very boring after a while. Sorry but this game dose'nt get much from me. And 
 if they are planing on making a new game in the same style, please get some more things you can 
 do. Driving a car more often, get more speed on the character, maybe water or maybe just more scary 
 game. I must say, thats a game i lost money in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_Ali
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  i bought this game with xbox 360. i bought 360 for many reasons and one of the big reason was this 
 game. it is amazing. i always thought that it has great gameplay but mediocre graphics. But i was 
 wrong. It has awesone graphics and gameplay too. Hundereds of weapons. In this game you cant be bored 
 even for a second. Go and smash the mouths of zombies and who dont like this anyway. its story is 
 also quite impressive and good. i really like it. i think this is the game u should give a try before 
 death if u consider urself a gamer. and if u buy this game then dont forget to cut the heads of 
 zombies with the KATANA. i like this weapon very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 104spartan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  You set of as a freelance photojournalist, on his way to a city in chaos in a helicopter. At first 
 he has no idea what goes on, but he gets his camera out, so you have to take some nice pictures 
 of zombies killing people. You then get to the big mall, Willamete. Here you meet a bunch of survivors 
 barrecading the front entrance from zombies. The whole zombie outbreak in the mall, starts with 
 an old woman, who removes the barrecade, to get her dog outside. Then the the zombies break in 
 and all hell breaks loose. You kinda just go from there in 72 hours before the Helicopter comes 
 back for you. You walk around the mall saving survivors, and get to the truth behind the zombie 
 incident. When saved from the mall, a new mode becomes available. In this mode you can do what 
 ever you f***in want to.
  
  The graphis in this game are rather nice. The framerate stays up to 60 frames, almost all the time. 
 I my self, play on a HDTV, and i most say that this really is the best work Capcom has done ever. 
 The only thing you really miss on this side of the game, is a little more face expresions in the 
 cut-scenes. Other then that, the cut-scenes work very nice, and you won't feel like you want to 
 skip them all.
  
  The sound is one the best parts of the game. As you work your way through the giant hords of zombis, 
 you hear some nice things. Not only can you use almost evry single thing in the mall to kill with, 
 but they all have extremely nice sound effets. And one of the things i enjoy the most, is that 
 when the blood splatter, it has a lovely sound when it hits the floor.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Rising, is quit an achievement. There are some glichty things here and there, 
 but you won't really notice them that much. The charector you play with, are fully custemizeable. 
 You will find various costumes laying around the big mall, along with shoes, hat, and sun glasses. 
 You will often find yourself surrounded by extreme numbers of zombies, but fear not, cause it is 
 easy to navigate through them. The reason for this is that when you save people, kill zombies, 
 accomplish missions. you get PP, and PP gives you levels. The max. level is 50, and not easy to 
 get to. As you get these levels, you learn new skill, get more storage or health, or get faster, 
 stronger, or more deadly. So when you get surronded, you can easily jump on a zombies should and 
 start walking on their heads.
  
  The thing you really look down at, is the saving system. You only have one save, and if you save 
 somewhere, that you can't to your goal in time, you have to start all over. But fear not, they 
 saved this, with the ability to save your status. When you die, or don't make it to your goal in 
 time, you can choos to save your status and start over. When you the get back to the start of the 
 game, your a level 30, and no zombie has the power to knock you down in your glory in the beginning, 
 which puts you back till where you died in no time, even stronger.
  
  This game is by far one of the best games i own, and you should own it as well. There is so much 
 more to the game then all that i just mentioned, it's up to you to discover it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  this game is truley a peice of capcom masterpeice what theve possible ripped of from dawn of the 
 dead who cares ... capcom are the ones that made this a truly edge of seat brilliant game the story 
 is integing and will keep you going untill the end as you will know this game has alot of re-play 
 value and it sure does all you really want to do is hack zombies up with battle axes and bowling 
 balls anyway int it. anyway if you just want some fun and some sensational gameplay then all you 
 need to do is go to your local shop and pick up dead rising... go... go .... go..... go NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ampofo100
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising follows the harrowing tale of Frank West, an overly zealous freelance photojournalist 
 on a hunt for the scoop of a lifetime. In pursuit of a juicy lead, he makes his way to a small 
 suburban town only to find that it has become overrun by zombies. He escapes to the local shopping 
 mall, thinking it will be a bastion of safety but it turns out to be anything but. It will be a 
 true struggle to survive the endless stream of undead, but players will have full reign of a realistic 
 shopping center, utilizing anything they find to fight off the flesh-hungry mob and search for 
 the truth behind the horrendous epidemic. The variety of different stores in the mall offers players 
 an endless supply of resources including vehicles, makeshift weapons and more. Players will also 
 encounter other survivors along the way and by helping them can acquire valuable clues as to what 
 has happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeekVII
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is, to make a long story short, Fun, Fun, FUN! It's sort of cartoony i must admit, but 
 who cares! It's the most addictive i have ever played! The game has a gigantic variety of weapons 
 (LETS GO BEAT ZOMBIES WITH STUFFED BEARS!!!) . And the story line is pretty cool. But the fun lies 
 in the game play. Throw led pipes at zombies and let their blood squirt out of the holes. Blind 
 Zombies by putting Lego heads on them or horse heads. Remember Frank's childhood memories? Relive 
 them by going to the clothes store, putting on the little child's clothing, get a toy lightsaber, 
 and beat down those zombies in this incredibly addictive and fun filled game! This is a MUST HAVE!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Capcom, famed developers for the Resident Evil franchise, has made a stunning game for the Xbox 
 360. And guess what, it plays in the exact opposite of Resident Evil and in many ways, is more 
 fun.
  
  Dead Rising's story is superb. The many twists and turns the plot takes is impressive and thrilling 
 from start to finish. You play as Frank West who has heard of a great head-lining story about a 
 town that has been cut off from civilisation. As Frank, you discover why. The reason why is quickly 
 ascertained by one of the greatest opening scenes in gaming history. You land above a shopping 
 mall and now you have three game days to solve the mystery before you're picked up again. And now 
 the real fun begins.... :)
  
  Playing this game is simply a joy to behold. You can dispatch the zombies in any manner you see 
 fit. The controls are wonderfully intuitive and you'll be slaughtering the zombies in their hundreds 
 within 15 minutes from the opening scene. The developers have made it quite clear that you can 
 use nearly everything within reach to devour, destroy and humiliate the zombies. The variety of 
 weapons on offer is simply amazing. They range from teddy bears, CDs, water pistols and so on. 
 The game just oozes with endless possibilities. Though one of the biggest downfalls to the gameplay 
 is, after a while, it gets a tad repetitive. The other downfall to this game is the lack of a multiple 
 save system. You get one save file. That's it. So if you mess up and can't reach your destination 
 in time then, in order to carry on with the story, you need to start all over again. The game is 
 somewhat generous though because you can restart the whole game with the stats and moves you may 
 have already earned! Though this can get infuriating after awhile. But despite the negatives, this 
 game is still great fun. The story is there if you want to follow it but the game offers you the 
 choose to just do your own thing.
  
  The graphics are great. The character's look great but the best thing about the characters is their 
 facial expressions. They generally show pain, fear, joy etc quite well. The shopping mall itself 
 never gets repetitive and shows great variety in the playing environment. The most impressive thing 
 about how the game looks is the sheer magnitude of how many zombies on screen at once. Once you 
 experience that, it really stays with you.
  
  The sound in the game is brilliant. The voice acting and music lends itself perfectly to suit the 
 game. So the acting has the occasional duff line or over emphasis on some moments, it's still great. 
 The best thing about this game's sound is the effects. The make every weapon feel right. They add 
 weight to them, zombies scream in pain, hearing flesh being munched is also disturbing yet equally 
 fantastic, stunning.
  
  The lifespan for this game depends on your interests in destroying, killing and generally being 
 a bad ass against zombies. The game has loads of things to unlock and the achievement points are 
 interesting to find and discover. It's best to play this game in short bursts and savouring each 
 moment you spend with it.
  
  In conclusion, this game is something you have to play if you own a 360. So the save system is 
 not the best, and it gets repetitive after awhile, it never feels old. It feels right to play, 
 the controls are great, the challenge is pitched right, it's rewarding, it has the great humour 
 and story to keep you interested as well. This is without a shadow of a doubt one of the finest 
 games to be released for the 360. Buy it, rent it or borrow it. You need to at least experience 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  What's cooler than smashing open a zombie skull with a sledgehammer? Nothing. That's right, Dead 
 Rising grows on you. No doubt, it's an excellent action game, but if you've spent a lot of time 
 playing Halo or Gears of War right before, you'll probably end up throwing down your controller 
 in rage. Sit around, read this review. This is all negative points, but there's probably nothing 
 I can praise which you haven't heard before. You can tear zombies apart, drive over them, melt 
 their faces... Great fun. So, let me tell you where you might begin to hate the game. If you liked 
 Halo a lot, where you can take you time to finish each level, Dead Rising is always on the fly. 
 Vice City was like that, yes, but you didn't only have 6 hours to complete the entire storymode. 
 They give you maybe a good 20 minutes or so to sometimes complete some of the side scoop missions. 
 The AI is neither extremely dumb, nor smart. They might listen to you, but getting through the 
 overwhelming amount of zombies is time consuming, and may not even be worth your while.
  
  The story elements and the number of zombies don't mix. For instance, I'm on the Medicine Run. 
 A good number of the game's bosses require guns. And the gunshop is in the most inconvenient location 
 (at the end of a zombie infested hallways. And what's worse, a shotgun-wielding psychopath is guarding 
 the only gun-source in the mall. And again, Cletus requires a firearm) . There are so many times 
 where I'm fighting a boss or completing a mission where I feel they should have lessened the number 
 of zombies.
  
  And there's hardly any time to explore, as you have 72 hours (6 hours of gametime) to work with. 
 You want to just go out and kill some zombies, but you don't want to miss the case file. And the 
 scoop missions just HAVE to be on the other side of the mall with thousands of zombies in between. 
 You're probably better off just waiting in the security room for ten minutes or so. The sofa/toilet 
 save system is unique, but there are so many times where you just wished you had a basic save system. 
 For instance, you're trying to make it back to the case file mission, but the number of zombies 
 prevents you, and it's hard to kill all of them. And sooner or later, a single slap, and you're 
 down for the count, having for you to restart from the last save point... In my personal experience:
 
  
  When facing off with Carlito (second time) , it took me four attempts. The first, when I was killed 
 by his rifle. The second, where I actually defeated Carlito, but was killed on the Medicine Run 
 (no auto save. Had to redo Carlito stand off) , the third, where Brad was killed (stupid AI. This 
 actually worked to my advantage on the second attempt. Brad got lost, and Carlito wandered around) , 
 and the final, I killed him and saved before doing the medicine run.
  
  If you're used to reloading and redoing sections multiple times, or you just want to kill zombies, 
 completely ignoring the story completely, then Dead Rising is right for you. But if you have a 
 low patience level, trying to kill all the zombies takes too much time up. Even though the game 
 is all about killing zombies, there are points when finishing the story mode you'll wish the shuffling 
 dead weren't even in the game just to see the story unravel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purplemidgets
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  The premise of this game appealed to me greatly. Having thousands of zombies to kill. But Dead 
 Rising somehow turns that into something very boring, and not fun.
  
  The problems start when you have to actually play the story mode. Nothing about the missions are 
 fun. It's a pain to have to dredge your way through poorly designed objectives, only so you can 
 open up more parts of the mall. The biggest fault is the save/load system. I understand why they 
 only allow you to save at bathrooms and at the security room. But why does it only give you the 
 options of starting the game over, or loading the last save when you die? It should have allowed 
 you to go back to where you last had to load (beginning of every area) . For example, when you go 
 into the park and have to face the prisoners. If you die there, you should be able to restart at 
 the entrance to the park. Not all the way back to the last save. It's a very idiotic system. Then 
 there's the escort missions. I hate escort missions, and this game doesn't break the mold. Your 
 AI buddies are dumb as nails and can barely keep up with you. I found myself just abandoning them 
 after they slowed me down too much.
  
  The only saving grace this game has is the zombie killing. The only fun I had was going around 
 and killing zombies with the many different weapons. But honestly, it's only fun for so long untill 
 I get bored. There isn't much you can do in the mall that's interesting aside from the zombies. 
 After an hour or so I didn't want to do it anymore.
  
  Gameplay: Story mode is complete crap, poorly put together missions and crappy escort missions. 
 Only saved by the joy of killing zombies.
  
  Graphics: Clean and crisp. Nothing really special, but they aren't bad. The zombies are well designed 
 and there's a large amount of them on screen.
  
  Sound: The constant moans of the zombies is really unnerving, add that to the brutal sound of metal 
 to zombie flesh makes for a great sound design as well.
  
  Value: Unless you really really love killing zombies, this game won't take long to get on your 
 bad side. Very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adevilwithin666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a brilliant game. Although the game has its weak spots (but what game doesent) there 
 is plenty good in the game to make up for it. The game offers a couple of ways for you to keep 
 you playing with how they based the achievements around it and the online leaderboard system, you 
 could easily be staying up late with nothing but caffeine and a little mind altering substance. 
 The difficulty level of the game is meagar at best, dident really take longer than a night to beat 
 the 72 hour story mode, granted i failed a couple times till frank leveled up. The graphics are 
 impressive in some aspects and in others they look a bit choppy. But all in all this is with out 
 a doubt a game for capcom fans and anybody else who wouldent mind killing 53,954 zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolidan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Hello and welcome to my review of this time Dead Rising which was made for the Xbox 360 and was 
 released on August 8th 2006. Dead Rising is made by Capcom. Here is the full review for you
  
  Having played the demo and the full game and playing the living hell out of it HEHE, I would 
 have to say the 360 has its first TRUE killer entertainment!!! In this game you take the role of 
 a photojournalist named Frank West. You get a tip from the media that there is something very strange 
 going on in a small mountain town....... But I think you know the rest so I wont carry on telling 
 you the story. The story to me is really interesting and excellent, with many twists and turns 
 to get you hooked up to this game for like 20 or more hours so.
  
  The gameplay in this game is what sets it apart from any other, if you can think of any way to 
 kill a zombie, in a mall setting, this game has it! From lawn mowers, to chainsaws, to machine 
 guns, to squirt guns and trash bins. did you think GTA had all the melee weapons to use under the 
 sun well now GTA has now been replaced with Dead Rising. With the amount of weapons you can use 
 this game will sever thousands of laughs and hours of entertainment. I cant really remember in 
 a game when you could like pick up a sofa and smash a living dudes head in apart from GTA. But 
 these arent just the weapons I listed up there are thousands of them its like whatever you see 
 you can pick it up. and smash a zombie to pieces its just that fun. Now the bosses the best part 
 of the game seriously what can a game do without a boss character. Instead of there name being 
 called bosses, they are called psychopaths, and they are NOT very happy people to be around..... 
 Such as the super market manager, HE IS SPOOKY! The psychopaths are just stronger zombies that 
 you have to kill like all boss characters, to kill them you would have to do the Hit N Run tactic 
 which is a cool way to destroy a freaky looking zombie.
  
  The photography plays a big roll in this game as well, as you are a photo journalist investigating 
 this place, and your character wants all the info he can get! Well thats going to be obvious in 
 this game but it is quite interesting taking pictures of zombies. Its funny because if you were 
 a normal person and you saw a mall full of zombies, you would just leg it but youre a photographer 
 so youve got to stay around and take those photos The key to leveling up in this game is very 
 unique and cool, instead of the normal (kill and level) way , you have to get something called 
 prestige points , or in the game PP .
  the better pictures you take give you better PP , such as getting a photo of a couple that have 
 be separated form each other finally reuniting in a big hug that sort of thing but you do get points 
 for every photo you take so try to get a interesting photo for more points! If thats to weird 
 for you, you can take pictures of the zombie girls with their Bits and Pieces hanging out , and 
 yes , you do get extra points for that which is quite weird and funny at the same time!
  
  The graphics in this game are very nice and look great if you have a HD ready TV, the work done 
 on the mall is ASTONISHING! The character models are very nice as well , and there are many types 
 of different zombie models for variety. The gore was done top notch as well so this game is like 
 the zombie version of GTA!!!!!! I only found 3 problems with this game so far, the first is NO 
 ONLINE PLAY?!?!?!? This would be the best co-op experience in any game....... ever! It would have 
 been so cool working with a friend smashing zombies on the head with an umbrella or something.
 
  
  The second thing that really annoyed me was the save feature , you have to go to specific areas 
 to save , and its more tricky than you think when 2000 zombies are in you way. Like if thousands 
 of zombies are in your way and the save is in front of you thats going to be pretty difficult 
 to get to that save , and the fact that you can only have one game profile on the hard drive , 
 but you CAN HAVE MORE THAN THAT , you just need a memory card........ The third is just me nitpicking, 
 but whenever you attack more than 3 -4 zombies at once, there is a slight frame rate drop........ 
 But thats the only time it will happen in the game surprisingly but thats no problem! MY COMMENT
 
  If you were a long time fan for the GTA series and you like that sort of game then Dead Rising 
 is right up your ally because of its identically (bad grammar sorry) with the GTA series except 
 your just blasting zombies instead of people. Overall this game is great, fun, entertaining and 
 it will hook you to play more and more for hours. It looks great on a HD TV so thats Dead Rising 
 for you if you were going to buy it then your making a great decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoside
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good Stuff:
  
  The variety of stuff to do. You can solve the cases that surround the mysteries of how the mall 
 became swarming with zombies (or not) , you can go on a zombie genocide spree, you can rescue survivors 
 and get them to safety, you can use anything even mildly pointy or heavy as a weapon (from cactus 
 plants to chainsaws to garbage cans) and you can even shop the mall, picking up golf clubs, bowling 
 balls and even milk and bread (which can all be used as weapons or health items)
  
  The variety of attacks and characters is astounding and you can play through this game twenty times 
 and still see or do something new every time.
  
  There is no slowdown at any point during the game and the fun factor never ceases. The story for 
 this game is also suprisingly excellent and averts the possible boredom that could insue from smashing 
 zombies for hours on end. The achievement system is also top notch and is entertaining as well 
 as rewarding (there is even a mode of play you can unlock where you have to survive in the mall 
 for up to 7 game days, with a wonderous reward waiting for you on the other end)
  
  The Bad Stuff
  
  While the graphics are not on level with other Xbox360 games like Condemned 
 and Quake 4 , the lack of detailed shoe textures is more than adequately made up for by the literally 
 hundreds to thousands of zombies that fill your screen at any one time with no slowdown. The game 
 is a powerhouse at rendering all those zombies with their own activities and personalities.
  
  The save system is flawed however. There is only one save slot and minimal save stations around 
 the zombie infested mall. It can be a real pain hoofing it across the entire map to get to a save 
 point.
  
  Also, the melee attacks availible to Frank vary from easy to use to downright awkward to pull off. 
 Good thing they're all listed in your menu and told how to pull each off easily. My Conclusion
 
  
  Awesome! Worth every penny of the &pound;40-50 price tag with massive replay value, both hilarious 
 and frightening characters and a suprisingly deep political story that will keep you intrigued 
 until the final second of the 72 hour survival mode.
  
  For some bizarre reason, you'll probably wish that the 72 hours would never end, this game is that 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from this game despite the various high scores it received.
  But i know that capcom deliver quality games. Hardly original though, far from it as this game 
 stinks of resident evil and what have you.
  Well i can safely say, what this game does it does extremely well.
  Its the same formula that 
 so many games have done before but this one does it with style, a certain sense of style as the 
 graphics are fabulous being sharp, highly detailed and the animation is first rate. There is more 
 to the gameplay then usual games of this nature as you can recruit people in order to help you 
 survive the ongoing onslaught that you will endure throughout. This is where the fun begins as 
 you and your posy carry out objectives which although simple are very addictive and see you taking 
 out zombies in all manner of fashion as this game lets you dispose of them in your own unique way, 
 this being the weapons of the game which range from anything you can get your hands on such as 
 sledge hammers, flower pots, chainsaws, bins, dead fish, lawn mowers and guns as well. There are 
 many to choose from and all pack their individual punch and are a joy to use. You can simply run 
 your way through the many zombies on screen which is impressive by numbers as this will gain you 
 more abilities and strength throughout.
  The game can be hard at times with scarce save points having to reach through many zombies in order 
 to get back to a save point but then its here where the game is forgiving due to the style you 
 play meaning you can play in a different way as before.
  The sound is also first rate with great voice acting and excellent sound effects that do each individual 
 weapon justice.
  
  Capcom, i salute you, (AGAIN) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Specter02147
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. With the many different weapons and ways to kill the zombies its fun to play 
 over and over again. Very creative weapons in what other game have you beat up zombies with a gumball 
 machine or run them over with shopping carts. Except for the fight at the end it is pretty easy 
 and you really don't need all the melee moves. Great game to hold us over for RE5. The only thing 
 that bothers me is the really small text. Great game you'll still pop it in once in a while for 
 years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillings24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Not only is there an intriguing storyline you feel compelled to finish, but there are also a lot 
 of zombies you can kill in almost any way imaginable. You can literally mow zombies. You can stab 
 zombies. You can throw HDTVs at zombies. You can even put a frying pan on a hot stove and burn 
 the faces off of zombies. The amount of fun you will have killing zombies may diminish after a 
 few weeks or months, but at least you are still killing zombies. This game has much more depth 
 than I give it credit for, as there are many power-ups and level-ups that can be achieved within 
 the game. You can even save survivors to increase your experience level (but who wants to do that 
 when you can kill zombies?) . This game has a lot to offer, so give Frank a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gboy23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No go ahead think 
 about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You Play Frank 
 West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. Now you think to your self what is funner killing zombies or going to the mall. No 
 go ahead think about it. Now if you are a fan of dawn of the dead that is sortof what your geting. You 
 Play Frank West, A hot shot photojernalist
  goes to the mall and kills zombies for three days. There are survivers in the mall all of which 
 can be saved but you can let them die. It will trigger a cut sceen howing them as a zombie. There 
 is a lot of fun in this story but the real drawback is the story. In this bloddy game hit and run 
 is highly advise if
  your health is low,. The Other problem is the saving. Now if you have over two people wanting to 
 play they will have to share a save. But thats for two players. If you do restart your file your 
 power ups go with you. Which in a way makes this game easy. YOu Cann finish this game in a day. Realy 
 Only a forth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d500elite
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say one of the best zombie games ive ever played it brings the fun back into games, 
 now survival is the name of the game and Kicking Zombie backsides is allot of fun but don't forget 
 if your not careful you might end up one of the undead monsters, there is plenty of weapons to 
 be found and clothes to try on you can even drive a vehicle or two, but you cant go to far in the 
 confines of the mall, as its an enclosed area but its still fun to run them zombies over, saving 
 the survivors is a good extra and trying to save them all is the best as you get a little ester 
 egg with one of them, there is even a clan in the mall that seem to have the zombies on there side 
 as well and be careful they to like run in at you and blowing them selves up when its most inconvenient, 
 this is a game ill never get bored off and is a must have for Zombie lovers.
  
  D500 Elite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-e-n
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The game is sooooooooooooooo much fun to play, but it isnt perfect. The controls need slight tuning. 
 A lot of people complain about the save system, but it wasn't a problemn for me. If you want to 
 see everything the game offers then you will be playing for ages! The time limit may be enough 
 to scare some potential gamers off, but for some people it adds suspence and ultimatly gives the 
 game a better atmosphere. I recommend first playing it through trying to finish all the cases and 
 getting the best ending to unlock the other modes. Then play again just mindlessly killing! The 
 story is great and has some excellent unexpected plot twists. I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  great game tons of fun worth every penny you pay very very good game play its kind of like resident 
 evil but not has good but still a very good game you know what i mean so yeah the graphics are 
 not bad not bad you know what i mean its the right diffuculty for me i don't know about you so 
 yeah it should be longer i think you know what i mean i spent 10 8 hours on the game beating it 
 its one of the best xbox 360 games out thare i think so yeah get the game it is so worth the price 
 you pay well i think it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaidRocker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is so much fun. You start the game off really creatively by flying over the streets 
 of the town with Zombies destroying everything. Take pictures of everything to get a feel for the 
 camera, and to find out what your sapposed to be taking pictures of. Its really helpeful for when 
 you actually get started with the game. Its nice to know too, that if you have to start over from 
 the beginning, you can just skip this part too. And yes, I DID say start over from the beginning. 
 Thats one of the unfortunate things about Dead Rising is that in order to save, you must get to 
 a bathroom, or back to your safe house (aka the Janitor's Room) This is actually kind of cool though 
 since in real-life, you'd have to get to a safe place to take a breather anyways. The cutscenes 
 are amazing, and for the first time that I've seen in any game, the gameplay's graphics are just 
 as good as the cut scene graphics. The graphics in this game are amazing. Looks great in High Definition. 
 And HD makes the joy of bashing Zombies in the face all that more enjoyable. Literally, pretty 
 much anything you find in the mall can be used as a weapon or a distraction. The fact that you 
 have to start over from your last save if you don't save here and there can easily be over looked 
 by the fact of how much fun you can have with the Zombies and not even the actual storyline. Speaking 
 of the story line, its awesome. Its really unique, and takes some twist and turns you wouldn't 
 expect. Before I forget, the game also features a bunch of different fighting moves. You can tackle, 
 spin around and take out all the zombies that are near you, and you can even jump on their heads 
 and walk across them for when you need to get out of a jam. Like I said before, pretty much anything 
 is a weapon. You want to take slap shots with a hockey stick? Go ahead. You want to go all Evil 
 Dead on them with a chainsaw? Rock on. You want to burn their face with a frying pan that YOU heated 
 up on the stove? Thats another cool thing. The fact that some of the items you use can be altered 
 by the enviorment. For example, to heal yourself, you can actually use the stove to cook a pizza. 
 And some of the vehicles in the game are also sweet. So far, I've rode a bike, a motorcycle, driven 
 a car, and plowed through a bunch of zombies with a lawn mower. This game is pure fun, and seems 
 to never get old. If your a person who wants a game that you can play over and over and get different 
 results with different endings based on your choices, just killing zombies, or just want a game 
 that you'll probably never get sick of, Dead Rising is the game for you. (Keep in mind, theres 
 SO much I didn't get to in this review, which means theres even more to discover when you play 
 the game. ENJOY!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makolokooko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I held off on playing Dead Rising for a while. The demo didn't knock my socks off and the reviews 
 were mixed, heaping equal amounts of praise and criticism. I have to say, I have never played anything 
 quite like Dead Rising. I can see this game appealing much more to the old school, hardcore, NES 
 raised gamers then today's twitchy, ADD infected, shooter raised babies (ya'll whine and cry way 
 too much online, just shut up and wait for your voice to change.)
  
  The save system, lambasted by all, isn't as annoying as I though it would be, mostly because I 
 don't mind having to replay the game; it's that much fun. My biggest complaint is with the gun 
 play. Shooting any of the game's guns is a chore, making melee weapons the order of choice. That 
 isn't that big a problem, since just about everything can be used as a melee weapon. Each weapon 
 can only be used so many times before it becomes useless and drops out of your inventory. It is 
 a nice way to prevent you from stocking up on overpowered weapons while also encouraging experimentation. 
 For example, you can turn on the stove top in the food court, then put a frying pan on it, making 
 a hot pan that does more damage (I assume) than using a regular frying pan. The best was when I 
 shoved a picture frame on one zombie, rendering them unable to attack me. Then I burned them with 
 the frying pan, giving me extra experience points (they call them PP.) That was damn sweet. So 
 far, my favorite weapons are the golf club (you hit golf balls at them, you don't just swing it) , 
 and the sledgehammer. Those never get old. If you own a 360, you should give this game a try. It's 
 not for everyone, but if you're an older gamer or you just enjoy killing zombies with mannequins 
 while wearing a dress, you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadSnake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as a reporter, caugt in the middle of a zombie infestation in Colorado. You 
 must survive for 72 hours (not real time) so your helicopter can come back and save you. Your mission 
 is simple, save everyone. While there is missions, it is easy enough to get side-tracked and just 
 do whatever. You can do plenty of side-missions as well, but it is more fun to take risks and grab 
 whatever you can from a ketchup bottle to a katana and hack your way though the heavily crowded 
 mall. I say this game is over looked because it is one of the best, or quite possibly the best 
 title to make it's way to the XBOX 360 and there is not much of anything surrouning this awesomely 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timjf
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  When you pick this game up at a store you really need to read the packaging and take it seriously. 
 There's no plot breakdown or verbose game play innuendo just a short sentence saying you're stuck 
 in a mall with zombies, and that every thing's at your zombie mutilating disposal.
  
  Saying this game has limited substance is missing the point and if storyline was a major necessity, 
 you'd probably have bought an RPG. This game is fun, period, kinda like Serious Sam with more violence 
 and we all know that the only thing serious about that game were hordes of aliens hell bent on 
 your destruction.
  
  Should you play this game because it received great reviews? I'd say no, because you'd expect too 
 much. But, if you're looking for creative zombie baching fun with a few too many crazy human characters 
 thrown in for good measure and have tonnes of time to waste, get it NOW! PS: The one save system 
 isn't as terrible as it seems. It's annoying at times but really makes you sweat when you're running 
 low on life and katanas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefscorn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  First off the best thing of Dead Rising is definitly the graphics. It really shows that the Xbox 
 360 is a power house. I know there not top knoch but the fact that u can change costumes and there 
 in the in-game cutsceans does make it stand out quit a bit. I will admit i played the demo first 
 and thought wow finaly a gore filled game where you can aimlessly go through and killing stuff, 
 but... well it is in a sence but the cutbacks are health time and objects. Sure its fun to go through 
 using different techniques to kill zombies but after a while it gets boring. Also the story really 
 isnt clear and you get this littel box to tell you what to do, now this is a big draw back to me 
 since my first few time through was on a sd tv, the text was so small and blurry that im just like 
 wtf am i doing? I did replay a littel of it on a hd tv at a friends house and the text was a bit 
 better but still it was a definit broblem since the killing gets boring. The next draw back was 
 the time limit, you only get 72 hours (3 days) of corse all in game and a hour goes by fast like 
 maby 15-20 mins. The next issue was the healt bar. It is upgradeabul but its not very lient and 
 with wepons sometimes scarce and bosses kicking your ass it becomes a major drag from randomly 
 going about killing everything. Tho if you die you can do 2 things, the first is load from the 
 last time you slept and the other is start from the beging with stats and photos carried over, 
 and for gamers taht hate to do things over it is EXTREAMLY annoying. For the cutsceans it is kind 
 of interesting because it gives you a good look at the graphics and it gives you a idea of what 
 happens. A nice touch that can be very annoying is photo taking, the main point of why your there 
 is to take photos. And sure its fun and easy way to get points to level up but like the killing 
 it gets boring. As for Controls are ok, but a bit confusing with the aiming unless you have a sniper. 
 But than again it looks so tightly backed on a sd tv it wasnt even that much better on hd. Overall 
 id say rent it first and if you can get into it than buy it but it just has so many drags that 
 it wasnt as fun as i thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is without a doubt in my mind one of the most unique and original video games I've 
 ever played. This is one of those games where you won't want to do the actual missions to progress 
 and you'll just want to explore and see what kind of weapons you can pick up to beat the zombies 
 to death with. I've had an Xbox 360 for a while now, but I never really buy games for it because 
 the 60 dollar price tag is too steep for my pocket, so I only have 3 other games besides this one. 
 Well, my birthday was recently celebrated and I was fortunate enough to get this game. This was 
 my most anticipated game for my 360. Ever since it was announced, I've been keeping my eye on it 
 and getting more and more excited up to its release. The question however is this: did it live 
 up to my expectations? Well, yes and no. For starters I was simply astonished at how many zombies 
 were on screen and I was blown away by all of the ways you could dispatch them. But some things 
 really hampered my enjoyment. The save system, lame escort missions, and repetitiveness are the 
 things coming to my mind. Overall, it's a really good game and incredibly unique, but it's lacking 
 some things that should just be common sense to truly make it a wonderful game. You are Frank West, 
 a freelance photographer and you are flown in by helicopter to find out what happened at Willamette 
 Mall and uncover the truth about the zombie outbreak. You only have 72 hours before your helicopter 
 arrives again so you must manage your time, help people, and ensure that you have your story.
 
  
  The gameplay is why I'm half enthralled and half disappointed with this game. I absolutely loved 
 the sight of hundreds and hundreds of zombies to plow through. I can truly say without hesitation 
 that it was a sight to behold the first time you walked into a hallway and it was literally cluttered 
 with zombies. Honestly, there were times in this game where there was no clear path to your destination. 
 You couldn't dodge the zombies or run around them, so you were forced to take aggressive measures 
 and use any means necessary to get rid of them. This is where the fun comes in. Almost everything 
 in the mall can be used in one way or another. You'll start off with only simple weapons such as 
 planks, bats, soccer balls, shelf racks, even toolboxes. But later in the game you'll find some 
 incredibly powerful weapons like the lead pipe, sledgehammer, and of course the guns: the shotgun, 
 sniper rifle, pistol, machine gun, among others. Not only can you kill the zombies in these fashions, 
 you can take away their sight making it easy for you to pass by. Let's say you had no weapons and 
 didn't want to attempt running by the zombie or fighting it hand to hand. Well, pick up a mask 
 and throw it on him. He'll stumble around blindly and you'll be free to venture onward. It's not 
 only a really fun and satisfying thing to do, it's also very very funny. Another positive aspect 
 of the game is that it is downright hilarious. The story is serious and rarely ever humorous, so 
 most of your laughs will come from your own creation. But regardless, every time you walk behind 
 an unaware zombie and smack the crap out of him with a lead pipe, you can't help but smile and 
 laugh at the sinfully gleeful mayhem you're causing.
  
  Unfortunately, that is really where the game starts and stops being fun. During the game, you have 
 numerous objectives to do, some more important than others. The Case Files are objectives that 
 you absolutely must do or you can't beat the game. In other words, if you aren't at the designated 
 area at a certain time or haven't finished a task before the next one, you lose the game plain 
 and simple. You can try loading and going back to get the objective done or reach the area before 
 the time limit is up, but if you are at a time constraint where it is impossible, you are forced 
 to start the entire game over. You can put 10 hours into this game and then have to start over 
 because you missed one assignment and it's definitely a hassle, but by that time you should have 
 the hang of it and shouldn't have to worry about that. Thankfully, the developers were smart enough 
 to let you carry over your skills you've earned during the previous playthrough. So if you've leveled 
 up numerous times and learned new moves but have to start over, everything carries over. It's nice 
 for that to happen, but it's a terrible design decision to make you start over to begin with. Another 
 complaint, which relates to the last one, is the save system. You can only save in the security 
 room or in the bathrooms. Why? Your guess is as good as mine. So for example, if you've just finished 
 an incredibly hard part of the game and have very little health left, having to trek to a save 
 point is a hassle and you risk the chance of dying from the zombies and having to do it all over 
 again. It's a real problem and something that the developers obviously looked over.
  
  My last real complaint with the gameplay is how repetitive it is, especially with the escort missions. 
 There are moments in this game (assuming you're sticking to the Case Files as your first priority) 
 where you'll be waiting 8 to 10 game hours for the next Case File to occur. Although the hours 
 are obviously not as long as in real life, it's still a long time with nothing to do. So the game 
 throws numerous objectives at you. Some send you to boss fights, but most of them send you to stranded 
 survivors that you are supposed to escort back to your hideout. You can decide whether to tackle 
 these or not because they're not mandatory and their death means nothing in the big scheme of things, 
 but you do get points to level up with if you do complete them, plus it's more fun than standing 
 there looking at your watch for 8 hours. But the civilians that are still alive are so incredibly 
 stupid that most of the time, you'll be halfway through escorting them and they'll get stuck on 
 the environment or run right into a zombie. Others that have weapons will decide to literally shoot 
 every single zombie in their path and believe me, there are A LOT of zombies. So most of the time 
 you'll just say screw it, let them die, and move on to the next objective.
  
  The last aspect of the gameplay is photograph taking. This is one aspect of the game that I'm impartial 
 about. I mean it's really cool to get an awesome shot of somebody getting torn apart or a zombie's 
 head exploding or things like that, but it needed to be fleshed out more. The whole point of the 
 game is to get good pictures for your scoop because after all, you are a freelance photographer. 
 But in the end, it doesn't matter. The pictures never really come in to play besides one side mission 
 which is so un-fun, that you probably won't do it anyway. So my point is that if you are making 
 a game based around that concept of a freelance photographer, then you need to make sure it stays 
 like that instead of dropping it altogether.
  
  The graphics are superb. I was blown away with the sheer amount of zombies on screen and the colorful 
 visuals that any good mall has. The environments looked beautiful inside and out. But some of the 
 stores did look a little blocky because it was obvious there wasn't much to accomplish in there 
 so it took a back seat to the other main areas. Like I said, the colors are what really stand out. 
 A toy store is just as kid friendly as you'd expect it to be.... except that there are blood thirsty 
 zombies lurking around. It was little things like that that really impressed me. But unfortunately, 
 with all of this prettiness there was bound to be little inconsistencies. For one, the game loads 
 an awful lot. Almost any time you enter an area the game loads. The load times are pretty short 
 so it's not a big deal, but after a while, it does become a burden. Also, with the amazing amount 
 of zombies on screen, there had to be some clipping. Running through the mall would be near impossible 
 without some clipping because you'd be bumping into zombies left and right so again it's a minor 
 complaint.
  
  The sound is where I think this game excels. The numerous zombie groans and growls were great. 
 It sounded like I was watching a Romero movie and I loved it. Also, the other sound effects were 
 spot on. The guns sounded just like you'd expect and even the footsteps sounded in synch. It was 
 impressive to say the least. Even the voice acting, which I was expecting to be very bad considering 
 the campy subject matter and setting, was actually very well done. Almost every single character 
 in the game sounded just like you'd expect they would. Some of the minor characters that you fight 
 or rescue sound a little off, but all of the main characters sounded spot on.
  
  The value of this game is something that's hard for me to judge. On one hand, the amazing capabilities 
 of the system are really shown off in this game and just rampaging around wreaking as much havoc 
 as you can is extremely fun. On the other hand, it does tend to get repetitive and the save system, 
 time limit, and unfair way of forcing you to start the whole game over after one mistake stop this 
 game from becoming the next big thing in video games.
  
  All in all, this is a game that every Xbox 360 owner needs to play. Whether they decide to buy 
 it or not is up to them, but I would suggest playing it first before actually laying down money 
 on a purchase. Sure, the save system and the whole start the game over thing can be overlooked 
 for the sheer amount of variety that is packed in this game, but it's still a factor in any player's 
 enjoyment of the game. Some may be get sick of it rather quickly, but many others will look right 
 past it and enjoy the game for what it is. Dead Rising certainly has it's fair share of problems, 
 some of which are worse than any other game I've ever played, but this is an obvious case where 
 the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisons
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  DR is a great game until you beat it, i do have some bad things to say about it. the missions in 
 the game get boring and can be too easy . i found myself getting bored while playing. so many zombies 
 is a pain in my blank hole. now the good things. i loved how almost anything could be used as a 
 weapon in the game, i found it fun to put stuffed bear head on zombie and than hit them with a 
 baseball bat. i have run out of time i need to go now.
  Until Next Time,
  --Dan the Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bewarethehorns
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is the almost infinate number of ways that you can dispense with thousands 
 and thousands of zombis. The game is so creative in that manner that little else mattered to me. 
 But the graphics are great, the sound is also impressive (however, the simple, barely changing, 
 cadence of Frank's steps is sometimes annoying) , and the environment is immersive which makes the 
 game all that much better. The environment really surprised me, I was unsure of how much fun one 
 could have while contained inside a mall, but the missions kept you moving to new scenery which 
 kept the game very fresh.
  
  This game is a must have for any 360 owner -- horror fan or not. I don't think reading about it 
 or viewing trailers can do it justice. Don't bother to rent it, just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Ever watched a classic Romero zombie movie and wondered how well you would fair against the almost 
 endless shambling hordes of the undead? This is about the nearest you can get to living the horror 
 of the classic B-movie.
  
  Willamette Mall is shrouded in mystery at the start of the game through both the reasons of the 
 zombie outbreak being entirely unknown and the numerous and equally mysterious human characters 
 still alive within the mall. However if you aren't interested in the story-line you can always 
 just spend your time recovering survivors or connecting meat tenderiser to the faces of as many 
 of the undead as you desire. If you are going to survive the mall for any length of time then you 
 will need weapons, and lots of them. Luckily this game provides plenty as almost anything can be 
 picked up and used against your wheezing foe. These range from baseball bats, CDs, fluffy toys, 
 guitars, chainsaws and even toy light-sabres. The list is seemingly endless. Surprisingly non-military 
 guns are not really very effective at all against the hordes here, but are however are essential 
 for the psychos you meet during the course of the game. There are many funny weapons in the game, 
 my choice being the rotorvator.
  
  The rotorvator is really a pneumatic drill and can be found in the hardware store. After being 
 revved and started spinning, you can ram it through the chest of a nearby staggering beardy-weirdy 
 forming an impaled crowd-clearer. The corpse will spray blood and limbs absolutely everywhere untill 
 only a headless torso remains on the drill spike. As you have probably just realised, this is toned 
 down in no way and is not for the faint-hearted. Even tough GTA players might find this a little 
 too much. As for me? I love every minute of it!
  
  There are plenty of other survivors in the mall, whether you rescue any of them is your choice. 
 However some are in less need of help out than others, some need to find an early grave. Psychopaths 
 roam the mall and have serious mental issuses, usually involving decapitations galore which never 
 distinguish between humans and zombies. I won't talk about individuals which would spoil any surprise 
 you get after wandering into a store to find you are face to face with a maniac armed to the teeth 
 who is out for your blood. These aren't just simple murderers either, some are intelligent and 
 crafty. Decapitations, sickening deaths and in one case cannabilism are the norm in the mall during 
 the outbreak.
  
  Photography is another genius addition, brutal decapitations and shambling hordes can now be captured 
 on camera for all to see as well as earning you some valuble experience points. There is only one 
 letdown, the ending. It really is terrible. The sequal is inevitable and I wait with baited breath.
 
  
  Simply Dead Rising lets you be free to do whatever you desire and is fantastically thought out. 
 Nothing beats recreating scenes from Shaun Of The Dead and then pulling a WWE-style Face Crusher 
 on the unsuspecting undead. Essential for all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redez
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  I do like this game but I wouldn't purchase the game. There are several reasons why, the first 
 reason is the lack of diversity between missions; most missions involve killing zombies amoung 
 other things and saving a bunch of people who are stuck. The second is the ability to level up 
 from taking photos of already dead corpses. Also if the army have quantied the area off, then surely 
 if they saw that you were helping the trapped people and dont have bluey, grey skin with torn clothes 
 they shouldnt attack you. A side note on the very shopping centre itselve; I cant imagen how big 
 this building is. And I cant think of any store that contains all the items needed to take down 
 an army of zombies. Overall a good game but lacks a life span. Killing zombies is fun at first 
 but will get boring after 2-3 months of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahpod42
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  First off, Dead Rising is, in my opinion, a very fun game that is also a very unique gaming experience. 
 Second, if you are expecting that this game will be anything like any of the games in the Resident 
 Evil series -- it is not. That it is made by CAPCOM and involves zombies are the only two things 
 in common between DR and RE. Dead Rising is a little bit GTA, but limited to the environs of a 
 large shopping mall. In fact, the main character in Dead Rising, Frank West, reminds me of Tommy 
 Vercetti from GTA Vice City in appearance, attitude, and the way his voice sounds (although Ray 
 Liotta does not voice Frank West) .
  
  What makes this game so intense (besides all the psychopaths and hordes of zombies) is the real 
 time element of the game. Real time in DR, however, actually passes much more quickly than  
 You start out with 72 hours of real time that is constantly ticking away, and it is up to you 
 to manage your time wisely, completing the main case missions as well as all of the side missions, 
 exploring, and everything else that is going on in this game. This time factor is, like I said 
 previously, what makes this game so intense, but it is also what makes this game very frustrating 
 at times, and may very well give you an ulcer.
  
  The cut-scenes are fantastic, especially the ones involving the various psychos that you encounter 
 (some of the psycho cut-scenes are more disturbing than others) . Also, the varied personalities 
 of the potential mall-survivors that you can attempt to rescue really helped to draw me into the 
 game. These individuals are all in different states of mind when you encounter themaggressive, 
 in the fetal position, or on the verge of a nervous breakdown, to give you a few examplesand it 
 is up to you to decide how to deal with them. This was a really interesting aspect of the game 
 for me, and made the situation that Frank finds himself in much more engrossing.
  
  Finally, just the fact that you can pick up almost ANYTHING in the game and use it as a weapon 
 made this game really fun. Oh, by the way, dont think that you can just find a really cool weapon 
 and use it indefinitely, because everything that you use as a weapon breaks fairly quickly. All 
 in all, I highly recommend this game. Just be patient with it at first, and expect to run out of 
 time and fail a case or two until you get the hang of everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectParadox1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  First, let us say: It's about time! With Dead Rising, Capcom has finally given zombies their due. 
 If you're a fan of the genre George Romero formulated in Night of the Living Dead, this is the 
 game for you. It's a gleeful gory free-form zombie killing romp and it's just what you've been 
 waiting for. Up to now, zombies in games have shuffled towards you singly, maybe in pairs or at 
 best gaggles. They've tended to be filler between puzzles in Resident Evil games. For whatever 
 reason -- most likely the limitations of the technology -- the point of zombies has been regularly 
 missed: that they may be slow and stupid, but they are innumerable and relentless. Any zombie apocalypse 
 worth its salt is all about the nearly unlimited quantity of the dead. They are an implacable force, 
 like a wave, that will eventually wash over every place they reach. Kill a thousand of them if 
 you want. It won't make any difference. Dead Rising presents this better than any other game to 
 date by cramming the screen with, quite literally at times, hundreds of zombies. The Xbox 360's 
 hardware has never served it so well as it does here. A game like Ninety-Nine Nights might give 
 you hundreds of identical stupid soldiers, but Dead Rising offers distinct creatures, all moving 
 according to their own erratic mindless lurching. A zombie here isn't just an opponent. It's one 
 bit of a writhing mass of undead and it's moving towards you. You're a guy dropped into a small 
 town's mall in search of a story. But never mind all that guff. The cutscenes and case files that 
 gradually unfurl the half-baked B-movie plot are inconsequential. The important thing is that the 
 storyline hits all the necessary beats. Beleaguered victims, mysterious origins, psychotic ne'er-do-wells, 
 military complicity... you know the drill. So does Capcom. As you play, there's a constant tension 
 between free-form zombie killing and timed missions. You earn prestige points (the name experience 
 points must have been taken) by rescuing survivors, lining up gory zombie slaughters, and taking 
 pictures. Yes, taking pictures. You are, after all, a journalist in pursuit of a story. The photography 
 is an amusing diversion that fits in nicely with the sometimes juvenile tone. Include some hot 
 undead chick's cleavage in your photo and you get a bonus for erotic content. When you earn enough 
 prestige points, you'll level up. This improves your character with new stats and new combat moves, 
 such as being able to walk over zombie crowds, flying jump kicks, and bare-handed disemboweling. 
 Improved stats let you do things like carry more items, survive more damage, and run faster. This 
 isn't an RPG, but it throws in just the right amount of character development to make you care 
 enough to earn experience points. Err, prestige points. Missions and side quests often involve 
 escorting survivors to the rescue location. Sometimes you can get away with just running to your 
 destination with an escort in tow, but you might have to finesse it. It helps to clear the way 
 of zombies, but that's not always feasible. There's a simple system of escort commands, which include 
 telling a survivor to follow you, sending him to a particular location, or giving him weapons to 
 defend himself or food to heal himself. With the help of these simple tools, escort missions aren't 
 nearly frustrating as, say, the boss fights. It's disappointing that Dead Rising shunts you through 
 some scripted combat sequences with borderline puzzle solutions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very great game i was so hyped up too get this i remeber seeing this like a year 
 ago say i sayed hmm this game looks interesting so i got it and its amazing the only thing that 
 pisses me of is the save system say if u die and u didnt save it u had to start all over again 
 but u gotta save and it loads its really annoying to have to go to save spots it really pisses 
 me off but hey thats probaly the only flaw in this game but im sure u would be happy with the story 
 and action alot of good weapons also there is a level meter say if u get a certian amount of pp 
 u will level up so its smart to do those escort mission cause ull get alot of pp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgsmjsje
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is probably one of the best games i have ever played in my life. the graphics are amazing 
 and the gore is just an instant classic!!!!!! thank you capcom for making such a great game. although 
 the saving system is the worst saving thing oin the world. but overall the best game i have ever 
 played!!! and the leveling up thing is pretty cool because its just like an rpg which is pretty 
 cool. the story is about finding the truth behind the zombie outbreak and you encounter to find 
 out. and you are frank west a hard edged photojournalist who traps himself in a mall filled with 
 zombies to find out a big scoop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperShadow53
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games on the Xbox360 ive ever played i like the way you have many funny 
 and gorey way of killing Zombies also it kool you get guns but they are pointless with so many 
 zombies and so little ammo. I like the types of modes and the story of the game is very interesting. 
 If you think its easy just wait and try infinte mode which is very realistic you can starve in 
 detail your health keeps going downand you need to eat but food supplies are limted to which is 
 awsome because that would be real. The boss fights are insane but sometimes the boss you are fighting 
 with get caught between items making them easy picking. I like Frank his is a get to know get to 
 like character he is a pretty stupid sometimes I mean who would go into a Zombie infested town 
 just to be famous. Well thats my review I hoped you liked it Thank You For Reading
  SuperShadow53 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a perfect game. It's fun, gory, long, some parts hard, violent, gory, gory ,oh, and 
 did i say its gory. The controls are ok, the AI is really stupid most of the time. Becuse they 
 get stuck on invisible places, and when they get to close to you, your screwed. The game crashes 
 alot and its really hard for beginers. Other than that, its great. The graphics are good and ,once 
 you get beter, it gets easier, but its always hard. Zombies arent the only thing you have to worry 
 about. There are phycos, cultists, and Special Forces. I think that this game is one of a kind, a 
 definate buyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw dead rising I was more than a little skeptical. I hadn't really heard much about 
 it and, in a lot of ways, it looked like one of those strange one-time games that are good for 
 maybe a rental but little more. That's why I didn't pick the game up until more than a month after 
 it released after my roommate agreed to pay for half of it if I let him play it. I went to the 
 store, picked up the game, and was more than a little nervous about shelling out cash for a game 
 that has a man smashing zombies with a TV as its box art. But I did, and once I brought it home 
 I got a very pleasant surprise, at least for while.
  
  The first thing I noticed about the game was it's campiness. The opening scenes are so ridiculous 
 that they are hilarious (town overrun by raging zombies eating people and destroying things) , but 
 they are funny in a creepy way. By the way, that's something that this game does really well; it 
 manages to creep you out but it also keeps the mood light enough for you to laugh at the more ridiculous 
 parts of the plot and the combat. Anyway, I get dropped onto the town's shopping mall and informed 
 that I have 72 hours to get a scoop (being that I am a photographer and all) before the chopper 
 returns to pick me up. So by now I am a little bit more interested in the game. I head inside and 
 that's were the real gameplay starts. The first thing I notice as I play is the absolutely ridiculous 
 numbers of zombies on screen. I don't think I have ever seen this many characters on screen at 
 once. There are literally hundreds of them, and each one seems to be acting a little differently 
 than all the others. I am sure that a lot of the animations are repeated, but there are just so 
 many of them that I never noticed it. Some areas are so thick with undead that you can't walk unless 
 you hack them down, which is a ton of fun and I will get to that next. But until then , let's finish 
 up the visual aspect of the game. The zombies don't look stellar, but with so many of them on screen 
 you won't even notice, and your character model looks good, if a little blocky. The animations 
 are well done, using a chainsaw actually looks like using a chainsaw, swinging a baseball bat looks 
 like it should, etc. The blood is perhaps a little too overdone; there are gallons of it every 
 time you kill an enemy or they kill you, but I guess it looks good and should be expected in a 
 game like this. The mall itself looks decent, too, although not horribly detailed and using some 
 relatively bland textures in some places. You won't notice this unless you are looking for it, 
 though, so this game ends up doing pretty well with graphics.
  
  The sound is great, the moaning and groaning of the zombies is genuineley creepy and the splatter 
 of hitting one with a bat or slashing them with a knife is sickeningly realistic, but the voice 
 acting is pretty bad in all honesty, and the firearms seem to lack a lot of punch, although this 
 isn' t huge issue since they are in short supply in the game. Overall, though, the sound in this 
 game is extremely well done and helps support the game's creepy but goofy atmosphere very well. 
 The gameplay, like I said above, is surprisingly fun. I don't think I have ever played a hack and 
 slash game that I haven't gotten bored of within a couple of hours, but the sheer variety of weapons 
 available (everything from chainsaws to flower pots to CDs) keeps things fresh and for some sick 
 reason hacking these zombies just seems very satisfying (in a creepy, gross kind of way) . You can 
 spend several hours just killing enemies and have a decent amount of fun trying out all the weapons 
 in each area, and this is definitely the game's strong point. In fact, there is little more to 
 this game than simply indiscriminantly killing the undead. The story is pretty weak, it sounds 
 like something a 12 year old who watches too much science fiction TV came up with and none of the 
 characters really seem to make much of an impression, although you will feel guilty when someone 
 you are escorting gets eaten by a horde of undead beasties. Don't worry, though, this feeling of 
 guilt dies quickly as you do the next in a series of seemingly hundreds of repetitive escort missions 
 in the game. But you probably won't even do them, because the game won't let you.
  
  What? How does the game not let you? Well, that's simple. It puts a timer on everything. When you 
 hear you have 72 hours in the mall, you actually, literally, have 72 hours (game hours, that is, 
 which are much shorter than in real life) in the mall. And that leaves you barely enough time to 
 do the main story missions, much less rescue survivors. There are only two sections in the game 
 with long enough breaks in the story to do other things like the rescue missions, and even these 
 don't seem to give you enough time to save everyone like you are supposed to. Everything in the 
 game is based on a schedule, meaning that every event in the story happens in a particular place 
 at a particular time. But what if you're late? Well, you're screwed. The entire story ends right 
 there and then, and you better hope that you saved a while ago because if you didn't you may not 
 have left yourself enough time to get to the meeting place on time and will have to restart the 
 game. Not the level, not the chapter, THE GAME. Dead Rising has one of the most unforgiving and 
 ridiculously stressful game layouts I have ever seen. There are about four save points in the entire 
 mall, and they all seem like they are deliberately placed in the most hard-to-get to places. And 
 the mall is enormous, so it will take you a long time to get to them and you will probably be eaten 
 by the swarms of enemies before you get there, forcing you to play the last hour of the game again. 
 You could just ignore the story line, but then you will get a crappy ending that isn't really worth 
 it and have to spend 10 mindless hours hacking up countless zombies with no real purpose to the 
 madness. I personally took great pains to be everywhere on time only to get the wrong ending because 
 I didn't talk to someone before getting to the mall's roof to meet the chopper at twelve on the 
 third day (after the 72 hours were over) and didn't leave enough time to go back and talk to her 
 after my last save. I started the game over (for about the third time) , but quickly became bored 
 with the frustrating save system and the story since I had seen it all before. I haven't play the 
 game since.
  
  This super-frustrating save system and the ridiculous time table the game places you on makes it 
 seem like Capcom deliberately made this game as frustrating as possible. It would be a fantastic 
 game if it weren't for the soul shattering consequences for missing a meeting or checkpoint, but 
 these bugs just ruin it for me. It's still fun to deal out gruesome deaths to waves of zombies, 
 but there isn't much lasting appeal when the game is this unforgiving. Add to this that there is 
 no online support whatsoever and you have a game that could have been so much more than it is. 
 Hopefully if there is a Dead Rising 2, these faults will be sorted out and we will get to see the 
 kind of game that Dead Rising should have been. Until then, though, I can't recommend this for 
 anything more than a five day rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost-Gamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Being able to use practically everything as a weapon makes for a great and unique gameplay experience, 
 entertaining boss-battles great story, good graphics, awesome sound-effects and the save-system 
 makes the game challenging and also gives it great replay value
  
  The Bad:
  The AI of the bosses and survivors tend to be quite dumb sometimes, Very few saving locations and 
 saving your game with to little time left on the clock can be a disaster, also Otis bloody phone 
 calls during the missions are pretty annoying
  
  The Review;
  Yeah, yeah i already know you sneaked peaked on the score and you know that I like this game, let 
 me tell you this though... I thought this game would suck, I tipped it to be one of the worst titles 
 to come out for the Xbox 360 this year and I couldn't imagine how a game with tons of zombies in 
 a mall could be any fun, well as you now can see I was wrong.. oh well lets cut to the chase now 
 shall we?
  
  You start the game in a helicopter playing as photojournalist Frank West sent out to cover a story 
 about mysterious happening that have recently occurred there. And you get there only to find there 
 is zombies absolutely everywhere. Then you fly over this giant mall and a government chopper shows 
 up forces you to land and Frank jump off and tells the helicopter guy to pick him up again in 3 
 days. So you have to survive in the mall during these days to think out why almost everyone have 
 turned to zombies, uncover the plot and save as many survivors as possible, oh and also use everything 
 in your surroundings to take out the zombies in the most brutal, bizarre or hilarious ways.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Rising is quite straightforward though not that repetitive since you'll 
 face different phsycopats and have different objectives and all the time use different weapons, 
 all missions are also time-based keeping the action more pumped up and also a little more challenging. 
 What also does the game more challenging is the save system.. both in a good way, but also in a 
 bad way.
  The good is that you really have to be and your feet and stay alive until the next savepoint witch 
 forces you to think and focus at the task at hand. The bad is that if you die you can be set back 
 several hours gameplay wise if you're not careful since the game has very few autosaves and only 
 one saveslot. This can be very punishing since if you save the game with very little time left 
 on a mission and you can't finish it in time you'll loose the mission, if it's a Story mission 
 you will be forced to start over again since you no longer wil be able to progress in the story, 
 though you can at that point save your status for Frank... yep that's correct the game also has 
 some RGP elements meaning that you will raise in level, gain new skill get more health etc. and 
 if you save your status you will begin the game from scratch but you're a lot stronger, though 
 I would have preferred a solution with more saveslots or at least more autosaves. There is another 
 good thing about this though, that you will have much reason going trough the game several times 
 handle different situation in differently.
  
  Overall this is an action packed lenghty game that every Xbox 360 owner should have in their collection 
 that has many qualities that should not be missed.
  
  Ghost-Gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_rey619
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game. You are Frank West a journalsit who goes to the Willmatte Mall to check 
 out what the hell is going on. You start killing zombies in a little bit after you make it to the 
 mall, but when you start killing them the real fun begins.
  
  Gameplay
  Everything/Anything you find is a weapon, literally everything you find will help you kill zombies 
 wheter its a chainsaw or giant lipstick it all will be useful, hell even Frank's bare fist can 
 kill the zombies. About the zombies, they are typical brain-dead reatrds moanig and walking with 
 a limp. You pretty much kill them when there in the way or for achivements, or just if you wanna 
 have fun. Difficulty in this game is kinda just right to hard being in a huge crownd of zombies 
 mkae it difficult to get out but only makes the game more and more fun. One thing about the game 
 i gotta complain about is when you rescue people, these people are just like the zombies brain-dead, 
 slow, and can't use a weapon, when i say follow me they move like 5 sec. later especially when 
 zombies are near us and to make it worst they are slow, very... very... slow, when i give them weapons 
 they'll sometimes use it correctly or act like a little wuss and be afraind to use it, only time 
 i really like to rescue people is when i can hold there hand or carry them, i may move slower but 
 i can dodge zombies and get to the sercurity room quicker. All in All the gameplay is superb. 9/10
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are really good it really shows the 360 next-gen look. Everything has detail Frank's 
 shaved beard show's the developers took some time making him same goes for the npc's, even the 
 weapons and stores/shops have a good look to them the stores have the basics the cash register 
 the counter the stuff there selling and an unlimited supply of it! The zombies even have the look 
 even though you'll see the same ones after a while. The landscape is beatiful to pretty lushious, 
 shows how the grass at mall would look, cut and green. My only complaint is when the game frame 
 rate starts messing up its not that bad it only last for a few seconds still make you love the 
 game though the graphics get a 9/10
  
  Sound
  What can I say baout the sound except that its perfect 10/10
  
  -Dead Rising is an awesome 
 for zombie lovers and non-zombie lovers its just fun to be able to kill zombies over and over again 
 with your katana, shotgun, or even megabuster! This game is a must buy on anyones wish list. 9.6/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Capcoms latest entry into the action-adventure genre comes in the form of Dead Rising, a brutally 
 gory and amazingly fun game. Dead Rising is what you make of it and if killing zombies is your 
 thing, youll be in paradise. Whether you choose to pursue the storyline, or see just how many 
 zombies you can slaughter before the final credits roll, there is a ton of fun to be had here. 
 There are a few flaws that keep it from being incredible, but if youre willing to overlook them, 
 Dead Rising may be one of the best games of its type youve ever played.
  
  You play the role of veteran photojournalist Frank West, whos seen his share of violence and mayhem 
 in his time (hes covered wars you know) , but is completely unprepared for the horrors he will 
 soon encounter on his latest excursion. The game begins with a brief fly through of the town. As 
 you fly over the town, you notice that something is indeed horribly wrong in the small town. Military 
 convoys have blocked off the road, cutting off entrance to the city by any means other than flight, 
 quarantining the area. As you land on the roof of the Willamette Parkview Mall, the story begins 
 to unfold. For the next 72 hours, this will be your new home as you try to uncover the truth behind 
 the recent zombie outbreak. The story manages to evoke B-movie style hilarity while at the same 
 time, finding a way to be taken seriously. While its not the deepest and most well written story 
 ever, it does have some interesting twists and turns that make it very enjoyable to see through 
 to the end.
  
  Dead Rising gives you pretty much free reign over the mall in the 72 in game hours you have. During 
 these 72 hours, youre free to do pretty much whatever you choose, be it taking photographs, taking 
 in the sights, or bludgeoning zombies. Everything occurs within a real time structure which is 
 both a gift and a curse, depending on how you look at it. On one hand, it keeps the story flowing 
 well, and there is little pause between story segments, making everything flow smoothly. On the 
 other hand, it proves to be very binding and if you are intent on playing through the entire story, 
 it doesnt give you much leeway into gallivanting off to do your own thing, be it saving survivors, 
 exploring the mall (although the story does a good job of sending you into many of the nooks and 
 crannies of the mall) or just mindlessly bashing zombies for too long. It is very easily to get 
 caught up in what you are doing and forget that an important segment of the story is coming up. 
 Missing even one of the many chapters causes you to lose the ability to complete the story.
  
  Dead Risings graphics arent the best on the Xbox 360, but still deserve praise for being 
 both detailed and clean. The mall is detailed to a great degree, emulating the design of real life 
 malls. The framerate rarely hitches, even with the dozens of zombies onscreen at any one time. 
 Blood and gore are both very common sights in Dead Rising as you have the liberty to decapitate 
 zombies with swords, axes, a well placed shot from a sniper rifle, amputate limbs, and even cut 
 zombies in two. Most boss encounters end with the bosss life ending in a very gory manner. After 
 particularly bloody confrontations, you will notice Franks body being covered in blood from the 
 many zombies hes maimed, which is a very nice touch. Whether theyre ambling around aimlessly 
 searching for their next meal, aggressively attempting to grab you as you approach or slipping 
 and falling after cooking oil has been sprayed all over the floor around them the zombie animations 
 are top notch.
  
  The audio is also very well done. The airy and campy tunes youll hear in the background amidst 
 the eerie moans and groans of the zombies add much to the atmosphere, helping to shape the shopping 
 mall theme the developers have created so well. The sound of a sword cutting through the air or 
 a submachine gun firing accurately emulate the real life weapons theyre based on and the sounds 
 of a zombies head splattering as you deliver a crushing blow with a sledgehammer is sickeningly 
 satisfying.
  
  Dead Risings main strength comes from its varied combat. There are literally hundreds of different 
 ways to dispatch the zombified residents populating the mall, be it cutting a swath through a crowd 
 of zombies with a chainsaw or sword or beating them senseless with a stuffed teddy bear. Nearly 
 every one of the dozens of items youll discover in the mall can be used as a weapon, adding much 
 to the variety. From shotguns to water guns and CDs to baking flour, youll find an amazing selection 
 of weapons in this game to play around with and of course, some are far more effective than others 
 (the water gun mentioned previously is practically useless) .
  
  The rather outdated save system just serves to complicate matters even further by requiring you 
 to seek out one of a few restrooms scattered about the mall to save your game. Such an outdated 
 method of saving the game doesnt fit well in this game. It is too easy to save right before a 
 crucial story moment, only to find that you dont have enough time to make it back to the location 
 to trigger the event. Frustrations will begin to mount as players then realize that they will have 
 to start over again from the beginning. Also, because you have only one save slot, theres no opportunity 
 to save a different file as a backup in case you save at an inopportune time.
  
  Thankfully, thats not as hard as it sounds. Whenever you die or fail to make it back in time to 
 trigger another story event or survive the entire 72 hour period, you have the option to save and 
 quit the game. As a plus, your character retains all the levels he had when you quit the game, 
 giving you a distinct advantage when you decide to play through the game again. The 72 hour mode 
 will take you about seven or eight hours to complete. Alone, the 72 hour story mode wouldve been 
 a bit shallow, but once you have seen the story through to the end once, you unlock the Overtime 
 mode. This mode will take you an additional two real hours to complete. Finishing this mode unlocks 
 the Infinite mode which gives you the opportunity to run around the mall doing pretty much whatever 
 you wish for as long as you can survive. This makes Dead Rising infinitely replayable and when 
 combined with the unlockable items and achievements, makes up for the total lack of a multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  The Prestige Points (or PP) system is interwoven into nearly every aspect of the game. There are 
 many ways to amass PP, which basically functions as experience points would in an RPG. Taking photographs 
 is by far the easiest and most common method of gaining PP. With each photograph, youll earn a 
 certain amount of PP, dependent on the quality and content of the photograph itself. Each photo 
 will fall under one of five categories, drama, brutality, erotica, outtake and horror. Among the 
 other ways to amass PP are using the some of the special attacks Frank gains as he levels up, to 
 using special weapons to defeat zombies, such as the baseball bat.
  
  Within the mall, there are a large number of survivors that need rescue and safe escort back to 
 the security room. One problem is that you have no clue where many of these survivors are located. 
 Several of them appear at certain times and certain locations. Youll be given hints as to the 
 whereabouts of a few of them, but many youll have to seek out on your own. In the end, finding 
 them is relatively easy in comparison to actually getting them back to the safe haven of the security 
 room can be incredibly difficult. The NPC AI is just not that intelligent. Without your constant 
 supervision, NPCs can easily be separated from you and caught up in a crowd of zombies who will 
 quickly disembowel them if you do not help them. While escorting one survivor may not be too hard, 
 escorting multiple survivors at once (which youll have to do if you plan on saving each one) is 
 just plain frustrating.
  
  One annoyance that popped up quite frequently during the game were the overly frequent calls from 
 Otis the janitor via the transceiver he gives you near the beginning of the game. These updates 
 pop up every now and then, adding more scoop opportunities to your queue. Answering these calls 
 does benefit you in the end, but leave you entirely defenseless until the call is over. If you 
 are attacked, fall off of a ledge, or interrupt the call in any way, youll have to repeat the 
 message, with an additional sentence concerning the rudeness of the aforementioned interruption. 
 When youre in the middle of a boss battle, or a crowd of Zombies, the last thing you want to hear 
 is the incessant chiming of the transceiver.
  
  Another annoyance is that, without an HDTV, youll be searching for a magnifying glass to help 
 you decipher the incredibly small text youll have to read much of the time, be it from the calls 
 from Otis (adding to the frustration) , or most of the dialog from the various characters youll 
 come across in the game. It seems like Capcom is trying to tell gamers using standard definition 
 televisions its time for an upgrade.
  
  In closing, Capcom has once again proven that they know how to make a well crafted game involving 
 zombies. The departure from the traditional survival horror genre mold and has given the developers 
 leeway into creating a very original action-adventure game that stands out from the crowd. This 
 is a great game and deserving of much praise, but a few flaws in the game design such as the horribly 
 outdated save system and the generally bad NPC AI hold it back from being truly excellent. On the 
 Xbox 360 it stands out as one of the most original games to date and will likely hold that title 
 for a long time to come. The open ended nature of the game will keep fans coming back for more 
 for months and keep even casual players interested for quite a while. Regardless of its shortcomings, 
 this is a quality title that should not be missed by Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutejjmb
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  I love this game but it sort of get on ur nerves after a while and u just want to gone on somthing 
 else. this game i great for new comming game or recreational gamer but if you are on the serious 
 end of game i would tent to avoid it. this does not mean this is bad game it excellent but in term 
 of game play its just too stressful and boaring at time e. g. hardly any save so if u die you start 
 from the beginning and the shooting t just terrible especially when you need to kill a boss just 
 takes the P**S...
  
  But its a good game for just you n your mate/s to just kick back and have a laugh. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun. You can kill these mindless zombies with pretty much anything you can 
 get your hands on. Even run them over with a car. You can browse around the mall and change clothes 
 if you like. This game also has high replay value due to the fact you only have a certain amount 
 of time to complete everything. This is frustrating at first, but the more you play, the more your 
 character levels up so that the second or third time through the game it is much easier. You almost 
 have to be at a high level to stand a chance at beating the pyschopaths in the mall. You could 
 also try and replay the game and try to save everyone in the mall, or you can just follow the story 
 line if you like too. There are many options to choose from. As for the negatives, the print is 
 too small to read and they don't give you enough time to read everything that pops up on the screen. 
 Also, they really should give you more time to roam around and complete objectives. You pretty 
 much have to play this game more than once to level up or just know your way around. Overall, the 
 game is great. I recommend playing it if you haven't done so already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam11bam
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Wow..... when Dead Rising was first released i thought to myself.... ahh a hack and slash fest where 
 you just kill kill kill zombies... and i thought the biggest thing this game had to offer was ohh 
 THOUSAND of zombies on screen !.... and when i saw GS rated it an 8.4... i was like ... mehh... i'll 
 just wait till the next big game, and i was also thinking it was gonna be a total ripoff of Dawn 
 of the Dead, when it came to the story.... boy was i wrong... This game is Dawn of the Dead on ACID!!! 
 and if you like Rockstar games like GTA, Bully, Kind of games that dont take themselves seriously, this 
 game is for you!!!!
  
  as you all my know by now, you can use anything in the HUGE mall to kill... from Sniper rifles, Katana's, chain 
 saws, and sledge hammers to soccer balls, Nail guns, frying pans and benches
  
  and you repenish your health by eating foods and snacks found around the mall.... there as just 
 so many stratagy's and different ways to play this game that it really makes it extremely Replayable!
 
  
  MUST OWN FOR ANY XBOX OWNERS OUT THERE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannigancarter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Set inside a humongous shopping mall after a mysterious viral outbreak, Dead Rising is seriously 
 one of the funniest and addicting games I've ever played... if you laugh at the undead shuffling 
 aimlessly and then falling down flights of stairs... or being able to bulldoze your way through 
 a pack of zombies with a ... shopping cart? Use your imagination on this one guys. Just about anything 
 you can get your hands on in this game is potentially a weapon, even the items you would use as 
 a means of gaining health! I've never seen so many things on-screen at once with individual AI. 
 I'm talking hundreds of monsters coming after you all at once! Thank God they can't run. You may 
 say that fighting hordes of zombies for hours on end is boring. Well, thats where members of psychotic 
 cults and escaped convicts and SWAT teams come at you with everything they've got. And not to mention 
 the crazed survivors of whatever happened at this city, are either trying to kill you, or get your 
 help. Every single objective in this game is optional, and you can actually win the game by just 
 sitting in the same room the entire time... but of course THAT would be boring. The game is also 
 intensely challenging in some parts because of the lumbering control system and the insanely difficult 
 bosses, but all you have to do is find the easy way to get around them. If you're a fan of Resident 
 Evil or any other awesomely gory series, play Dead Rising, there's PLENTY to do, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game and the idea is awesome. Basically everything in the game can be used 
 as a weapon to kill zombies with which is great. there is nothing like a good zombie beating to 
 make you smile. There is however one complaint I have and that is with the save system. How it 
 works is this. You can save on couches and things, however the problem is that if you die then 
 you can restart from your last save, or start the game over and brand new again with what ever 
 level your character has acheived. however the main problem is that if you save and you aren't 
 at a specfic time for a case then you have to start from the beginning again anyway so there really 
 is no good solution to this. I feel that they could have done a better job at this idea than they 
 did. However other than that this is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cad2505
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Its funny. before i buy a game i usually cruise these review boards and look at all the bad ones 
 first just to get an idea of what is possibly bad about a game. But the funny thing is this multitude 
 of people whom seem to wanna just B**** about the text size, now i admit without a HD TV the text 
 is small and i would appreciate a patch or something to rectify this but its not bad enough to 
 stop you from buying this game, i was able to read it so you should as well.
  
  The gameplay is great, i mean, who doesnt enjoy running around and killing zombie after zombie 
 until your katana runs out and you go find some other inanimate object to beat the hell outta hundreds 
 more of the walking corpses. I have also read other reviews stating the game is to HARD, cmon most 
 games these days are hard and capcom are known especially for making hard games, heres my advice 
 get over it, just because its hard doesnt make it a bad game. The graphics and attention to detail 
 is excellent and the animation from the shambling zombies to the psycopath bosses who inhabit the 
 mall is done incredibly well.
  
  The story is well done and immersive, as you play the story dishes out just a bit of information 
 at a time enough to make you want to keep playing and find out exactly what happened to cause this 
 outbreak of zombies.
  
  As far as sound is concerned, its perfect, the music suits the game and the sounds the weapons 
 make are excellant.
  
  To finish ill say this, don't believe all those reviews complaining about text issues, you'll get 
 over it. The sheer multitude of zombies, weapons, bosses, areas to visit and survivors to escort 
 make this game a must for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplyay- Well whats there to say. Its gory and fun. From smashing the zombies head open with 
 wieghts. Or chainsawing them in half. Theres so many ways to kill zombie its awsome. This game 
 is only single player. The story is acctually pretty good. And some cool boss battles
  
  sound- Sound is awsome in this game. You can here the each indivual sounds when killing a zombie. 
 And the voice acting is really good to.
  
  grpahics- There good , solid. Looks like a next gen game.
  
  value- The game can get repetive 
 to some people. But theres lots to do besides killing zombies...
  
  tilt- Overall this comes out to be probablly one of the best zombie games to ever come out. And 
 if your a fan of zombies be sure to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman120
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  dead rising is a game what fustrate's and please's, dead rising's save system is broken and game 
 text is terrible too! you can't see it at all. and dead rising is a bit repetitive and boring!. but 
 zombie's again! i'm a bit fed up of hearing moan's and groan's all the time all you do is hit a 
 zombie, ok i know there's loads of ways to kill the brainless idiots but capcom just do the same 
 every year, make a zombie game every year, and again i know resident evil 4 is good with lot's of 
 variety in boss battles because there tense and engaging.
  
  dead rising's save system is terrible! fist to get to the save place there are like hundred's of 
 zombies in my way and when you've got NO weapons and any health you could scream! AND TO TOP IT 
 OFF! guess what? you need a security key which is painful and i mean really painful!
  
  and dead rising text/subtitle menu when poeple are speaking is tiny you need laser eye vision just 
 to see it! proper voice acting when the gameplay is running and not when a cutscene appears is dissapointing! really 
 dissapointing!.
  
  and there's no sense of direction like you don't know where to go for the next
  mission and rescueing 
 people is a pain and it is repetitive!.
  
  enough complaining already i'm like an complaining old idiot!
  dead rising's variety in in game 
 characters is brilliant to the escapt convicts to survivor's is brilliant though and there is so 
 much variety in the shopping mall and the way to kill zombies is awesome there is just so much 
 variety and there's so much to see!.
  
  dead rising is a game of laugher and fustration!
  
  dead rising is pretty short and is not a classic killer game but dead rising is a game of fun, 
 variety and is packed with things to do and see!
  
  in the end dead rising is a really enjoyble game if you can forgive the save system and a pretty 
 short story (and a pretty weird one to!) you can have fun with dead rising!.
  
  dead rising is a good game what is enjoyable but it's not a classic!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  The selling point of Dead Rising is basically the fact that you can use anything as a weapon. Be 
 it a tv (hd or standard by the way) , a bowling ball, a golf club, a handbag, a sub machine gun, 
 a pie,, a katana, or even a lawnmower can be used to cut down the endless zombie hordes that have 
 invaded Willamete Mall. You play wartime photojournalist Frank West, who just got a major tip about 
 something strange happening in Small Town Colorado. The intro sequence is fantastic, making you 
 take pictures of set peice events whilst you get helicoptered into the mall. The mall it self is 
 massive. A sprawling mass of fun set over 6 plazas , which are basically game areas. The shops 
 in each plaza vary though. For example, you wouldnt be able to find a gun shop in the Paridise 
 Plaza, but thats for kids. But you wouldnt find a toy shop in the North Plaza, because thats more 
 of an adult shop (not that sort you dirty buggers!) affair. Dead RIsing also gives you a massive 
 choice in the plot department. Its impossible to do everything in one play through, giving the 
 game massive replay value throughout. Do you complete the plot, or Case Files as the game calls 
 it. Do you rescue the 70 odd survivors. Do you just run around kicking the crap out of zombies? 
 Its up to you! Another insentive to play through again is the RPG element. Each time you kill a 
 zombie or take a good photo you gain PP, which Levels Frank up. There are 50 levels and as you 
 increase you have more health, more inventory slots, and you learn some kick ass karate moves. And 
 as if that wasnt enough, when you complete the game and start a new one, your character level is 
 carried across. The plot in DR is very compelling, including multiple endings. You will want to 
 see all of them, as each one has a unique feature. Unfortunatley, whilst DR is a great game it 
 sometimes becomes overwhelming. If you just want to get to one place without been hassled by the 
 annoying zombies, you cant. It becomes tiresome having to trek between plazas, and getting lost 
 because of the totally useless in game map. Also, you are kept on a tight time sheldule to complete 
 the game. You only have 72 hours to complete the main game, which sucks when you just wanna play...
 
  
  Graphics- As games go, Dead Rising is a beautiful game. Textures are all good, and the gore effects 
 are wondeful. Cutscenes are one of the greatest ever made, and really get the compelling story 
 through. Sticking a shower head into a zombie is creepily amusing.
  
  Gameplay- Great fun if your looking for adult laughs. This game combine s brutallity with a pervy 
 sense of humour. However, the limited save system and constant walking from a to b is annoying 
 and slightly off putting.
  
  Sound- Fairly basic soundtrack consistng of mostly mall music . THe voice acting/lip synching is 
 great. The weapon sound effects are good, and apart from that theres not much else to include here.
 
  
  Lifespan- It depends how you like your games as to how long this will last in your 360. If you 
 just want a casual laugh with no real aim, go for it. But if you want to get achievements, dont. 
 If you want a challenge though, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Capcom has done it again. They have taken the zombie genre and moved it a step forward with yet 
 another game filled with zombie death!!!! Dead Rising takes the Zombie carnage to 11 though providing 
 endless amounts of the half-eaten dead guys to smash, kick, punch, slice, explode and run over. 
 The more you play this game the more fun it gets. Aside from a few gameplay dynamics that make 
 the game a little frustrating, this game should be on every 360 owner's wish list.
  
  You play as Frank West, freelance photojournalist. You begin the game on a chopper you have chartered 
 to take you to the town of Williamette CO where something is going on. The happenings in the town 
 are not clear, but you intend to find out. Upon arriving you find the military has quarantined 
 the whole town. You quickly discover why as you fly over the town and witness complete carnage 
 and destruction. Oh the scoop this has turned out to be. You land at the mall and tell your chopper 
 pilot to come back in 72 hours. He is quickly escorted away by some military choppers. This begins 
 the basic premise of the game.
  
  You have 72 hours to get your scoop and get back to the helipad where your chopper buddy will pick 
 you up. The dynamic this presents is that the entire game is on a timer. The developers have seen 
 fit that you get only one save spot. You see where I am going with this??? As you play through 
 the game you have certain main storyline quests that must be completed in a certain order and by 
 certain times. If you fail to complete them in time the game is essentially over. So if you happen 
 to save your game and dont leave enough time to complete the next main story line, its back to 
 the beginning with your game. This can get frustrating very quickly. However, after a few tries 
 you will get the hang of it and as long as you dont take chances with your saves you will be fine. 
 To assist in making it easier on replays that you will inevitably go through, the devs allow you 
 to keep all of your character level ups from pervious tries. So each subsequent game you play your 
 character will be stronger, faster and you will know where to go and what to do. Trust me you, 
 by the end of the game you will need Frank leveled up as much as possible.
  
  The kicker is that there are a lot of side quests that typically involve bringing survivors back 
 to the security room (the only zombie free zone in the mall) from various parts of the mall. You 
 also can find and kill different psychopaths who are not zombies but have lost it and are guarding 
 their stores with a zeal a terrorist bomber would be proud of. As you go through the game you must 
 decide which side missions you have time to complete and which ones you can complete. This is where 
 replaying the game will come in handy because knowing when these side missions pop up and where 
 they are in the mall is critical to completing them. Saving the survivors amounts to a bunch of 
 escort missions through the hordes of zombies. They can be very frustrating. Some of the survivors 
 can receive weapons from you and will do a nice job of fighting off zombies that attack. Others 
 you have to carry or wait for as the slowly make their way through the congregation of undead. 
 YOu will have to try various tactics to complete these missions.
  
  As for the rest of the game, well you can kill zombies to your hearts content. This is where the 
 fun of this game shines through. There are roughly 256 weapons in the game. Evrything from CD's 
 to bikes to skateboard to hockeysticks can be used to wreak havoc on the undead masses. The obvious 
 choices are here: shotgun, sniper rifle, pistols, knives, swords, etc. It never gets old finding 
 new weapons to try out. There are a lot of times where you run out of weapons (because they all 
 break or run out of ammo eventually) and you just have to pick up whatever you can find. When you 
 located the lawnmower, you will experience pure zombie killing bliss.
  
  Another aspect the devs of this game have thrown in here is taking pictures. As a photojournalist 
 trying to get the scoop of the decade, Frank is equipped at all times with his camera. You can 
 take pictures of anything. However, the more zombies and gore in the shots the more points you 
 earn. Photo special events and PP stickers to get evem more points and unlock ahievements. You 
 get to keep up to 30 at a time. I found that early in the game I was taking lots of shots, but 
 later not as many. It gets crazy trying to take pics while zombies are shuffling around you. Crazy 
 but fun.
  
  The graphics and audio in this game are very good. Lots of mall music permeates your experience 
 which creates an interesting contrast to the scenes of death and gore all around you. Images and 
 characters are sharp and well done. Not the best the 360 has to offer, but very good for an early 
 cycle game.
  
  After all is said and done this game has a lot to offer. Several endings and tons of tricks and 
 secrets which promote playing the game again and again. One of the best Zombie games to grace any 
 system in recent memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWJUSTIN
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  Hey im not going to review this much but guess what. if they can spend so long making a game and 
 not even get the fontright for SD tv's to read them common they didnt do a very good job did they.. 
 And heck they could patch it via xbox live but i dought they ever will... Just sickes me simply 
 sickens me. i mean you really dont know what your doing from one quest to the next with out being 
 able to read anything. The gameplay is no next gen it was actually kinda boring to me. Rent this 
 one first and formost before you buy because not everone will enjoy the game meny will think the 
 same as i do.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinOfPride
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Zombies are an awesome concept, taking the living and normal and transforming them into evil flesh 
 eating shells of their former selves. There is no need to have a reason as to what motivates a 
 zombie to eat your flesh. It is self-explanatory: it's tasty. So when you have over fifty-three 
 thousand zombies trying to eat you, you won't have to stop to think if brutally slicing them into 
 tiny bits is morally right. Aren't these zombies just victims too? doesn't cross your mind. Praying 
 you find a shot gun crosses your mind. Hoping the Katana has re-spawned will cross your mind several 
 times. But pitying your undead foe never will. If you think killing zombies is a great way to pass 
 the time, then this game is certainly going to grow on you rather quickly. That is why Dead Rising 
 has all the makings of a smash hit: You get to kill lots and lots of zombies while having the time 
 of your life. Dead Rising's stellar presentation and over the top atmosphere combined with fluid 
 gameplay make it not only one of the best zombie games out there, but also sets the bar for next 
 generation free-roaming games.
  
  Dead Rising places you in the role of Frank West, a freelance photojournalist trying to land the 
 big scoop to put his name back on the map. His travels bring him to Willamette Colorado where communications 
 within the city have been cut off and the military has been called in. The game starts with Frank 
 in a helicopter over the city, trying to discover what exactly is going on. What Frank uncovers 
 is riots, fires, and a lot of mayhem in the streets below. A horrible situation to behold; of course, 
 Frank finds the time to take pictures regardless. Wishing to investigate further, Frank gets himself 
 dropped off at the local mall where all sorts of horrors await you. The story does a good job of 
 being compelling without getting in your way too often, many missions give you several in-game 
 hours (five minutes of actual gameplay equals one hour within the game generally speaking, although 
 if you do more side quests you are allotted more time) to complete them, so you are free to kill 
 zombies for awhile or follow up on a scoop, which is essentially a side quest given to you by Otis 
 the janitor. Scoops usually come in one of two types. First is an escort mission where you have 
 to help a survivor navigate back to the Security Room, the only safe haven in the entire mall. 
 This aspect of the game is done amazingly well as the survivors are not just hapless fools, if 
 they get attacked they can fight back somewhat and help themselves, which is useful when you yourself 
 are getting mobbed by a horde of zombies. The ability to hold the hand or offer a piggyback ride 
 to many survivors can help make your job easier as you don't have to constantly watch out for their 
 safety, the other side of the coin however is that you cannot jump or attack while helping them 
 along their way. In this area one of the game's flaws is revealed, when issuing commands to follow 
 the survivors tend to react very slowly and in a cumbersome manner, such as not being able to jump 
 over small ledges that are found within the mall's small water pools. This leads to needlessly 
 frustrating deaths, and can at times force you to restart from your last saved game.
  
  The second is identifying a Psychopath that you have to take down. Psychopaths have earned their 
 name well, ranging from a deranged clown to an overweight cop who has a bit of a problem with skimpy 
 women to a veteran of Vietnam who doesn't believe the war is quite over. Each of the many Psychopaths 
 offers a very different boss fight, and sometimes a lengthy side quest before having to face them. 
 So while butchering zombies is engaging and presents with near endless fun, this game constantly 
 presents more depth that other lesser zombie games fail to provide: A much needed contrast from 
 the constant slaughter of hordes of zombies. The Psychopaths are not just a small portion of the 
 game; it could take several hours to hunt them all down if the player wishes to dedicate themselves 
 to this goal.
  
  Adding to the game is the great atmosphere it provides at every turn. The use of lighting in this 
 game is excellent, and really sets a good tone. Although it never is downright scary, when it is 
 dark out and the lights in the mall are turned off there is a very real feeling of endangerment 
 and the need to be armed, as if the darkness itself will hurt you. The campy and well designed 
 environments certainly add a twisted backdrop for the slaughter of zombies. There is something 
 remarkable about hacking zombies in front of a children's ride. Although the title offers excellent 
 graphics worthy of the 360, it is the music that sets this title apart in terms of atmosphere. 
 The soundtrack for run of the mill zombie killing is both easy on the ears and fitting. There is 
 something to be said for having a head banger song playing as you hit zombies with a sledgehammer. 
 It is an amazing sense of empowerment that is such a stark contrast from Capcom's original zombie 
 game, Resident Evil. Whereas that game seems to be trying to scare you senseless at every turn 
 the message this game gives off is You can do it! Kick some zombie ass! You are man hear that 
 chainsaw roar! Games rarely manage to convey a feeling of excitement through music on a consistent 
 basis, but Dead Rising pulls off the feeling in glorious fashion. I must admit even though I am 
 a fan of more traditional soundtracks, the feeling of empowerment the music adds to this game certainly 
 brings it up a notch.
  
  The gameplay as alluded to is fantastic. The variety of weaponry in the game is so great that if 
 you chose to do so you wouldn't have to use a weapon twice, but honestly who doesn't want to use 
 the katana a lot, watching as zombies are sliced in half with a nice whish sound, or the golf 
 club, which rockets a golf ball straight into zombies' heads, beheading them in gory fashion. There 
 is a surprising amount of challenge to be had with the zombies as well. While they won't be intelligent 
 about it, they are zombies after all, the amount of zombies one has to go through will be the main 
 challenge in that they have an excellent mob mentality when you are wounded. With certain paths 
 you have to travel and thousands of zombies lurking around at any time, anyone who plays this will 
 have to constantly be aware of their surroundings and not get caught from behind. If you are caught 
 from behind though, the game offers a nicely implemented reaction configuration reminiscent of 
 God of War's to allow you to break free, giving you a second or so to press a button before the 
 zombie devours even more of your flesh.
  
  However for all of its brilliant moments and excellent gameplay, some simple things that should 
 have been good were strangely lacking. The amount of backtracking one has to do throughout the 
 course of the plot is borderline ridiculous. While in this type of game some backtracking is to 
 be expected, and can still be enjoyable, the designers have really put a damper on the game by 
 leaving only one path available for over half the game to get back to your base. No matter how 
 fun the monster mashing was, it always seemed to drag as the same familiar bend came into view 
 time after time. While the environment certainly is spacious, it seems much of the mall is there 
 just for a few brief missions and to have it completely enclosed, and nothing more, while a couple 
 areas are given much of the screen time. This lack of balance can make the game dull at times when 
 you are playing the main game.
  
  Another major problem is the save system. While a challenge is always enjoyable, the game takes 
 it a bit too far. There are only a few remote save points in the entire mall outside of your main 
 base in the security room, and that becomes a hassle any time you want to explore the mall. One 
 of the most frustrating scenarios is when a save point is within sight and you are suddenly mobbed 
 by zombies, left dead and having to restart wherever you left off at. With the difficulty being 
 as high as it is, it is inexcusable to have a shoddy save system such as this.
  
  The use of Xbox Live with Dead Rising is mostly for the leader board, which uses Prestige Points 
 (PP for short) gathered throughout the game. PP can be gathered by killing a set number of zombies, 
 beating a boss, or even using inventive ways to kill a zombie, such as the 100 PP bonus for decapitating 
 a Zombie with the sickle.
  
  While the game's main story isn't as long as some might have hoped, with the smooth implement of 
 PP and the many different endings available, this game can last awhile if you are willing to run 
 through the game more than once. It also makes an excellent rental as it only takes around eight 
 or ten hours to beat the game straight through.
  
  Capcom has put together an excellent game in Dead Rising, excellent gameplay, presentation, and 
 a whole lot of zombie murdering excellence. While the save system and backtracking issues put a 
 damper on an otherwise tremendous effort on the part of Capcom, those two details aren't nearly 
 enough to outweigh all the good this game brings to the table.
  
  Now go out there and kick some zombie ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aperion89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  okay this ones a bit different in that I think it comes down to perspective.
  in this game you have a limited time limit to escape a colorado mega-mall infested With seemingly 
 endless waves of zombies in 72 hours (I think every 30 minutes is an hour) the time limit is what 
 screws this up because often you might end up late to a mission (In my case its because I spend 
 to much time just beating the crap outta zombies.) that you must restart the game from the beginning 
 which is a direct result of the game supporting only one save file per xbox profile (WTF!) . the 
 good news is that since your characters level and unlocked abillites are kept this can be seen 
 as a very easy method of leveling up in the game. the graphics in this game are great this is the 
 first xbox 360 game I played and I have to say im impressed at the level of detail that was put 
 in even strange often overlooked places (zombies faces reflecting off the Servbot mask) .
  the gameplay is fun and creative but really really fun! and some of the stuff is really fun even 
 if only for a laugh sometimes the game can get frustrating and even at times seem unfair (definitly 
 not a game to be taken too seriously.) but is just about right difficulty-wise.
  the learning curve in this game is diffrent depending upon what weapons you like to use and how 
 often you use them.
  the true fun of this game is to play your favorite music and have fun killing zombies in whatever 
 way you can think of
  to be honest my biggest gripe with the game is the lack of certain objects I would have personallly 
 enjoyed using and the missed opertunitys the game passeed up a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Zombie killing is fun. Isn't it? Sure, it is. But, can you really base a game on just killing zombies? 
 No, you can't.
  
  The game will amaze almost everyone in the first few hours. Granted. Huge mall, full of zombies. 
 You can do ANYTHING with them, anyhow.
  
  But then, if you want to actually start playing, you'll find the game very dull, hard and everything 
 BUT entertaining.
  
  The game's story is very weak, and it's not even interesting. You are a photographer, you get dropped 
 by a chopper to this mall, you have 72hours to take photos before the the heli comes back. Woo.
 
  
  Mall full of zombies, except a few survivors, who are actually 'agents'. Yay. Umm, and there are 
 some regular survivors around the mall, who you have to save.
  
  And then, there are the bosses, the big enemies, which are mostly humans, not zombies... eh. And 
 it's pretty ridicilious to fight them off. First boss, Carlito. He got a rifle, you got a handgun. 
 Excellent. He can take you down with a few shots, say 6. You, even from a very close distance, 
 can't kill the guy even if you're giving clear headshots. You'll have to spend MINUTES shooting 
 the guy! Frustrating. AI is dumb, really. Other than the zombie AI, everyone else is STUPID. Especially 
 the survivors you're meant to save.
  
  Hmm, there's no voice acting, by the way. Only in cutscenes... Umm.. 2006... no voice acting. The 
 subtitles are incredibly hard to read even on a HDTV... thank you capcom.
  
  Oh, the save system actually kills the game. You can only save in restrooms. No checkpoint, no 
 autosave, no nothing. Restrooms. And sometimes it'll take you long minutes to find one. And, even 
 better: you die, you have to load game.... granted, most of the time you'll have to spend minutes 
 just to get to your objective.
  
  The game loads alot, too. You exit an area, load. You enter, load. Overally, the game is sooo capcom. 
 Capcom didn't change since the SNES era. They still make way too hard games, with dumb AI, crappy 
 savesystem.
  
  Anyway, enough ranting for now. I'm majorly disappointed, the demo looked good, reviews looked 
 good, but the game itself... doesn't look so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be trapped in a mall where you could do and take whatever you want? Here's your 
 chance. The only problem being, there are also several thousand zombies trapped in there with you. 
 Yep, zombies. But that's okay because zombies are great. Who doesn't love zombies? Well, maybe 
 you don't, but you will after playing Dead Rising. You play as Frank West, a freelance photojournalist 
 trying to get the scoop on the situation. As well as taking photographs and getting the main scoop 
 via case files you will also pick up side quests mostly in the form of 'rescue and escort a survivor 
 to the security room'. Occasionally you will come across psychopaths who are just that, stereotypical 
 psychopaths such as the chainsaw juggling clown and the goblin mask, raincoat-wearing cult. Taking 
 down psychopaths award you a lot more XP than zombies although they offer a much tougher fight. 
 As you gain XP your character will level up, giving you more speed, more health, better attack 
 and so on. You will also learn more wrestling and karate moves and eventually you wont need weapons 
 (although they still help) . When you die you have the choice of restarting from the last save point 
 or restarting the game and keeping the same character level. When you do this killing zombies and 
 psychopaths becomes a lot easier, although there are more zombies making your escort missions harder. 
 It's not all perfect though. The AI is terrible, survivors will get stuck on objects and get lost 
 or come waltzing in the path of you swinging sledgehammer and get splattered, losing your valuable 
 XP. The physics could do with some work too. Graphically it does the job, the main characters for 
 one are quite nice, though it's no gears of war. The amount of zombies on screen is a technical 
 achievement in itself, though lodding is quite noticeable. The sound is excellent; every bone crunching 
 sound is spot on. The most fun aspect is finding new shops, dishes to cook, clothes to wear and 
 weapons to kill zombies with, my personal favourites include the dumbbell, machete and soccer ball. 
 With over 250 weapons and alternate modes once you finish the game there's a lot of replay value. 
 All in all a great addition to any collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Zombies. Everywhere. ZOMFG!!!!!! This is by far the greatest zombie game of '06 and the first must-have 
 game for the 360. The game's setup is like Dawn of the Dead, there are zombies everywhere and you 
 are in a mall. Only in Dead Rising, there are zombies in the mall. This is such a great game. It 
 excells in many areas, and only has a few not so good things. A gory, explosive, muderous, violent, 
 title that deserives everyone's respect. The areas where it just shines are when you really get 
 the hang of it (which unfourtunatly can take an hour) and you are laughing every few minutes with 
 the next over the top weapon. Another great part is when you just look around and say That's a 
 lotta zombies! This game crams the most character models into the screen at once than any other 
 game I've played. Not only are the weapons downright awesome, the storyline is very good. With 
 interesting plot twists, actual character development (GASP!) , and classic zombie-ific themes. 
 However, this game does has its flaws. The biggest one is how the zomibes are handled. I'm a huge 
 George A. Romero fan and how the zombies look/act is perfect. However, the zombies are just sort 
 of there to hinder your progress to a boss or objective. The bosses are a whole new level of oh 
 teh noes. The bosses are downright broken. Quite frankly, it dosen't work. Bosses are always overpowered 
 physcos that can only be harmed by guns. But I don't want to use guns, I want to use guitars and 
 the lawnmower!!! The guns are awfull too. The system is like RE 4, but just feels out of place 
 in this game. All in all, this game is downright sweet. It just feels good to take a scythe and 
 rip off a zombie's head and this game lets you do that and so many wonderful things. Don't forget, 
 erotica is really high PP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Every thing
  
  THE BAD: Well... not everything is good the Text is way too small ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 Dead Rising is one of the best 360 games of 2006 (period) . Everything about this game is perfect, 
 The graphics look very good even on standard T. V. The sound is absolutely chilling with the normal 
 mall music mixed with the moans and gasps of the zombies. Now to the part that matters most the 
 gameplay. The game is based all on time, in the story mode you have three days to investigate the 
 zombie infistation. The story with-in this three day mode is exclent. After you beat that dont 
 expect that that is all you have towards your replay value, Because once you beat it you unlock 
 overtime mode (add on to the story) and Unlimited mode. Now when I say unlimited mode you are thinking 
 wow I can run around and go anywhere anytime and kill everyone, well sorry to say but it is not 
 excatly like that yes you can do anything at anytime but there is a catch your health drains slowly 
 as if that wasent bad enough food dosent respawn. these limitations make this a mad dash for food. 
 Now every great thing has a downside and Dead Rising's is There is no voice acting other than cutscees 
 which means you get to read text. I say READ because if you have a staduard T. V ( not HD) then 
 you can read any thing and that is really bad because most of your objectvies are given via text 
 wich makes it hard to see your next objective. Now you are thinking well capcom will just update 
 but its been confirmed that Capcom will NOT update to fix the text. Besides that this game is a 
 must own for everyone
  
  EDIT: after getting a new HD TV I found the text very much readable and it gave the story alittle 
 more of the Human factor with hearing peoples stories 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great story and lots of zombies to kill in cool and odd ways. This game almost 
 everything is a weapon. This game is for horror fans and gore fans. If you like RE 4, Manhunt, 
 or The Suffering you will love this game. In a box  Massacre. 
 Check it out its awsome. But if you don't like those games then you might not like this. You will 
 like it if you are interested in the games I mentioned. I liked the bosses the best thats what really 
 made the game for me. So rent or buy this cause it is a great 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neXtgenisis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a Xbox 360 exclusive that puts you in the shoes of Frank West, a photo journalist 
 researching weird activity at a mall in the middle of nowhere. As things turn out you are pitted 
 against thousands and thousands of zombies. You basically try to get as much survivors held up 
 in the towns mall to the security room ( a place where zombies cant go. So who ever you bring 
 here is basically save. Now on to the game play. A very fun and creative way of doing things. You 
 can basically use anything in the mall from teddy bears and water guns to real guns and swords 
 to defend yourself from the zombies. You can also change into a lot of outfits found in the mall, 
 it really doesn't do anything except add more depth to the game and to fuel its comical side. In 
 the story made you will have to do missions and if you choose side missions. While doing these 
 missions you will sometime be asked to get survivors out, but those are mostly side missions, or 
 defeat psychopaths which are basically the bosses of the game. They are not zombies but humans 
 that have gone mad, crazy , or over protective of their stores. Mostly because the fear of the 
 zombies. Most of these psychopaths are very fun to face, its just something about a clown with 
 two chainsaws that makes you want to play the game more. There are multiple endings to this game 
 that will be based upon your actions during the 72 hour (not real 72 every 24 hours in the game 
 is 2 hours in the real world) stay in the mall. During the course of the game you will level up 
 and become stronger, learn new moves, (like disemboweling a zombie) or being able to carry more 
 weapons/ food items (which restore your health based on what it is) . As a mentioned before there 
 is a comical feature to this game. such as putting childs masks on the zombies and unlocking a 
 mega man suit. The graphics are pretty good but not the best. But there is a reason for that. At 
 certain points in the game you will have thousand of zombies on your screen with not frame rate 
 issues at all which is surprisingly satisfying. The sound is great. From the moans of the zombies 
 to the sheer sounds of a zombies head being smashed by a sledge hammer. Everything sound like it 
 should, not defects here. The value is moderate to moderately high killing zombies can get old 
 but you will always find a new way to kill them and you will be like Dude I didn't know you can 
 do that . That adds fun to the game, also the achievements are always good to try and get, though 
 some in this game are very hard. No online is another factor that affects the value but seriously 
 how do you have online in this game? But there are leader boars to see how many zombies you have 
 killed, prestige points you have raked up, and who long you have survived with out reloading you 
 last save or dying. The over all fun of this game is awesome. Playing this all night with your 
 friends is awesome. You will have a lot of fun with this game. Dead Rising is an intense thriller 
 that anyone with a 360 should at least try. If you dont have a 360 play it by a friend that has 
 one. It will probably make you want to buy the system. Cover Art ~B~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Dead Rising i thought that this game would not be so great. I thought that the 
 kill kill kill zombie gameplay would bore you in meer minutes. However, im glad i was wrong. Dead 
 Rising is one of the very very few games that makes me glad i both an Xbox 360. The story in Dead 
 Rising is overall solid. A good story about a city that has mysterious reports of zombies appearing 
 through it and you are a reported sent to investigate. Another nice addition to the story is its 
 different endings. It makes you just want to play the game to see how each of the endings turn 
 out. The characters are also great. From Brad and Jessie who help you during your 72 hours trapped 
 in the mall to Adam and Cletus, 2 crazy psychopaths that you can fight. Voice acting is also solid 
 for the most part. This game also has a nice sense of horror your first time couple of hours playing 
 it and during some of the boss fights. Speaking of boss fights, there are plenty. With over 10 
 bosses to fight, the game really has some great gameplay there. However, the single greatest thing 
 about this game is the gameplay its self. There are tons of weapons to choose from from benches, 
 to chainsaws, to dinner plates, to katanas, just about anything you see you can use as a weapon. 
 And it may seem like that is a little extreme because who is ever going to use things like guitars 
 as weapons but when it comes down to it, you just grab whatever you can find and use it to beat 
 your way through the zombie hordes. However, there are a few little downsides to this game. The 
 graphics could have been better but thats not a big thing to complain about. One of the bigger 
 things to complain about comes to shooting weapons. The shooting system in the game is not a bad 
 one, just a poor choice for the game. Sure you can just run and gun, but unless you are using the 
 shotgun, that will really get you nowhere. You have to stop and aim your weapon of choice at the 
 zombie. This is bad because there are zombies all around you so having to stop is kind of a bad 
 thing. In addition, the games overtime mode is just weak. Sure, its difficult because of the special 
 forces that are there the whole time you play it, but if you are a level 35 plus, it really becomes 
 easy to kill them, especially with a melee weapon. Furthermore, overtime mode is just too easy 
 and too short. But possibly the worst thing about the game is its TRUE ending if you will. Just 
 plain horrible. All in all, Dead Rising is an amazingly fun game. This game is one of the 3 games 
 this year that have made me say that xbox 360 wasnt a total waste of money. Defenetly a must play 
 game if you have an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burritocase
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if the game is a nice game because I have not an X-BOX 360, I'd really like to play 
 it, but I can't!! I'd wish they do it for PS2 or PS3! I have a PS2, and if I can I'll buy a PS3. 
 I've seen that CAPCOM released this game, same corporation than the fantastic Resident Evil! I 
 love RE! and it is the only *nice* zombies game... I'd like a RE like this game, it'd be great!... 
 I put a big 10! to all the RE games! my favourite is the number 3 I think, I like the number 4 
 too but it has no zombies and *almost* no Umbrella Corporation... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinVolke
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is still one of the best selling Xbox 360 games, and it is rightfully so. This game 
 kept me busy for hours and it is extremely addictive and genuinely funny. I strongly recomend this 
 game to anyone who owns the 360.
  
  Gameplay-This game has some truly amazing gameplay. You have such decisions as, do I bash a zombie's 
 head in with a bat, or do I chop it off with hedge clippers. Literally EVERYTHING is a weapon. 
 I used a salmon to kill a zombie. One thing though is that this game is not for the squeamish. 
 You figure that out as soon as you see the clown rip his stomach out with chainsaws. Blood is everywhere. 
 While we're on the subject of psychopaths, let me just say that they are hilarious. I won't ruin 
 any of the diolouge, but let me say that it is good. Graphics-The graphics in the game a generally 
 good. The zombies look perfect, they are completely grotesque. Some are missing limbs, eyes, etc. 
 One problem though, are the images of the people. There are a few bugs here and there.
  
  Sound- The sound in this game is very good. The constant moan creates a nice effect. The music 
 that is playing in the backround is the kind of music you would hear in a mall, or an elevator. 
 This contrasts nicely with the dark setting and moaning.
  
  Value- Wile this game is not terribly long, it has a good amount of replay value. The achievements 
 and unlockables contribute to this.
  
  Tilt- I really liked this game and I recommend it to really anyone who owns a 360. You will not 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tapiondbz1106
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a really sweet game. You are a guy trying to go through a mall in 72 hours. and 
 you can like pick up anything like food, benches, and you can find guns of dead cops. You can go 
 to a gun shop to find better weapons like shotguns and sniper rifles. There are bosses in this 
 game called psycopaths and they are basically crazy and freaking lost their minds. You can go up 
 levels and each time you go up your health increases or your attack, stock, speed, or a new move. 
 there is also side missions in the game where they call you on your radio and they say that someone 
 is hiding in a certain place and you got to bring them back to saftey. It is really good. And i 
 do wish this game would be online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariohead4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game is sick the siz eof the game and the amount of zombies on the screen at one time makes 
 me weep with pleasure. The amount of weapons in this game is just amazing and the amount of things 
 you can do in it is equaly amazing. But and thats a big but, if Capcom did not make this game for 
 HD then it would of been better because the text in the game was way damn to small. If capcom really 
 wanted to sell this ga, e they would of made a online section for it but because its the first of 
 its kind ill let them of. I cannot wait to see a sequal for this well thats if there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drzoidb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  First off, Dead Rising is an AWESOME game!!!! I find it to be absolutely unique and I've spent 
 hours and hours playing it. There's just nothing like it, in my opinion. Saving the survivors, 
 or at least trying to, is highly rewarding, and the story line, cut scenes, graphics and immersion 
 into this world are absolutely first rate!! There's just nothing like using a lawnmower to pulverize 
 a group of zombies!! With that said, I am hoping that there is a sequel!!! They might end up wanting 
 to do a different location, like an amusement park. But being in a mall is just awesome, and I'd 
 almost hate for the sequel to have any other location. Here are some suggestions I would love to 
 see in Dead Rising II.
  
  * First and foremost: We need to have the ability to switch weapons while the game is paused, ala 
 Oblivion. How many times have you cycled through your weapons in the heat of battle, only to pass 
 your weapon, and have to go around the horn 2-3 times to get the weapon you truly want? Same goes 
 for using a health item! Too many times you find yourself trying to get a drink of wine, only to 
 be hit. I would hope for the ability to use a health item, and change weapons, on the status screen, 
 while the game is paused. Same goes for looking at your watch. You need to study the time limits 
 on your scoop items, plan your routes, and that's sometimes very tricky since the game is not paused 
 when you do this. * It would be AMAZING if they went ahead and paid to have Otis (or whoever the 
 next janitor may be) fully voice-acted. It's hard to read the text in the heat of battle, and doubly-hard 
 to even answer the phone in the heat of battle... Ummmm... Otis... I'm getting my lunch handed to 
 me at the moment, can you call me back please? . How cool would it be if you were wearing an earpiece, 
 instead of carrying a cell phone, and the call was auto-answered? Imagine you're in the middle 
 of a big fight with zombies, the phone rings, and his voice comes on automatically, in a panicked 
 state, telling you where a survivor is? That would be ultra-dramatic, especially if they had a 
 great voice actor to play the part.
  
  * With the above, why not go the extra mile and voice all 50+ characters, and get rid of the text 
 to read all together? Again, Oblivion went the extra mile to do this, and it makes an incredible 
 difference!! It's the difference between an 8.0 game and a 10.0 game! * An improved aiming system 
 for weapons! You get used to the quirky aiming system, and learn to live with it, but after playing 
 so many games of Call of Duty 2 online, I found myself wishing I could run and gun without worrying 
 about aiming and camera angles.
  
  * Lastly, I found the ending to be anti-climatic. I won't give anything away, but once you hit 
 overtime mode, and especially infinity mode, you'll wish you were still playing the main story 
 line, and still had the characters to talk to. The true ending didn't have much of a cut scene, 
 but was merely text. Infinity mode would have been awesome if you had a finite number of zombies, 
 say the 54,000+ needed for the ultimate zombie-killing achievement, and you have to work your way 
 through to kill them all! That would have been fantastic!
  
  Don't get me wrong, Dead Rising is an amazing gaming experience!! What a game this is!! It's just 
 when you're through the 72 hours, your left hoping for more, but thats a good thing!! By the way, 
 a tip for those frustrated gamers who find it too hard to do any cases or rescues... You HAVE to 
 level up!! After much initial frustration, I figured out a way to level up before playing for real. 
 I played through the opening picture taking segment, up to saving the first 2 survivors on the 
 roof, many, many times. This is an easy way to go up a level or two (can be done in about 15 minutes 
 per level) . Then I'd die, and save my status, quit then start over. Once I was at level 25, I played 
 the game for real... Sounds like a lot of trouble, I know, but it took away a LOT of the frustration 
 with the initial difficulty of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Well When I first heard that a game that was like Dawn of the Dead was comming out for the 360, 
 I knew I just had to get it. So I went up to my local Ebgames and put in a pre-order. I went up 
 on August 8th to get my games. I brought it home and I was sucked in to this gory hack n slash 
 game. That has nothing to do with Dawn of the Dead. Which is probably a good thing becuase any 
 game based on George Ramero's movies is crap.
  
  In the game it's gameplay is pretty basic. Get from point A to point B in a certin amount of time 
 just to battle a boss or save some one. Most of the bosses are pretty easy to beat. Dead Rising 
 only offers you one save. No the game doesn't suck because you winey americans can't handle a challange. 
 When I say that I even mean me. I hated the fact that you can't save like you can in Oblivion. 
 Which my total saves on Oblivion is over 200. I do it so I don't have to start all over again. 
 The one save limit on Dead Rising doesn't make it any less of a game. Dead Rising offers a vast 
 amount of land to explore, but considering you are on a 72 hour time limit. Which goes buy really 
 fast every time the game has to load and it pretty much makes you go to point a to point b. The 
 Sound in the game is pretty spooky. Even when you are in a room alone you can still hear the distant 
 moans of the un-dead. The music is great, it really makes you think you are in a shoping mall. 
 The cheesy music is played on this sound track that you whould hear in you shooping mall today. 
 Dead Rising also does a great job on the intense sences. The music heats up and turns into the 
 normal type of music you whould hear in a intense scene, such as the Matrix. The Graphics are great. 
 They are lush and sharp. Dead Rising does a perfect job on showing the vast of amount of the un-dead 
 though out the mall. My only complaint is that you can't see the text if you are using a CRT-TV. 
 Which is the big box tvs. The only reason I'm using one is cause at the time I was still waiting 
 for my LCD to arrive.
  
  Over all. Dead Rising is a great game but not a perfect game. It offers a vast amount of options 
 and a vast amount of mall to explore, but over all at the end of the day Dead Rising will leave 
 a great taste in you mouth. It makes you want to play it again and again and again and again..................... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adams83
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is just great fun. Good concept carried out with a lot of attention to detail. The main premise 
 of the game may seem a bit weak to begin with (kill zombies, save people) , and yes the plot is 
 only passable, but its the little things that make this game great. The first thing i found difficult 
 to overcome with this game was, not so much the save system itself, but the wording of the system. 
 I played for about an 2 hours, died, and was presented with two choices: Load game or Save and 
 quit. Obviously i chose to save and quit, not wanting to lose the hour since i last saved, but 
 i didn't realize that save and quit meant: 'save the character level you have reached, and start 
 the game again from SCRATCH'.
  
  Another thing a new player will take a while to get used to is the idea that this game cannot be 
 'completely' completed in the first play through. If they want to get the True ending, not all 
 the survivors in the mall can be saved: its impossible. repeated playthroughs aren't just advisable, 
 but necessary to do most of the challenges presented by this game. I would recommend at least 1) 
 a story 'True' ending playthrough, 2) a save all the survivor/kill all the psychopaths playthrough, 
 and 3) a kill 53,000+ zombie playthrough. This unlocks a lot of the good stuff and achievements. 
 Once the pressure of doing everything right first time is taken off the game is more fun.
  
  From there you can go infinity mode and compete on the leaderboard, or just earn more achievements. 
 But as mentioned before, its the little things or peripheral game features that make this game 
 enjoyable over several playthroughs. Getting the right items (books) to make the one handed chainsaw 
 last for days, or mixing two drinks in the blender to enable the superfast 'quickstep', also add 
 to the sense of becoming a serious zombie killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0dazubeN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay so this game is dead rising. It's a sandbox (free-roam) like game that allows you to relive 
 your favorite zombie moments over and over. In the game you are frank west who is a freelance journalist 
 with a nack for finding great stories. The story starts with you in a helecopter flying to a small 
 town. Then as you get there you notice something strange. There seems to be large city scale riot 
 going on. Later you ask the helecopter pilot to land on a nearby shoping mall. As you get closer 
 you ask him to come back to get you in three days. He agrees and you jump out of the helicopter 
 and start your rediculous adventure. Well... the bad news is.... the rioters turn out to be Zombies. 
 And you gotta get the story. Thats the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesis45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought Dead Rising I had high hopes. After I bought it, it was all I ever imagined 
 plus! The ability to use anything as a weapon feels amazing. The weapon controls are a tad clunky, 
 but you won't be using weapons much, mostly bladed and blunted weapons. The save system isn't that 
 bad. You only get one save file, which is a bad thing considering all missions are timed, and you 
 could easily save the game at a bad spot which leaves you with no time to get to the next mission. 
 You may be thinking timed missions suck, which the usually do, but in Dead Rising they aren't stressful, 
 you have plenty of time to do all the cases. The game can be a tad difficult, but that's why we 
 game, right? I am not the best gamer in the world, and I got passed it, so I'm sure you can. The 
 game is amazing, the replay value is great, you will want to play through it multiple times to 
 build up your character's level and do the achievements. It was well worth the $60, and I'm sure 
 you will think so too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritcheyz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very unique take on the whole, Oh, no! Zombie! style of games. It puts you in 
 a mall as Frank West, photojournalist, for 72 hours, where you can choose to get the scoops, unravel 
 the mystery, take pictures, or just run zombies over with a lawnmower.
  
  Pros: Nice graphics and attention to detail, lots of splattery zombie goodness, wide variety of 
 weapons, original storyline, highly replayable, great voice acting, and lots of stupid things to 
 dress Frank up as.
  
  Cons: Survivors are redicu-tardedly stupid, no multiplayer except for a leaderboard, and that's 
 basically it.
  
  Overall: Dead Rising is a great game with some less-than-smart AI. Buy it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaz70
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  im a big zombie fan and watch alot of zombie movies but this game is probaly the best zombie game 
 right till resident evil 5 comes out or another cool zombie game comes out. i admit the frustrating 
 was when im esscorting like 3 or 4 people they usually get eaten cause theirs ussually just hundreds 
 of zombies and its pretty much immposible for me to save like 3 at a time but ill be lucky to save 
 2 at a time. the game pretty good it gets a bit old within 3 hours and the graphics were pretty 
 good to gameplay is alright worth playing to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is probably my second favorite title on the Xbox 360 next to Gears of War, with the 
 unbelievable graphics and outstanding foley work.
  
  I mean, everything from cutting a zombie in half with a samurai sword to slamming a shopping cart 
 into a thick pack of undeads all sound great. I'd say this has the best sound in a video game to 
 date (Besides Ms Pac-Man, of course)
  
  The graphics, blood graphics especially, are incredibly realistic and actually scary looking to 
 a point, but there's nothing more thrilling than just whipping out a shotgun and blowing of a crowd 
 of zombies to their knees by blasting their skulls off.
  
  The major downpoint of the game is the actual gameplay. The saves are terribly broken, it freezes 
 up a lot, and the voice acting and dialogue are just so bad that it takes away from the experience. 
 To back it up, there is a little bit of campy zombie movie goodness in there, but not enough to 
 make up because the deed has been done. I hope that Capcom makes a sequel to this game, in which 
 they could fix everything that almost every player has complained about to make the perfect stuck 
 in a mall zombie slaughterhouse.
  
  Definite buy for anyone with an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentvelvet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Pros: You get to kill thousands of Zombies in a mall, with every weapon you could ever think of. 
 The graphics are awesome, the mall is huge and the zombies never stop coming. It's like kill bill 
 on crack, mixed with a little land of dead ruffie Cons: Only one save slot.... and its very hard 
 to find save spots.... game is almost too long... the missions and mini bosses are sometimes too 
 hard or even impossible to beat and they glitchy. I could see it getting a little repetitive, but 
 only if you play it non-stop for a month.... you have to give it a break and come back to it, and 
 it will never stop being fun
  
  Near perfect game....... It is too much fun to kill all the zombies.... and its not scary like resident 
 evil...... The missions are too hard and scattered, this game is mainly for slashing and killing 
 zombies non-stop.... its a crazy blood bath, that will never get old.... show your friends this game, 
 and they will never stop playing it......
  
  Whats better than killing zombies all day long with guitars, swords, guns, chairs, cars, anything 
 you can find in the mall........ NOTHING!
  
  Its Stylish, new, fun, gory, violent, bloody, insane, crazy, ....... One of the best games for 
 360!!!!
  
  A MUST OWN!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coops12345
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Right, DO NOT listen to the wasters who say this is not a good game beacuse this is the most awsome 
 game you could get, smash and beat the **** into zombies with mostly anything you want! the sound 
 and graphics are brillent and spot on. The value of this game could be alot better but still its 
 a must. there has been no other type of game like this ever and im almost certian you will not 
 be sorry if u get this. the only way to describe it is jerk! you know like beef jerky? the best 
 snack in the world beef jerk yeh well dead rising jerk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is a great change from all the other games and has a lot of great ideas but the gameplay 
 and the repetitiveness of just killing zombies all the time gets old quite fast. When you first 
 play the game, it will blow you away at how many zombies you can kill and how many different ways 
 you can kill them but once you get sick of killing zombies over and over again, there isnt really 
 much left to do besides completing side missions and taking pictures. The story isnt very immersive 
 and alot of the voice acting is sort of cheesy. Overall Dead rising is a fun game but eventually 
 it gets old and the game doesnt last every long since their is a time limit in which u need to 
 complete your missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhody1976
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  The basic premise of the game rocks, and I highly respect what the developers tried to do with 
 the various storylines. There is so much to like about this game, but it's sorely let down by it's 
 flaws, namely; the control scheme and the save functions. Firing weapons is very much like playing 
 GTA, only worse. Quite frankly, aiming and firing was an unsatifying and annoying experience. I 
 understand why they tried to keep you on your toes with the timer: a cool idea of supply and demand 
 with the clock to prevent you from getting bored: however, it just wasn't enough time, and not 
 all of us like to play through the whole game a second time. If you are patient, and enjoy exploring 
 and finding easter eggs, you'll probably have a lot of fun in this game. Rent before you buy imo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best 360 games i have played to this day. Your a camera guy who has heard a 
 little news about this small town. he gets there and he sees alot of zombies running around. he 
 gets left on a roof of a big mall and then the starts here. you go around meeting new people all 
 over the mall. your main goal is to well not get killed by the zombies. You can use pretty much 
 any thing u see in the mall and i mean anything. you like to use the bench go ahead no ones there 
 to stop you. Yes you do get guns with very limited ammo but its still funner without the guns in 
 my opinion. you are on a time limit which aint that fun to deal with becuase i know i got disstracting 
 by wanting to kill as many zombies as i could. The sound could be better on the game but it really 
 aint all that bad. The graphics on a non-HD tv aint that good. You will be spending alot of time 
 on this game and i mean alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huellio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game at a friends house, I enjoyed running around, killing zombies and 
 just exploring. After i borrowed it from him for a few days, I realized that it was much better 
 than I had first thought. The story is very compelling, the characters fairly well developed, and 
 the fun of killing endless zombie hordes just doesn't seem to get old. The only problem I had with 
 the game was the aiming mechanic when using guns (if I were trapped in a mall of zombies I would 
 definitely move around when I was shooting) . The game has an excellent soundtrack and wonderful 
 sound effects. I would highly reccomend this game to anyone with a 360; it is well worth the money 
 because of its high replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  oh capcom still making intellegent gory zombie games. dead rising is actually one of the top zombie 
 games to come out for the next gen consoles. the game places you in the role of a photographer 
 named frank west. he has been given a tip that there is something going down in Willamette, Colorado. (by 
 the way the place is fictional.) so there you are up in colorado getting the scoop on whats going 
 down. but suddenly Frank realizes the is strange human behavior. then he notices that humans are 
 not doing this. Zombies are the ones to blame for all this ruckus in Willamette. anyways the logic 
 of the game is for you to get as many survivors out of the mall while dealing with cases. there 
 are a total of 54 survivors in the mall, with a total of 8 cases plus the facts. the game is quite 
 hard if you are low ranked as in pp. yes the game is has also been developed on a ranked system. 
 the game has also 3 modes so you won't get bored of the game. like 72hr mode, overtime, and infinity 
 mode. there are a total of 50 achievements get you get them all??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jwinn401
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Great game with only a few flaws! It's stile of game play is not only the first of it's own but 
 such a unique and juicy if you will. Great game with delicious game play and some pretty good visuals. 
 The only flaw in this game is it's one file save system which truly isn't that hard to move around 
 if you use your time wisely. A great story line throw in some awesome game play and above average 
 graphics! It will be a long time before any of us put this baby down. I have been through it maybe 
 seven or eight times and still love this game. Even free roaming is great! It has a lot of replay 
 value and a great variety of unlockables. This game is one of my personal favorites and for it's 
 great game play alone I give this baby a 9.7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuhakaNinja
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a game worthy of the genre of zombie horror games. It's game play is so immersive you almost 
 feel like you're there being attacked by the zombies themselves. The game's replay value is massive 
 and it's rewards in achievements are very good. The unlockables are a great addition and are a 
 well-known feature of games made by Capcom. The unlockables include some very ridiculous outfits 
 to one very awesome costume and high powered weapon that many Capcom fans should recognize. The 
 story plot is well developed and follows closely to the genre of horror it is following. The graphics 
 look great on the 360 and they make a good impression on the player. The sound is very well done 
 from the footsteps to the moans and groans of the zombies themselves. The game can become frustrating 
 at times at the beginning due to the lack of moves and weapons you have. Later in the game you 
 can do moves that make you virtually invincible to the zombies. If you are a fan of the horror/action 
 genre or are just looking for a game to kill some time or unlock achievements. This is a game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Srbanator
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising, when I first saw this in EGM a almost a year ago I thought it was going to be just 
 one of those mediocre Resident Evil wanna-be's.
  All I can say is that I was wrong. Ok lets start with the basics, you are a reporter called Frank 
 West, you and your Heli pilot want to get some news on a military blockade and you decide to go 
 check it out. As it turns out there has been a zombie invasion and Mr. Smartass decides to spend 
 72 hours in a mall infested with zombies to get the story of his life; that is if he is not killed 
 along the way. Things go to hell pretty quickly and the Zombies raid the mall. Your weapon? The 
 whole mall. You can pick up almost anything. From a tiny paper plate to a construction drill called 
 the exacator. The game forces you to think outside the box and be innovative. For example I was 
 once backed up ito a corner with hundreds of zombies surrounding me. I was out of weapons and health 
 items and I saw a sheet of plywood next to me. I pick it up and swing it ripping off the lower 
 torsos of a dozen zombies. It's moments like these that really make Dead Rising shine. That dosent 
 mean that the game is without its flaws. For one thing that bothered me was the master timer the 
 game has. You have about 74 hours in the game to beat it or you miss the helicopter game over ; 
 a minute in the game is like 5 sec in real life. Even more annoying is that you have a certain 
 amount of time to get to missions and if you save at a bad time then you wont be able to get to 
 a certain spot and you will be forced to restart, yes restart, the whole game. Speaking of restarting 
 the whole game, I advise you that on your first playthrought get to about lvl 8 and restart the 
 game. Why? Because when you restart the game you keep your lvl along with all your new techniques 
 and power-ups. If you dont do thid a couple of times you will have difficulty beating it. The graphics 
 are not the best ive seen but I suppose that if they made them better the game would lag alot. 
 This is because there can be over 800 zombies on the screen at once, which unless ive gone mad 
 is a lot, So you could say the graphics get the job done and there is absolutly NO lag at all. 
 The sound is just perfect, especialy for the weapons. There is nothing like the sound of you rev 
 up a chainsaw into a zombies spine. The soundtrack is also good whenever it plays. Personally, 
 it's one of the best sounding games ive ever heard. Well there you go, whoever you are, you must 
 get Dead Rising it is one of the best games out for 360 and in my opinion only beaten by Gears 
 of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigan12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a new game from Capcom who, you may know, made the Resident Evil games, which are 
 really the only games in zombie killing, but they are all about theatrics and jump scares, Dead 
 Rising replaces the tension building horror with something completely different (and better) . The 
 main character is a freelance photojournalist named Frank West, who gets a tip that something big 
 is happening in this little mountain town called Wilamette, Colarado. WHen he gets there, there 
 are zombies EVERYWHERE. When you are in the mall (the setting fo the story) you meet up with the 
 survivers, and together you have to try and make it out of the mall. The gameplay is simple but 
 fun. There is a simple strike button that you can use for all of the objects that you pick up in 
 the mall. You can also take pictures wit hthe left trigger and the two shoulder bumpers serve to 
 switch your current weapon. Weapons in the mall range from simple cooking knife to chainsaw. All 
 of the zombies in the game are stupid and slow and make excellent enemies. So really, get this 
 game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Well Dead risin centres around the survival of Frank in the zombie infested mall. Its a very interesting 
 setting, and it is great fun.
  You notice at the start that you are just completely confused as you (frank) wander around trying 
 to find the reason for why the people are acting strangly. Frank becomes more aware of whats going 
 on fairly early. and i wont say anymore... just saying the storyline (following the main one) is 
 very good indeed.
  
  What i Liked: Blood effects were awesome Storyline The reaaaaally gory weapons More Blood 72 hour 
 mode The clothing and weapon selection
  
  What i disliked: The survivors are hard and tedious to try and order around. You feel bad when a 
 survivor dies/goes undead fighting gets repetitive
  
  i would recommend this to anyone interested in capcoms's Resi series. the zombies seem just more 
 real and the effects and all would interest them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljc32
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has a alright basic story plot but the gamplay of dead rising is brillant. There is 
 over 120 shops in this mall located in colardo and there is loads of weapons around 200 weapons 
 from fire arms to knifes to teddy bears to chainsaws whcih gives a wide selection and so the game 
 does not repeat itself over and over again. The graphics are not fantastic but cut scenes are well 
 detailed and the overall gameplay is smooth. The mall is big and the modes are quite long and exciting 
 to play with bosses and zombies. Capcom has created a game whcih stands out from others and gives 
 some good modes and great fun with many achivements up for grabs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  From a technical standpoint this game fails on 3 counts. First, capcom refused to fix a standard 
 definition problem when trying to read screen text, which there is alot of. After promising to 
 fix it, and apparently lacking the skills or care to do so, they later recommended that you go 
 by a hi-def TV. Second, the save system is absolutely horrid and a crutch to add to the difficulty 
 without the game seeming to repetitive. Its bad enough to remind you of the old console days of 
 punching codes in to continue though its not quit as bad. The last point it fails on is just the 
 sheer repetitiveness of it. 90% of your time will consist of mashing buttons to kill thousands 
 of zombies and walking around a mall. If that isn't enough, some of the other perks include escort 
 missions. The game does have fantastic character models and a pretty cool b-movie zombie takeover 
 type plot. Its presented very well. The characters themselves are pretty decent. The game looks 
 and sound pretty good too. The mall is designed and will feel famialir in a funny way, to anyone 
 who's been to a large indoor mall. The photographing aspect (the main character being a photo journalist) 
 is also pretty nice. Yet it is often is an afterthought when your surrounded by zombies, at the 
 same time helping some feeble townfolk. It does add to the suspense if you do indeed care enough 
 about snapping photos in a game. Overall, Dead Rising really tries to relate to the average person 
 yet comes of as too common and familiar. I'm sure some mallrats imagine how cool it would be to 
 rob items from stores, killing Zombies, in a plotline with beatiful women. If this is your idea 
 of a great fantasy escape, this game is your ideal. Though the technical problems I mentioned first 
 will keep it from perfection for you. For the rest of us, there are too many better choices out 
 there than a game as shallow as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKaNeXx
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was EXTREMELY excited about getting this game.. I had just got my 360 and this 
 was the first game I picked up. The graphics are splendid, and the sound is great too. I just don't 
 know what happened to the gameplay. Honestly, I have no idea how people can play this for more 
 than a few hours. This is the first game that I did not want to play after a few hours. Maybe I 
 had too high of an expectation for this game, but I was disappointed by it. I really don't have 
 much to say about it, all I know is that this game is not worth 60 dollars at all, and it is not 
 a game worth replaying, because by the time you are done, it will start collecting dust.
  
  Pros : Great graphics and sound, perfect RENTAL.
  
  Cons : Tedious, you will put this game 
 down once you have killed enough zombies, if you don't get bored of this quick, you are mentally 
 unstable, not worth 60 dollars at all
  
  Overall : Great graphics and sounds, rent this game, because you either like it or you don't, please, 
 save yourself 50 dollars, and invest in something that takes full advantage of Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  Wow there is a lot of things to do in this game and your schedule should constantly be full.
  
  The main storyline is great, its a bit out there, but it really immerses you with whats happening, 
 and gets you in touch with the characters. There are plenty of twists and turns that will keep 
 you guessing to the end (the real end ;) I don't want to give anything away because the story is 
 half the fun of the game.
  
  Ok, the zombies... there are plenty no doubt about it. There are thousands of ways to kill em and 
 hundreds of places to do it in. Then on the other hand zombies will annoy the hell out of you. 
 Sometimes when you just need to run to where you need to go and they'll just randomly grab you 
 and bring your progress to a stop, it just makes everything take that little bit longer.
  
  Oh but wait, zombies aren't the worse part, the survivors that you are trying to save, you'll want 
 to kill em yourself. They are amazingly stupid, they will randomly stop and kill zombies, if they 
 get attacked they will rarely get away and they never go where they're suppose to. Be patient , 
 and if they annoy you too much, kill em.
  
  Psychopaths, the only other humans that are alive in the store, and lets just say, they aren't 
 as all together as the survivors are. They have gone insane from the pressure of the zombies and 
 its your job to kill em and save the hostages. They definitely have their challenges and they all 
 have their various weaknesses, you just have to find them.
  
  In conclusion I highly recommend this game, its extremely fun and addicting and will keep you play 
 for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I tried playing this game quite a bit before I got my HDTV and I always got lost and just did not 
 understand what was going on so I couldn't stand it. But now I have an HDTV and I was excited to 
 give it a good try and I must say I'm am very surprised. It's very important to the game to be 
 able to read the messages that's coming through on the receiver and if you can't then it really 
 destroys the game. I must say, this game is absolutely gorgeous on High Def! (If Zombies can be 
 gorgeous...) The graphics are great. Now this is a very innovative game and I've never played anything 
 like it. All I can say is if you have XBOX 360 and a High Definition TV you owe it to yourself 
 to get this game. It is fun fun fun and I'm only a little over half through it. As a matter of 
 fact it's time to get back to some zombie slaughtering!! Get this game! It's like nothing else! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aronnyc
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I thought the overall design of this game was pretty good. It was at least a unique take on the 
 traditional zombie genre, and its open-ended meant that you can play it however you want.
  
  I'll spare you the synopsis since you can read it elsewhere, and go straight to the points 
 that irked me the most.
  
  NAVIGATION
  
  An onscreen map that you can toggle on and off would be helpful. Having to switch screens constantly 
 is a bit annoying.
  
  REVAMPED INVENTORY SYSTEM
  
  In this game, you have a limited inventory space that grows as you level up. Your inventory lets 
 you store weapons and food (health) . What annoyed me was when your weapon wears out, it would automatically 
 switch to the next item on the inventory, which could be a food item. So in the middle of battling 
 zombies you find yourself pulling out a pie and eating it. It's funny, silly, but also unnecessarily 
 annoying because it often means you waste a health boost, and if you're in the middle of a zombie 
 crowd, you might get struck since it takes Frank a few seconds to eat. If you happen to be low 
 on health, you're out of luck 'cause there might be a crowd of zombies between you and the next 
 food location, and another crowd of zombies between you and a save point. SMALL TEXT
  
  Seriously guys, not everyone owns a HDTV. Either have the characters speak or have larger text.
 
  
  BETTER AIMING SYSTEM
  
  Maybe there's something I missed, but the way you aim with guns and other projectile weapons was 
 a bit clumsy.
  
  This game definitely has its appeal, and it could just be tweaked to make it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willyg984
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game that needs work on. The story brings us a photographer that travels 
 to a peaceful city that suddenly has the military blocking all entries and exits. So you get in 
 by helicopter and land in a mall that has zombies on it. Your job is to get out and solve the mystery 
 all in 72 hours. The well known part of the game is the fact that you can use any object as a weapon. 
 Not every weapon though. But who can promise that? Anyway they have a lot of weapons that can please 
 anyone. The next problem is the AI. For those of you who don't know what that is it short for Artificial 
 Intelligence. that is the enemies and other usable characters smartness. Well that is lacking because 
 whenever you try to bring a survivor they move all over the place or they collide into each other 
 when you tell them all to go into narrow area. the last problem is the save feature. Since all the 
 missions are timed it is hard to continue after you miss a misson that is important. Now to get 
 into the good stuff. Like the story line. The game is has a good area so you can kill all the zombies. 
 The mall was so perfect. Even though it was tooken by the movie Dawn of the Dead It is still fun 
 it. With all the weapons with different abilities it makes the game diverse. The timed missions 
 is a good feature that makes you keep on your toes at all times. The photography thing was pretty 
 cool. but the guy who helps you through is a showoff. by killing zombies and taking photographs 
 you get points towards your experience. That is neat. Well in conclusion this game has its ups 
 and downs but the way to kill zombies is what makes this game stand out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  to start off, dead rising is a great game. its fun, it looks good &amp; it plays well but and there's 
 always a but, it aint perfect ! lets look at the good stuff shall we...... well like i said, its 
 great fun to play. you get to smash the hell out of hundreds of zombies, in anyway you want. the 
 control are really good, you automatically lock onto zombies with your melee weapon witch is so 
 handy.
  all the levels look good (not the best on the 360, but still good) , all the animation is spot-on 
 as is the character models.
  the sound is probably some of the best you've herd in a long time, all the weapons have there own 
 separate sounds when being slammed into the sculls of the zombies, and all of the music is great, 
 very fitting for the location.
  
  now the bad stuff..................
  there's so much to see and do in the mall, tons of missions and loads of side quests. all sounds 
 good right, only thing is there's just no way your gonna see them all, especially if you wanna 
 finish the main game. and thats all down to the structure of the game, you have to be in certain 
 places at the right time or it game over. start again ! (but i'm shore you no this already) .
  it really can get annoying noing your missing so much. so why dint they just put a GTA mission 
 structure in place, it would have saved you missing so much.
  as for the graphics there good on the hole apart from there's not over much variation within the 
 mall, its all kinda the same ! oh yeah and you cant read a dam thing on the screen WHY make it 
 so bloody small.
  
  on the hole its a good game, yes its got some problems but not enough to stop you enjoying it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PelekotansDream
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is made by Capcom, the people who have made the popular Resident Evil series. So, it 
 is a bit hard not to compare the two in some way, to some people this is everything they wanted 
 Resident Evil to be. It is a game with a lot of choices, long lasting appeal and just destroying 
 hordes of zombies. The story is that you are a photo journalist named Frank West who is on the 
 look out for the latest big scoop so you go to the Willamette, Colorado, where the military has 
 blocked access to the town. You notice people attacking someone and other odd goings on so you 
 want to get a closer look. You land on top of a shopping mall and that is where the game takes 
 place. Now the story progresses depending on how fast you are in the game, throughout the game 
 time is constantly ticking and you have to merely survive 72 hours. Since you are a photojournalist, 
 you are going to try and find out whats really going on, but only if you want to. At certain times 
 certain events happen and its these timed events which slowly let you know whats going on and why, 
 as long as you are in the right place at the right time. If you are to slow though and miss these 
 parts of the story, you will not find out the truth. However, do not worry as the timing only gets 
 tight at the last part so it is not too hard to be on time. But, you do not have to do anything 
 to complete the game, you do not have to find out whats going on, infact if you really wanted to 
 you can complete the game without moving one step forward. You can go out for the day and by the 
 time you are back you can watch the ending, but you didn't buy the game to not play it did you? 
 But thats one of the things the game has to make it so enjoyable, freedom! And plenty, you don't 
 even have to do the missions. You can do tons of stuff in the game, like try on clothes or get 
 wierd and try on kids, womens clothing. You can customise the look of your character in plenty 
 of ways and there are free costumes to download of the Xbox Live Marketplace which cost you no 
 points. The combat is varied also, you can use guns, melee weapons or your fists. The guns have 
 limited ammo so they will not last for a long time so you pretty much will most likely remain with 
 the melee weapons and hand to hand combat. You can use bins, rocks, benches, buckets, stun guns, 
 axes, kantanas, pies, CDs, jewels, shelves, potted plants, a water gun etc. Wherever you go, you 
 are close to something you can use, some things will be helpful like a chainsaw while some will 
 not such as the canned drinks which you can throw. But some items are very fun to use, stuff a 
 shower head on a zombie and watch blood flow out. The hand to hand combat is crazy, it is what 
 you would expect in a match between a wrestler and a zombie. For example, the neck twist. You would 
 expect a simple snap of the head, well not in this game, you get on a zombie and just rip it right 
 off. The gameplay is very gory, use a kantana and blood just sprays, or use the disembowel move 
 to get really mucky. When it comes to the graphics they are amazing, take the main character Frank 
 West. You are playing as average joe, so you can see he has a bump in his nose, his arms are hairy, 
 so are his legs and chest plus you can see the moles on his back if you look close enough. People 
 don't wanna see this in particular but it makes a more realistic person we are playing as which 
 is what everyone wants. There are a lot of different models for the zombies, so you never feel 
 like you are fighting the same one over and over again and the other characters have a lot of variety. 
 You have the crazed clown, the old couple that are trying to survive, a wounded man with his lover, 
 a bratty teenager, a war vet and the list goes on so you have plenty of people to meet. Everything 
 is nicely detailed and of a high quality, all the shops look very different (except for the construction 
 area because obviously no shops have been made yet) , and the layout of the mall is very nice. As 
 for the sound, of course you have the groans and moans of the zombies, you have the gory sounds 
 of zombie flesh being crushed, diced and squished. Voice acting is nice and believable, there are 
 a lot of nice different sound effects for the different weapons and for all the other things that 
 happen in the game. Back onto the gameplay now, there are a few things worth mentioning, for starters 
 is the camera mode. At any point in the game you can whip out your camera and take a photo, you 
 are rated on different things, such as how many people/zombies are in the photo, the drama, how 
 gory is it, how funny or erotic is it etc. The better the photo the more PP you earn and more on 
 that a bit later. As well as the main story you have many optional bosses and you can rescue survivors. 
 The optional bosses are all very different in look, personality and in the attacks they do from 
 one another. Rescuing survivors is possibly the only bad point to the game, it can get frustrating 
 when you try to save someone and they slow you down because they get attacked, so you have to go 
 and help them, but while you get the attacking zombies off them, more are coming at you, and when 
 hitting them you are likely to be hitting the survivor also since they are next to the zombie you 
 are trying to get away from the survivor. You can give them weapons but then there are times when 
 they hit you in a desperate attack to kill the zombie next to you and there is still a chance the 
 survivor gets mobbed by zombies and you have to risk yourself trying to get them off but them more 
 zombies come and you have to kill them and sometimes you just give up and either kill the survivor 
 yourself for being so difficult or just let the zombies take care of them and think Well you should 
 have been smarter they have pretty poor AI also, I had on several occasions hidden with survivors 
 in the toilets and when I tell them to leave there is a chance they do not know how to find there 
 way out of the toilet which just shows you how annoying saving people can be. Now moving onto the 
 PP which is basically experience points, the more you get the higher your level becomes, which 
 equals better stats or new skills learned. There are a lot of great achievments, 50 in total, they 
 some of the best thought out in a game and no matter what your skill at gaming is, there will always 
 be a challenge you can do which will make you feel proud and give a good sense of accomplishment. 
 You get ranked boards to see who has the highest score and who has survived the longest in the 
 game. Overall, a great game that gives you so many choices, has some fab graphics, sound but the 
 rescuing of survivors is the only bad point. Still, with plenty to see and lots to do, this will 
 entertain you for a long time. But it would have been nice to have a co-op or who can kill the 
 most zombies in certain amount of time types to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenobia1981
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  This game had the potential to be a great game except for one very important detail. Unless your 
 rich and/ or have one or two thousand dollars to blow on HDTV, you can expect to not be able to 
 read a damn thing in this game. I played this game on a regular 27 inch TV, and the writing was 
 so small and blurry I couldn't make out a single word. Now this might not bother everybody, but 
 when I play a game, I would like to be able to read whats on the screen. Now I'm not saying this 
 game is a total flop. The graphics were cool and the game-play was descent. I just can't play a 
 game for to long when I can't read what I need to do next, or any important information that isn't 
 spoken by someone. If you have HDTV, get this game, if not, well you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Imagine Resident Evil. Make it a lot better. Add more free-roaming. All that would equal Dead Rising.
 
  
  You are Frank West. He's a photographer who has gotten surrounded by zombies and now he most save 
 himself from them. Along the way, you'll meet some people who aren't zombies to help you with your 
 missions.
  
  Their's zombies, millions of them! And sometimes even hundreds one screen. You can use just about 
 anything to kill these zombies, from guns to soccer balls! You can even use lawn mowers and motorcyles 
 to kill the zombies! Their's also boss fights which are called psychopaths . Yeah, they aren't 
 actually zombies, but they are apparently responible for the zombie outbrake. In a lot of missions, 
 you must either save someone or kill a psychopath. Of course, since Frank West is a photographer, 
 you can also take pictures of the zombies. Their's even hidden stuff from other Capcom games in 
 this game, like you can use Servbot as a weapon or wear a Mega Man helmet.
  
  This game does have some flaws. Like for example the words on-screen are way too small and hard 
 to read because of that. Most of your weapons also break after awhile. Also, this game only has 
 about 3 save spots.
  
  The graphics are great, but not the best. Their's a lot of blood and gore, but the people look 
 kind of weird, like Frank West.
  
  This game is pretty addictive. But the $60 price tag is a bit too much, so you might want to rent 
 it first unless you're a big zombie fan and know for sure that you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfan-atic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Time has passed since a truly original game came out to the market. Yes, we do have good games, 
 like Gears of War, Halo, Tom Clancy series, but not a game that is original in every way. So here 
 is when Dead Rising come in, a gam that will make you have FUN! What games are intended to right?
 
  
  In Dead Rising you are Frank West, a photojournalist who is traveling to Willmate City to cover 
 a story on a recent incident inside the city. But when he arrives he founds: ZOMBIES! Raining Zombies! 
 Thousands of them everywhere!!!
  
  Gameplay: Its ridiculous. You have like Billions of ways to kill/paralize zombies, and there 
 are billions of them too. From putting a carnival mask, to shooting at them with an SMG, and its 
 all about the way you want to kill them (IT NEVER GETS OLD) . But the game those not turn around 
 Zombies, they are just there. Instead Capcom created an intriguing story with lots of action. And 
 as I said before, most of the action comes from other parts: Killing psychopaths (people who just 
 lost it during the zombie invation) , terrorist, etc. Also an important part of the gameplay is 
 the simple but perfect fighting mechanism. With X you meele with what you call the weapon, and 
 the Right Trigger + X makes you throw it to whatever you aim at. As I said, simple but perfect.
 
  
  Many people complain that the save system dows not work with the real time game system, but that 
 is not true. Missions are on a determined time, and if you miss them, you load and start again. 
 And if you save in a point that you cannot get to your main mission, yes, you have to start the 
 game all over. But this is not bad, because you save you Characters level, so all what you have 
 gone though will be very essay, and the game will reward you with extra levels. I consider this 
 perfect, for if you could not reach you last save in time its because you level was to low, and 
 coul not get through the action very fast. So with the level raised up, youll get quicker to that 
 point. Graphics: Dead Rising does not have that awesome effects that GRAW or Gears of War offers, 
 but the Mall is incredibly well drawn. Everything: The water, the objects, the textures, the characters, 
 all is just beautiful. And, even though you may find thousands of zombies, the framrate never, 
 ever, slow down. Sound: Featuring a very good soundtrack: it has music you spect playing inside 
 a mall (theres even a cute woman voice saying promotional stuff) , or music you will spect from 
 a psycopath, etc. Sound effect are very well added, and all are very good in terms of quality. 
 Here and there you might find Franks in-game comments alittle repetitive, and there are no in-game 
 voivce acting, but nothing that will mess with this games greatness. Tilt: All in the game is well 
 synchronized, sound, graphics, gameplay, all is perfect.
  
  Value: With the infinite mode unlocked after you beat the game, you may find yourself in hour and 
 hours of gameplay. The game, as I had already said, is ridiculy fun, and you may even restart the 
 game 4-5 times before you put it down. Yes, it is that kind of game Well worth $60.
  
  BUY NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowMan214
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  For how long I have waited to get a 360 just to play this game. Hey, its better then going to my 
 friends and only play for idk 30 min. Blood and guts what else can you ask for but there is only 
 a few problems. The text is so small not only do I have to squint my eyes to read it but actually 
 put my friggen face right in front of the screen.
  Also maybe I want to save more then once to enjoy the game but no I can only save once and if I'm 
 in a bad situatuation I have to start all over again and am tired of seeing that dumb ugly old 
 hag letting in the zombies just to save her dog that should be put to sleep or given to the pound. 
 Finally, dumb Otis stop calling me I died because of and how did U get my number I don't remember 
 you at the club. Also when I hang up you say its rude to cut you off your not important your the 
 friggen mall janitor.
  
  Okay, now if you get past that this is an awesome game and all the weapons you can pick from what 
 is there to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertspartan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a Gung-ho, horror action game from Japanese developer Capcom. Capcom of course make 
 the Resident evil games, which are all about zombies jumping out from round corners, however Dead 
 Rising is completely different. It's all about killing thousands of zombies in a mall and doing 
 it with an array of really cool weapons. There is just so many ways to kill zombies with a range 
 of the normal guns and GTA style baseball bats to jewels which you can throw and hats you can put 
 on zombie's heads. Although there are a lot of zombies in the game, the main story revolves around 
 the humans in the mall who are still alive. Most of the people you fight are deranged Psychopaths, 
 who range from a chainsaw wielding clowns to an overweight cop and even a group of cultists. In 
 the game you play as Frank West, a freelance photo-journalist who hears about a big scoop going 
 down in a town blocked off by the military. So he flies in by helicopter and lands on a helipad, 
 at the top of a mall. You then have to survive 72 (game) hours (inside the mall) , until the helicopter 
 comes back. You also have to be on time for certain missions, which isn't exactly fun, but you 
 do have free time to run round on zombie slaying rampages.
  
  Sounds fun huh? Well it is and would be even better... If the save system wasn't so awful. You 
 only get one save through-out the whole game, which means if you save in a bad place and can't 
 get to the next mission in time then your screwed and have to start the game all over again! The 
 levelling up system can also be frustrating, since if you don't do enough side mission to level 
 up enough, you may not be able to kill certain bosses, which again means restarting the game. Although 
 at least you can retain your current level and stats.
  
  Graphically Dead Rising is pretty impressive, it's not as good looking as games like Prey or GRAW, 
 but for the scale it's very impressive. I mean at times there are thousands, yes thousands, of 
 zombies on screen and their character models are nicely details, although they are often repeated 
 (but that is expected) . The environments and weapons are also pretty detailed and the mall really 
 makes you feel like you are out shopping. The framerate also holds up well considering the amount 
 of NPCs on screen.
  
  Dead Rising is one of the best sounding games of the year. The sound of a scythe ripping the head 
 off a zombie or a shovel shattering a zombies skull is all brilliant. I mean blood splatters everywhere 
 and the gore is only beaten by Gears of War. As well as the weapon sounds the voice acting is pretty 
 good and the zombie groans that you hear are just as good as the ones in the movies.
  
  Dead Rising is about 10 - 15 hours long, although you won't really want to play through it again 
 after you finish it. The game of course has the full 1000 achievement points, some of them are 
 easier to get than others, they range from falling off a staircase, too killing 54,000 zombies.
 
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is a great game, and despite the awful save system, the game is brilliant 
 fun and will keep you playing for a while. I mean what is a great game if you can't beat up zombies 
 with a giant lipstick? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  There is big trouble in the quiet little city of Willamette, Colorado. Outbreaks of seemingly dead 
 residents have been reported walking the earth again in search of live human flesh to gnaw on. 
 Worst of all, military checkpoints are stationed at every entrance and exit in the entire city 
 to quarantine the mess. The only hope of survival and rescue for potential survivors is boarded 
 up in the local hangout: the safe haven known as the Willamette Parkview Mall.
  
  Despite the military and media warnings, freelance journalist Frank West has hired a helicopter 
 pilot to fly him into the now chaotic Willamette city and land on the roof of the mall. Once he 
 is in, he will have 72 hours (around 6 hours in real-time) to fight, rescue, and ultimately uncover 
 the crucial breaking news story behind the emerging undead.
  
  With over 50,000 zombified Willamette residents now converging on the malls location, Frank will 
 soon discover that he isnt the only person biting off way more than he can chew.
  
  If the premise to the X-Box 360s new smash hit Dead Rising sounds familiar, thats because it 
 probably is. Horror movie buffs will recognize the concept of the game from George A Romeros 1978 
 zombie flick Dawn of the Dead in which survivors also are boarded up in the local city mall from 
 an invading zombie population. Nevertheless, despite how similar or borrowed the plot may seem, 
 watching the concept and actually playing the concept are quite the separate experiences.
  
  Once the game begins, players are forced to find and utilize any weapons, makeshift items, 
 or food products from the numerous stores or areas in the mall. Of course whatever store gamers 
 venture into will decide the types of items in it. Tool shops will produce interesting weapon possibilities 
 like hedge clippers and chainsaws to fend off the invading zombie horde with, while grocery stores 
 are a great place to stock up on health boosting food items.
  
  While making sure Frank survives the three days is obviously the biggest priority of Dead Rising, 
 there are quite a few other activities to pass the time with. The principal activity is completing 
 the main quest line and discovering the truth behind the zombie outbreak. However if gamers get 
 bored or have time in between missions, saving other survivors, fighting dangerous psychopaths 
 that have cracked under the pressure, or taking pictures with Franks camera adds great depth to 
 the occasionally monotonous gameplay.
  
  One of the greatest parts about Dead Rising is the role-playing element of building up Frank 
 Wests character through experience points. Frank is able to level up by doing any of the various 
 activities or missions and in turn will potentially grant Frank more health boxes, item space, 
 attack and speed power, or even brand new hand-to-hand zombie crushing moves.
  
  The best part is that at the end of the first play through, gamers will be able to carry over their 
 stats onto another play through, making the game all the more easier to unlock harder to reach 
 activities and items. A maximum level of 50 is possible, but it should take the average gamer at 
 least a handful of run-throughs to reach it.
  
  Dead Rising may sound like the perfect game, but a lot of imperfections hold it back from being 
 a must buy. The biggest issue with the game is the microscopic in-game text that is required to 
 read if one wishes to progress in the main quest line. The creators of Dead Rising have gone 
 on record to say that this game was meant to be played on a High Definition television, but even 
 they may have a tough time deciphering the almost illegible text. Other nitpicks include a poor 
 save system, frustrating civilian AI, and a lack of co-op or multiplayer, but for every one thing 
 is does wrong, it corrects it by doing three things right.
  
  With some spectacular visuals, great sound effects and voice acting, and an all-around genius premise, 
 Dead Rising is an undeniable guilty pleasure for all X-Box 360 owners. With a quick, fun and 
 addictive single-player, the game exudes an almost reminiscently arcade feeling and will keep gamers 
 pleasantly content for days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creedy524
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  theres so many things to do in this game. killing zombies is just the first but trying to recue 
 all the people and beating the which also counts for overtime mode and infinte mode which are sick. 
 i really hope they make a second one cause this game was awsome all the weapons you get to us any 
 driving cars is some much fun. this is one of the best games for 360. this game never gets old. 
 too bad its not online though that would be cool but still this game is very very very very very 
 very very very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judith40
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  When i bought Dead rising i tought killing zombies is fun and using anything (everything) as a 
 weapon seemed to good to be true. Fist of all you cant use everything in the freaking mall because 
 not eveything can be used as a weapon only limited items can be wielded as weapon and half of these 
 weapons are really useful. The story line is terrible, coming from Capcom (Resident evil 4) i aspected 
 to get a wow! soryline and all i got was bull ----. The game is to short and to boring, okay its 
 fun at first but when all you do is kill stupid zombies that you can pass by throug you start to 
 think this game is not worth 60 dollares!!! at all!. The cutscences are cool and the game has its 
 one style and thats pretty good so im going to give this game a better review when its price tag 
 drops 25 bucks until then ill give this game a 1. When the game costs 30 dollars its worth an 8.6 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdking
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising!
  
  It is true, it's worth $60. Let's start with the story, it's great! At first I didn't know what 
 to expect, I was sort of confused as to what was going on, and was getting beaten down by zombies 
 left and right, barely making my way through the missions.
  
  But they really set the aura in this one. It really did feel like you were in Dawn of the Dead, 
 always in a sense of urgency, always just trying to haul butt to save some victim, or to kill a 
 few psycopaths. Or kill zombies. This game is a great Action/Adventure game. Loads of fun!
  
  Graphics: 7/10. Not a real looker, honestly. But who cares when you're smashing zombies! Hundreds 
 of zombies at a time!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10. Tons of weapons, tons of fun! Starts off slow a bit first, and boss battles may 
 great frustrating as every death litereally wastes 10 minutes of your time getting back form point 
 A to point B.
  
  Sound: 9/10 CRUNCH! Only get's a 9 out of 10 because of Frank's deathly annoying voice. God... annoying.
 
  
  Value: 10/10! You'll get your pennies out of this one for sure.
  
  Tilt: 9/10 Great fun, great atmosphere, great gameplay! Great everything. Well deserving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RanRane
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Imagine this: Being trapped inside a huge mall full of barbaric zombies, for 24 hours. Sound fun? 
 It is! There is only one thing on every gamers whilst playing this game: Death! Its true, Dead 
 Rising is fun. I was skeptical about buying a game, where literally all you do is kill zombies, 
 but was pleasantly surprised. Ok, so we all know that Dead Rising isn't necessarily the most story 
 line driven game, but with some interesting missions on the side and a main storyline to follow, 
 this makes it appealing to a wider audience. Some, would like to just spends countless hours devouring 
 thousands upon thousands of zombies, which you can do; however, you can also follow a storyline, 
 so you don't feel like there is no point to the game. Admittedly, the side missions are usually 
 just a simple collection of a cowering person hidden in a shop, but sometimes you will stumble 
 upon a complete lunatic which always spices things up.
  
  For the Graphics, there is only one word: Amazing! The detail gone into the surroundings in this 
 game truly stand fore-front. Every little thing in this game has had time and effort put into it, 
 and actually looks like it also. There are no awkward looking graphics which seem like they should 
 belong on the last generation games consoles. Having beautiful graphics only enhances the enjoyment 
 of this game, and also enhances the enjoyment of killing the zombies! Although this game says you 
 are trapped in the mall for 72 hours, and its up to you what you do in that time, thats in gaming 
 time, in real time its more like 7 hours. Although 7 hours may not sound long, there really is 
 so much to do on this game, but perhaps not all in one time through. There are many achievements 
 to unlock, which will definately make you want to replay, not to mention the unlock-ables you receive 
 for completing the game once. I'd say this game has got at least 25 hours of gaming packed in.
 
  
  Overall, if your looking for a light hearted but fun game, which involves a whole lot of killing, 
 this is a definite must for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deveak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best zombie games I have seen in a while. It takes itself seriously while 
 at the same time being funny. I enjoyed the quirky weapons and weird bosses. The gore is incredible! 
 So much blood, and it spills all over the ground just right. My biggest hit to the games cred is 
 the lack of expansion. The mall seems big at first, but after a while it tends to feel very small. 
 Another problem is the failing auto aim. Short zombies or hunched over ones are impossible to hit. 
 I spent 20 bullets trying to hit one zombie, then i check my aim in the third person aiming mode 
 to find he is firing beside it by five feet. To make it worse it was less then ten feet away. The 
 only other problem with the aiming system is the turn speed is a little to slow and it feels delayed. 
 My final complaint is the abysmal AI. Some survivors are so dumb the will run into each other for 
 hours on end just to enter the air duct. Thats not as bad as when they get hooked on a plant or 
 a bench while surrounded by zombies. Now for whats good! The graphics are not the best considering 
 its a nex-gen title but its way beyond an x-box's ability. The picture is clean, without fuzz, 
 and very little clipping. The sound impressed me, it was clean, crisp, and varied. The gun sounds 
 where accurate and timed well to the actions and the music is great. The gameplay is great, I love 
 zombie bashing and dead rising takes it to a whole new level. The combat has a great flow to it 
 when you get the special moves such as the skull bash and round house kick. The zombies themselves 
 are the perfect brainless zombie. They do get more aggressive at night and they can also pile up 
 on you making it harder to escape. The regenerating zombies where kind of annoying as well as the 
 sudden random aggression. At one point I witnessed a zombie run halfway across the level at me 
 full tilt, about the same speed as a survivor. The psychopaths where excellent bosses, I found 
 their personalities fresh and interesting as well as their attacks and challenges.
  The weapons are great but it could have used more guns and they could have made the guns re-loadable. 
 The easily breakable weapons make it feel arcadey as well as the fact that Frank The Tank can do 
 things that are beyond human. Who can swing a meat rack that weighs 200 pounds and is the size 
 of a small car over their head? All in all I enjoyed this game, all its problems are minor and 
 the strengths are strong. Buy it now before they rise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is about as near as you're going to get to a 'Dawn Of The Dead' videogame. Technically 
 it has nothing to do with George Romero's awesome zombie trilogy, but Capcom does nothing to hide 
 the game's influences. You play as journalist Frank who arrives in a small town to investigate 
 reports of strange events taking place in the settlement. Frank ends up in the town's shopping 
 mall and finds himself stuck there for three days. From there on it's your choice as to how Frank 
 spends his 72 hours inside the mall (which is something like 7 hours in real-time) . You can either 
 strictly follow the story missions and ignore the many survivors in need of help or you can concentrate 
 on saving as many people as possible (you won't have enough time to do both) . Of course, you could 
 do neither and simply make your aim to slaughter as many zombies as you can in three days (there's 
 an on-screen zombie-death-counter which is a nice touch) . It's this freedom of choice that means 
 you're going to want to play though Dead Rising at least a couple of times.
  
  As you would expect, this game is a ridiculous amount of fun to play. There are stupid amounts 
 of weapons you can use to dispose of the thousands of zombies that roam the shopping mall (ranging 
 from conventional pistols and shotguns to more obscure weapons such as handbags and water pistols) . 
 However, while aimlessly killing zombies is great fun, the best part of Dead Rising is the story. 
 The 'case file' missions will take up the best part of your time and the plot has plenty of unexpected 
 twists which ensure you'll see it through to the end. One of the few problems I have with this 
 game is that there aren't enough side-missions. Fair enough, there are plenty of characters to 
 rescue, but it's almost exactly the same for each one (defeat some sort of insane boss and lead 
 the survivors to safety) . Some variation would have been nice.
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising look excellent in HD, with some of the cut-scenes being especially 
 detailed. Of course, the most impressive visual aspect of the game is the ridiculous amount of 
 zombies that can fill the screen at any one time. And amazingly there are very few dips in frame 
 rate. However, although I can't confirm it, I've heard that the text is almost unreadable in standard 
 definition, and that's going to be a problem if you want to take part in any of the side misisons.
 
  
  As good as the game is, there are one or two problems that prevent it from gaining 'classic' status. 
 Firstly, you are only allowed one save file. Throughout the whole game. So, should you get half 
 way through the third day, save the game and then realise you didn't leave enough time to get to 
 the next mission, then it's game over. You're going to have to start all over again. For this reason 
 you're going to miss a lot of the side missions because of the risk of not reaching the next story 
 mission in time.
  
  Secondly, the NPC's are as stupid as the zombies themselves. They'll frequently find themselves 
 stuck in shops, unable to get out until you go back and get them. Once i smashed the front window 
 of a shop to let a character out and they still refused to move. When you're leading groups of 
 up to 8 or 9 characters through the mall this can become frustrating to say the least.
  
  Nevertheless, Dead Rising is still an awesome game. It certainly isn't perfect, but it's still 
 the most fun I've had on my 360 since Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolphus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that is very fun in many way were you are a journalist that goes by the name 
 Frank West who want the biggest story of his life when he get involve in a town that is crawling 
 with zombies. as you proceed, you will have to fight your way through more than thousands of zombies 
 that will get in your way and to do case that will involve the game main storyline answering calls 
 from you radio that will give you scenario of were you can find survivors or rescue them from psychopaths 
 that will try to kill and the game has many achievements for you to unlock and the only problem 
 I have with this game is that the game A. i. gan be lacky and the survivors will get themselve killed 
 unless you save them from bening over swarm from zombies. Dead Rising is a game that will have 
 you playing the game over and over again until you unlock achievements for you to earn points it 
 is a buy to anyone who love m-rated games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaman37
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I was very skeptic about how fun this can really be. But after 
 thinking it over i finally decided to just go buy. I have to say I'm glad that i did but it after 
 all. The game is chalk full of weapons ranging from teddy bears to plasma TV. The story is all 
 about a journalist name Frank West who decides to go to a small town called Willamette because 
 he heard something big would happen there. And guess what! the town is just teeming with zombies 
 ready for a nice tasty snack. Through the game you will receive new moves to tear out guts or to 
 flip off zombie heads. The game is easy to just sit down a play and with 50 achievements, it will 
 keep you playing for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game on release day and played it every night for a couple of weeks. It was the 
 best game I had played in this genre. I pictured myself playing for another 2-3 weeks and completing 
 all the missions and getting all the achievements. I couldn't think of another game that would 
 pull me away from this. Then all of a sudden I got bored. I decided to pick up Saint's Row and 
 I ended up forgetting about this game. Don't get me wrong this game is really good and worth the 
 price, but it just couldn't hold my interest for long enough. I can explain it only by the fact 
 that it feels like a sand box game but you have a curfew. You can play the game w/o doing all the 
 cases but that is only fun once around, then you get bored with trying all the weapons and beating 
 the zombies down. Then you can play through the game and do as many cases as possible but you are 
 on a time limit and you just can't do everything at once. Then you realize you have to do the same 
 thing over again just to unlock the rest of the stuff. FERGETIT.
  
  The controls are good but I didn't like the aiming w/ the Left Trigger. It felt like I was trying 
 to swat a fly w/ a fork. The rest of the controls fit well and were fun to play. The graphics are 
 great and the story line is strong (the 1st or 2nd time through) . I just wish it had held my attention 
 for longer. I have friends that are still playing this game and I don't fault them for that. But 
 for me I just couldn't keep playing this game over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahuna9995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I have never really been a fan of survival horror games, despite my love of zombie movies I could 
 never quite get comfortable with the idea of being put into a situation I couldn't fight/shoot 
 my way out of.
  
  Dead Rising has definitely moved the goal posts for all subsequent survival horror games that are 
 going to follow.
  
  The storyline in Dead Rising is suitably tacked on and used as a thin excuse to create a game based 
 solely on zombie genocide and you know something it works really well.
  
  The concept of the game is so very simple and has been done to death (no pun intended) by Hollywood 
 for years but Dead Rising is pretty much an interactive version of some of the Hollywood versions 
 that have gone before it.
  
  Your character Frank in a somewhat fool-hardy fashion decides to drop himself into the middle of 
 a mass zombie break out in a small town in Middle America in the hope of getting the news story 
 scoop of all time. After his somewhat dramatic entrance you have a simulated 72 hours to survive, 
 complete story related missions and generally cave in as much zombie cranium as be your want.
 
  
  With the missions laid out in a linear and time based fashion time is definitely not on your side 
 and the psychotic behaviour of some of the protagonists in the game sometimes the thousands of 
 zombies you've got to wade through are the least of your problems.
  
  From a technical standpoint the game in its own fashion is a technical achievement that will definitely 
 advance and draw comparison from similar future titles for years to come. The game is not without 
 its flaws. There are some obvious clipping issues with characters and surrounding walls. I find 
 the game can also become so dark during the evening hours in game it can become nothing short of 
 impossible to see where you are going and really the one save slot can lead to a few unwanted replays 
 if youre not careful.
  
  But quite frankly these flaws just melt away and what you are left with is quite simply a fun and 
 enjoyable game that allows a good deal of freedom of choice despite its linear progression.
  
  The virtually unlimited supply of melee weapons is just incredible and allows you to be as 
 creative and vicious as you really want to be. Allowing you an almost unlimited opportunity to 
 express some of your darker tendencies in a totally guilt free environment.. (or was that just 
 me)
  
  The so over the top violence and gore take the game away from being sinister to just quite simply 
 amusing. I'm pretty sure I'm not the only person who found themselves laughing out loud with some 
 of the rather ingenious ways you can come up with to dispatch your undead foes.
  
  The games side missions do offer a distraction from the main missions however they can become annoyingly 
 repetitive and in some of your more time constrained scenarios they can make the game almost downright 
 impossible to complete. I did find the AI for the survivors to be a little annoying sometimes, 
 requiring a little too much babysitting to get through certain situations in a timely fashion.
 
  
  Also I have found that the game does offer itself well to numerous replays. As your character development 
 and knowledge of the missions improves with continued play. The sound engineering for the wepon 
 effects and other Foley sounds just completes the package and pushes the games immersion into a 
 whole new level.
  
  I really cannot recommend this game enough not just purely for the technical achievements made 
 to display so many characters on screen at one time but also because I have never found a game 
 that so quite effectively dissipates any stress you may have had during the course of the day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvinMacOrmick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Playing a video game as Frank, a man trapped in a zombie-filled mall, with a wide variety of wacky 
 and wonderful weapons at your disposal... Maybe not a completely original idea, but damn this is 
 a fun game. Painting the walls and dirtying your clothes with the blood of zombies being mowed 
 down (literally with the lawnmower) is truely as fun as it sounds. At night, the halls of the shopping 
 centre come to life even more as hoard after hoard of zombies pursue you, only to be met by hailing 
 golf balls or flying dinner plates. What really makes this game is the longevity, being able to 
 discover so many new things with each passing moment. DEFINATELY a game for lovers of the horror 
 genre everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krlos_castillo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Capcom nos presenta un nuevo titulo con su ya conocida formula, zombies, sangre, armas y una entretenida 
 historia. Dead Rising nos permite adentrarnos en la historia de un reportero que logra entrar en 
 una tranquilo pueblo de E. E. U. U, el cual ha sido infestado de zombies.
  La historia es simple, contamos con 72 horas (en un inicio) para lograr la mejor exclusiva, ademas 
 de tratar de lograr investigar y desenmara&ntilde; ar la historia detras de Dead Rising.
  El juego en si me recordo a lo que hizo en su vez el GTA (grand thef auto) , libertad de accion 
 y con la posibilidad de hacer lo que se te ocurra hacer (obviamente dentro de los limites del juego 
 mismo) . Si bien solo tendras la historia central (no tiene xbox live) lo cual te dara algunas horas 
 de juego, el juego una vez terminado te permitira volver a jugarlo para; obtener los finales reales, 
 obtener los modos prorroga e ilimitado (en este modo tendras que sobrevivir lo que mas puedas a 
 base de escasa comida) .
  El juego es innovador en si, buenas graficas, sonido y jugabilidad, quizas lo que debia haber sido 
 solucionado en su momento es que s&oacute; lo en determinados lugares podras grabar lo que mas de 
 una vez te traera complicaciones para jugar.
  Si eres fan de los zombies, te gustan los juegos de Capcom, o los juegos que te dan una gran libertad, 
 opta por este juego el cual le hace un gran homenaje George A. Romero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game I thought was going to be a little better. It was good but not as good as I would of 
 hoped. The graphics are good. Gameplay is good. Sound is average. I don't like how there are so 
 little save points. Also how the guy in the gun shop is crazy. I just want awesome GUNS, but no 
 they have to make a crazy dude with a super powerful shotgun. I like how the bodies stay until 
 you leave the area. Like I killed over 500 zombies in one area. It looked so crazy there were bodys 
 every were. Also how you can use most stuff as weapons is really kool. so all in all it was a pretty 
 good game but I would recomend renting not buying. It is pretty hard, but doesn't take long to 
 get use to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven_bergen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is a great game. Dead rising is created by capcom. Those famous for the resident evil 
 game. This was really the only good zombie game up till now. Dead rising combines addictive gameplay 
 with a interesting story that turns out to be great on its own.
  
  The gameplay in this game you would think would get boring after awhile? But really it holds up, 
 killing zombies with a whole bunch of weapons doesnt seem to get old that fast. This makes the 
 game easy to play through multiple times, with different approaches. The games story mode is two 
 modes in its own right. The main mode 72 hour mode is the first mode you have to play through 
 to get overtime mode. These two modes are enjoyable to the end. The games controls are easy to 
 get use to fast. The aiming using the right trigger is easy to go with, you can either pick to 
 aim where your character is facing or where the camera is facing. The game is filled with tons 
 of weapons, which are all different. The game uses a pp system which is like experience points. 
 You dont get to pick what you level in, it kind of picks for you. This works really well. The 
 game levels you in stock, health, throw, and skill. The only big problem with the game is the AI 
 of the survivors. They will get stuck on everything, and run into big groups of zombies. The game 
 does not have bosses really, they are crazy people called psychopaths, and they are the people 
 that went crazy during this whole outbreak.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. They are clean and done very well. The animations on characters 
 look great. The character models are very detailed, and looks amazing even on standard definition 
 tvs. The game has a subtitles and they can not be read easily on normal tvs. The sound in this 
 game is really good too. The games voice acting is actually not that bad, it really fits the whole 
 game. The sounds of the guns are good, and the weapons hitting the zombies, all sound great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkeySpongezc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game that includes many features that have not yet been done in other games. 
 The games story mode is rather short. Other then the lack of length the game is great. The sound 
 in this game is just so perfect. Hearing all of the diffrent weapons rip apart zombies is great. 
 The graphics are amazing, all of the textures and movement animations are superb. Gameplay in this 
 game is near perfect. The way the weapons work is pretty good but can be annoying at times. The 
 leveling is a great feature, getting more powerful attacks and more life is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is created by capcom. Those famous for the resident evil game. This was really the 
 only good zombie game up till now. Dead rising combines addictive gameplay with a interesting story 
 that turns out to be great on its own.
  
  The gameplay in this game you would think would get boring after awhile? But really it holds up, 
 killing zombies with a whole bunch of weapons doesnt seem to get old that fast. This makes the 
 game easy to play through multiple times, with different approaches. The games story mode is two 
 modes in its own right. The main mode 72 hour mode is the first mode you have to play through 
 to get overtime mode. These two modes are enjoyable to the end. The games controls are easy to 
 get use to fast. The aiming using the right trigger is easy to go with, you can either pick to 
 aim where your character is facing or where the camera is facing. The game is filled with tons 
 of weapons, which are all different. The game uses a pp system which is like experience points. 
 You dont get to pick what you level in, it kind of picks for you. This works really well. The 
 game levels you in stock, health, throw, and skill. The only big problem with the game is the AI 
 of the survivors. They will get stuck on everything, and run into big groups of zombies. The game 
 does not have bosses really, they are crazy people called psychopaths, and they are the people 
 that went crazy during this whole outbreak.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. They are clean and done very well. The animations on characters 
 look great. The character models are very detailed, and looks amazing even on standard definition 
 tvs. The game has a subtitles and they can not be read easily on normal tvs. The sound in this 
 game is really good too. The games voice acting is actually not that bad, it really fits the whole 
 game. The sounds of the guns are good, and the weapons hitting the zombies, all sound great.
  
  The game only has a story mode and a infinite mode (survival mode) . This game only with this 
 may not last long for every gamer, but it is worth playing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Capcom and zombies are in no way, shape or form a rare combination. In the past, they have always 
 been the top name in zombie killing, especially with the latest Resident Evil. Now, Capcom is once 
 again delving into native territory, but putting a unique spin on the zombie game. They've taken 
 the horror out of survival horror and added instead a comical and lighthearted twist. Don't get 
 me wrong, zombies still bleed as well as they always have, but instead of the creepy mansions you 
 so often slaughter them in, you are in a mall, complete with stores, playgrounds, and even an amusement 
 park. Sound familiar? George Romero's Dawn of the Dead should immediately come to mind to even 
 the lightest movie goers, and the similarities are so vast that Dead Rising has a disclaimer right 
 on the front cover of the box, saying that it is in no way affiliated with the film. In the game, 
 you are a photographer who has gotten a tip on something big going down in a small town. You arrive 
 to the town via helicopter, noticing army barricades and a giant rucus below you. You tell the 
 helicopter pilot to land on the rooftop of Westfield Mall, and to come back in three days. Soon 
 after you get there, you realize that the mall is under attack by zombies, and quickly befriend 
 a few government agents, helping them evacuate survivors from the mall to a save haven on the roof. 
 While you do this, you find bits and pieces to finding out where the zombies came from. The story 
 is, as you can see, very predictable, but the characters are endearing enough to make you care 
 what happens to them. Except for Otis. Drop dead, Otis. The story really isn't the draw of this 
 game. The gameplay is, and for the most part it is tons of fun and easy to get into. The gameplay 
 is as follows: kill zombies using anything and everything including the kitchen sink. You'll use 
 lawn mowers, CD's, loaves of bread, plastic lightsabers, planters, and much, much more. You can't 
 really complain about the weapon selection, as there are hundreds and hundreds of ways to slaughter 
 the slaughtered. All of these weapons are extremely satisfying to use, some giving you hilarious 
 results (shower head) , and others giving you pure visceral thrill (lawn mower) . The game is free 
 structured, to a point. You can't just go off killing zombies for as long as you want; you have 
 to do missions. The game runs in a real time structure, and you can't be late for a mission. There 
 is a nice interface for telling how much time you have left on specific missions. They usually 
 involve rescuing people and bringing them back to the safehouse. This is the game's biggest flaw, 
 bar none. Escort missions can be the most frustrating thing you could ever imagine at times, as 
 the friendly A. I. in this game is about half as smart as a carrot. They rarely listen to you when 
 you give the order of following you, and instead go Rambo and start fighting the zombies themselves. 
 This almost always ensues their destruction, and this happens so many times you'll eventually just 
 let them be killed. Other than that, the game is smooth sailing (you get over the save system) , 
 and controls very well. Dead Rising is very impressive in the visual department. Even when hundreds 
 and hundreds of zombies fill the screen, the game remains smooth as cream. There is impressive 
 detail in the environment, and it itself is very colorful, accurately representing a real-life 
 mall. You'll see movie theaters, advertisements, and a few suprises as you explore the huge zombie-killing 
 playground. Of course, the zombies gore quite nicely, and soon your screen will be filled with 
 gallons and gallons of blood. The sound is great as well. Weapons make satisfying noises, and the 
 voice acting, while stlightly cheesy, is still very well done. The musical score is excellent, 
 but most of the time you'll be listening to the wouderfully corny mall elevator music. This game 
 could last you months if you decide to get into it. It is built like an RPG; you learn new moves 
 and upgrade you abilities as your zombie death toll goes up. By the end of the game, you'll likely 
 have killed over 15,000 zombies. Overall, the game is a very solid package. It packs fun gameplay, 
 great graphics, superiour sound, and excellent value into one game that is easily one of the better 
 action games on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  THis game is just not very good at all. You feel like you are doing the same thing over and over... 
 Oh wait... You are. You just run back and forth through a mall for the entire course of the game. 
 Don't let the demo fool you. When you start the game out you don't have any of the moves featured 
 in the demo. They come with time and experience. In order to get that you have to kill zombies, 
 lots of them. There are two problems with that... One, missions are timed so you can't really just 
 stop and hack away at them most time. And two, even when you have the time to do so, you just won't 
 want to after your first couple hours of playing this game. The save feature is also irratating, 
 though not as bad as the gamespot review makes it out to be. To sum it up, this game is not mindless 
 enough to just kick back and wipe out zombies, and it isn't smart enough to be an adventure game. 
 To me, it isn't sure what it wants to be and lacks any real direction. Not a very good game after 
 a couple of hours. Rent it if you must play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingoworld
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good at first but the save system is just horrible..... but it is just fun to 
 run around with a machete while having a Buzz Lightyear suit on and killing zombies and blood gushing 
 out... (what could be better than that???) you can choose your clothes you want to wear from the 
 shops at the mall and the weapons too... you can use the scariest most bloody weapon you can find 
 like even a showerhead ..... the escort missions are impossible but i just like playing around.... 
 i really love this game but in a lot of ways it is bad too.... like the save system and the loading 
 system..... in the beginning there is a lot of loading screens... but dont take it back just for 
 them because later on there wont be as much loadings the farther you go.... really fun game... 
 thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brmarlin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has an interesting story, despite the fact that the basic premise is lifted 
 from Dawn of the Dead, incredibly immersive gameplay, a great sense of humor, and copious amounts 
 of blood, gore, severed limbs, heads, and the ability to eat an entire baguette in 4 seconds.
 
  
  The story mode for 72 hour mode, at least, is very fun - you can either try to find the truth, 
 or you can just go through and save people. Whatever suits your fancy. The one only gripe with 
 the story mode I have is that I didn't know to talk to Isabela after 10 AM on the last day. I'd 
 have overtime mode now instead of playing through all cases twice and getting Ending C both times.
 
  
  You might want a high-def TV before ya play this tapestry of zombie-pwnage.
  Great game, some say demo is all, others say the whole game is much more. Try the demo to get a 
 feel for the game, if you like - get it, if not, then pass it by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EwaAznLeader
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  In Dead Rising, you play as a story-hungry reporter named Frank. He'll do anything for a story 
 so he decides to hire a helicopter dude and fly him over a small city in Colorado to check out 
 the strange things that has been happeneing there. When he arrives, he sees strange things and 
 believes it's just normal people killing other normal people. Boy was he dead wrong.. ha get it? 
 Nevermind... well after flying through the air sometime, he decides to want to head over to the 
 mall, so he drops down and finds something he isn't prepared for. But really, no one was prepared... 
 who would know zombies would come to their small innocent town. Ok, done with the introduction, 
 on to the review!
  
  Gameplay - Killing zombies and nut jobs are pretty much what you do in this game. But the way you 
 kill them is how you will succeed. The thing is, there is just SO much to use, you won't know where 
 to start. You'll be killing your enemies from pistols to .50cal machine guns *wink* and showercaps 
 to chainsaws. Most weapons can fit in your inventory, but don't expect to put a bench in your pocket. 
 All these weapons will have their own little effect, some may stun zombies, some may confuse them. 
 Ok, now I recently just said you will be fighting nut jobs.. Yes... nut jobs.. also known as El 
 Psycopatho... The Psychopaths... All around the mall there are a series of humans gone loco because 
 of the zombies. They will choose to fight you and see that you are either the cause or the zombies 
 and somewill think you yourself are zombies. Others will just act really retarded and attempt to 
 kill you. They are pretty much bosses, so don't think one shot to the head would kill them. There's 
 a few things that might get on your nerves though.. one is the main storyline. Unfortunately, if 
 you don't arrive at a certain area for your main objective.. you fail the whole game and have to 
 go back to your last save or save your stats and start a new game. That being brought up, the second 
 thing is the save system. It is unmerciful, allowing you one save slot and one save slot only! 
 That means you wouldn't be able to do anything if you saved in the worst area where you cannot 
 reach the main objective in time! Boo!
  
  Graphics - The graphics in the game are decent.. the cutscenes look marvelous (Isabella is HAWT) .. 
 While playing, graphics pretty good but there can be some problems, but it's not going to effect 
 your gameplay and you probably won't notice. When you are using weapons and just making zombies 
 bleed to death, the blood can be quite rewarding it's self. Killing mass zombies with a melee weapon 
 can cause you to choke on blood if you kill enough, quite cool. There are a bunch of wacky things 
 in the mall, like if you go to the Movie Land over there, there will be wacky posters and ridiculous 
 items. The only graphical part that disturbed me was... **SPOILERS, read backwards if you choose 
 to spoil it** ehT yttaf rehctub eud ot sih ssam nam sboob.
  
  Sound - The sound is spectactular. Every weapon has it's own unique sound. Just got a great feel 
 when you use a weapon. The music is also really nice. Zombies moaning everywhere. The voice acting 
 is pretty darn good. One thing I really don't like hearing is Otis the Janitor. Otis will frequently 
 call you, via walkie-talkie, and tell you where you are, what to do, who to save, why your here, 
 why you are rude, and so on. But it's not my problem anymore, so readers beware of the mighty Otis. 
 He's killed me before.. right in the middle of a boss fight, *ring ring* WHAT!!!!!!!!!!!! *BOOM! 
 dead*
  
  Value - Eh.. There's very few replay value.. it's just mostly after you beat the game you would 
 only continue to play just to get the achievements which are time consuming. You'd pretty much 
 have to do everything you did your first run but much faster and efficient while finding time to 
 do side stuff to get achievements.
  
  Overall - Pretty fun zombie killing game none the less. Rent it first... I kind of got sad because 
 I bought it.. oh wells that ends well. Have fun killing those zombies.. by the way, there are about 
 6 different endings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeak117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is what all zombie games should be. The game is basically all about survival, which 
 is usually the case in a zombie infested situation.
  
  Survival - The act or fact of surviving, esp. under adverse or unusual circumstances. Towards this 
 definition, Dead Rising only makes too much sense. A way to survive is to use all of the equipment 
 that is given to you. That is the choice that Dead Rising gives. Everywhere you go, there will 
 be something around to hit zombies with. These weapons range from huge machine-guns to hunks of 
 zombie meat.
  
  The graphics are, as in most Xbox 360 games, quite astounding. The game just has the capacity to 
 make you either cringe or laugh at the way people get torn apart by ravenous zombies. The blood 
 seems over exaggerated, but who really cares? It's all there for the fun of it. Sometimes you'll 
 see a zombie ripping out the intestines of a person you failed to escort, and it all looks so gruesome 
 and fun. That's all there really is to say about graphics though, because graphics aren't the reason 
 why the game is so good. The game could have 4-bit colour, and it would still be great fun. Graphics 
 are just a way to enhance the game.
  
  Speaking of enhancing the game, the crunchy feel of it would barely be there if it weren't for 
 the sound effects. I don't think it could sound any more satisfying when I squash a zombies head 
 to bits with a sledgehammer, or run a zombie down with a lawnmower. Dead Rising is just one of 
 those games where the sound just works with the gameplay. The sound of chainsaws moving through 
 dead flesh, the sound of the crazy clown that laughs at you while blowing balloons, it's all a 
 part of the game.
  The dialogue in the game is also very well put together. It may seem cheesy for the most part, 
 which it most definitely is, but it just ads to the humour of the game. I must admit that I don't 
 think the main character's voice fits with his build, but that's just something we have to put 
 up with.
  
  Speaking of characters, they're great! Only a select few are extremely important, but they're the 
 un-interesting ones. The interesting characters are the psychopaths, such as Adam the clown, and 
 the shopkeeper with the extreme trolley. With some characters, you can tell how they went insane, 
 while with others, you can't. And there are some that you just know were already insane to start 
 with. Whenever I see a psychopath, I laugh at them for some reason. I don't know what it is. I 
 think they were put in the game to add to the humour, because they're plenty hilarious.
  As for the main character, I guess he's okay. You don't really get to connect with him as much 
 as in more story-driven games, but I guess that's why this game isn't too story-driven. In Dead 
 Rising, you are a journalist, looking for a good story. No better way to get a good story than 
 being in a mall killing a bunch of zombies eh? I think that him being a journalist makes the game 
 a bit annoying at parts, and what I said about not being able to connect with him... well, I want 
 to. I want to connect my foot with his arse for being so annoying.
  
  The other characters, however, are much easier to connect with. They're very secretive, and make 
 you want to get into the storyline of the game moreso. The storyline itself, even though you don't 
 have to go along with it, is quite interesting. Work your way through psychopaths and runaways 
 to find the truth behind all of this madness.
  
  Another factor of the game is choice. You can choose to not go along with the storyline. You can 
 choose what weapon you wish to use. Unfortunately, you can't choose to have two saves at once. 
 That is my one wish for this game. It's not possible to have one game for the storyline, and one 
 game for killing zombies over and over. It's just one of those things that, annoyingly, doesn't 
 happen. Sometimes I just wanted to skip on finding out the truth (which I so desperately wanted 
 to do) and start killing zombies forever. This and the save points are the negative parts of Dead 
 Rising. The save points are only in bathrooms and the security room. This may seem more realistic, 
 but that fact just diverges from the un-realistic feel of the game anyway.
  
  All of these things said, the best part of the game is the gameplay. It's just, through lack of 
 a better word, fun! Having the ability to pick up anything and hit zombies with it. Some of the 
 weapons are so bizarre you wouldn't believe it. You can even grab bowling balls and bowl them through 
 zombies. You can crab a parasol and knock those pesty zombies out of your way. And if you don't 
 have weapons, you can just hit them. As you gain levels in the game, you get more moves. Examples 
 are the tackle, the jump kick and the zombie walk, all of them just adding more and more fun to 
 the game. And with all of these things to do, the replay value is great! The achievements make 
 you just want to play it all the more also.
  
  Dead Rising has a great range of weapons, characters and sounds that all add to the gameplay, as 
 well as an astounding show of graphics and gore to keep you going through with hilarity.
  Although if you don't have much time to play it, it wouldn't be a game I would recommend. It's 
 one of those games that you just get addicted to, and this is not a good thing if you have a job 
 to attend to. Trust me on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: up_your_attic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Lets talk serious. This game brings out some of the most Intense play in any 360 game i have seen 
 yet. It brings classic style that freshens up the outline of post-zombie play where it seems as 
 if this game is more of a overall power combination more than trying to make a basic h0rr0r/adventure 
 game play simulator. Basically the graphics add The style in which this really stands out. The presentation 
 of the backgrounds and the exposure of all the zombies in one r00m is quite amazing and gives you 
 the extra punch. Great detail on every single zombie so you dont feel Zombies look the same. Also 
 Great detail on Weapons and having the sound fit gruesomely perfect to the way you attack the enemy. 
 The story line is quite suprising after knowing that most zombie leveld games start out with basically 
 the same sided pl0t that seriously pisses you off. Its got a story line basically unfolding as such. You 
 are Frank West and you have 72 hours to overcome a mall full of zombies and bring out the truth 
 beyond the betrayal and empty mind you have when you first enter. and you strive to get all the 
 information you can before your time expires and your helicopter comes to pick you up. One huge 
 problem. The save system. WTF IS THAT! LMFAO. All of us probally understand and had momments where 
 you find yourself repeating over the same mission over and over and breifing over the same levels 
 over and over. Get past that and the freeroam and choice of weapons is quite the King. Much enjoyable 
 for playing with your freinds and finding new things in ever n00k and cranny. Cause i garentte you. This 
 game will not run out of fun. If you dont let the style and choice of Captivation run out of you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audyboi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't think Capcom can get any better at zombie games. This one is definitely one to get (if 
 you haven't already) . There are so many aspects of this game to enjoy. As a matter of fact, I thought 
 of 10 great reasons to play this game.
  
  10. George A. Romero
  Though they tell you this game has nothing to do with George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead, the 
 game is so like it. There's zombies everywhere! They're stupid and slow and you have the occasional 
 zombie running at you. Pretty much like the movie...
  
  9. Unlockables
  The game has great gameplay and a storyline, but the unlockables make it even better. Probably 
 the most memorable would be the Real Mega Buster. There's a Fake one in the game that shoots little 
 styrofoam balls, but that's nothing special. If you kill 53, 594 zombies, you unlock the Real Mega 
 Buster, and that's not all you can unlock. There are two extra gameplay modes, clothes to unlock, 
 and a lot more weapons.
  
  8. The Camera
  Dead Rising adds a cool feature to the game where you can take pictures for PP (Prestige Points) . 
 The better (or rarer) the picture, the more points. Let's say you take a picture of a dying psychopath 
 (the bosses) you'll get a whole lot more points than, say, some zombies coming after you. 7. Cutscenes
 
  Another very enjoyable part of the game is the cutscenes. They're very comical and there's a lot 
 of them. They're just a nice little break from all the zombie/psychopath killing.
  
  6. Comical Value
  This game is just a hilarious game. The number of zombies, the weapons, the 
 clothes, and especially, the psychopaths (there's a killer clown for cryin' out loud!) . The fact 
 this game so funny is probably why so many gamers get into Dead Rising.
  
  5. The Mall
  The entire game takes place in a mall. A HUGE mall. There are so many parts of the mall, it takes 
 a while to get all of them. And they are all so different. With so many stores, you get so many 
 different items. Just imagine what you'll find in a hardware store, or a gym!
  
  4. Graphics
  The graphics in this game are simply amazing. I'll break it into two parts. Firstly, 
 there's how in depth the detail is. Every weapon, outfit, setting, and even every zombie, is very 
 detailed. Secondly, there's how the game manages to put hundreds of zombies on-screen at once. 
 It's what allows Dead Rising to be so original.
  
  3. Zombies
  We all know this game is great because of the number of zombies, but you can't really know until 
 you actually buy the game. Dead Rising pits you against numerous zombies at once, and you have 
 to use whatever you can find to kill them all.
  
  2. Capcom
  Since it's Capcom, you know it's going to be a great zombie game. And even though this a whole 
 new formula for them, they still pull it off.
  
  And the #1 reason to buy Dead Rising is...
  
  1. Weapons
  Weapons are, of course, the most 
 interesting aspect of this game. The weapons range from brutal weapons (chainsaws, lawn mowers) , 
 comical weapons (a light saber, squirt gun) and many more.
  
  Now, if this list of ten great things about Dead Rising hasn't convinced you, all I can say is 
 try it. At least rent it, because this is one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  man i was waiting for this one for a real long time and ive put off writing a review for a good 
 while just to give a proffessional review.
  albiet with bad grammar.
  you play frank west in a mall full of zombies a great story for the papers, and luckily he's a 
 reporter.
  basically the game is sandbox style playing in a mall, dawn of the dead style, with you being radioed 
 different quests or scoops to do, some are obligatory if you want to do the story and get the true 
 ending and extra modes, or you can just fight psychos and save as many people as you want it sounds 
 dumb that you dont get the full experience becuase of the time limits but you can restart with 
 your character at the same level as the last time you saved, which makes the zombies easier to 
 beat and as such you can get more done in the time allowed.
  now i should mention the time span, the gmae is set in 72 hours but a minute is around 5 seconds 
 long in game so thats (reaches for calculator) 1 hour in game is 5 minutes in real life which means 
 this game only has 12 in game hours per real hour which is 6 hours game play.
  
  so technically if you sit down on average to play a 2 hour stint you only gonna sit down to play 
 3 times so its nothing epic time wise, and since replaying only gets easier as your character levels 
 doesnt it just make it less challenging and more boring?
  
  sort of. but killing zombies is damn fun.
  
  basically its simple melee combat b to pick stuff 
 up, x to use it, be it health items or weapons ,even to drive and r to stop and aim a gun, which 
 is very poorely done, but overall its still a lot of fun but the only major gripe is when you lvl 
 you learn moves you cant disable so when you turn you may ,without warning, bakcflip into danger 
 with no health and its really annoying.
  
  graphics wise the zombies and characters are very good, in the same way as silent hill 2 i think, 
 but youd have to have played that to get what i mean, the locations in the mall are beautiful some 
 look damn near real life and it really adds to the fun of the experience.
  
  now this is the worst part the sound is aweful, theres either this tinny grain of music in the 
 mall parts or in the boss fights you normally have some lame thrash metal, which is usually the 
 sign of a bad horror movie, but i let it slide since A: you didnt get thsi for the music and B: 
 with the magic of the 360 silver button you can play your own music along to the game, such as 
 the dawn of the dead soundtrack and this is much more enjoyable than the games music itself.
  
  my final gripe is i have excellent vision and even for me the subtitles were incredibly small 
 and hard to read, so if you have poor vision you will have no idea what the quests are since you 
 get told them text only not with speech.
  
  value wise this game has lots of replayability and should last till you get board, but how long 
 that may be depends on the gamer.
  
  now i am a BIG fan of zombie films/games and comic books and this was right up my alley but if 
 you dont dig the zombie sub genre of horror you may just think its a boring slash fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising (X360)
  
  Dead Rising is one of the funnest games on the Xbox 360. Part Resident Evil part GTA this game 
 has it all. But is it good enough?
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  + You vs. hundreds of zombies
  + Use almost anything as a weapon... ANYTHING
  + Dosen't try to be scary, just pure fun
  + 
 hundreds of zombies on screen
  + Lots of side-type missions
  - Gameplay is fun, but it gets repetetive quick
  - While there are many different weapons, most 
 are used the same
  - The zombies don't do much, just walk around and try to attack you.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  + Great enviormental graphics
  + Great character design graphics
  + Nice 
 effects
  - Many zombies look exactly the same
  
  SOUNDS:
  
  * the sounds of the game are average. Nothing really stands out and is worth mentioning for the 
 sounds of the game. Overall Average.
  
  VALUE:
  
  + Fun gameplay
  - No Online
  - Gets Repetetive quickly
  - Quite short
  * Overall the game is worth a rental, or cheap purchase, 
 definatley not worth full price.
  
  CLOSING:
  
  This is a fun game. Very nice graphics, and awesome fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vminsel
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Its a pretty good game to a certain point. There is alot of game here, but it just did not live 
 up to my expectations. The graphics are great, but the gameplay is just not as good as i would 
 have liked. So many people told me how great it is, and unfortunately it was my first 360 game 
 purchase. I dont know, maybe im just being picky, but i did not enjoy playing this game. One main 
 problem that i had which I am sure everyone knows, is the fact that there are so little save points, 
 and that if you die you are forced to start over the whole game. The whole real time thing tried 
 to make it innovative, but i guess i just found it to be annoying. I dont know if i am the only 
 one, but i did not enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I love this game, and you will too. Like everything these days there are flaws (is life-undead 
 or otherwise ever perfect?) , but they are forgiveable and you will want to revisit this gameworld 
 again and again to unlock and see it all. The plot is essentially that you are a photo-journalist 
 and you have 3 days to unravel just why a towns population has (largely) been transfomed into a 
 slobbering, slathering stumbling mass of flesh eating Zombies. This takes place in the town's mega-mall 
 and involves (obviously!) several twists and turns along the way. There are lots of different endings 
 depending on how you perform and there are also lots of side missions to accomplish, mainly involving 
 rescuing folk and taking them to safety. The zombies you encounter (and boy are there a lot) act 
 as more of a way to stop you completing your various tasks than as a task in themselves. There 
 is no death quota to fulfil and you can try and ignore them and evade them if you want (you won't..) 
 There are so many ways of dispatching these poor unfortunates that you will be playing for many 
 hours before you discover them all. You can even play with them and mess about with them in non-lethal 
 ways! This asks all sorts of moral questions of if its right to worry zombies in this manner and 
 maybe take pictures of the results! Oh yes!, an interesting part of gameplay is that you can take 
 pictures at any time of anything, thus gaining points to upgrade your stats with and unlock new 
 moves! You can view your images and get rated for things such as horror content and drama , and 
 one or two rather dubious other categories.. The main characters are well drawn and highly detailed, 
 but the zombies (whilst still looking good) are not nearly as good (!?) looking. This is perhaps 
 understandable when you see just how many have been crammed onto the screen at any one time. I 
 was quite worried when I became trapped in an underground car-park COMPLETELY surrounded by these 
 blighters, there must have been 6 to 700 of them all of whom were clammering for my flesh. There 
 are a limited amount of Zomb' models but they all act accordingly and shamble about the place groaning 
 (as you'd expect) quite brilliantly. Ever been to Bluewater? There are a handful of vehicles to 
 use and powerful weapons are not availiable in any number until near the end of the game. You will 
 be mainly using melee weapons and less obvious tools, such as paint pots and lawn mowers (joy!) 
 You can always use your fists if you have to, and the combat is well handled. You will rack up 
 thousands of kills in your efforts to reach the games many checkpoints which brings me to my one 
 (slight) criticism of the game setup. There is only savepoint that is overwritten constantly when 
 you save your progress, if you fail to reach your next objective the game ends, and if you've saved 
 yourself into a corner where you cannot ever reach the next objective you have to start again-but 
 you do get to keep your latest stats and new moves/abilities. I would ultimately say though (having 
 played this baby to death-or undeath!) that this system instills in the player a sense of urgency 
 and panic (as your watch ticks away) and as you weigh up the choices laid before you- do you rescue 
 the old guy, take out the survivalist psycho or rush to the next (main plot) checkpoint. The 1st 
 and likely best 360 zombie fest - until res 5?. Just Buy it people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  But the replay was impressive, the story captivating, the characters were believable with great 
 voice acting. To start out I played the demo which does not give this game justice at all. Dont 
 judge the game by it, dont even think about it. The game has a nice mix of achievements and actual 
 story progression requirements. You can play the game over, hit different side quests and have 
 little overlying content to reach the end game (in which there is several different endings as 
 well) . I was impressed by this game quite a bit, I had to hook my Xbox up to my computer monitor 
 because my wife got sick of me using up the TV every spare minute I had.
  
  This is a definite get, for any action/role playing fan with a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShibbieZ
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  When i had first heard about this game, i wasn't exactly taken with the premise of a game where 
 all you do is kill zombies brainlessly. That though soon changed when i picked it up the day it 
 was released. First of all, the graphics are absolutely stunning, possibly the best of all the 
 currently released Xbox 360 games. I found it to have some of the most amazing game play ever, 
 in that almost everything that you find can be used as a weapon. The controls were tight, and responsive, 
 and the leveling system was very good. The story kept me coming back for more, and the writing 
 and voice acting was superb. I found the difficulty to be just right, in that you could finish 
 the story in a few hours if you really tried. My only problem with Dead Rising is the save system, 
 its awful. However, the rest of the games qualities make up for that. I give Dead Rising a 9.0 
 out of 10.
  
  
  -ShibbieZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best zombie games u can get, you will kill 1000's of zombies in a mall. The 
 graphis are great in this game, but u will find the game lacks in the longness department but it 
 does offer some replay value, Killing 1000's of zombies if fun but it gets old fast. The story 
 line is this game is realy bad and makes hadly any sence at all. But if ur a fan of hacking and 
 salishing though millions of zombies than this game is for you, This game offers no mutiplayer 
 what so ever, which it hsould have. in the end this game is a must rent, but i dont think it is 
 a must buy unless u realy love it. In the end this game is just plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  yo mad dogs, im here to talk about dead rising. it's pretty fun.
  i need more words until i can finish my review, so i thought id give you something more interesting 
 to read about from wikipedia. enjoy:
  
  Ren&eacute; Descartes (March 31, 1596  February 11, 1650) , also known as Cartesius, was a noted 
 French philosopher, mathematician, and scientist. Dubbed the Founder of Modern Philosophy and the 
 Father of Modern Mathematics, he ranks as one of the most important and influential thinkers of 
 modern times [citation needed] . For good or bad, much of subsequent western philosophy is a reaction 
 to his writings, which have been closely studied from his time down to the present day. Descartes 
 was one of the key thinkers of the Scientific Revolution in the Western World. He is also honoured 
 by having the Cartesian coordinate system used in plane geometry and algebra named after him.
 
  
  goodbye. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  A little slow for my liking. Now don't get me wrong this game is a good one and worth buying when 
 it comes down to it but the area you have to cover is so big and your guy can't run that fast do 
 get around the map. I don't know if this is becuase the real time aspect of it so it makes it slower, 
 or what it is. You start off as a journalist and remain so the rest of the game, one main purpose 
 of this is to take pictures and score points by doing so. When you get into the mix of the game 
 the pictures are the last thing on your mind. Throughout the game you have different case studies 
 you can solve which add to your score at the end of the game, remember you only have 72 hours to 
 do what you have to do before you must be at the helicopter pad. These case studies are pretty 
 fun when it comes down to it and pretty well directed on what you have to do in order to complete 
 them. The zombies in the game are all over the place and if you like to simply beat zombies there 
 is no shortage in this game. I thought this game would be more about that but I found myself at 
 times working my way around the zombies in order to complete missions. Weapons go from anything 
 to plates found in the kitchen, to chairs, plants, and guns. Now the gun is probably the most useless 
 of these weapons believe it or not, which in my eyes is a good thing it doesn't make killing the 
 zombies easy when you have a gun in your hands. You also have the ability to transport survivors 
 to a safe house or security room where you receive bonus points for doing so. You have a list of 
 all the survivors and just try to save ever one I dare ya. Overall this game was good to me but 
 not one of the best. Revolutionary... I would not go that far either but a ver solid, good, fun, 
 greusom game. What more could you ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jshaw71
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about the idea of a game where you be stuck in a mall with zombies with 72 hours, 
 my mind quickly went to wondering how many zombie movies i would/could reinact with that idea alone 
 i began following dead rising with a vengence, after all the changes, and almost 4 years later 
 we get dead rising a fun action game with a messed up save system ( we all heard that before) capcom, 
 in their effort to force us to do something productive in a mall (who wants to do that) has twited 
 the game from a free form action game, into a race to the next mission before the timer expires, 
 which takes away from a lot of the fun that could be had in dead rising, but that's not to say 
 you won; t have a good time running from one mission to the next, it's just that the fun is greatly 
 lessened by the save system, and scrutured real time events and missions (in which a minute passes 
 in 7 seconds or so) the food crafting system was interesting, all in all, if you like action games, 
 zombie killing, and a challenge, you should pick up dead rising for the 360 it's a fun game you 
 can kill some zombies, errr... time with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorge_master
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  OK!!!.... this category of game its new experience for the people!!! 'o'... and this can be the 
 best adventure game of all the times!!!!... well... comparing this game with RE series..... maybe 
 dead rising is the best... well maybe not... xD..... considering im fan of RE series!!! :P.... another 
 thing.... you can kill zombies how you want!!!.... if you want a lot of blood!!!.... you can get 
 a chainsaw and cut his head!!!.... and the bad!!!... hours of hours of game!!!!.... XD..... in my 
 opinion this game can be the best game of  of the  
 bad thing is the guy you are in the game is a JOURNALIST!!!!!.... maybe the guy was a secret agent 
 or a RPD guy.... but no!!... he has to be a paparazzy!!!.... but its ok!!!... you can take a photos 
 with blood or something like that!!!!.... I recommend this game 100%....!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  if you love fun video games and stuff that has really no point then get this game because you can 
 kell psychopaths smash zombies faces in im tellin you the best game on xbox 360 so far no matter 
 what gamespot says this game is a 10 nothin wrong with it yes it gets hard sometimes but it all 
 pays off when your bashing zombies or weird people with any weapon you choose and i mean any weapon 
 you can even you a hanger or a frying pan and of course there are knives and guns but their harder 
 to get you can even get a bike or car or skateboard and run zombies over this game is awesome you 
 can save survivors or you can even read books cook and other stuff to give you certain effects 
 or advantages if you like video games this is a must for your collection the price is steep but 
 buy it you will love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btorture
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Brought to you by Capcom, the same company that made 4/5 Resident Evil games so joyless and dutiful 
 to play, Dead Rising could have been great sans the timed structure and awkward save system. I'm 
 sure it was sitting there, a little more open-ended, lacking a few silly cutscenes, maybe even 
 featuring a save-anywhere feature, when some MIB-esque Japanese suits march in and order the game 
 to be made stranger, challenging for no reason, repetitive, and punishing in a very annoying way. 
 The zombie killing action is fun, but why do I have to use the 'X' button to shoot when the 360 
 control features 2 triggers? The graphics are spiffy enough, too. But what absolutely killed my 
 interest in this game is running around with a mission the whole time. Why am I figuring out a 
 way to beat some human who's shooting me up? Let's fight a wave of zombies, heh? This game is the 
 most frustrating type -- the one that could've been something worth keeping. I'm here, in your target 
 demographic, ready for something over-the-top in gore and zombie terror... and you make the game 
 feel like a PS1 game with a bunch of photos to collect and a bunch of lame running around to do. 
 I'm done with this game; maybe done with Capcom and their arcade-fixated suits. Rent this at best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight, Dead Rising is probably more deserving of the Just Plain Fun label 
 then any other game before it. You'll laugh with an evil glee every time you find new ways to kill 
 the unlimited amount of undead this game supplies. The game play is great because every new weapon 
 you find in the game acts completely different from the last one and all are extremely fun. The 
 graphics for a somewhat open world game are extremely good considering the amount of zombies on 
 screen at a time. You would go crazy trying to count them all. Every weapon has its own unique 
 sound and no sound is recycled as far as I can tell but the music during boss battles can get very 
 annoying after a while. Speaking of boss battle this game has some of the crappiest boss battles 
 your likely to find in any game. Even the calmest of gamers will find themselves screaming at their 
 TV. The save system does not help the situation either because you can only save in the control 
 room or the bathrooms spread out around the mall area. Surprisingly the game actually has a pretty 
 good story that will keep you interested from beginning to end and with multiple pathways you'll 
 find yourself popping this one in for months to come. If you love anything to do with zombies or 
 creative killing of the undead and you have a lot of patience this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feildmouse
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This a fun and easy to pick up and play game. If your ever looking to just do horrible things to 
 zombies and you have an xbox 360 this is the game for you! This is a great game to play if you've 
 just goten home from a long day at school or work and you just want to blow off some steam this 
 is the game to play. Despite it's entertainment value it does have some short comings. First off 
 it is a really short game. Despite it's atempts to be open endded but since it foces you to be 
 at a specific place at certine time it can sometimes be hard to progress the story. The save system 
 is also by far the worst I've ever seen. You only get one save slot so if you save in a tight spot 
 and can't progress the story that's it you have to start over. fortunitly you can restart the game 
 with all your last game level so the game will be little bit easier. depite it's short comings 
 it is a pretty good game. If you don't like the story you can just fail a story mission and be 
 on your marry way. all most every thing is a weapon so you don't have to worry about being to far 
 from a weapon. this is an awsome game but don't try to force it all on you're self at once this 
 is a game best played in chunks.
  
  please excuse any miss spellings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  This isn't the best looking game out there, but it is just so much fun. There are a ton of different 
 ways to kill zombies, and you will want to try them all. The weapons include teady bears, cars, 
 guns, CDs, power tools, swords, axes, baseball bats, golf clubs and balls, and many many more. 
 Once you beat them game there are more modes to play and unlock and the achievements provide some 
 extra fun (one achievement has you kill 53,594 zombies in one playthrough) . The game can get a 
 little stale after a while, but if you set it down and come back to it later it will be just as 
 much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pel-Nel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I own the game and i have played it quite a bit.... its just a fun game. the cutscenes are full 
 of demented humor. everything in the mall is accessible there are now invisible walls. It is somewhat 
 like a very well polished GTA. The bad: the saving system sucks, and it is a tough game while you 
 are a low level. The game difficulty really doesnt change as you level up so when you start off 
 as a slow frank with only 4 health bars you will end up doing alot of running and dieing. But after 
 you level up its a BLAST to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godnos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is a game i would recommened to others because of its stunning gameplay and graphics.
 
  the game is fun to play because all the shops are open to you, each with its own purpose to help 
 you survive in the mall.
  the simplest storyline ever 'go to mall, kill zombies and get out' not quite because of all the 
 annoying survivors (still human) and the three convicts in the jeep with the 30 cal machine gun, 
 the pshycopaths and the guy in the gunshop, because you can't kill any of them it makes the game 
 practically impossible. when i played it i got the ending number 5 because i didnt do anything 
 apart from kill zombies and then went to the heliport to get picked up. the problem is that i just 
 don't have enough time to do all the missions and rescue all the survivors but anyway the game 
 overall is great and it is really fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paperbagman04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  this is the first game that acctually does good at gory zombie killing. Its awsome! ..... The first 
 is that the game gives you many weapons everything in mall is bacically usable.... with tons of 
 gore.... tons of it..... Theres nothnig like taking a chainsaw to a zombies face. But theres also 
 a story to the game.... Wich isint having you kill zombies..... the story line is suprisingly good.... 
 and the graphics are top notch..... Theres things called physopaths ...... There normal people 
 but they basically try to kill you... there pretty much a boss.... Whoever wants a gory zombie 
 game this for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately going to spawn some amazing sequels and is definitly worth your $60, youll 
 be playing for ever!! I definitly loved this game and you can never stop playing, it just doesnt 
 get boring. There is always something new to do and things to accomplish and stuff to unlock. If 
 only this game had co-op in any way, shape, or form... slicing and dicing zombies with a buddy in 
 this Willamette Mall would make it 100X more enjoyable, which is a lot, considering that it is 
 already in my top 10 games list. People complain about the save system, but ive never made a mistake 
 with it although i can see where you could make a big booboo if you were to save with low health 
 in a difficult area. The gameplay is surprisingly good with a great lock on system that usually 
 hits the zombie you wanted to, but with so many it doesnt matter. The boss battles can also get 
 frustrating if you dont go into the fight with the right weapons. All in all, i love this game 
 for what it is and what it wants to be, it completes me!*
  
  *thats from Jerry Mcguire for all you r-tards that dont know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising review
  
  If you love games where you slash zombies, shoot zombies, crush zombies, blow up zombies, or anything 
 that's a fun way to kill things, then dead rising is definetly a game for you. As everyone knows, 
 dead rising was developed by Capcom, which also developed the famous series, Resident Evil, a great 
 horror game. But there is definetly a difference between dead rising, and resident evil. The main 
 difference is the setting. I have never played a resident evil game in a huge shopping mall. Another 
 big difference, is the atmosphere. Resident evil is an extremly suspensful game series. But for 
 dead rising, no suspense at all. That's not a bad thing, alot of people just love to kill things 
 without the atmosphere.
  
  Anyways, this story starts without Frank West and a Helicopter pilot, flying over to a small town 
 in a helicoptor. Frank has heard that something big is going on in the small little town, Frank 
 is a photo journalist, he has dome wars in different countries, disiasters, ETC. But Frank and 
 the pilot have no idea what's going on in the town, Frank just heard that something big is happening.
 
  
  Whne they reach the town, they notice that the military seem to have blocked the roads, so it's 
 a good thing they chose a helicopter. When they get into the town, they notice that there is complete 
 Anarchy in this town. Gas station are blowing up, people are committing suicide. They think it's 
 just a riot (Not a laughing riot, a riot, just in case you get the wrong idea..) , but it seems 
 that it is much more.
  
  Frank signals the pilot to land him on the mall helipad. When he gets into the mall, he finally 
 notices that this is not a riot. It turns out somehow the civilians (Most of them..) have been 
 turned into zombies, and the survivors have blocked all the entrances to the mall. But the zombies 
 soon get loose in the mall, and frank is one of the few survivors in the mall. He and the rest 
 survivors must live in the mall for three days, and wait for help to arrive!
  
  Anyways, enough of the Pros, let's get to th Cons.
  
  I am one to say, I don't dislike time 
 limit games, but some people do. For those who do, then rent this game first, just in case. You 
 are in a mall filled with zombies for three days. And with every game, there's a storyline. And 
 you must complete the storyline before 12:00 PM on the third day, because that is when the helicopter 
 comes back for you. You must be on the helipad on that time, because if you aren't you're trapped 
 in the mall with zombies, FOREVER! Or something like that..
  
  Well, my rating for this is 9.1 for Dead rising for X360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xidum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best of 2006, because u can do hours of gameplay of killing zombies and 
 phycopaths and cultist and getting all the achievments will be a bit of a struggle. the only thing 
 that has let me down in this game is some of the cases and boring... well mainly the waiting ones... i 
 normally have 1health bar left and no weapons or food... so i am not going out side to pass time... so 
 i am waiting in the security room for ages
  
  but other than that it is an awsome game and u can play for ever... literely, just dont get afraid 
 of the dark and carry around a baseball bat where ever you go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadCatPete
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Have you ever watched George A. Romero's 'Dawn of the Dead' (the remake) ? If this is the case I'm 
 guessing most have looked at that exact situation and thought 'that would make a great video game' 
 - and this is what we have.
  
  The game achieves in blending extreme and outright ridiculous gore with horror (if the prospect 
 of a shopping mall full of zombies isn't horror, what is?) and almost makes it seem as if the people 
 at Capcom went through exactly the same as poor old Frank has (our protagonist) .
  In terms of storyline and narrative, the game is pretty stylish, and all who have played this wonderful 
 little title have probably already noticed certain elements from other Capcom titles (zombies being 
 the obvious observation) . The character you play as, Frank, is a photo journalist on his latest 
 scoop for a story, but eventually - as if you didn't see it coming - he finds himself in a mall, 
 with not just surivivors, but also psychos (people gone mad from the zombie outbreak) .
  
  The main element of gameplay is Frank solving the mystery surrounding the whole incident, before 
 his 72 hours are up (you have 3 days to find out what's happened, that's 6 hours gameplay time) 
 therefore putting a timelimit on the player, although major story components are scripted at certain 
 points. This means, if a player decides that he/she wishes to save someone (who just so happens 
 to be located on the OTHER SIDE of the mall) and there's no time before the next case, you have 
 no choice but to abandon that venture - unless your quick and you've already solved the first few 
 cases, in which case it's down to player choice.
  
  Frank has a level up system (remember Pokemon?) which is overruled by PP points. Basically, if 
 the player defeats a psycho, saves a survivor or completes a certain task, he/she levels up. With 
 each level comes either an increases in LIFE, SPEED, STOCK (amount of inventory items the player 
 can carry) , and a new skill (like the 'Football Tackle') . This serves the game well, and when a 
 player saves and quits (from dying or failing a case) the stats are carried over making it easier 
 next time around.
  
  Survivors add the next element. Almost sub-plots, these people are those who escaped to the mall 
 for safety... little did they know about the psychos. This part of the game not only adds challenge, 
 but also helps players develop a large pulsating vein in the forehead area, because those who have 
 played this game will agree with me: survivors are DUMB. Yes, you can give them a weapon, but that 
 really doesn't help much, and there's too many zombies to get rid of when the next gen tech comes 
 into play (enabling the spawning of hundreds of zombies in a matter of minutes) . This would be 
 the only chunk of the game that I dislike - but then again, survivors aren't crucial to unlocking 
 the many different endings (another classic Capcom trademark) .
  
  Psychos are the other annoyance, but I put up with them more than the innocents. These people are 
 what provide the game with BOSSES, and there are quite a few of them, but most of them are OPTIONAL 
 allowing more choices within the game world. Generally it's wiser to just avoid psychos, but defeating 
 them sometimes unlocks some very helpful features and certainly allows safer passage through certain 
 areas (both for you and survivors) , and ultimately it's left up to the player to decide.
  
  And then of course, you add zombies and you have a great mixture (or do you?) Zombies are slow 
 and stupid says one of the scripted survivors. Yes, very true, but there are too many to count 
 and eventually, as you progress through the game they become stronger, faster and overall more 
 deadly and numerous, making for on-the-edge gameplay. Many times over it ranges from easy to hard 
 when dodging and avoiding zombies, but it's usually more handy to carry weapons: the main appeal 
 of this game.
  Almost every item in the gameworld (general stuff lying around) can be picked up and used by the 
 player, for 'certain' purposes. For example, picking up a chainsaw in one of the hardware stores 
 is usually a good choice.
  
  And then of course, that word eveyone loves to hear: SAVE! Before I bought this I had heard a lot 
 of stick about the save system for this game, and it revolved around, there is one savegame (implying 
 that you have to play the entire game with only one save) , which totally put me off (almost) . This 
 is simply not true. At any point during the game, if a player can get to the Security Room (if 
 this was Resident Evil, it would be a typewriter room) or to any set of cubicle toilets within 
 the game, he/she can save, no hassle. If you die, or fail a major case (which aids in the completion 
 of the main plot) its gameover, and you can either load game and go on from the latest bog, or 
 SAVE AND QUIT, and this is where I think some people got confused. You can only have one in progress 
 mission on each profile, meaning no multiple or duplicate saves on the same profile. If you wanted 
 to start from scratch or if you wanted more than one in-progress mission it would involve creation 
 of a new one - this I do not mind, as I am not really planning to delete my profile or create a 
 new one.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is an amazing game, that provides challenge, tension, mystery, lots of fun 
 and lots of gore. Any zombie nut is going to love this game - I did - but if you're unsure then 
 of course perhaps renting it first is a good idea (like you would with any other game if you were 
 skeptical about it) . I just went out and bought it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecross_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is great experience. You're in a mall and can't get out for three
  days with a huge amount of zombies. You can use almost everything in the mall to kill zombies including 
 great weapons like Katana and it's the best weapon you'll find .You can also take survivors back 
 to the security room where your hideout is .There is more then one ending depends on the cases 
 you do in the game but you have to be very careful to do the case in the time ,so it's a very good 
 idea not to save in the middle of the case.
  The story is great ,sometimes you fell like you're watching a movie.
  The graphics are good but 
 a little stupid sometimes.
  All in all the game is great and absolutely worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCRubS77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  As I browse the other player reviews I find scores ranging from say, 2.9 to 10. In the words of 
 Francesca Reyes, of Official Xbox Magazine, (Am I violating any copyright stuff here?) Dead Rising 
 is a love it or hate it game. I totally agree. I've invited friends over to play it and some of 
 them look at me in disgust and others won't hand over the controller. People also like different 
 aspects of the game. Some people just like hacking and slashing while other people like saving 
 surviviors and finding out the story (which is awesome) . The save system, no matter what people 
 say, really sucks. But who notices this when you're slicing zombies with a battle ax? You do notice 
 when a psycho clown hacks you with his chainsaws and you load your one and only save only to find 
 that you saved near the beginning of the game!! At this point you can start way back there or save 
 your status and quit. This lets you start the game over with all your moves, upgrades and Frank's 
 current level. This is an okay idea I guess. I got pretty far in the game and was at level 30 (There 
 are 50 levels.) I figured if i save my status I should be able to make it to level 50 by the end 
 of the game. So you might love or hate this part too. All in all, as I've mentioned several times, 
 the fact of whether or not you like this game is ultimately affected by what type of gamer you 
 are. If running back and forth, saving survivors and such, while fighting psychopaths (literately) , 
 and just doing horrible things to zombies is your idea of a fun game, then Dead Rising is DEFINITELY 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theSickness550
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Capcom has created a joy of a game. When first seeing this game, I believed 
 it to be just like State of Emergency except with zombies. Fortunatly, I was wrong. This is by 
 far one of the best games to come out in recent years. The amount of thigs to do and ways to to 
 them is amazing, if not somewhat overwelming at first. Be warned, this is not an easy game at first. 
 It takes time and a little effort to truely begin to apprecialte the game. The only fault I have 
 with the game is the horrible survivor A. I. This is by far the dumbest thing ever put into a game. 
 They dont respond to you, they dont listen to you, they dont go where you tell them to. It is entierly 
 frustrating. Thankfully, the game doesn't require that you save anyone, but it is the best way 
 to gain experience. So it ends up being a double edged sword. Overall though it is a wonderful 
 game. If you can get past its faults you will have a grand time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk213
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I love zombies, who doesn't. Walking dead, maybe missing an arm or a head. In this hack-a-riffic 
 game you play as Frank West, the hard edged freelance photo jounalist who just got a scoop that 
 something big is gong down at a small town in the miidle of Nowhere, Colorado (the towns real name 
 is Willamette) . So Frank hires a helicopter pilot to take hom to this town. But when he reachs 
 the town, looking through the zoom in function on your camera you notice that national guard troops 
 have blocked off anyone trying to get in or out. So you take some pictures then tell the pilot 
 to drop you off at the center of town, which is the Willamette mall. Tis a monster of a mall, it 
 even has its own park! After being dropped of at the mall you go to the entrance and see a large 
 group of people gather together. Then some old lady lets the zombies in to try and get her poodle. 
 This games sense of humor and gore is awesome. With a crazy story and crazy boss character pychos ( 
 including a clown with duel chainsaws, a guy who still thinks hes in the army, a fat butcher, the 
 world's fatest cop, and the list goes on) After a ways throught the games story line even cults, 
 and spec ops (they really piss me off!) The bad thing about this game is that you can only save 
 in cerain areas and after the first act in the case. But by the end of the day, I loved this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealth_Cat
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect in every way. The storyline is very good and the replay value is through the 
 roof. It is easy to learn and not to hard to play. The only thing that is not perfect is the save 
 system but it is easy to learn and like. There are lots of games that have a good score but this 
 game is perfect. This is a must buy game because it never gets boring. The achievements are tough 
 to get but thats what makes it fun to try and get them. Some people might think that being trapped 
 in a mall with only zombies to kill might be boring and repetitive but there are other things to 
 do as well. Some things are getting achievements, killing psychopaths, and helping survivors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martini78
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  At first glance and with no research, Dead Rising looked like Capcom's Resident Evil for XBox 360... 
 which in itself sounds decent enough. My assumption was far from reality.
  
  Dead Rising is a really unique and fun game to play. It takes the survival horror genre and blends 
 in an interactive environment, a lively imagination, and all the HI DEF graphics your 1080i TV 
 will handle (man do the babes look lifelike) . Game play remains interesting throughout the game. 
 The simulated real-time story line remains interesting as well. There is a vast array of settings 
 and non-player characters that all contribute to the mood of the game. First and foremost, anything 
 and everything can be used as a weapon. I hate to give any cool surprises away, so I'll just say 
 that you can do things to zombies that no one's ever done before (not even in the movies) . The 
 game controls are fairly user friendly as are the menus.
  
  Dead Rising differs from Resident Evil chapters as it lacks linearity. The entire enviroment is 
 free for the player to explore at almost any time. This leads to exploration and discovery, rather 
 than being stuck in a hallway with only one way to go. There are side quests and mission essential 
 quests, similar to Fable. Plus, mulitple endings enhance re-play value.
  
  If I had to pick a fault, it's kind of short. I work 50 to 60 hours per week and still beat the 
 game in 9 days. So far I have got 2 out of 5 or 6 endings, so I'll keep plugging away.
  
  Anyway, to sum things up... graphics are great, gameplay is great, effects and story line are great. 
 If you want to save babes and slash zombies in HI DEF, snatch this up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainmachine44
Rating: 2.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  i was so looking forward to this game and i expected great things but after playing for a few hours 
 i got very fustrated with the save system ,i dont get loads of time to game so i need a system 
 which allows me to save at any time , what i got was a flash back to old games where u just die 
 and have to start again I HATED those games i never could complete them as i would not have the 
 time or the effort.
  its such a shame as this could have been great when i compared this to saints row it was slow (i 
 mean how fast would YOU run if zombies were after you?) the shooting system was awful standing 
 still when shooting (WHY?) and i really didnt care for the character as if i saw people rioting 
 i sure as hell would get on a hellicopter and jump down there amongst them in fact iwas pleased 
 when he did die sweet release.
  also why no speach ? its a xbox 360 game not a ps2 game could they not be bothered?
  
  dont 
 buy unless you A) have no life b) LOVE resident evil ps2 games if they could make this game with 
 a saints row like engine it would be awsome big letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the most funny and violent game you could ever play. If your looking for a scary 
 game full of zombies, then dont buy this, because it does not try to be scary.
  
  In Dead Rising you are in a mall for 72 hours, trying to uncover the truth behind the zombie outbreak. 
 The rest, is up to you! You can kill thousands of zombies, rescue survivors, kill survivors, or 
 just explore the zombie infested mall.
  
  The graphics are very impressive, and some of the best i have seen so far on the xbox 360. The 
 amount of zombies on screen and once is unbelieveble. Literally hundreds on screen at once. There 
 are loads of weapons to use, some of them do serious damage, like a chainsaw, and others are just 
 silly... like a teddy bear.
  The mall is huge and it will take you a while to explore all the stores. The storyline is surprisingly 
 good and you will end up wanting to discover more about the zombies and where they came from.
 
  
  The sound in this game is probably the best sound i have heard in any video game. The sound you 
 hear when you slam a zombie with a sledgehammer sounds so realistic and gory. The voice acting 
 is great too, and the characters are believable.
  
  So, whats bad about this game. To be honest, not much. The save system is not as bad as i thought 
 it would be, and is not really a problem. I thought this game would get repetitive... the truth 
 is, it dosent. Killing zombies never gets old. No multiplayer is probably the only downside to 
 this game, other then that Dead Rising is a fun and violent game. If you like Dawn of the Dead, 
 you will especially like what this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbitor101
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The review of this game is written with mixed opinions. On one hand this game dares to travel a 
 few avenues which are seldom, if ever, traveled. This is met with a firm round of applause. However, 
 this game also receives a number of its woes from this as well.
  
  The good: The game focuses on a thoroughly violent (and ultimately satisfying) basis of existence. 
 Zombies can be seen stumbling around, or clumsily attempting to apprehend you in the hopes of tearing 
 the flesh from bone. The weaponry arsenal is also highly memorable as the zombies fall to pieces 
 (pun very much so intended) beneath your onslaught. The Buzz saw is my personal favourite weapon, 
 the results are highly worth the risks. The game play is somewhat repetitive, and the cell phone 
 is an item which the gamer may soon wish to crush underfoot to stop all those annoying calls which 
 ultimately seem to happen during the worst times. All in the all, the game play is pretty solid, 
 and the zombie mashing action has yet to get tired.
  
  The bad: The game's saving system is in direct contrast to any method of progression. It is out 
 of the way, and slightly irksome. Also, most missions are escort based One soon finds themselves 
 cursing time and time again as the hapless and dimwitted people you are escorting often charge 
 headlong into a swarm of zombies. There are infuriating moments as a player attempts to accomplish 
 objectives and is just overwhelmed by sheer numbers, and while trying to avoid the trying save 
 system now find themselves romping through the same trials before. Yet, with all that said, this 
 is still a decent game which does a lot more right then it did wrong. It is an excellent rental, 
 or stress relief game when a person just wants to let loose on some hapless zombies that are all 
 too willing to soak up all the punishment you could dish up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixtothe3rdpowa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off without much going on. Your in a helicopter, flying over some town, and strange 
 riots are happening. Could this be, ... ZOMBIES.... Well it is. You play as frank, a reporter who 
 is desperate for a story, and is willing to spend three days in a mall infested with zombies. So, 
 the story line isnt the best youve heard, but the game itself is superb. Its easy to figure out 
 how to play, the objectives are simple, and the mission is clear. KILL ZOMBIES. The use of any 
 weapon in a big mall makes the game worth playing, to find hundreds of visceral ways to kill hordes 
 of zombies, including hacking your way through a pack of zombies with a chainsaw, slicing them 
 with a katana, or throwing plates of soda cans at them. Unfortunately, every good game has a downside. 
 The saving system is terrible, and the way people talk looks nothing like an actual person. All 
 in all, deadrising is a great game, with an enourmous replay value, (you can pretty much do anything 
 you want in endless mode) . If you have an xbox 360, deadrising is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos-is-me
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I really, REALLY want to love this game. Almost everything about it is great. Gore, Thousands of 
 Zombies, Great weapons, Plenty of fun.. But why oh why must it have THE single worst save system 
 ever invented?!? First off the graphics are really stunning, textures are smooth and models look 
 nice but its really the sheer amount of on screen Zombies that makes eye balls pop out of skulls! 
 The animation is pretty good, although your character tends to look abit awkward alot of the time. 
 There is also a brilliant level up system that allows you to increase your skills and learn new 
 attacks. The action feels solid and is tons of fun.
  
  It's not all good however. This game most certainly has a terrible save system.
  
  It basically 
 works like this.. You run around and get really far into the game.. then die and go back to the 
 beginning. Great! You keep your levels, skills and costumes but there is only so many times you 
 can play the first section of the game over and over without it getting boring as hell. I cant 
 remember how many times I replayed the same bits over and over again getting to the end of this 
 game. You really have to weigh up the pro's and con's of this game. The gameplay itself is top 
 notch but the save system is so frustrating that it detracts from it hugely. Rent it first, see 
 if you can handle playing the same parts over and over again, that way it might be easier to swallow! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Finally a gaming company made a game where you can free roam and kill thousands of zombes! There 
 are so many weapons you can use and they all have different actions when you pound zombies faces 
 with them. There are over 50 survivors in the mall and it's pretty fun to rescue them but sometimes 
 they can be a pain because they can be fairly dumb a times. You can even dress up Frank in all 
 sorts of clothing and costumes, you can eat all kinds of foods to regain health. The story of the 
 game is that some how a small town got infested with zombies and you have three days till the helicopter 
 come to rescue you. During those days you have to defeat mest up weirdos (Phycopaths) , rescue survivors, 
 and the most important thing of all, receive the story behind this bizzar incedent. This is an 
 intresting game if you love hack n slash'em zombie games which there isn't many out there. Overall 
 I highly reccomend Dead Rising to every Xbox 360 owner and I hope my review intrested you to try 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leo924
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! It took me some time to get used to it but, when i did it was great. Well 
 getting the basics down was easy but the more advanced stuff was a little harder. The bosses are 
 challenging, and the zombies keep respawning, which is good. In the begining when there are hundreds 
 of zombies and you need to run to the stairs i was like NO WAY!! But then i just found a couple 
 of weapons and barely made it out (I did better later on) . So when i finally started doing missions (you 
 get side tracked by zombies) it was good. So if I were you I would buy this awesome game which 
 will probably not get boring. But Splitscreen multiplayer would be cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afroman269
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is an extremely fun game. You can always pull this game out whenever you want and enjoy. 
 You don't have to worry about it getting boring.
  The 2 problems I found with the game is the time limit for cases which can be very demanding. Also 
 the one only save system can be a drag. There can be spots where you may just have to restart over 
 because I did once but you can at least keep your level and skills. Mainly you would only restart 
 if you miss a case which can be highly likely. You shoudn't have to worry about restarting because 
 you will have an experiance with already and you will go through the game rather quickly. You will 
 never get bored of this game. It doesn't matter if you put it away for a while because it is garanteed 
 that you will be putting in this game to just have some fun. But overall this game is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikimonkey4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  These days a lot of video games take themselves a little TOO seriously, but then a game like Dead 
 Rising comes along which reminds us all of the simple joy of KILLING ZOMBIES -- THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS 
 OF ZOMBIES!!!!!
  
  The game's story begins with photojournalist, Frank West, entering a small town with a little touch 
 of zombie-itis to get the scoop on what's going on. Frankly, nobody but Frank really cares about 
 the scoop because it doesn't matter. What matters is KILLING ZOMBIES! The sheer joy in this game 
 lies in your ability to use anything and everything as a weapon against your undead friends. In 
 one mission there were dozens of zombies scratching at a door that I was trying to get through, 
 solution?... a cleverly placed lawn mower -- that's right I got to mow down zombies! However, although 
 zombie killing may be fun, the actual controls may be a little tricky to figure out for a less 
 experienced gamer (it took me a while to figure out how to aim the gun) , but it shouldn't take 
 more than a few minutes of game time to figure these mechanics out. The game is driven along by 
 various cases that can be triggered by different events, but don't worry there will still be plenty 
 of time in between for zombie slaughtering, and when you're bored of that (like you could be) the 
 game offers a multitude of scoop missions which usually involve the rescue and escort of some poor 
 survivor (s) .
  
  Throughout the game Frank will earn PP by completeing various scoop missions and taking photographs 
 of the bloodthirsty mallrats. By getting PP Frank can level up to gain new abilities and overall 
 stronger stats. (Some of these new abilities are just AWESOME... jumping and walking on top of 
 zombies is hilarious) .
  
  The main drawback is that your character only has 72 hours to finish the game and as a result the 
 success of most missions depends on your ability to reach them in time. Now, the game does make 
 up for this by allowing you to start a whole new game with all of your abilities in tact when you 
 mess up with the time, but replaying the same areas over and over again can get a little tedious. 
 I personally don't mind it that much because I get a stronger character and I can get through most 
 of the areas i've already done pretty quickly, leaving more time for scoop missions and zombie 
 killing. Also, the game only has one save file per memory unit, so this restart feature is a must-do, 
 because you are going to mess up at least once your first time through.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply gorgeous. They're the best I've seen on a 360 game so far 
 and I don't even have an HDTV. When I play this game I actually feel like I am in the next-gen 
 of gaming.
  
  The background music is pretty good at creating a believable atmosphere (or at least believable 
 for the game) , but the voice acting in this game is where the sound is really impressive, some 
 of the best i've seen this generation.
  
  Even after you finish the game there will still be plenty of side missions and the like to accomplish 
 in order to get the better ending, which warrants this game a good deal replay value. There is 
 also an online mode (don't ask me about it, I haven't tried it) , but you'll get a lot of satisfaction 
 just showing your friends the different zombie murdering techniques you've discovered.
  
  Overall, I think Dead Rising is one of the most enjoyable games available for the 360 right now. 
 But if you're looking for a strong, compelling story I'd suggest saving your money for FF12. For 
 the rest of you who just want to KILL SOME ZOMBIES it's definately worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball2494
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  But the fact that is the gamplay and sound is great! I mean the backround graphics are good the 
 stores look really realalistic. And the best part about is you could go in every store. 72 hours 
 of choping zombies and 72 hours of fun missions. If you think this game is like resident evil its 
 not its more like a comedy movie. But some of the cutscenes could be scary but the gameplay is 
 not. Another reason why its not like resdient evil is because you could barely use guns and its 
 just any object you see you could pick it up if you want like for instince a chair you could use 
 it! if you like gta (no sealing cars is in this game) then you will love it. Its like gta with 
 zombies. WARNING rent the game first to see how you like it and if you do pick it up but if you 
 dont then do not pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  When a new player starts Dead Rising, they'll probably notice a few things; one, that it isn't 
 your typical easy Resident Evil game, and two, that if they expect to get anywhere they are going 
 to have to level themselves up.
  
  Which is to say, that if you expect to beat (as I did, both 72 Hour Mode and Overtime Mode) the 
 game, you're probably going to find yourself restarting it over and over, after having spent time 
 levelling up your character.
  
  The most popular way to do this is to rescue the first two people, who are really more of a practice 
 excercise in introducting the player to the game, then after photographing their reunion and returning 
 them to the base allow yourself to be killed, and choose Save Status and Quit , then repeat as 
 needed.
  
  The game has two seperate quest elements; missions and scoops.
  
  Scoops are calls that come in on your cellphone, that detail a civilian in danger or a suspicious 
 individual, and though optional should you participate in them you recieve points to level up with, 
 and should you return the endangered individual to the base you also have another survivor to photograph.
 
  Collecting survivors yields Achievements, and also some pretty risque scenes should you rescue 
 the right people.
  
  On the negative side, when one answers the cellphone they have to take caution not to accidentally 
 attempt to make use of their hands, which includes defending themselves against attackers.
  Otherwise, the caller is offended and, after expressing that, repeats the entire call.
  
  Since 
 time is always running out, one has to decide which scoops to participate in, if any at all, so 
 that they aren't out of time when proceeding to their next mission or scoop.
  
  Of course, if there were more than one save slot the tension over whether or not to participate 
 in a scoop would be removed.
  However, with only one slot to save in, accidentally saving with just a few game minutes to reach 
 the next mission is a problem that one must avoid at all costs.
  
  The main character is equipped with a camera, and photographing especially gory, violent, erotic, 
 dramatic, or simply overpopulated events gains the player points to level up.
  However, after taking enough pictures the battery will deplete.
  
  The player is given a free 
 test of the camera feature in the game's very beginning, where they can take photographs of various 
 disasters occuring throughout the city.
  Proper zooming and timing are key to using the camera.
  
  Upon advancing a level, new techniques 
 can be learned to better defend yourself, which is especially important by the end of Overtime 
 Mode.
  
  Magazines can be found in literature outlets that, when equipped, add to a particular attribute.
 
  
  It would take quite a while, and be a bit spoiler-ish, to list the various outfits that can be 
 obtained by downloading them for free through XBox Live, or attempt to name all of the objects 
 that can be used as weapons, suffice it to say that in both cases there are a wide variety.
  
  Items can also be unlocked by obtaining certain Achievements, including a few that Mega Man 
 fans will appreciate.
  These items are then located in the base area's storage room.
  
  The shops come in a wide variety and add a nice touch of realism to the game, save locations can 
 be found in those indicated on the map, usually in a bathroom or other private location.
  
  There are a wide variety of items that can be used for health restoration, whose effects can be 
 amplified by cooking or otherwise specially preparing them (ala Harvest Moon or Animal Crossing)
 
  
  Realistically, things like meat will actually rot.
  Eating fly-infested meat can temporarily disable your character, which is obviously not a good 
 idea if you're in a zombie-rich environment.
  
  If one added up the zombies from every Resident Evil, Silent Hill, and Alone in the Dark game, 
 they still wouldn't scratch the surface in comparison to the unprecedented undead army found in 
 Dead Rising.
  
  Unfortunately, it is true that the game's text is incredibly small.
  Even when played on the largest of screens gamers will find themselves squinting to read in-game 
 text.
  
  There are a few things that one can play around with, some that actually increase the game's form 
 of experience points, located in and around the mall.
  
  The game's A ending is not difficult to obtain, but many players found themselves getting stuck 
 with the C ending because they headed straight to the heliport after the completion of all directives.
 
  That's all I'll say to avoid spoilers.
  
  Once the player has achieved the A ending, they receive Overtime Mode.
  
  I'll avoid describing 
 Overtime Mode because it would inevitably entail major spoilers, but its completion will unlock 
 Infinite Mode.
  
  In Infinite Mode, the object is to last as long as possible in the mall, with health steadily depleting 
 as time passes, and access to restorative supplies limited.
  
  Once the player has unlocked Infinite Mode, there is no way to further level up.
  Thus, players 
 at the highest level will end up with the best XBox Live scores for Infinite Mode, another reason 
 it is important to level up early and get it over with, as boring and repetitive as it could get.
 
  
  One would assume that a game like Dead Rising has a lot of replay value, but with only one save 
 slot, it's usually the last thing on the player's mind to repeat what is a rather difficult game.
 
  
  Instead, gamers will probably give Infinite Mode a few tries, set their best score, and leave the 
 game alone from there on.
  
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man2005hunt
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  This game is totally amazing and people who are fans of George A. Romeo films should definatly 
 get this game. Throughout the game you are a Photojournalist named Frank West. He comes to the 
 mall in search for a big scoop, only to find that the mall and the town itself is overun by flesh 
 eating zombies. The gameplay is perfect and the graphics are fantastic. Also the PP system works 
 really good and there is an endless amount of weapons that the characters can use. The game itself 
 takes about 6-8 hours to complete (depending on what you do) and the A. I. is very immpresive, but 
 the saving system lets it down with only one save space available and the lack of save places around 
 the mall. Overall the game has very little errors and is a must have game for gore fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdZero54
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I tried to like this game. I really did. I wanted to, but I just couldn't do it. There are so many 
 aspects to the game that would have worked but there were so many other things that drew away from 
 the attention of the positive. Bad controls, horrible save system, mediocre graphics and really, 
 really small text keep this game from being great. I know the save system has been hailed as both 
 horrible and great. I just didn't like it. For someone on a limited time frame like I am, I just 
 can't do what the game requires. One save slot for the whole entire game is a lot to ask. There 
 are so many other things that are wrong with it. It sure it fun to beat zombies, though. Kinda 
 gets old after a while, though. The bosses are also pretty hard. I would go more in depth, but 
 with 662 reviews, I'm sure this will never be read and I'm really tired. Bottom Line: Rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  ~~INTRODUCTION~~
  
  Welcome to Williamette, CO.
  What brings us to this little town in the middle of Colorado?
  Good Food? Sorry Oprah Winfrey, 
 not this time...
  Awesome cars? Nope, those who can drive are in the mall now...
  A zombie larve infecting litterally thousands of people? HELL YES!
  
  ~~GAMEPLAY~~ The Gameplay 
 is fairly hard to understand the first time you play.
  It's good side is that everything is considered a weapon to digest those undead-dead things.
 
  There is too much to do to express in words, just play it.
  
  However it's diffucult to learn it if you start, everything has been tagged to help you out. The 
 help system is fairly good and helps you out at those moments. The gameplay overall is very expanded 
 and is hardly to be expressed in words: Just one; AWESOME!
  
  There is one bad thing, you're always on a hectic time scedule. It feels like some guy kicking 
 you in the butt over and over screaming Hurry the hell up!! . Once late, and that was your hope 
 of getting the true ending.
  Also, dead and forgot to save is re-start. Speaking about saving, there are about 8-10 save spots 
 over a gigantic mall, fairly hard to reach each one of them.
  
  ~~GRAPHICS~~
  The graphics, for this game are perfect. Not really what you expect from what everyone has to call 
 Next Generation but, so good that you'll not even spend time figuring out what's bad about them. 
 The dead one's are nicely blooded, arm-less and holed up. The mall is very very nice in my oppinion, 
 it gives you the feeling that you are in a mall.
  
  The survivors are awesome, they are very nice and very detailed. Some people even mention Next 
 Generation Boobs cause of this game.
  
  ~~SOUND~~
  The mall music is what you expect... Mall Music. Almost identical to elavator music... But, the 
 voice cast is very and yet suprisingly good. No matter that they are fairly unknown, they fit well 
 with the characters.
  Every weapon sounds different, no matter what you do, it'll sound different giving it more value.
 
  
  ~~STORY~~
  Simple:
  Frank West, got a tip and is on hunt for scoop, once in Williamette he noticed the US Army locked 
 the city and see's some horrific scenes in mid-town. Once in the mall he's a survivor, helping 
 two DEA agents Brad and Jessie out, helping them with finding out what the hell has caused the 
 zombie-outbreak and what's next?
  
  ~~VALUE~~
  The value of this game is fantastic, it always litterally asks you for more. It's almost never 
 ending and you'll never get enough of it.
  But the fact of the hectic time-scedule and the saving system can let the replay value dissapear 
 for some people.
  
  ~~CONCLUSION~~
  If you're into these horror-games, this is the one for you.
  Capcom really showed how good they 
 were with Resident Evil meaning there's no messing with them.
  But DEAD RISING just gave the push for Capcom to become the rulers of the Horror Game Genre!
 
  
  The game is definatly worth buying, if you hate horror, skip it.
  You always have to option of renting, but the 60$ is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerbob2008
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Now this is definetly not a game for the week of heart but god does it rock i mean you can use 
 anything in the store as a weapon and then beat the crap out of somebody with it who has not always 
 wanted a game were pretty much everything was a weapon that they could weild at will and crush 
 there opponents with i know i have so come on you want a really good stress release game this is 
 so it
  
  The graphics on this game ran almost flaawlessly to my eys so i could complain no were in that 
 department and the fact that the weapons all looks real was all most sickening when you used them 
 on one of the zombies especialy the lawn mower i mean really come on man who doesn't want that 
 or a sledge hammer as a weapon when faced with those odds
  
  the only thing i saw wrong with the sound was there wasn't enough cool music to go with the slautering 
 it was just zombies walkin around who wants to listen to that for hours on end not me so come on 
 were is the rock.
  
  in my oppion one of the best games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Well for a start there is nothing worng with the save system and the gameplay is rock solid. When 
 i was starting to play the game i really liked the way the game started off. It starts off when 
 you land down to the mall and there are about 9/13 survivers and then you see at the front entrince 
 there are and huge number off zombies rushing into the mall to try and get you and the servivers. 
 I would say the start off the game is Great, Middle Great and near the end would be the best part 
 for me becuase on the 4th day the SWAT teams comes and takes you all the zombies inside the mall 
 and if you kill some members off the SWAT team once they die they leave an awsome weapon that has 
 150bullits which if your good with a gun you will take out a load off zombies. Acevements most 
 off the Acevements in the game are very easy to get if you have the pashents there is 50 in all 
 i have 48 which is not to bad i have only had the game a week but now on to the gameplay, graphics 
 and the sound for a start the gameplay is the best you could hope for with the amount off onscreen 
 zombies with about 2,000 onscreen zombies there is no lag whatsoever. The graphics the vantastic 
 if you have a HD Tv but if you dont they sould look great even on a standerd tv the maul detail 
 on a hd tv makes the game close to life like which i really enjoy in these types off games. The 
 sound, the sound is great i have XD sound which is the best make so far and the weapon sounds are 
 soo good you just cant get bord off them. All in all this game has great sound, gameplay, graphics 
 and replay value so you just keep playing over and over to try and get all the acevementsi give 
 this game a 9.7 i would off give it a 10 but there were i few glitches but they cant b helped and 
 its nothing that woould mak you want to stop playing the game so if you dont have this game yet 
 go out and get it you will be happy to have it as part off you xbox360 games collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrazeeTobz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game is just simply awesome, you can just play it over and over again, the graphics look amazing, 
 the story is really deep and its preety long so you wont get bored and how can you you get bored 
 when there is so much you can do on this game, this game is well worth the money, Everything on 
 this game just runs so smoothly and the ideas that are in this game are just amazing, like levelling 
 up and learning new melle skills, being able to carry more items, having more health and things 
 like that, it just makes you want to play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game it didnt sound that exciting but when i got it the game was 
 so fun to play that it was nonstop action. There is rlly nothing wrong with this game also everything 
 in this game makes it fun. Like how many zombies they have and how many types of different zombies 
 they put into the game. Also you can change what ur char looks like which is pretty cool seeing 
 they have some funny clothes to wear in the mall. One thing i especially like is theres basically 
 infinite of everything food drink and weapon and anything else you could think of in the mall. 
 If you rlly wanted to u could just have an inventory full of katanas and use those which is a good 
 idea because they kill the zombies easier. I personally like the battle axe only because of its 
 radiud of attack and how many zombies it kills in one hit. I think that the so called bosses or 
 as some ppl say mini bosses or w/e are pretty hard but they can be fun to play sometimes. Its just 
 the problem of this game is its almost like if you make on mistake by tons of zombies u usually 
 are getting attacked but not most of the time. Overall i would say you should rlly get this game 
 only because of how much fun it is and how long you could play it without being bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_saget_832
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is basically another zombie killing game.
  But in this game, you are given a bunch of bizzare ways to kill the zombies.
  The story is ok. 
 Not really orginal.
  All i really did playing this game was run around killing people, or zombies. Just like i would 
 in a Grand Theft Auto game.
  Other than tht theres not much to say.
  The graphics were impressive.
  The sound was one of my favorite parts.
  Running over zombies 
 with a lawnmower has never sounded more realistic.
  The gameplay was cool, in that the things u can do are cool. Takeing a sludgehammer to 1000 zombies 
 is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishweredogs
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  yes it is fun to run over zombies and drive motor bikes in stores the high def graphics make this 
 game unbeleavable fighting the zombies never get boring since there are like 100 diffrent fun ways 
 to fight through the zombies also driving might e a tad bit shallow but other thethat its all fun 
 this game is aswam!!!!!!! the bosses are fun and the zombies are fun to kill in the real looking 
 stores so i say buy/rent what ever just get a hold of this game and play it and yes its only out 
 for the xbox 360 with the high def graphics so yes i advise you topick up a copy of this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  After lvl'ing up and stuff i decided to redo my review as it seems i gave it an unfair review.
 
  
  Here's the good stuff: Massive zombie slaughter and endless fun to kill them in a way you never 
 thought to do. Always great voice acting and no no bad voice acting. Brilliant gameplay mechanic.
 
  
  Bad stuff: You can't use EVERYTHING as they promised. You may rarely encounter some frame problems 
 in the game.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  In Dead Rising you always will be surrounded by zombies and may not survive the man slaughter, 
 in order to survive your gonna need food and good weapons. There's a Katana on the in Paradise 
 Plaza (Behind the juices) so always get that one. The good thing about this game you always encounters 
 shops you may not have seen and just ignored. So always try to visit every store as possible for 
 future problems, for example if your under a lvl for a boss and no weapons in Entrance Plaza you 
 can go to a shop that has weapons and a cafee holder drink thingi and plan your attack.
  
  The storyline really keeps you interested and when you think how it started and what Santa Cabeza 
 really did do. Your wrong, i was wrong and so will you. You don't have to follwo the storyline 
 all the time because the storyline is in cases and those cases start in sepperate time like. You 
 finished a case in that round and the next one starts in 3 hours. So you have also limited time 
 to complete the side quests.
  
  And this is all for my review, i don't want to explain further more of the game. To fully figure 
 out the game, rent it from a friend or buy it.
  
  PS: always carry food with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexgear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, i knew I had to play it. Even though its alittle sick, it really puts 
 you in that position where you think, ok, what would i really do. Oh look its a rubbish bin, that'l 
 do. WWWAAMMMEE. I'v got to say, they did a really good job with the zombies, all look diffrent, 
 all walk diffrent, so so so so many and the xbox says, yeh thats ok. If i had to be picky, i'd 
 say outside enviro could do alittle better, and when you use a car or bike, phyisics could be alot 
 better but the game really is'nt about that. This game really brings back What games are about 
 . Not only dilivering an epic story line, but a sence of accomplishment. Its hard, and you never 
 think you'll be able to do it and i tihnk alot of players will give up at that point. little do 
 they know, to beat diffrent people, fighting syles change completely. I think the game could have 
 done with a better ending. Even if they bring out DR2, the first did'nt end in a way that would 
 make sence for another one, and it did'nt really ... end. I mean, what happend after you kill Brock? 
 Whats with all the yelling? Who knows... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirce
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising succeeds in making a great survival horror game. It has everything from slicing hundreds 
 of zombies into bits to roleplaying elements to driving around with a harley, all this is spiced 
 by a fantastic storyline. There is literally thousands of ways to kill zombies, my favourite being 
 the Battle Axe. A big element in DR is helping people in distress and this is remarkably well made: 
 you constantly feel beleagured because zombies are trying to eat you from every angle, though it 
 helps having a katana or a battle axe in pocket. The game is also full of enjoyble and memorable 
 boss fights. Every aspect of this game is nicely done and Dead Rising is a must buy for every X360 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Dead Rising i thought, this game is gonna suck. Even after hearing many good things 
 about it i still thought it looked bad. After a while of waiting, a demo came out on the XBL market 
 place. I played it, and i was quite surprised. The game played pretty well, but i was not sold. 
 I thought, this game must get old after a couple of minutes (that was before i knew this game had 
 an actual plot!) . After playing the demo a bit more, seeing that their was a used one at my gamestop 
 and seeing that it had been getting good reviews (and the fact the my 360 collection technicly 
 consists of 2 games) i decided to pick it up. And boy, was it a great game.\
  
  Lets start with the actual plot, you are reporter, Frank West (i think) . I hard hitting journalist 
 bent on gettng the scoop of a lifetime. You are helicoptered in to this Zombie mall and you tell 
 your Helicopter driver to pick you up in three days. Now you must find out, why there are zombies 
 here?
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. Dead Rising has great gameplay, it has easy controls to remember 
 that also suite the game quite well. The only real complaint that i have hear is that several skill 
 that you learn have annoyinh ways to execute them. such as the dive roll, where you dve out of 
 the way of anything that may be coming at you. Now to execute this move you must point the left 
 thumbstick in the direction you want to roll in, twice (example, wanna roll to the left? hit your 
 thumbstick left left and you will roll) . This move takes some getting used to and takes quite enougn 
 mastering. Dead Rising is decently long, it lasted me about two weeks because i had school and 
 much homework, but one without those responsibilities, or a lot of free time could easily whip 
 through thid game in a jiffy. Another flaw is Dead Rising's saving system, its not that you cant 
 save wherever you want (you must find a bathroom, bed, etc. to save) but its that there is only 
 one save file and when you die, you can either save and restart the game or load your most recent 
 game save. One thing i was also surprised about was the fact that you probably spend more time 
 fighting bosses and doing escorting missions (where you escort survivors to a safe haven) than 
 you do just mindlessly killing zombies. The game also has the feature that lets you use nearly 
 everything as a weapon, from a teddy bear to a shotgun. You can also customize your character with 
 many different things, like new clothes and costumes. Zombie killing is pretty simple, most of 
 the time they die in one-two hits (depending on the weapon) and do come in mobs, which can be pretty 
 annoying if you are trying to play through the game but if your not its just fun to go through 
 and kill them all. Now onto graphics. The Game isnt beatuiful but it still has recognizable 360 
 graphics that are smouth and solid and flow well. The music in this game could not be more perfect, 
 casual mall music when fighting normal zombies and, depending on the boss, fast passed rock music 
 for boss battles. Some sound effects, like frank's grunts, do get on you nerves, but its nothing 
 to hurl your controller at a wall for. Obviously this game has a muncha buncha cruncha replay value. 
 Overall Dead Rising really proves that capcom knows what they are doing when it comes to Zombies. 
 Dead Rising is also a must own for all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam416
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  my opinion is that they say it is not based off of the movie dawn of the dead i think that they 
 are full of crap this is a dead give away that they based it off the movie. to get straight to 
 the point if you like killing zombies this is the game for you and to give you the heads up that 
 if you fail a mission do to somebody you were suppose to save dies you can still continute the 
 game that means that if you are not the kind of person who doesn't want to do missions just let 
 them die and you be playing the best aand funest game you have ever played so get off your ass 
 go get the game and have fun i think that the creater made this game just for tio kill zombies 
 the game just plain KICKS ASS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrowhead927
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game i would put in the top 10 of xbox360 games, i love mucking around on this game waching 
 zombies over the head with hammers, and sticking novelty head on them. The graphics are great and 
 the day cycle made the game both exciting and scary. Theres so much to do in this game, from shopping 
 to explore the great outdoors. I've only had this game for a day and i must of played it for 4-6 
 hours. I like that if you dont want to do the missions you can muck around wondering the mall of 
 wallmette. The stats are good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valyant
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising was an amazing game, don't get me wrong, it's just that the games hick-ups and "comedic" 
 remarks to the average american man takes away at the real gameplay I thought I was getting.
  
  Killing zombies aimlessly, in thousands upon thousands, but seriously, how many zomibes can 
 one guy actually kill. Now you make think I'm not going anywhere with this, but I am. The game 
 at times is extremely difficult especially if your at a low level, I found throughout the game 
 to play all the cases you have little to no time to level up without missing a case. Another irritation 
 is that all the weapons break extremely easily. They did however say they made it this way so players 
 don't lean more toward certain weapons but seriously, in most next-gen games they sacrifice realism 
 for gameplay. I thought the whole purpose of next-gen was to create realism especially for a game 
 with no LIVE or multiplayer capabilites.
  
  Overall Dead Rising was a good game, but with some glitches, comedic gameplay, and those annoying 
 green masked bastards kind of messed up the gameplay for me. But if zombies, freeroaming, and weapons 
 are your thing, this is surely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoose
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you play the role of an amature camra man, who hears there is something going down 
 at a Mall in a small town that is in Colorado. You go to check it out, and you don't belive what 
 you see. There are hundreds of Zombies outside of the small town and there are just destroying 
 everything in sight. You take some photos, and then you land on top of a building, and you are 
 off. The fun starts now.
  
  Now at first, the game rules. After you get past all of the boring beginning stuff, like soliving 
 a case or trying to reunite these to old people. Then I walk in to the mall and some dumb ladie 
 see's here Pootle outside the mall where all of the zombies are. So what does she do? She opens 
 the door and becomes zombie dinner. Then the zombies storm the building, and the fun starts. You 
 can choose to go along with the mission at this point, or just kill everything you see. If you 
 do go along with the mission, the game can get really boring pretty quick. At first glance you 
 may think that killing zombies endlessly will never get old, but news flash: IT CAN. And quite 
 frainkly, killing the zombies, rescue the helpless person, watch a cutsceen, and kill more zombies, 
 repeat about five times and guess what? Your bored. The gameplay was really a big letdown to me, 
 as I thought that killing hundreds of zombies with basicly any weapon would never get old. Boy 
 was I wrong. It got old really fast. But at least it didn't get so old that I stopped playing the 
 game completly like some other people did. The gameplay wasn't all bad, but in my opinion it get 
 old way to fast for a game that I thought would never get old. Which is why it deserves nothing 
 more than a Seven out of Ten.
  
  The game does look amazing though. The graphics really caught me by surprise at first. I wasn't 
 accpecting them to be top notch like they were. The graphics are really the highest point in the 
 game if you ask me. The face details are really amazing, even on the zombies, an they hardly even 
 have faces. The lighting effects are also top notch, as they stand toe to toe with The Elder Scrolls 
 Oblivion. Everything that is really even in the mall looks close to top notch, not to mention that 
 the weapons in the game look almost as real as they do in real life. And when I say weapon, that 
 could mean a person himself. The bottom line is that this game looks top notch and has some of 
 the best graphics the the Xbox 360 has to offer. And that is saying a lot, considering that the 
 Xbox 360 has the most breathtaking graphics anyone has ever seen. Like I said before, the graphics 
 are the highest point in the game in my opinion. So they deserve a Nine out of Ten, and really 
 save the game from getting a low score.
  
  So now, lets talk about the sound. The sound that is just plain awesome. Seriously, just the sound 
 of running a Zombie over with a lawnmower sounds cool enough to change anyones day from a bad day, 
 to a great day. The sounds of bashing zombies over the head with glass or a wooden bat is just 
 plain awesome, it doesn't matter who you are, it sounds awesome. Tis to is a major point in the 
 game, that saves the game from getting a bad score. And just the sound that the zombies make like 
 the growling noises or the screams of a Zombie suffering, is just plain awesome. Not to mention 
 the great voice overs, but the voice overs can get a little annoying at time, it is rare. The sometimes 
 annoying voice overs is really the only thing that is keeping Dead Rising's sound from getting 
 a perfect Ten out of Ten, and you know what, now that I think about it, I think that the sound 
 is Dead Rising's highest point. The sound of the weapons, and the zombies, and the voice overs 
 does a very big part along with the graphics to save this game. But despite all of this awesomeness 
 the sound still isn't perfect, but it is very darn near close to it.
  
  So if you ask me the gameplay is the part I thought would be the best about this game, and it turns 
 out to be the worst. The game is not bad, but it is not great either. So it has awesome sound from 
 the Zombies and the weapons, and it also has some of the best graphics that the Xbox 360 has to 
 offer. But gameplay is the most important part of the game, and in Dead Rising the gameplay falls 
 really short of expectations. Graphics and sound cant do it all for a game. I didn't enjoy this 
 game nearly as much as I thought I would. There will be a lot of people that lik, or even love 
 this game, but unfortunately, i'm not and will probably never be one of them. Like I said earlier, 
 the game is not bad. But when a game that has this much hype gets a 7.9 out of ten from a guy who 
 couldn't wait to get his hands on it from the day it was announced, it is very dissapointing. Thank 
 you for reading my review of Dead Rising. That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising was anounced long ago, and I just thought this was going to be a Grand Theft Auto look 
 alike with zombies (which would have been cool when thinking about it) , but no. Dead Rising is 
 something very different, and it stands out from the crowd and does a great job letting you slash 
 thousands of zombies, and it's a lot of fun!
  
  The graphics are really good. The amount of zombies on screen is amazing. There are hundreds and 
 hundreds of zombies coming at you, and your job is to slash them all down at it all looks very 
 crisp. There are many in-game videos that also look great, and which helps telling the story, which 
 is actually quite good. Dead Rising sounds great. All the different items you pick up have their 
 own sounds that are very nice and realistic. Hearing the knifes and swords slash through zombie 
 flesh is very saticfying, and that makes the game even more enjoyable. The music is good, though 
 features mostly rock and at the mall tunes. The actors has also done a quite decent job bringing 
 the characters to life. Dead Rising all plays out at this big shopping mall. And the only problem 
 is that there are lots of lots of zombies there. Or, that's not entirely true, there are also psychopaths 
 there, and they are worse than the undead, that's for sure. There are clowns, snipers and even 
 a butcher there to make you intoo zombie dinner, and they act as bosses in the game. The story 
 is quite simple: You are a journalist that's heard about this insident in a city. You fly over 
 there by helicopter and end up at the shopping mall, where you have 72 hours to find out what's 
 happening before the pilots comes back to pick you up. This is where it all begins, and you have 
 to find out what's happening there. Where did all the zombies come from? Your missions are divided 
 into case files you have to complete. The clock is allways ticking in this game, so you have to 
 be carefull not to miss your apointments, cause if you do it's game over! Yeah, that's right... 
 If you for example save your game when it's actually to late to reach your apointment in time, 
 then you have to start the whole game all over again! LAME!! And yeah... It happened to me! This 
 is just stupid, though because there are so few savings during the game, you become really afraid 
 of dying, which is quite realistic. The game has a lot of side quests that are really cool and 
 rewarding. Cause you gain experience points for killing people and for saving innocent survivors. 
 By doing this you raise your level, which increases your life meter or makes you run faster and 
 so on. The game is very good, and it's incredibly much fun at times. But I was very dissapointed 
 when there wasn't a free killing mode unlocked after completing the game. I wanted some free killing, 
 though I'm forced to play in this stressed out story mode where you have to be here and there at 
 the correct times. The game is cool, and I recommend you to try it out cause it's hilarious at 
 times.
  
  +
  Good graphics with a lot of on-screen action. Saticfying sound effects. Interesting storyline, 
 with some great side quests. A lot of the weapons you find are awesome, like chainsaw, ketchup 
 bottles and lawnmower!!
  
  -
  The story mode is very stressed because of the time limits. The free killing mode is missing. Very 
 frustrating saving system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockapotomus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  The Good: Expansive Weapon Selection (Many weapons have hilarious traits to them) , seemingly endless 
 game-play, excellent replay ability, Cool leveling system, Nice Graphics, Good Story, clever photography 
 mode.
  
  The Bad: Save system is cleverbut will frustrate you at times, ridiculous boss fights, endless 
 amounts of boring and frustrating escort missions.
  
  The Ugly: No auto-aim makes it difficult to shoot on the run.
  
  Dead Rising is the second 
 game I purchased in my young Xbox 360 playing career (Oblivion was the first) . Obviously, when 
 I got this game I didn't expect another Oblivion. It's safe to say that this game did not live 
 up to my expectations, but I still love to play it. Just when you think you've played with every 
 weapon in the game, you find a new store with a whole bunch of new and exciting toys . However, 
 this game isn't all zombie genocide. Once in a while you will be plunged into a difficult, and 
 almost always unexpected, boss fight. It's safe to say that you will die trying to kill some of 
 these bosses at least once. This is where the saving system becomes a hassle. Much to your dismay, 
 you will replay everything you did in the last half-hour. After the first two hours of playing 
 this game you will learn to save often, and keep a nice stock of health restorers. The plentiful 
 amount of achievements is enough to keep playing and challenging yourself with this game, and the 
 zombie slaughter isn't exactly a hindrance.
  
  Don't let anything I said in this review stop you from buying this game. Trust my word on this 
 one, the positives definitely outweigh the negatives in this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicksta101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is another zombie game from Capcom, the Company of zombie killing, thats all you've 
 had over the years is Resident Evil this and that, sometimes you just want to take a basball bat 
 to a zombie and tear them up and cut them up to tiny little pieces. Dead Rising lets you do that, 
 and if you want an excuse to kill Zombies, you've ran into the right game with Dead Rising.
  
  Dead Rising is a hack 'n slash it seems like as what you'll be doing is zombie killing through 
 and through. You play as a photo journalist called Frank, yeah, Frank, with no surname it seems 
 like, and you cover horror, war and disasters and things like that, but you find out this out of 
 the way town is lost communications, Army is closing it down and you think, well this is a great 
 chance to get a scoop story so you go in via helicopter and you see they'res ZOMBIES!!!, Zombies 
 are everywhere, destroying stuff eating people alive and dead and just causing chaos. You have 
 to go in this gaint or huge shopping mall alla George Remeros Classic Dawn Of The Dead movie, and 
 you are litterally killing thousands of Zombies in the mall with any weapon you can get your hands 
 on. Baseballs bats to chainsaws.
  
  Each shop has a ton of weapons to choose from, whether it's a clothes shop or a gardening shop, 
 it's all there everything is a weapon, you can pick potted plants and benches and chairs. Then 
 it gets really weird, your throwing CDs at Zombies like ninja stars, and just making abit of damage, 
 they just knock them back and daze them if you will. And, of course you get the usual guns and 
 bladed weapons and thats great by it's self, but your also getting the chance to smash into shops 
 and pick up as many weapons as you like, your inventory is huge, it really is. Your not storing 
 benches or anything big like that, it's just bats, guns, water pistols, yeah, water guns.
  
  Dead Rising is a great game, what the actual catch to the game is timing. Yeah, timing, you 
 have to survive in the mall for 72 hours, real time hours this is, being on time isn't exactly 
 a great and fun game mechanic but it works, it would be better if the save system would work well. 
 Yeah, the save system is awfull, you only get ONE save in the game, autosaves come in short supply 
 and if you save yourself in a bad spot with bad health and not many weapons stored in your space, 
 your not going to have a chance much to survive, so, you can either, try and get through it, or 
 start over again, or, this is probably your best option, start over again with your level and all 
 your weapons stored in your space, so your a lot stronger than you once was, but still, it pretty 
 much sucks that that happens, if thats even a problem.
  
  Ultimatly, Dead Risng is a great game, it has problem, but they get over shadowed of how fun and 
 delightful is Dead Rising. If you like the idea of cutting the hell out of nasty little Zombie 
 Buggers, cool, Dead Rising, is pretty much your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X9MMBULLETSX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  dead rising first off is a great fun game but hard to get into at first (well for me it was) after 
 that i couldnt put this game down. In the game you are a journalist called frank west who gets 
 a scoop that something is happening in this small town and when you get there, THERES ZOMBIES LOTS 
 AND LOTS OF ZOMBIES! After getting dropped off by a helicopter the game begins and you meet some 
 key characters such as carlito, brad etc.
  
  The gameplay in dead rising, suprisingly, is alot of fun, it never gets boring running into zombies 
 with a baseball bat. The mission design could be better but its still fun. Every now and then you 
 can save some survivors at your will, this earns pp which makes you level up more easily (you can 
 level up by doing other things but escorting survivors is the quickest.
  
  The presentation in dead rising is very good, not GRAW good but still very good.
  
  The voice 
 acting is very good and not at all cheesy and dont be to suprised to have a couple of laughs at 
 the many psychpaths you will meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balousek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much I can say about this game that anyone who has played it doesn't realize. It's 
 a great game, with good replay value, can be moderately easy if you sit back, or terribly difficult 
 if you try to reach all of the accomplishments. Good for hacking away for 20 minutes or 2 hours. 
 This game was worth every penny. If you have an Xbox 360 this is a must own game.
  
  This review has to be at least 100 words so I'm going to keep typing now. Damn. Nope, still not 
 enough. This is pretty much just filler. The system apparently does not want my review because 
 this is becoming quite a challange. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stejmatty
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  You cant believe how long my mates and me have been waiting for this game, we talked about it 
 everyday, what we would do and have little competitions and stuff.
  Now we all have the game, we are happy, and we have the missing part of our lives as we thought
 
  
  This game is very fun, chopping, whacking, breaking, and killing zombies in the worst way you can 
 think of, is only the basic start to this game.
  The story is well plotted and has a very interesting twist to it, I dont want to spoil it for 
 you, but when you fully complete it, you will understand how entranced you will get.
  
  Gameplay is very good, there is much to explore, loads to unlock, and tons of stuff to do each 
 time you play through it.
  
  Graphics are not all what 360 is up to be like in Dead Rising, but you have to remember the SWARM 
 technology is mainly the focus in the game, being able to see up to 500 zombies on screen at once 
 is an achievement itself. HD-TV is recommended for this game, on the standard TV, the subtitles 
 are too small to read, and you may get confused at some point.
  
  Sound / Music is practically the most enjoyable thing about decapitating zombies, the slashing 
 and goryness effect it has, makes this game complete.
  
  Conclusion
  This game has much to offer, although it has some downsides like the inf mode being too hard, 
 in all, this game is really fun and I defiantly recommend it to those who wish to relax and enjoy 
 the full goodness of killing zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeDylan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  The story felt old. Killing the zombies was fun for a couple minutes but became tedious. The gameplay 
 was disappointing. Text was very hard to read on a tv undre 50 . This game looks like it has alot 
 of potential till you actually play it. I played it with a friend for 4 hours and wasn't impressed. 
 I decided to give it a second chance and rented it. Even starting a new game from the beginning 
 didnt help me get into the story line. The graphics were ok but deffinetly not up to next gen standards. 
 I think the game in general was a good concept but all areas of the actual game could have been 
 improved greatly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratos419
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you take the role of a freelance reporter who is just looking for a story. He finds 
 himself in a city overran by hordes of zombies. He ends up in a mall where the zombies have infiltrated 
 and the fun begins. This game is quite difficult in my opinion. Others may disagree with me, but 
 thats my take. Many of the psychopaths are quite difficult to defeat, but you are generally handsomely 
 rewarded for your efforts. The zombies themselves aren't all that difficult to manage... until 
 night comes. This is when all hell breaks loose. The zombies can take roughly twice the beating, 
 and seem to me to increase in number. You should really stick to saving survivors in the day if 
 you can. The gameplay is fantastic in Dead Rising. You earn lots of useful hand-to-hand combat 
 moves as you level up. The vast array of weapons, which seems infinite, is very well done. You'll 
 find powerhouses such as Aks and a heavy maching gun as well as novelty weapons such as gumball 
 machines and a lightsaber. You'll find you can run out of ammo very quickly, but you can replenish 
 your ammo for free at anytime at the gunshop. Of course you can pick up any weapon that's laying 
 around if you so wish to go that route. This game isn't the longest I've played but has lots of 
 replay value. You'll definetly need several playthroughs if you wish to save everyone and get the 
 whole experience. Plus you'll just want to, as it is very enthralling and simply engaging. Finally 
 what most 360 owners seem to care about most, the graphics. You will be hard-pressed to find better 
 graphics to date in any game. From spurts of blood to decapitated zombies, you'll almost feel like 
 you were there. Overall this is one of if not the best 360 game to date. Most definetly a must 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknot-maggot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow, finally a game that seems like it was made just for us zombie fans! This game is definatly 
 the best zombie game ever. Some of the great things about this game is the replay value. You can 
 beat this game twenty times and still want to play it again.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in DR is awsome. Everything is weapon. Well almost every thing. My favortie 
 weapon would have to be the mower. The game has the 72 hour mode which I think is 7 hours + it 
 has Overtime mode and infinite mode which lets you do anything you want. The missions in the game 
 can get a bit boring. But other then that the gameplay is ace!
  
  Sound: For me the sound wasen't really a big deal, although all the zombie noises and the weapon 
 noises fit perfectly into this title.
  
  This game is the first of its kind, and hopefuly some one makes another zombie game soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtrazo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I had no interest in buying an Xbox 360. Nothing against the system 
 or the mighty Microsoft, but nothing about the system screamed Buy me!, that is, until I came 
 across a preview for an untitled Capcom game that was based around killing zombies in a mall. Grand 
 Theft Auto with zombies was the phrase of the day. I was hooked as I followed the game eventually 
 known as Dead Rising to completion, and worked untold overtime hours in order to scrape cash together 
 for a 360. Another convert in the hole.
  
  To begin with, the story of why a sleepy little town mall is infested with zombies is a little 
 out there, but I give it full points on originality, as well as being a sly social and political 
 commentary on us meat-hungry Americans. I wont spoil the whole thing though, youve got three 
 mayhem-filled days to figure it out.
  
  As for the graphics, every store in the mall is detailed right down to advertisements on the walls 
 and merchandise in the racks. The characters themselves arent the most detailed in the gaming 
 world, but you can forgive the developers when you realize theyve ditched ultra-realism for a 
 ton of hungry zombies coming to take a bite out of you.
  
  Fortunately, youre not as helpless as the survivors youll be escorting, as just about everything 
 you can find around the mall can be used as a weapon from the usual (guns and swords) to the not-so-usual 
 (benches and potted plants) to the downright bizarre (teddy bear masks?) . With a ton of weapons 
 available for dispatching the undead, it wont take long for folks to pick out their favorites. 
 Im partial to the Lead Pipe and Katana Sword myself.
  
  Taking a step away from the bloody destruction is the ability to take photographs of various situations; 
 Frank is a photojournalist after all! However, this isnt merely some fluff ability, certain photo 
 ops result in massive PP Points which act as traditional Experience Points crucial to boosting 
 up your characters levels.
  
  The sound is also a great fit for the game, as you'll hearing soothing mall music behind the moans 
 of the hundreds of zombies, and several satifying sounds effects using the various weapons. For 
 a change of pace, the bos battles switch to a rock soundtrack to get your energy pumping.
  
  There are some bad points kicking around in various reviews, like the at time mentally challenged 
 AI of survivors you must escort to a safe room, or the quick breaking point of the best weapons, 
 but the only problem that really detracted points from this game is the tiny, and I do mean tiny, 
 in-game text, which is nigh-impossible to read without an HDTV.
  
  The few bad points aside, Dead Rising is a game that every 360 owner should at least try out, especially 
 is theyre a fan of the sandbox genre or of campy zombie movies. Or of slicing up legions of 
 the undead with chainsaws.
  
  *NOTE  This review was written without the consent of George Romero and is not based on Dawn of 
 the Dead. No siree, not a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The___OoofMich
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  i liked this game a whole lot. there is a lot of stuff that you can do and lots of places to explore. 
 i like that you can go in every store in the mall so i guess you can say the game has an almost 
 full customization, u cant change your characters race or face or anything like htat because that 
 is what the game is based on so that makes it ok in my opinion.. it has fun moves to do to the zombies 
 and takes a long time to play. you will even replay it after you beat because there is a lot of 
 unlockables. this game offers a good challenge and good replay value, so if you dont have this 
 game yet then go and pick it up right away. fin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loofty1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Its finally here. . . a game that will make your parents shake their head and leave the room. . 
 . a game that lets you mow zombies with a lawnmower. . . and one of the most enjoyable games on 
 any console ever. You play as a photo journalist named Frank West. You just heard a rumor something 
 big is going down is a small town in Colorado. Whats the worst that can happen right? Wrong. Turns 
 out that this small town has a Mall of America sized mall in it! But thats not it. . . zombies! 
 Thousands and thousands of zombies, hurray! You choose to drop down inside this mall and see whats 
 going down. Turns out a lots going down ,including zombie killing! Lets get down to business. . 
 . Dead Rising is a game that puts you up against about fifty-three thousand zombies plus and gives 
 you a mall worth of weapons to kill them with. Good odds huh? Well this game is quite difficult, 
 and you might find yourself screaming profanity and punching holes in walls because of it. Dead 
 Rising is for the hardcore gamers. The weapons i was talking about earlier come in many forms. 
 From firearms to a freakin' stuffed teddy bear. . . its got it all. Many weapons you might think 
 are just random, which they are but thats not the point. The point is that using the random weapons 
 is fun. Very very fun. Check out the sledgehammer, bet ya 20 bucks you say ouch. . . at least once. 
 Every weapon has its own different way to smash zombies. And again its fun to use about every one. 
 Theres quite a selection of weapons around. Dozens of zombie killing objects. Some are not as affective 
 as others, and some make you yell Oh My God! when you use them. But enough about the weapons . 
 . . the story is unexpected but kinda funny. Its pretty good to. The whole story is split into 
 sections called scoops. These scoops happen at specific times during the 72 hours your spending 
 time in this mall. You miss one, basicly you need to restart the whole game over because of the 
 evil, broken save system. Dead Rising lets you save once throughout the whole game. . . prepare 
 to restart quite a few times during this game. I wasn't kidding about the stressed out part. The 
 graphics are good, but not great. Im not saying the PS2 or the Xbox could pull them off though. 
 . . theres about 50,000 more zombies that they can't handle. The weird part about Dead Rising is 
 thats its a funny horror game. Don't see that every day. The humor in Dead Rising is kinda crude. 
 . . it makes killing things funny y'know? Anyways. . . Dead Rising has a few problems but it surpasses 
 every other aspect of the game. Its an enjoyable game from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenVulture
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  When you first start the game you are a photographer looking for a good story. Then you come to 
 a city infested with zombies so youre mission is to find out what happen to cause the zombie outbreak. Now 
 this game is one of the best games for the 360 because it has so manythings to do like to get to 
 level 50 to killing over 53000 zombies. The game does get repetitive but only after you beat the 
 game five times. And between your main story line you can do an optional side mission that makes 
 you go to a part of the mall and save people and bring them to safety. Youre stuck in the mall for 
 3 days and everythings a weapon and there are many phycopaths=crazy people to kill. The graphics 
 are amazing the camera and controls are very smooth but i just hope they put co op on Dead Rising 
 2 if they make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is not the typical zombie bashing beat-em-up. It's a fun zombie bashing beat-em-up. 
 It has everything that you could ask for. There are guns, swords, chainsaws, cd-throwing, cultists, 
 zombies, and crazy clowns. There's even the underlying conspiracy. The only thing that it lacks, 
 is a good save system. You can only save in few places around the mall, and there's only one save 
 slot. So if you have to go to a place on the other side of the mall, go through the boss battle, 
 and have low health, all I have to say is good luck finding somewhere to save your oh-so-precious 
 game. It's enjoyable but to me it wore thin. Killing zombies was always fun, but that's just it. 
 Some parts of the story (main objectives) , are just the opposite. What you have to do inside the 
 game is just not as fun as taking about 120 cds and boarding yourself up in a store.
  
  This is not to say that Dead Rising is a bad game. Quite obviously the replay value is as high 
 as you could imagine, and it's a game that you could always just pick up and play. It's fun, it's 
 gory, but there's just something missing. Possibly it's the save system, or maybe the story.
  
  In conclusion, it's an awesome game, but it didn't hit the nail on the head just yet. By God 
 it came close! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  When you first pick up the controller to play Dead Rising you won't stop laughing for hours. The 
 various weapons and items you can use to dispatch the undead are all hilarious (particularly those 
 found in the hardware store) . However, after you've spent a few hours laughing at the game you'll 
 probably notice that things get pretty repetitive.
  
  The story is frustrating because missions only take place at certain times of the day and so you 
 often find yourself roaming around the (huge and very detailed) mall aimlessly between missions, 
 unless of course you become involoved in the side-missions. However, these side missions, like 
 the bulk of the story missions, are generally pretty basic. Most missions in Dead Rising involve 
 shooting someone a lot, taking photos or running away from hoards of zombies.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is great fun thanks to its wicked sense of humour but once you see past this 
 and realise you've been using one attack button the entire time it quickly becomes tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytherage
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  My full review is here:
  http://thirdworldgamer. blogspot. com/2006/10/capcoms-dead-rising-deserves-10. html
  
  1. Delivers 
 on its promises of next-generation action and violence.
  2. Beautiful graphics with enough detail to keep the framerate rock solid (reportedly the framerate 
 is 30 FPS, but I can't see it ---it's so smooth that I mistake it to be 60 FPS) .
  3. Amazing realistic work on the characters, and somehow Capcom made realistic characters NOT LOOK 
 BORING/GENERIC!
  4. Amazing 'character acting' that deserves some kind of MACHINMA award. They even have convincing 
 facial expressions and gestures which can get you emotionally involved at some point. Somehow this 
 makes you forget the fact that the story is quite simple (and has been done before) ---isn't that 
 what counts? It's a fresh take on a story that has been told time and again in many other games... it's 
 just well crafted and well-executed.
  5. Brilliant save system and time-based quest system, which really makes you feel that 'desperation' 
 which you'd probably have if you were really in this kind of situation (stuck in a mall with zombies!)
 
  6. Beautiful animation work... fighting zombies and killing off hundreds of them has never been 
 more satisfying. It will be hard to top this, people. Especially in the 'basement' scene. Now that 
 just ROCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Before you freak out, lets start with some math. Dead Rising = State of Emergency + Fighting Force 
 + Grand Theft Auto + Resident Evil . Well now that I have more room let me modify the statement. 
 Dead Rising is a sampling of all the good features from each of those games while excising the 
 parts which are infected with bad gameplay. State of Emergency was ambitious in that it wanted 
 to have a lot of models on screen at the same time, something that Dead Rising achieves with ease. 
 Fighting force comes into the equation as the Willamette Shopping Mall is full of weapons for Frank 
 West, our photojournalist protagonist, to pick up and slay zombies with. It is like Grand Theft 
 Auto in the fact it is very violent, you can rob stores, and generally do whatever you want and 
 kill who/whatever you want. And I would imagine that a Resident Evil comparison should be self 
 evident... but I don't say this solely because of zombies, but because the atmosphere of tension 
 and survival is there along with the grand scheme of zombies escaping and ruining a town.
  
  Now that I have gotten that off my chest, Dead Rising itself is an ambitious project that Capcom 
 pulls off quite well. As most people know, Dead Rising is about a mall full of zombies, and when 
 I say Full I mean FULL of zombies. One of the achievements is killing 53,594 zombies (slight spoiler, 
 this is the population of Willamette, Colorado) . Now being a mall, imagine the amenities a gigantic 
 mall would have; a food court, athletic stores full of equipment, a home renovation equipment store, 
 hunting store, bookstores, clothing stores, and other random stores, plus the food court. However 
 this mall features a cinema, a parking area (yes, you can drive a car or motorcycle, but you cannot 
 go indoors with it) and a huge outdoor recreational park in the center where you can play hit and 
 run on hundreds of zombies.
  
  I really can't begin to fathom the number of weapons Frank can find in this game. Let's just say 
 explaining what they do and how they do it could really ruin the gruesome fun. I will list some, 
 you figure out what they do by either playing or using your imagination. Frank has access to nightsticks, 
 shower heads, bowling balls, potted plants, cash registers, sledgehammers and frisbees. That is 
 only a mere fraction of what you can find in the mall, and I am pretty sure I haven't found more 
 than 75% of the weapons available yet.
  Needless to say, some weapons are more lethal (and gruesome) than others. Besides the plethora 
 of melee weapons, there are a good lot of firearms, ranging from handguns, to automatic weapons 
 of many types and shotguns and sniper rifles, oh my!
  
  Besides weapons of all shapes and sizes, there are lots of other items to be used. Food comes in 
 many varieties, ranging from generic snacks to Golden Brown Pizza or Bottles of Wine or interesting 
 blended smoothies such as Nectar or Quickstep. Many food vendors have blenders or ovens where you 
 can modify uncooked foods or other kitchen wares to increase their usefulness. Blending two orange 
 juices yields you a Nectar Drink which ultimately gives more life back, along with a neat side 
 effect of spawning a Queen (powerful weapon, lets just leave it at that) . Other juices can be 
 made from all of the foods around the mall, but you should just experiment.
  
  Aside from the food, books can be used to increase various stats such as how much life a food restores, 
 or how long certain weapon types last to increasing your skill with a skateboard. Yes, there are 
 skateboards and bicycles to use in the mall. With certain combinations of books, it is possible 
 to get certain items to last 9 times as long as they originally do. Although you have to hold onto 
 the book for it to be valid (I. E. let it take up one of your stock slots) , the effects are well 
 worth it when considering you can sacrifice one slot to have a weapon that last 3 times as long. 
 Other objects such as road cones or masks or even pies can be used to put over zombies heads to 
 disable them. Use your imagination; its easy to get creative in Dead Rising.
  
  There are other ways to damage and destroy zombies. Frank is rather strong and he can punch, kick, 
 disembowel, swing and decapitated zombies using his own brute strength. However, the most gory 
 and effective attacks are not immediately available, only after growing in level from earning Prestige 
 Points or PP can you gain levels. You accomplish this by the following options.
  
  1.) Taking Pictures : Frank is a photojournalist after all. He has a camera and you earn PP via 
 taking pictures. They come in No Genre, Brutality, Horror, Drama, Erotica and Out Takes. The more 
 violent or obscene or emotional the pictures are and the more in focus they are the more points. 
 Occasionally you can get pictures of PP stickers for incredible amounts of PP. This is all through 
 trial and error and a fast camera trigger finger. (unfortunately from behind the camera is the 
 only way you can get first person mode, everything else is 3rd person viewpoint)
  
  2.) Killing Zombies or Psychopaths : Every 50 zombies you kill you get 500 PP. Every 1000 you kill 
 you get 20,000 PP. Psychopaths are worth 500 each (for the Raincoat Cult) to anywhere around 30,000 
 PP. 3.) Rescuing Survivors : Either from just the Joining Bonus or dropping Survivors off alive 
 at the Security Room, you gain PP.
  
  Of course there are books that you hold as items that increase your PP gains from survivors or 
 photos as well.
  
  I personally like the save system, although people claim it is annoying to only be able to save 
 it very rarely, it adds the element of tension and survival horror. Also, there are quite a lot 
 of bathrooms in each section of the mall, so it isnt that big of a deal. A lot of the issues 
 in this game arent defects in the game play, as much as it is survival horror. Some survivors 
 are smarter than others, some arent. Mind you there are thousands of zombies in the mall, dont 
 think its easy to navigate a large party through it.
  
  Graphically and aurally the game is excellent (barring a few minor problems) , a true Next Generation 
 game. The main character, Frank West is well animated, both verbally and physically. In fact, all 
 of the main characters are very much so. Even on standard definition, it is possible to see sweat 
 beads, individual hairs, pores in the skin, etc. Frank however is special from the other characters 
 as he can try on many types of clothes, some look better (I. E. not as goofy) than others. He can 
 also try on various hats, glasses and hair products. They dont do anything to enhance his stats, 
 but it is nice to customize. As one of your bonuses, it is possible to completely dress like Megaman 
 (even with the REAL mega buster) . With the Megaman costume comes robotic sounds of servos and gears 
 and clicks, which is a nice touch.
  
  The zombies I must say are somewhat generic, with approximately a dozen varieties that repeat throughout 
 the mall. However they are all well rendered with gaping sores and wounds and appropriately shuffle. 
 When Frank hits them in the leg with a chainsaw or some other weapon, they fall to the ground and 
 crawl. Hit them with one of my favorite weapons, the Chainsaw, they get sliced in half in a spray 
 of blood and guts. The shotgun will blow heads clean off, and if you zoom in fast enough, it is 
 possible to see pulsing veins shooting blood. Without spoiling the fun of discovering what weapon 
 produces what visual effects, lets just say each weapon does different damage and ultimately a 
 different blood spray effect. Also, each weapon makes a different sound each time it strikes a 
 zombie. And each time the pitch and tone changes, as if hitting a different portion of the zombies 
 bodies. The psychopath characters are deliciously evil and over the top, driven mad by the harsh 
 conditions. Some are downright creepy, like Adam the clown. His demise is straight out of a horror 
 movie. On the other hand, Paul is quite comical in his defeat. The common thread is both of these 
 psychopaths have captured survivors and must be defeated. A lot of objects can be smashed in this 
 game, such as windows, TV monitors, cash registers, foods, boards, boxes, plants, benches. And 
 almost every one can be used as a weapon anyways. The sound of the planter smashing on a zombie 
 or the good old reliable cash register to the head doesnt get old, even after 3 full playthroughs. 
 The music in boss battles is excellent, however the three standout tracks from the game to me are:
 
  
  Gone Guru by Lifeseeker. This is the music in the middle of the park.
  Justified by Drea : The end credits theme song, I dont know why I think it works so well, but 
 it just does in the end.
  The Ambient mall music in Paradise Plaza : I cant explain it but it just adds the perfect feeling 
 like shopping in a mall.
  
  However, I cannot say that the game is without flaws
  
  The sound only fails on the level where the survivors get annoying. You think they follow you well, 
 but they almost always get caught up in zombie central (This by itself is quite aggravating, but 
 like I said before, adds to the tension of the game) . They keep yelling Frank, help and Over 
 here Frank. It just gets annoying quick. Also when you get back to the security room, the cacophony 
 of survivors screaming and moaning drives you insane, because you can hear each one of them, although 
 they are in individually sealed rooms. Graphically, a few problems exist. The first is the small 
 text font during dialogue or in the minimap marker tabs. Those are very hard to read, however this 
 is alleviated in High Def or on just larger screens. Still, there was no need to make the text 
 that small. Second, the dog that is sort of responsible for the zombies getting into the mall looks 
 cartoonish and fake. Third would be that the lip sync with the dialogue is off at times.
  
  Overall the gameplay is fantastic and will keep most people interested for at least one complete 
 playthrough of the story. Each play through should take you about 8 hours for the 72 hour and Overtime 
 mode. Inifinity mode will last as long as you survive, so there is plenty of value there. I for 
 one have visited the Willamette mall 2 times already and have escaped twice, and plan to do so 
 again soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Just like alot of movies that are avant-garde, people would either love it or hate it. But those 
 who love it stay until the end because of the great story and gameplay.
  
  Since the beginning, zombie stories are clich&egrave; d and poorly writen, but this is a serious 
 exception since it is complex because of the personalities and reasons for zombies lurking around 
 in the mall. There are alot of twists in the storyline so be suprised. Although the beggining is, 
 as regular zombie stories are clich&egrave; d, obvious the thing that will happen are odd since 
 it's more than just zombies but cults, terrorists, government. I won't say anymore since from that 
 point there are spoilers. But none of it is linear so you don't have rush to play the entire game.
 
  
  The graphics are great from the designs of the people to the killing of zombies. Honestly though, 
 they are brilliant for this game, and it is extreamely overdone and that is the reason for its 
 briliance.
  
  The sound is very well executed from all the weapons being used to the voice acting. This makes 
 the story and the action more enjoyable, because if the sound was poor, the story would be tough 
 to understand (because of the small text) and it would be less enjoyable to kill the thousands 
 of zombies.
  
  Overall this game is a must, at least to try, you'll see and don't worry about the save system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Just when I thought CAPCOM was developing something really cool, to have fun with... brings Dead 
 Rising... a VG that uses G. Romero's wet dreams... Zombies rule the earth... or rule the mall.. 
 or... well... Zombies anyway.
  
  I think the game gives you what you're really expecting for... kill a bunch... I mean a huge bunch 
 of lazy zombies... that... why not.... want to kill you. Is really disappointing that the game 
 becomes repetitive once you get how to get through it... get anything you can... and smash it on 
 their creepy faces. Sounds funny, and it is, just not quite good enough to spend lots of time doing 
 it... If you want to laugh and enjoy maybe 30 min. of your life, get it.. if not.. just rent it 
 and enjoy... maybe eat some popcorn.. but don't waste your money.
  
  The whole idea is pretty nice, and looks awesome. The're no glitches and FPS issues, even when 
 you get almost the whole screen filled by zombies.. asking for more brains... hahaha... Of course.. 
 they need them... lol.
  
  You want to kill everything that moves on the screen... you got it... lol.
  
  Have fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rev_spazim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  You cannot deny that this game Rocks, so if'n you like your self some zombie killing goodness... 
 then this game is Good stuff pure and simple... The game play is easy to pick up and fun too. In 
 my opinion there are only three major miss steps in this game...
  
  1) You have only one save slot so save wisely.
  2) The music must go, so hopefully you have some 
 killer music on your 360 otherwise your going to go insane with the elevator music playing in the 
 back ground.
  3) This last one is a big deal the AI for the Survivors is just plain stupid I have seen Blind, 
 Def, Mute's with more response then these guys... even if you give these guys weapons they act 
 as if they have fluffy mittens on instead of Zombie killing tools. but this could just be my opinion.
 
  
  All in all if you like to kill Zombies this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazaman125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all the graphics rock, and the blood effects are really detailed but a very few amount 
 of clippping issues (jo's second chin) th sound is awesome, as GS sed when you make contact with 
 a zombies neck with that chainsaw? youll want to do it a thousand times! Boss Fights are extremely 
 unrealistic but extremely awesome!, for instance ive shot jo in the head about 50-60 times and 
 she wasnt even bleeding.
  
  The game is long, .......... well its about 6 hours of 72 hour story mode in which u kill phycopaths (bosses) 
 and unleash carnage on  (wait till u c what a lawnmower can do 
 to a group of undead ppl) although GS is wrong about the game, you said there was only 1 save point 
 and few autosaves.. LIERS! ypu can go to the tolets whenever you want to save and when u die you 
 respawn there! well trhe game rocks, youll want to play it for months on end!
  
  Thats it from me ! Charlie a
  (thanks to jordan b)
  
  BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in dead rising isn't all that fun. You can literally pick up anything and throw them 
 at zombies or smack in the face but it wears off fast. The good thing is that it lasts 72 hours 
 I heard... and you can just free roam pretty much the whole game if you want. You can get guns and 
 change clothes and pick up random stuff... and I mean random. Graphics: The graphics are great and 
 the frame rate is very smooth and almost never glitches up.
  
  Sound: The sound is awsome but hanging around zombies would probably get anoying from all the graoning 
 etc.
  
  Value: I think it's worth buying but maybe I think it''s not that great because I only played it 
 for maybe half an hour. This is probably one of the most funnest games but at the same time not 
 the funnest game for the 360. SO overall I give dead rising a 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this piece of text reflects my appreciation of the game, and do not, 
 by any means should annoy anyone, I think I have the right to be disappointed with the game.
  
  I've been a huve mid 80's horror movie fan since..., the mid 80's. Although I've passed the 
 teen years I continue to be a huge fan of Carpenter, Romero, and friends.
  RPG's are one of my favourite game genres, so Dead Rising had my name on it, I thought. Bought 
 the special edition one month prior to release date.
  Set a real special enviroment here at my place.
  
  When I started to play it was a real treat, 
 I mean, aesthetically the game's great, graphics make use of the Havok engine (same as Saint's 
 Row, altough, imo, they're not as good as SR) quite well, the sound even surpassed my expections. 
 The plot is one of the best I've seen, ever!
  
  So why I'm not having a good time so far ?
  1. The game structure. The way Capcom imposes it 
 to be played. There's this sort of real time structure in conjuction with the one-save-slot that 
 messed the game for the way I like to play them. For once, the game's too beautifull for me to 
 be in a rush all the time, and I mean ALL the time!
  2. Escort missions, or should I say nursing NPC's. You got to nurse NPC's 75% of the game, Other 
 charecters gain a protagonism, that in my opinion, they shouldn't have. And they need constant 
 attention. now mix that with a mediocre AI, when they can't open a simple door, and you got pain.
 
  3. The main character is too underpowered in the 1st 20 plays, that means doing the 1st part of 
 the game, until you know every dialog by heart (although it'll help in the dialog's font size known-problem) .
 
  4. The one-slot-save, and save spots too far appart.
  Basicaly those are the points, and it's not each one per-se, wich could have worked, it's the mix 
 of all them, that's making the experience sub-par (and of couse, the huge expectations I had) .
 
  
  I understand that Capcom wanted to make this a real zombie infested experience, but why for instance 
 do not exist child zombies in the + 53K universe of undead ? unimpressive.
  
  I'll continue to play the game, and you should give it a try, but I wanted to write this, maybe 
 it can help someone to understand the particularities of the game before dropping the admission 
 fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammondman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Capcom fails to disappoint us once again. This game was surely worth the wait. One big mall, class 
 main character, 52,000 zombies and s*** loads of weapons is enough to make an instant classic. 
 Basically the game starts off with Frank West (paparazzi and main character) flying over Wilamette, 
 colorado, taking pictures of the havoc happening below. He presumes its a riot, but presumes wrong...
 
  
  Eventually when he enters the mall, you have three days till that chopper returns for you, (which 
 frank tells the pilot just before he jumps out) . Frank Is very dedicated to get the ultimate scoop 
 which could make him famous.
  
  You play the game how you want with 5 or 6 different endings, there are random survivors around 
 the mall which you are told about on a tranceiver Otis gives you (get the game, i cant tell you 
 everything) , there is also a main story line which you play through by a number of cases which 
 start at diffrent times of each day, you must keep track of your watch. Three days in the game 
 last about 6 normal hours.
  
  You dont have to do the storyline, you dont even have to be a good guy, you can get the random 
 chainsaw and kill any survivor u find, you can even add a funny costume to go with it, but you 
 wouldnt be the onl one wanting other than zombie blood, there are also several psychopaths around 
 the mall, including a perverted cop, a cult leader (along with his cultists, they are creepy) and 
 double chainsaw weilding clown. They are the games bosses but are virtually easy, some anyway.
 
  
  The zombies arent actually the big problem within the game, the problem is infact keeping up with 
 everything like saving people (which you dont have to do) , completing the cases (also optional) 
 and having fun, you only have three days!
  
  Overall, i cant explain everything, you just have to get the game to see how fun it is and how 
 good the plot turns out to be with a well thought out storyline behind the zombie outbreak. There 
 are over 30 survivors to save, 52,000 zombies to slaughter and loads of weapons to use. What are 
 you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillet27
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is a full on, gory, intense, zombie action game. Your character, Frank West, starts 
 out very weak and slow. But the more zombies you send crawling back into their grave the stronger 
 he becomes. The great part about leveling up is that in any new game you start Frank will have 
 the level you just earned! This game does not disapoint when i comes to ways of killing zombies. 
 Of course you'll have your stand in's, shotguns, chainsaws, but the real fun is using unconventional 
 weapons ex. CD's, barrels, water pistols, dumbbells, anything you can think of. The one and only 
 problem i have with this game is it's save system. You can have one save game, you can not have 
 mutiple saves!! Plus you can only save in a bathroom or the security room! Because of this you 
 will have to do some things over, but at least you can skip the cut-scenes! All in all this game 
 is pure fun at its best, it is a different experience than walking thorugh the same old haunted 
 house waiting for something to happen, there are no dull points in this game, and plus with a funny 
 story and great characters you can't go wrong!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawhop
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  great game, if you hate your boss or work or you had a stressful day all you have do take it out 
 on Zombies. Unlike resident evil with slow walking go find (something something) to win the game. 
 but in this game it all about time, and chopping up Zombies along the way. chainsaws, swords, hammers 
 and axes theses are your tools of your trade. chop, cut, break, and gain points. plus gain some points 
 learn some new moves to help you along the way. I think as EVIL DEAD mixed with DAWN OF THE DEAD. 
 Go save some people, play around get a score that make your friends go WHOA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonlordagony
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a new franchise by Capom. It involves killing thousands of zombies and a couple 
 of people if you want to. Gameplay: Gameplay in Dead Rising is very simple, there are very few 
 things you need to do that involve even a hint of complexity. Combat is usually resolved with the 
 X button but as you advance in level, you unlock new karate moves, like disemboweling your enemies. 
 These combos are usually just the X and A buttons along with a variation of left analog stick movement. 
 Unlockable moves include, Disembowelment (My favorite) , The Face Smasher (Anybody who knows what 
 a bull dog is will understand) , The Hammer Throw, The Suplex, The Jumpkick, and The Spinning Jump 
 Kick (Basically a back flip that decapitates zombies) . Combat being fun and simple is however not 
 boring due to a huge variety of weapons you are given to work with, these can range from a hunting 
 knife or gun to a plant potter or a bench. Almost everything is a weapon. Zombies attack in mass 
 and there is almost always a screenfull of zombies in front of you. Psychopaths also lurk around 
 the mall looking to wreak hell. These are very interesting and enjoyable although thoroughly twisted 
 characters. Survivor escort missions are annoying but are also not necissicary to complete the 
 game so ignore them if you want. The reason they are annoying is that they are dumb and stop to 
 fight when they shouldn't. Graphics: They are impressive, not the best I've ever seen, but the 
 fact that they can put 1,000 zombies on screen with no lag is impressive enough for me. Blood is 
 excessive. It's great.
  
  Sound: Nothing spectacular.
  
  Story: You're Frank West, a photojournalist in Willamette, CO on a scoop of something big. When 
 you get there you find the town cut off by the military and swarming with the living dead. You 
 go to the mall which is the largest structure looking for answers. Your story revolves around getting 
 your big scoop and the eventurally saving the world. Then escaping. Yahoo.
  
  Overall this is a great game, the only problem that I can really see is that you can have only 
 one save per profile. Achievements are a pain in the ass as well. Like 7 day survivor. If Achievements 
 are important to you buy the game, if they aren't then buy it anyways. It will provide you with 
 days of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theone86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I liked the concept for this game as soon as I heard it. While there have been some good zombie 
 killing games, there are none that have such an interactive and open-ended take. Instead of putting 
 you in a rigid storyline with one homicidal force trying to further their own twisted goals, Dead 
 Rising puts you right in the middle of a mall overflowing with zombies. Now you, a reporter looking 
 for the ultimate scoop, are tasked not only with helping the feds track down the source of the 
 infestation but also getting yourself and any other survivors out alive. To make everything even 
 more interesting, the mall is littered with survivors who have gone mad from experiencing the horrors 
 of the zombie plague. The joy of killing mindless zombies in every way possible will keep any good 
 zobie hating gamer occupied for hours on end. Of course there is that annoying little matter of 
 helping others around you (A Vietnam vet, two DEA agents, and a moron with a shotgun manage to 
 get less accomplished than a headstrong reporter? Wassup wit dat?) . Fortunately, the survivors 
 and psychopaths are just as entertaining as the many ways of killing zombies. Early in the game, 
 there is much time allowed to follow these small side quests, but later on main storylines become 
 more clustered, making it harder to accomplish these side quests. While most people have had the 
 lack of time as a primary complaint with this game, I think it presents an interesting element 
 of time management. My biggets gripe is the A. I. of the survivors. Most of the time, there are 
 too many zombies to effectively clear a path for your survivors, so your best option is making 
 a beeline for a safe zone and hoping your survivors are smart enough to follow. Unfortunately, 
 this is not always the case. Some choose to fight zombies or run into the biggest group of zombies 
 they can find, causing you to turn your attention to them and away from any other survivors you 
 might have. This gets increasingly frustrating with large groups. I have noticed that certain survivors 
 are a little more inept than others, but I wish they would have a little more common sense. Other 
 than that, the game is great. The open-ended environment gives you a real sense of what it might 
 be like to be a protagonist in a George A. Romero type horror-survival film. The details are great 
 from the design of the mall, to the variety of weapons, food, and clothes, down to the music and 
 eery PA messages. The Psychopaths are very entertaining and take on a bit of a political role in 
 displaying underlying fears and hatred in society. The game itself has a political tone that isn't 
 prevelant enough to take away from the sheer enjoyment of killing zombies, and the story even takes 
 a political turn near the end. The game itself is very thought-provoking, and you can tell that 
 much attention was paid in regards to creating a certain subtlty in the game. The game also renders 
 extreme replay value in its accomplishments and overtime and survival modes. If you own a 360 and 
 dont mind a little gore, then this game is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I did not have a chance to purchase Dead Rising the first day it was out. I was researching in 
 the forums and noticed everyone talking about the horrible save system and the AI of the survivors 
 was not very good. Well I thought I would take a chance on the game and sure glad I did! I believe 
 the graphics are awesome, every once in a while you may get a skip or two but nothing to serious. 
 The beginning of the game is a little slow to get started but takes off pretty quick. There are 
 loading screens through out the game but they are also pretty quick. Since playing I believe the 
 save system and the AI of the survivors is like it is to make the game more challenging. The achievements 
 for the game are def geared to make sure you play the game more than once. There are many different 
 strategies that you may use to complete the game which makes for different game play. You also 
 have a ton of weapons at your disposal. If it was a decision to rent or buy, I would say buy it! 
 There are some people that truly do not like this game but in my opinion it will stand with the 
 best games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakshow59
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Playing at a new place I've found, now I have a pretty good selection of Xbox 360 games. This is 
 the first game I've picked and been playing it since. Sitting through the cutscenes (Yes, I am 
 aware I can skip them, but I like knowing what's happening, that way I don't lost halfway in) I 
 thought it was gonna take forever to get them over with. In the beginning, too many and how the 
 zombies got in, WEAK! A freaking old lady caring too much about her poodle **** is how the zombies 
 got in? Way too weak, I hate that in a game. Anyway, overall, a good game to pass time with and 
 definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  I didn't buy the game but I kinda wish I did I rented for the week at blockbuster and played pretty 
 much non-stop until I had to bring it back. Pro-The gameplay is so addictive its almost impossible 
 for the game's system become repetitive enough so you wouldn't want to put this title back in. 
 There are literally hundreds and hundreds of weapons to use... even though most of them are useless 
 its still fun beating a zombie to **** with a hanger or maybe a pile of cds you picked up. They 
 give you the average weapons but there just not fun to use compared to other outrageous stuff you 
 can find in the huge mall. Graphics aren't amazing but you wont be able to complain when your hauling 
 down thousands of zombies with a chainsaw with blood flying everywhere. The story was surprisingly 
 interesting and compelling pretty much the whole way through and kept you rushing from place to 
 place trying to get there before the clock strikes past the time con- The saving system pretty 
 much sucks ass... the team who made this game really wasn't thinking to intelligently at the time 
 when they said yeah lets put only one save slot in the game so its gets everybody that plays frustrated..... lol 
 fucking **** anyway the animations and the frame rate may be sluggish at times. And the side missions 
 pretty much suck in my opinion and rescuing people may get frustrating when they don't listen and 
 die like complete idiots. But you'll learn how look past all these cause the game so fun
  
  overall- simply just buy the game even rent if you don't have enough money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I just want to say that this game is one of the best games ever made. If you are yet to play it 
 definitely do so. I love this game and can play for hours on end. It really isn't like anything 
 from Romero's Dawn of the Dead. I wish people would stop complaining about it. If you have a problem, 
 talk to the company itself or keep it to yourself. If your asking questions that you think might 
 have been asked before, make sure that nothing like your question has been asked before. If there 
 is already a guide telling you what to do, don't ask, read the guide. That's what they're there 
 for. Only post for help or second opinions that you can't get anywhere else. To conclude, play 
 it, if you don't like it or think it's too hard, harden the **** up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_Potter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  It's been 29 days since I first landed on the roof of Parkview mall in the small town of Willamette, 
 Colorado. When I first jumped out of that helicopter I thought that I'd stay in the mall for the 
 72 game hours I had been given and then leave and only return for a quick fix when ever I needed 
 to see lots of blood and gore. I soon realized that this was not going to be the case. Since I'm 
 a big fan of all things zombie, I soon realized that the Keiji Inafune and his crew had done their 
 homework. From the very beginning I was being served an experience just like a George A. Romero 
 movie and I just fell in love with it! And I'm going to try and convince you why you will do the 
 same!
  
  Gameplay:
  For those of you who haven't played the demo, I'll tell you the basics. Frank controls like most 
 other game characters, you run around using the left thumbstick and use X to attack things, you 
 can also press the right trigger to enter an over-the-shoulder mode (like RE4) and use the weapons 
 you have in different ways, some you just throw away when in this mode (melee weapons mostly) , 
 but then there are the guns which of course aim much better in this mode, and there are also some 
 things (like hockey clubs, golf clubs, bowling balls, etc) that will allow you to use them as you 
 would normally use them (in a non-zombies situation that is) . The other thing about the gameplay 
 is that in the beginning you will probably feel kind of weak, you start out with no real abilities 
 except the ability to jump and use weapons, and then as you progress and beat bosses, complete 
 missions, kill zombies and escort survivors to safety, you gain levels and with this gain more 
 attack power, speed, health slots and new cool attacks that you can use to get the zombies out 
 of your way. This makes you feel like you really are getting better at what you are doing as you 
 progress through the game.
  Another thing that has been talked a lot about is the save system. the thing about the save system 
 is that you only have one slot per profile so you can only save over your previous saved game when 
 you want to save the next time, this can cause problems sometimes since the game uses a time mechanic 
 which gives you deadlines to get from mission to mission, so sometimes when you've been doing a 
 couple of side missions and need to get to the next mission you realize that you are at the exact 
 opposite side of the mall and that you really need to boot it to the next mission if you want to 
 get there in time, then all of a sudden you realize the truth, no matter what you do you'll never 
 make it, you have to reboot your last save. But wait, you just saved in one of the mall's bathrooms 
 a couple of minutes ago! You then realize that no matter what you do, you CAN'T make it; you have 
 to restart the entire game from the very beginning!
  Oh, well, that's what I've heard has happened to loads of people who have played this game, let 
 me assure you it has never happened to me... If you pay attention to the clock at least the first 
 time you play through the game you should be able to avoid these problems pretty much all together. 
 Then there is one small thing that also needs to be mentioned is the fact that if you are playing 
 on a standard definition television (like I was) the game will sometimes take a frustrating turn 
 when it comes to its text size. Sometimes it is just impossible to see what someone is saying 
 and even though it doesnt really hurt the overall value of the game since you can almost always 
 simply choose the mission from your mission list and get a nice little arrow to point you in the 
 direction of the next mission, it would still be nice to get to hear all the dialog thats going 
 on around you. Because sometimes it can be quite mood setting or funny since all the characters 
 have different backgrounds and stories to tell.
  
  Visuals:
  I remember when this game was first shown at E3 2005, everyone talked about how this game just 
 looked like an average Xbox game with more enemies on the screen at once than an original Xbox 
 could handle. A long time has gone since then and this game had changed into something much better 
 than that of the demo at E3. First of all Frank, the main character no longer has a constant facial 
 expression that makes you think hes constipated or something, second of all the zombies have been 
 a little fine tuned and now look better, even though you see the same zombies a little too often 
 for the games own good.
  The characters in general look very good; I was surprised, even though I had enormous expectations 
 of this game I still didnt imagine that the cast of characters would be so well done both physically 
 and psychologically. Of course some characters arent as well done as the most important ones, 
 many of the survivors are pretty plainly done, but that is to be expected in a game with so many 
 characters in it. Dead Rising also has some of the most memorable bosses in the history of video 
 games. They are all extreme versions of stereotypes that we all know and love. Theres Steve, the 
 store owner who will do anything to stop shoplifters, Cletus the hick who owns the rifle shop 
 in the mall who speaks with a southern accent and drinks all the time and then of course theres 
 Adam, a clown that wields two chainsaws and complains over the fact that no one laughs at him since 
 the zombies came and scared all the people away.
  Then last but certainly not least is the mall itself, full of colors and all kinds of weird stores. 
 The mall basically looks like youre dream place for a game like this, there are different plazas 
 that all have different themes and color schemes. For example in the North Plaza, which is under 
 construction there are things such as a camera store, garden store, and a super market where you 
 can find loads of health items. In Wonderland Plaza there is an overall childish theme, with a 
 roller coaster and big bunnies and playground all around, basically the game does its best to 
 make it feel like you really have different reasons to go to different parts of the mall and in 
 most cases it succeeds in this aspect.
  
  Audio:
  Dont really have much to say here, because quite frankly, the audio is great. All the sounds of 
 stuff hitting other stuff is great, axes, shower heads, lawn mowers, bowling balls and chainsaws 
 make the sounds you expect them to so in that aspect the game is pretty much complete.
  Then theres the voice acting, which also, is really superb. All the characters have good voice 
 actors that make the dialog sound like its taken directly from a zombie movie, I especially like 
 the voice actor that plays Frank, he makes a really good effort and definitely comes off as the 
 best of the otherwise still really good cast of actors.
  
  Story:
  The story starts out quite simple; you are Frank West a photojournalist that has spent his life 
 covering wars and other horrible things. So Frank gets a tip that something weird is going on in 
 the little mountain town of Willamette, Colorado. Frank sets off to find out what this is all about 
 arrives in town by helicopter only to find the whole town in chaos. So Frank tells the pilot to 
 let him off on the roof of the mall and come back for him in 72 hours. So at this point to take 
 control of Frank and you start to meet people in the mall that have survived the outbreak thus 
 far and as you help these people you slowly but surely uncover the truth behind the outbreak, and 
 all Im going to say is that there is more going on behind the scenes than one might think.
  
  Overall Impression:
  I completely love Dead Rising; its been the game Ive been waiting 
 for since I got my hands on my 360 on launch day. It does everything right mostly and if you are 
 a fan of zombies movies you will most certainly notice it. The game also does like most zombie 
 movies in showing that during a zombie outbreak its not the zombies that are the real threat its 
 the people that are dangerous since they often take an unstable turn when put under pressure.
 
  So to sum it all up, Dead Rising manages to combine an engaging story with brilliant characters 
 with great level design, good gameplay mechanics, great audio presentation and good old violence 
 and gore. Anyone with a 360 should definitely check it out and all of you without a 360, go play 
 the Resident Evil remake for the Gamecube since thats the only zombie game thats better than 
 this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Couldn't help but just blast and blast away at thousands of zombies and zombeasts... lol... Nothing 
 more frightening than the sound, magnificent audio in the game! I was more hesitant to finish some 
 missions due to the sound alone... believe that?... I'm a visual person but I love sound so on 
 my system 36 Sony Wega Trinintron is a Sony 7.1 surround sound system that's set on Arena with 
 extra bass from my Bose woofer is scary!!!... Hmmmm, just in time for Halloween! I'm thinking of 
 putting my other 35 Inch Sony by the kitchen window and have the 360 showing Dead Rising ! That 
 would be a good trick for the kids when they T&amp; Ting by my house! OH YEAH! so now the game has 
 more value than just gameplay, it's now also used to deploy fear onto Trick-or-Treaters! Especially 
 with the scary audio! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  if yur the kind of person who likes to kick zombie ass then this is the game for you. in this game 
 your a man named frank west who is traped in a mall for 3 days and the ony way to get out is to 
 fight our way out and find out the whole scoop on the zombie incident. you can go into a variety 
 of different stores and restaurents. there i every weapon, item in this game, you name it they 
 have it. you will aslo fight different bosses or pychopaths. you can also do sub scoops like saving 
 hostages and stuff like that. there are so many secreat items nd clothing i this game. all you 
 need to do to get these secreats is unlock the certain acheivments. you wil never want to put your 
 controller down once you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok my first impressions of this game was it lacked alot of gameplay because the mall was too big 
 when i mean big i mean San Andreas big so yeah it took allot of time out of the story missions 
 but it was a hell of alot of fun to kill the zombies with just about every weapon in the perimeter.
 
  The game at first went from violently dull to a funny compelling game that kept you wondering 
 what the next mission was gonna be.
  I felt really creeped out by how many zombies were in the game there was millions of these things 
 everywhere in the game. In conclusion is say that 8.9 is a reasonable score i recommend this game 
 to anybody that like resident evil or any zombie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a bit hard to explain. It's dark, creepy, vilolent, thrilling and funny... all rolled 
 into one experience. It's the one game that just might capture the survivalist nature in each of 
 us. Other horror games mostly just capture the dark and brooding nature of a horrifiying incident 
 and you know that it will make you jump, however, Dead Rising constantly throws you off balance. 
 The player is always forced into guessing, planning, and adapting. You're given 72 hours to survive 
 and a realisticly sized mega mall filled with zombies to do it in... everything else is completely 
 up to you. Unlike most survival/horror games, you're not forced or led into anything. Instead, 
 you are left on your own to get in and out of trouble through your own choices and impulses. ,br&gt;
 
  
  STORYLINE:
  The main character's name is Frank, a freelance journalist and photographer. The story starts with 
 him heading for a small town in a helicopter, because a tip told him that something big was happening 
 there. Instantly Frank reliezes that the tip, **** as it was, was a good one because the military 
 had already blocked the roads. The helicopter made it past the quarrenten, however, and both Frank 
 and the helicopter piolet where greeted with a horrifing bird's eye view of a choatic violence 
 down bellow. Frank continued to take pictures, until the helicopter happen to fly over a new mega 
 mall that happened to have a helipad on the roof. Frank ignored the piolet's reluctence and asked 
 to set down on the roof. Just before landing the military choppers showed up and Frank was uncerimoniously 
 dumped onto the roof with nothing but his camera while the helicoper tryed to evade the military. 
 Just before he left the piolet promised to try and come back in three days at 12:00 am. From there 
 he meets a strange spain guy chillin' on the roof who evaded his questions and told him to look 
 in the mall for himself to find out what's going on. Frank makes his way to the main entrance to 
 find a handfull of distressed people trying to create a stable barricade against, not a violent 
 mob, but... (gasp!) zombies! Frank, very confused, but left with no real choice trys to help, but 
 a crazy old lady ruins everything by trying to get out in an attempt to save her poodle. She makes 
 a hole in the barricade and the zombies pour in, killing everybody... except Frank who is lead to 
 safety under the shouted orders of by, Brad, a DHS agent. Frank makes it up to a security room 
 alone and with no other survivers in sight, Brad has a surviving janitor, Otis, weld the door shut. 
 The only exites now lead back to the roof and through a vent back to the mall. Frank trys to get 
 answers from both Brad and his partner, Jessie, but they evade his questions and leave him and 
 Otis to there own devices.
  
  From here the player can do anything and go anywhere they want. I liked the story sequences. Considering 
 the fact that everything is timed throughout the whole game, you can play it over and still get 
 alternate storylines that create alternate endings. There is, of course, a main story that you 
 could follow, in order to grasp what's going on, but it's up to you whether or not you want to 
 do it. You get leads for missions from Otis and Jessie usually, but as time changes things and 
 you stumble throught the mall chaos has a funny way of making you stumble into situations that 
 you had no idea where coming unless you played through the game a couple of times (or have one 
 of those game guides, which I don't really recommend for this game as it sort of spoils most of 
 the surprise factor needed to make this game as good as it is) and even then you might stumble 
 into something different each times (unless of course you spoil in with a Walkthrough or game guide) .
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Inventive and intense, the gameplay pushes the survival genre to a whole knew level. 
 There are no real rules, just you and 72 hours of time to kill. There is a mall filled with stuff 
 to use as weaponary, food to eat, cloths to try on, horrors to take pictures of, people to find 
 and rescue, phycopaths to fight off, zombies to fight off, car to drive, secrets to uncover... ect. 
 Unless you cheated an planned everything to a T, it's almost to much to finish in the time given. 
 The imense freedom of the environment along with the time constrant of 72 hour adds both to the 
 adreniline rush and replay value in a very possitive way.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are... well... graphic. Much of the cutscenes and action sequences feature what is to 
 be expected in a zombie game: blood and gore among other things. However, what make is game different 
 from the rest is that the setting, tools and other featured in the evironment, are unbelievably 
 accurate. The mall isn't twisted to make it seem evil, like in other horror games, it's potrayed 
 for what it is: A mall, a beautifly designed mall, but a mall none the less. The shops, the decorations, 
 the objects Frank can use.... they all look as if they could all really exist somewhere. The graphics 
 to a big part in the more survivalist nature of this game... rather than just make it horror filled. 
 Ether way the graphics looked great.
  
  SOUND: The sound was expertly done. Everything sounds incredibly accurate as well. The mall plays 
 overhead tunesand advertisments you expect to hear in a mall, the action and suspense music really 
 gets you involved, and the voice actors where very good at delivering their lines.
  
  COMPLAINTS:
  In my opinion, there was not much to complain about. Some people had issues with 
 the fact that this game had save points, but I personally didn't get too frustrated with that myself. 
 What did get me annoyed was that the on screen text whenever anyone spoke was so darn SMALL. We 
 have a big screen TV that takes up a good portion of our wall and I still could barely make out 
 what the text said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomthedude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  So, Capcom, the makers of the Resident evil series, have made a zombie horror game on the 360. 
 And it is called Dead Rising.
  
  The box says 'this game is not affiliated with Dawn of the Dead', but the plot is almost identical. 
 Frank West, a photographer is sent to Willamette Parkview mall to see what scoops he can uncover. 
 Yes, you guessed it, the mall is overrun by zombies. Thousands of them. And your flight home wont 
 arrive for 72 hours.
  
  What happens until then is up to you. You could just hide in a cupboard, if thats what you really 
 wanted. Or you could smash the living heck out of 'em using the malls hundreds of different items. 
 Theres baseball bats, Potted plants, cash registers, golf clubs and even a lawnmower. But, Every 
 seemingly good game has its bad points, and this game is no exception. The save system. Total garbage. 
 Imagine, if you will, you are down to your last bar of health and the only loo is on the top floor. 
 And, what if you were killed, and you hadn't saved. Well, your only option is to restart THE WHOLE 
 game again but keeping your exp and prestige points. Bummer.
  
  If you just want to smash zombies to bits, GET THIS GAME, But if you are a completest, you should 
 probably avoid this because of the horrid save system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  this game is the funniest game ever!!! The Graphinc are great and lots of blood. the sound is really 
 good. the values are alright but the best is the gameplay!!! take a chair to a shopping cart and 
 throw it at zombie its really fun!!! there over 100 weapon, food, juices (give you special efect) , 
 vehicule, clothes and over!!! You can dress as a women or a sport guy or a business man!!! You 
 can eat raw food and spoil food too! drive a car, truck or a motocircle!!!! You can go naked hand 
 and try the specail move that you learned while going up levels. save survivor and kill psycopath 
 that are in your way!!! This game is to try!! great game for capcom!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuts
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  in this game you are a photo-reporter that wants to get a good scoop. infact he discovers that 
 something is going wrong in this little city and he wants to investigate. when he lands he discovers 
 that the whole city is infested by zombies. so he is left in this huge shopping mall for 72 hours 
 to discover what happened. in the game basically you have to survive the 72 hours until the helicopter 
 arrives and get a good story about the zombie-infection. during gameplay you have a lot of choices: 
 you can save the survivors or just hang around for a few hours just killing zombies. killing zombies 
 is VERY fun especially when you unblock special abilities like wrestling moves. in the game everything 
 you find can be a weapon. and that sometimes turns the horror game into a funny game because killing 
 a zombie with CDs, skateboards, tennis balls, fake laser swords, big umbrellas, plasma screens, 
 chairs, weights, guitars, axes, chainsaws, and everything you can find it's hilarious. the controls 
 are well-made, the graphics and sound are awesome but the only bad thing is the game saving system, 
 especially at the beginning when you're not very good and you can die more easily, re-spawning 
 at the beginning of the level can get very frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExteriorK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  The Good: Tons of zombies to kill; you can any object to kill more and more enemies; lots of secrets 
 and suprises
  
  The Bad: Graphics are a bit bad design
  
  First of all, when the first time I've ever played this game, it was OK with the zombie killing, 
 and the adventuring, but I can't see why the graphics are so weird. Well, it's not about the graphics, 
 it's about survival, killing, and helping your way out through the game. It's a pretty decent adventurious 
 game through-out a mall, anyway. It's not so bad, that the mall is big enough to help you escape. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin_allan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Over here in the UK there's this food called Marmite and they have pretty much one of the most 
 ingenious advertisement campaigns I've seen in ages, you see half of adverts were about people 
 who hated the food and the other half were people who loved Marmite. The beauty of the adverts 
 were that you still tried Marmite regardless and formed an opinion on it as a result, which often 
 led to funny - and sometimes heated debates on the merits and flaws of Marmite. Dead Rising is 
 the Marmite of the gaming community. Some people love it, some hate it but it's still here in all 
 its gaming glory.
  
  You play journalist Frank West who has come to the small town of Willamette where not all is as 
 it seems. Well it is all as it seems, it's just hard to believe that the whole population of the 
 town has turned to zombies and it's Frank's job to find out how this happened and why.
  
  The game itself is absolutely gorgeous, if you have an HD-TV. The graphics are astounding and the 
 sound of crushing a zombies head is as close as you're going to get to the real thing (or so i'm 
 told) . If you have an SD-TV then you'll be lucky if you can even make out the words on the screen 
 and well the visuals aren't as sublime as you'd hope,. Didn't someone test that out at Capcom? 
 I mean come on!!
  
  The game itself is like one huge open ended deadline and that again can be viewed with the Marmite 
 approach. You play the game, or rather the game plays itself regardless of what you do or do not 
 do. You have three 'game' days to survive the mall and uncover the truth behind the zombies, yet 
 this runs in a sort of real time so you can actually miss game events and as such the story can 
 pass you by. This style of game is new and unique if you can appreciate what the developers had 
 in mind at the time, although unfortunately it's the developers that have made this idea more of 
 an annoyance than a revelation. NPC AI is stupid to say the least and these characters will often 
 be the cause for the game being ruined, as opposed to you dying. And only being able to save the 
 game on one slot can lead to some hard decision choices that really shouldn't be needed in the 
 circumstances yet regardless of what happens you can carry your character across to your new game, 
 keeping all his hard earned attributes. On the other hand all the Psychopaths (survivors who act 
 as mini bosses) you encounter are quite possibly the most memorable boss battles i've fought since 
 Metal Gear Solid on the Playstation. From a dual chainsaw wielding clown to a obese lesbian sadist 
 cop, these bosses not only deserve a beating at your hands they each have so much personality that 
 you'll want to do it time and time again. The main hero Frank West starts the game as a weak defenseless 
 survivor but as the game progresses and you perform tasks you are rewarded with prestige points 
 which in turn allow you to level up which can aid you with increased strength, health or some other 
 potentially life saving skill. This idea is the main incentive behind saving survivors in the mall, 
 as they will turn you into a bad ass journalist - something we all want to be deep down inside 
 and believe me there is nothing more satisfying in the game than laying waste to thousands of zombies. 
 Unfortunately all is not as it seems as the system to control Frank isn't so much bad ass, more 
 like just plain bad. Aiming is performed over the shoulder ala resident evil 4, except without 
 the grace. Sometimes you have to aim in front of Franks body, normally Frank turns see through 
 to let you aim although that isn't always the case sometimes leaving you vulnerable as you guess 
 where the zombies could be. Physically controlling Frank can be hard work also, the jump button 
 feels unresponsive and some of the hand to hand combat requires clicking the analogue sticks and 
 pressing buttons at the same time which is just downright stupid, but effective if you get right.
 
  
  Finally the last ingredient to all this madness would of course be the zombies themselves, and 
 again these have both good and bad points also. Straight up the zombies here are probably the best 
 in any zombie game... ever. Each zombie seems to have a life (?) of its own, with it's own priorities 
 and personality. The zombie AI is frightening effective with one zombies being a annoyance but 
 a horde of zombies being deadly. Unfortunately even the zombies have a ying to their yang... mainly 
 that they re-spawn in set areas if you leave them for too long, why this occurs is a mystery as 
 it is soul destroying to kill a a horde of zombies and lead a pack of survivors to a door only 
 to to have the zombies respawn if you leave that area for a second. Zombies also seem to follow 
 the Oblivion rule of pop up where you can see most of the major scenery yet zombies appear out 
 of thin air as you run towards them.
  
  Overall if you can over look some of Dead Rising's faults you'll find yourself being immersed in 
 a great story and environment that won't let go when it's got you in it's grasp, but to some people 
 the faults will ruin the game and will tarnish the experience. If these faults can be addressed 
 by Dead Rising 2 (come on, Capcom's first no 1 since code veronica, you know it's gonna happen) 
 as well as multiplayer being added (resident evil outbreak anyone?) Capcom would be onto a classic. 
 Either way, like Marmite you have to try this game and form your own opinion first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  There have been zombie games before. but never quite like this. never have there been over 53 thousand 
 zombies to kill. never have you been able to use anything in the mall (or anywhere) to kill these 
 zomibes. never have we seen this great a frame rate. never have we seen this great of graphics 
 on a zombie action game. This game basically has everything you would want in a zombie game. the 
 only part about this game is that you can only save in the safe place, or in the restrooms in the 
 mall (which i have found 1 of throughout the whole game) . Everyone complains about you only getting 
 one save and how you cant go back to certain spots. i dont find this annoying. i dont find this 
 a bother at all. i find this not even annoying. i see this as something that you realise dosent 
 really matter after a while. This game really holds up a very spectacular frame rate. im not sure 
 what it is, but its very impressive. Its great how they can do this so that when your in a big 
 part of the mall, or looking over a balcony you can see hundreds of zombies just walking around. 
 Another of my favorite aspects in this game is the mall design, which doesnt really get much praise, 
 but i think it should. there are many objects for killing zombies really in the best place. also, 
 how if you explore and jump onto different things and climb, you can find some pretty interesting 
 objects in which to kill zombies. There is one part of this game which i love. how they make you 
 hate those zombies. you see them eat, and kill real people in the beginning and throughout the 
 game. also, when they try to kill you, and take away some of your health, you just want to get 
 a freakin baseball bat and hit a freakin zombie homerun. Another thing they did here, was advertise 
 for CAPCOM inside the game, and i think this is just one of the funniest things ive seen ever in 
 a video game. For example: The watch you use to cheak what time it is too see when the zomibes 
 get stronger (night time) and to basically see how much time is left, has the megaman symbol and 
 it says megaman right on it. also, after you beat the psycopaths you get peices to mega mans costume 
 and you can collect the whole thing. Basically what a psycopath is, is a person that has gone crazy 
 due to the zombies coming. the first one you face is a crazed grocery store owner who has gone 
 crazed thinking that people are vandalizing his store. another is a clown who juggles chainsaws 
 and has turned into a psycopath because no one laughs at him anymore because of everyone being 
 eaten by zombies. Comical psycopaths? I would think so. When it comes to the end, there are, i 
 beilve, 10 or more endings. I personally would never tell you what the endings are, or what they 
 consist of. i would then be a spoiler, and someone here from gamespot would have to kill me. but 
 if your looking for a hint, heres one: fat americans and meat processing. think about it. Alright, 
 theres the FIRST mode for you. Basically you go through these case files and each case is about 
 a day, or shorter. There are many, many side missions and if you answer the calls from otis (another 
 survivor) then he will inform you of them. you dont have to do the side missions, but you do have 
 to do the main missions, to keep the case files going, once they finish, you cannot advance in 
 the game. Alright, THERE is the first mode for you. The second mode is where the government basically 
 gasses the whole mall and de-zombifies everything in there (kills) . You are still in the mall meanwhile, 
 and you and your friend basically become zombies. You then have to find an antidote but meanwhile 
 you have these special agents, with machine guns, and they are trying to kill you. You then... well, 
 find out for yourself. The third, and final, mode is an infintive mode, where you basically have 
 to survive. for as long as you can. doesnt matter what you do. you just stay alive. no missions. 
 no help. nothing but you, the mall, all the weapons in it (and in the middle of it) and over 53 
 thousand zombies waiting to feast on you, and there all trying to get firsts. Of Cource, i forgot 
 to tell you about the character you are. you are photogropher frank west. you go to williamette, 
 colorado because of a tip you hear from someone. You then (stupidly) go on top of the mall and 
 go down into it. you find some survivors (about 15) and they are trying to blockade the doors. 
 something happens (youll see) and the zombies get in. You, Otis, Brad, and Jesse are the 4 people 
 left alive that you know of. there are also more people youll find along the way. There is the 
 game in, well, a nutshell (12 paragraphs, plus this one) . it is one of the best games out for the 
 360 and a must buy for all 360 owners. if you dont have this game, i would highly, HIGHLY recommend 
 this game for anyone who likes video games. if you dont like this game, on any level, well then 
 you are basicaly not a gamer. this is one game that when you buy it, you play it for countless 
 hours (i counted mine 11-5) 6 straight hours and then a little later i found myself playing again. 
 every day i would play for a while, because i was freakin hooked. This game is one of the best 
 ive ever seen. notice how i said seen insted of played because im talking about the stunning mall 
 placement. by hat i mean where everything is. i think this is one of my favorite parts. This is 
 a game you can find youself coming back to repeatedly. Well, i would give this game a 9.5. the 
 gameplay is terrific. the graphics are easily next-gen. the sound, well, my next paragraph will 
 be sound and value and tilt are good too. Sound. For this game. the best in a long time. and when 
 i say a long time, i mean a LONG time. every single weapon you use is incredible with the sound. 
 the slicing of the katana, the pouding of the sledgehammer, the roar of the chainsaw. this game 
 could easily get an 11 for sound, if there was one. but i would definitly give it an 11. but unfortunitly 
 i can only give it a 10. So theres Dead Rising. If youve read this review, it took me about a half 
 an hour to write, but im proud of it. If your reading this, and you havent read the whole thing, 
 then READ IT. ITS GOOD. and it took me half an hour out of my life. but im glad if i can get at 
 least 1 person to buy this game. and if your that one person, then please track me. JFannn, out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziilla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I was in love with this game as soon as the start menu popped up! It has absolutely stunning graphics, 
 neat characters &amp; a great storyline. The game starts out with you, Frank West, in a helicopter 
 flying to a town called Willamette, Colorado. You are a photojournalist attempting to make a story 
 on what you think is a large riot or uprising against the government. The military has all of the 
 roads blocked off so you are assuming it's something big. Then you notice the most populated place 
 in the town, the mall. You come in closer &amp; ask to be let down onto the roof, but as you do 
 so 2 or 3 military choppers close in behind you as you jump for it the pilot tells you he'll be 
 back in 3 days to get you. You enter the mall, &amp; you see some people making a barricade against 
 the front doors to the mall. As you get closer, a man confronts you &amp; tells you to help. When 
 you do so &amp; get closer to the doors you realize that the people they are trying to keep out 
 are already dead. Some missing eyes, limbs, noses &amp; other body parts. The man that confronted 
 you before notifies you that the things you are dealing with are zombies. Soon, someone wants something 
 important from the other side. So without thinking, she opens the door. Zombies pour into the mall! 
 As you attempt to reach the stairs with the few other survivors everyone else is being devoured 
 by flesh-craving, blood-thirsty somnambulists. After reaching a temporary fort you talk over what 
 is happening with everyone else. They're very secretive of the whole ordeal. So with that said, 
 it is up to YOU to figure out the mystery behind the zombie outbreak. Will you let the truth vanish 
 into darkness, smash anyone or anything in the way of your survival &amp; try to make it the 3 
 days on your own? Or will you discover the story behind it all, help anyone you can &amp; make 
 the 3 days &amp; get everyone you can out with you? It is up to you. I was very intrigued by this 
 game. It is so open-ended, you can smash a pie in the face of a zombie, or knock the shat out of 
 him/her/it with a sledge hammer. Choose your outfit, hairstyle &amp; other accessories just by 
 visiting stores. Have fun in the parking garage, splattering zombies all over your windshield or 
 blowing them up with propane tanks. This game will keep you VERY occupied for a while. I mean, 
 c'mon, for only about $60 why not buy this game?
  
  ~ziilla :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  HEY!! if you never played game... just rent it, because when you start you discover object you can 
 changes your self suits your self and for sur kill zombie. But it become boring for everybody. 
 First, when you save but you shouldn't do so, your in deep **** because the main mission is hard 
 to do in time, for me it was hard. When you finish the main campaign its only the begening because 
 now you have 4 other day... but your are bitten by some zombie a couple of time and at the end, 
 Frank is asking to himself how can he have been bitten... HEY!!! WAKE UP YOU HAVE BEEN BITTEN MAYBE 
 300 TIMES!!!
  
  Its cool in the begening of the game when you dont know every thing you can do... but when you have 
 been trough the game or restart the game, then your getting boring because its hard.... VERY hard 
 to finish the Overtime Mode... those swat or special forces are very hard to kill... and they kill 
 you fast also... so your going to have to restart a lot of time
  
  Its fun... but its not enough good to be addict to it... just a big and generous 7/10
  Thx capcom:) 
 I hope Lost Planet WILL be better: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  A month after the game's release, I decided to re-play Dead Rising to see just how immersive the 
 game truly was. I had played it through twice, each time getting a different ending, but I wanted 
 to see how far I could push this game. I was amazed by how much it pushed back.
  
  When you first play Dead Rising, it's easy to have one of two opinions; either, Wow, this game 
 is gonna get old really fast, or Wow, I can't believe I'm being let loose in a mall filled with 
 zombies! From the first semi-tutorial level, it's clear that things aren't quite right in Willamette, 
 Colorado. The story pulls you in from the get-go, and pretty soon the journalist within is calling 
 for conclusion: you simply want to know what the hell is going on.
  
  You play as Frank West, a photojournalist gone freelance to investigate the strange goings-on in 
 a no-name town. When you arrive, the streets are flooded with people engaging in riot activities, 
 and rushing civilians only to beat them to death and indulge in some cannibal behavior. You're 
 forced to land your chopper on the rooftop of the local mall, where you have a brush with Carlito, 
 a man who's not all he seems. Perfectly calm, collected, Carlito is leaning up against a wall chilling, 
 while the rest of the world crumbles around him. Once in the mall, you're free to do whatever - 
 and I mean, WHATEVER - you want. Want to dress up in Kiddie clothes and chop zombies up with a 
 lawn mower? Done. Do you want to just use this opportunity to get free suits? Okay.
  
  But the true reward comes from playing through the story mode, tackling the game on a Case-by-case 
 basis, and uncovering the secrets of a compelling conspiracy. And once you find out just what the 
 heck is going on, the fun doesn't stop there. At the risk of giving out spoilers, I'm sure you 
 guys have at least heard of Overtime Mode; another hour or so of playtime that takes place after 
 the game's already ended. You become engaged in a fight to survive; journalism defers to staying 
 alive. I'm not a person who has had tremendous faith in the ability of a game to change people's 
 minds one way or another; all the claims that playing Doom will make you a serial killer I shortly 
 disregarded. Similarly, I never thought I could truly be brought into a storyline, or care about 
 video game characters, shrugging when people applauded the brilliant writing of games like Halo, 
 and Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow. But after playing this through, you do feel a very powerful 
 message looming beneath the game's Hack-N'-Slash Mechanics. Capcom goes so far as to liken human 
 (American) culture to the zombies, feeding and feeding until they explode. The message isn't just, 
 Become a Vegetarian, it's much more. It really makes you take a step back and absorb the consumer-culture 
 perspective that many of us have embraced simply by rote. So on the whole, what can one say about 
 a brilliant title like Dead Rising ? It's what you make of it; much like life. It can be played 
 on the surface, rushing around to complete your objectives without regard for what's really going 
 on, or you can take your time with it, help people through this crisis and get a truly rewarding, 
 truly cinematic and dare I say - Epic - experience. Thanks for reading,
  
  --B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinar
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great concept. You are stuck in a mall, with alot of zombies, and you must survive 
 until the helicopter arrives. In general, everyone has always thought to themselves you know, if 
 i was stuck in a 'Dawn of the Dead' situation, i think i could make it. And if you didn't think 
 this, then your probably not a gamer anyways so you don't matter anyways. Well, this game gives 
 you the chance to test it out. The main plot is that you are a reporter named Frank and you are 
 dropped off in this mall to get the story of a life time. From there, it's up to you to choose 
 what to do. You can follow the main plot, you can choose to save everyone, or you can even just 
 hide in a hole and hope for the best. The main plot is a toss up. It's interesting enough for you 
 to want to find out what exactly happened, but it's not as interesting as many other games. This, 
 if you can't tell already, sucks because you keep digging further and further only to find a mediocre 
 storyline. But , lets be honest, most didn't buy this for the storyline. The main attraction is 
 the slaying of zombies in grand and brutal ways. The plus side to this is, there is always zombies 
 around. The bad side is, that same can't be said fro cool weapons. One downfall to this game is 
 that the weapons break quickly and often, making you resort to sucky weapons until a better one 
 is found. It often feel like you've just got roling with a chainsaw when all of a sudden it breaks, 
 your stuck in the middle of a swarm of zombies, and your only weapon left in your inventory is 
 a plastic sword. It's not a very pleasent situation. The monotony of killing zombies is also broken 
 up by taking picture in order to get points. It's kind of like a really easy mini-game but it gives 
 a nice little break and earns your points, which lets you upgrade Frank. All in all, it's a entertaining 
 game for the first few hours but, even with the added enemies in it besides zombies, it just eventually 
 gets dull. This is one of those games where you'll play it non-stop for 3 days, get board, stop, 
 and then a month later go on another spree.
  
  Graphics:7
  Gameplay:7
  Plot:6
  Replayability:10
  Enjoyment:7
  Innovation:6
  
  +
  Lots of enemies
  Very replayable
 
  Easy to pick up
  
  -
  Gets boring to quickly
  Weapons break to quickly
  Nothing really new and innovative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Zombies+GTA Free Roam Feel+Great Gameplay+Xbox 360=Game of the year! Honestly, this game grabs 
 your attention from the get go and never lets it go. You'll never want to turn this game off. With 
 the great graphics, the fun gameplay, and a good storyline to back it all up, you can't go wrong. 
 The creators of this game knew what they were thinking. First of all, lets talk about the gameplay. 
 The gameplay is A+ quality. Everything you see can pretty much be used as a weapon. Everything 
 in the game is interactive. Every zombie in this game, you can kill. How awesome is that! Next, 
 lets talk about these graphics. At moments, you'll think that your watching a movie. Thats how 
 good the graphics are! You wont be disapointed. So all in all, a great game. Get your ass up and 
 buy this game and quit reading this reveiw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Its hard to be objective about this kind of game when you already love the genre its concerned 
 with. But, whether your a fan of zombies or not, this game is an absolute must for anyone who wants 
 a game that offers a challenging and usually very intense experience in an open and fun environment.
 
  
  I won't go on about the killing zombies thing as everyone already knows that there a lot of options 
 in that department, and a lot of fun to be had in that alone. But the fact that this seems incidental 
 to the story adds a crucial element of entertainment and fun to the whole thing. One thing worth 
 mentioning is the gun. As much as you can shoot the crap out of zombies for a short while with 
 some of the guns, just because of how the aiming mechanic works, and the limited number of bullets, 
 you're left with a huge blindside and if you get too involved with the zombies in front of you, 
 you leave yourself open to attack from any number of angles if you don't have another weapon immediately 
 handy. At times this simply adds to the claustrophobic atmosphere that persists throughout, despite 
 the large area available for exploration.
  
  The aesthetics and physics of this game are a real pleasure to watch, from 'crash' detection to 
 the way all the characters and zombies move around independently. When you find survivors and have 
 to help them get back to safety, there is a real sense of urgency and danger the whole time, as 
 most of the characters move slower than you, and some seem to repeatedly get caught up in the middle 
 of crowds of zombies even as you're running just in front of them. You'll find people are constantly 
 calling for help as they try to fend of large groups of these deceivingly fast, lurching creatures. 
 Sometimes you'll have to carry NPC's in order to speed up the whole process, or hold their hand 
 to stop them wandering off. Occasionally, depending on how much you want to save someone if they've 
 been particularly helpful, you can replenish their health with your own food and giv them better 
 weapons to fight with.
  
  The zombies themselves are, strangely, a real pleasure to watch. They manage to appear almost comical, 
 with the way they very slowly lurch and drag themselves around the floor in a jerky, sporadic fashion. 
 Some move faster than others and it can be pretty alarming when you think you've made it past a 
 group and suddenly find one coming at you at speed. Once alerted to your presence, all the zombies 
 in the area head to your location, so if just one attacks you and you don't dispatch it quickly, 
 you may very soon find yourself being overwhelmed. Also, what really adds a sinister edge to these 
 things, is how they can turn things into a really bad situation if your not prepared at all times. 
 If you're low on health, or find yourself without an appropriate weapon, these things swarm around 
 you like flies, and can end your game in just a few hits. Because of this you may find yourself 
 faced with one of the most frustrating save/load features I've ever seen in my life. And it is 
 actually a feature, deliberately used to add to the whole experience. It means more than anything 
 that you have to get your timing right, as even if you finish one mission on time, you may find 
 that you don't have enough time to complete the next! Time management is essential.
  
  The number of characters that can be seen on screen at any one time is incredible to say the least. 
 This is even more impressive on some of the underground levels, where literally hundreds (thousands!?) 
 of these things are just milling around waiting to be slaughtered, or catch you off your guard..
 
  
  Finally, the one major issue I had with this game is the sound, as much the actions, sound effects 
 and zombies all sound as good as they look, and characters have a voice during cut scenes which 
 all sound great, during gameplay they all suddenly turn mute. Your left with (on normal, non HDTV) 
 small subtitle that are really hard to read on anything smaller than a 26 inch screen. This takes 
 some getting used to, but if your ready to bypass this irritating factor, it won't ruin the gameplay 
 a huge deal. And those of you with HDTV will have no problems at all.
  
  Basically, the game manages to be a lot of fun, comical, and sinister at the same time without 
 being too tacky, or mellow dramatic like some in past years. As you play you will find a lot more 
 about the game you will like, like the boss fights for example. But even without these things, 
 this game, in this reviewers opinion, is one of the few next-gen games that actually feels like 
 an accomplished, and more importantly finished product. Well thought out and well executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolt21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok my first impressions of this game was it lacked alot of gameplay because the mall was too big 
 when i mean big i mean San Andreas big so yeah it took allot of time out of the story missions 
 but it was a hell of alot of fun to kill the zombies with just about every weapon in the perimeter.
 
  The game at first went from violently dull to a funny compelling game that kept you wondering 
 what the next mission was gonna be.
  I felt really creeped out by how many zombies were in the game there was millions of these things 
 everywhere in the game. In conclusion is say that 8.9 is a reasonable score i recommend this game 
 to anybody that like resident evil or any zombie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikkukeyblade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome you get to kill 100s of zombies and stuff this game was very fun and i 
 did enjoy it alot. There is no other game like this i love this game i love the graphics and the 
 sound and the gameplay. this game is so funny watching you kill and slash zombies that is very 
 cool if you love games were you can kill zombies this is a game that you can get and you will enjoy 
 every moment of it just remeber you are not killing people cause they are all ready there. thanks 
 for listening and have fun with dead rising cause i sid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonkersclark
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  i really enjoyed this game... i supposed the faces in the cinematics are kinda weird like Ive covered 
 wars, y'know,,, lol but everyone always says that its way too hard... but i think the difficulty 
 is just right... just get convicts gun, kill adam, get his chainsaw, get entertainment, engineering, 
 and criminal biography books and ur set for hte rest of the game!! warning, though, infinity mode 
 can be quite hard,,, and boring... i was first told about this game by a friend, and he said it was 
 pretty hard. but i think thats crap its pretty easy!! just seeing htat excavator in action... ouch... 
 also, cletus can be pretty tough, he can throw you past the counter, losing one health square lol... so 
 i guess this is where i end... id advise getting this game if you like 3rd person actions games, 
 if not this might not be your type... have fun playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  there is little to be said about this game in a negative light... it was too original to have standards 
 to be judged by. Everything that you may try to compare it to is just far enough out of its league 
 that this game stands on its own as an original and uniquely fun game. For example, try to compare 
 this to ANY game in the world and my response would be okay, but they weren't TRYING to do that... 
 
  
  this game has a solid, evolving combat system and RPG-like leveling that sticks with you as you 
 replay through the other scenarios that can develop depending on the choices you make (who to save, 
 who to kill, where to go, etc.)
  
  graphics-wise, this is a solid 360 title with middle-of-the-road graphics. What really sets it 
 apart is the mass of the crowds that can build up, which is especially true when you reach the 
 underground areas.
  
  the sounds are exceedingly grusome and fun... decent voice-acting that may have been under-acted 
 in some portions of the game - like the characters forgot that they're in a town full of flesh-hungry 
 zombies and they might want to get the f**k out.
  
  i have a hard time saying anything bad about it because i know my complaints were likely Capcom's 
 intentions, like an entirely open-ended finish to the overtime mode - i hope that's not a spoiler 
 for anyone.
  
  i think this is an incredibly fun game... it makes my friends and i sit around in the infinite 
 mode and just wonder what if i did this... 
  
  a rental would give you a really good idea of whether you would find value in buying this one (or 
 the demo on XBL) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  That's right! You're Frank, you're a photo journalist, your trapped in a mall full of zombies, 
 and no one is watching the tills!
  
  The best part is, you can virtually every piece of your ill-gotten swag to kill said zombies, and 
 there are literally thousands of them.
  
  From handguns to chainsaws to toy foam swords, the mall is full of items for Frank to pick up and 
 experiment with. Most items will have three attack modes too, standard, power and throw. Some of 
 the fun is in figuring out which weapons are most effective in which situations. Capcom has done 
 a great job in mixing this up. All items will eventually break too, thereby cutting down the hunt 
 for one great weapon. 
  
  A common complaint on-line is the save system: only one save file per account, per device. This 
 keeps you from branching a game, or starting multiple games to try and focus on different goals 
 (like the achievements) .
  
  Overall, the game is very well done, HD graphics are great (although some find the text hard to 
 read on non-HD-TVs) , the shear number of characters on the screen at once rivals Kameo, and the 
 controls seem to work just as you would expect.
  
  My only personal pet peeve is with the achievements; a couple of them are ridiculous and nearly 
 demand an FAQ be used.
  
  But on the whole, you can't help but recommend this game. Frank is a love to hate joe-blow that 
 is just fun to play, and you can even unlock a Megaman suit (what more could you want?) !
  
  All that being said, after slugging through some of the tougher (game-ruining) achievements, I'm 
 glad I rented it and may not pick it up again until there is a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Capcom has been growing in the gaming industry since their release of Resident Evil in 1998 on 
 the PlayStation and has been releasing some major games in the past since Devil May Cry and the 
 great Resident Evil 4. Now Capcom goes solo and finally creates their very own updated Dead Rising, 
 inspired by the 2004 movie, Dawn of the Dead. The story kicks off with you taking control of Frank, 
 a secret agent sent to investigate a town of the damned, filled with mindless man-eating zombies. 
 Things take a dramatic twist when Frank is deserted in a large shopping mall. Graphically, Dead 
 Rising makes good use of the Xbox 360 engine. The zombie models are well designed and cut scenes 
 amazingly animated. Despite the few minor glitches, Dead Rising is Capcom at, not its best, but 
 just manages to pump up the gore. The sound might not be top-notch, but it still pleases most of 
 us whove already played survival horrors. The game isnt long at all. Why? Here are a few reasons; 
 there is a timer in the game of 72 hours until a helicopter arrives. Also, the environment isnt 
 all that big and you can easily get used to it. If you know Capcom, all their major releases are 
 extremely difficult, which makes this game no different. There are save points, but only a few 
 and are well hidden. It will take you hours to find a save point. Also, if you die along the way 
 near the last minute of the game you have to restart the entire 72 hours or from your last save 
 point if youve managed to find it. Dead Rising is all about surviving a horde of zombies in a 
 small shopping mall. There are missions to do, but theyre not all that important and it is not 
 necessary to do them, but naturally it kind of drives the story along and explains the things you 
 dont know. In the end, Dead Rising is a pleasing game and frustratingly hard at that matter. If 
 youre looking for spending a whole 72 hours in front of your TV, then this is a good way to go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Wolf --
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising most certainly lives up to it's Chop Till You Drop name, offering hours of ruthless 
 zombie bashing and a fully loaded story that will have you on the edge of your seat.
  
  You play as Frank West, a photojournalist, who has 72 hours to get his front page story. You arrive 
 by helicopter into a small town by the name of Willamette. The military have blocked off all access 
 into the town but Frank manages to arrive on the heliport of Willamette Parkview Mall. With Franks' 
 camera and a mall full of weaponry at your disposal, you can pretty much choose right from the 
 start of the game how and where you want to go.
  
  Your aim is to uncover the truth behind the outbreak and tell the rest of the world. Although doing 
 so is harder than it first seems, considering you will be spending 72 hours in a mall full of zombies.
 
  
  Dead Rising gives a basic third person view and even some first person view when using the camera. 
 You have blocks for health and a basic inventory in the top right hand side of the screen.
  
  Prestige Points, or PP, play a big role in how you play Dead Rising. You level up by earning 
 PP. You can do this a number of ways; taking photos, rescuing survivors or simply by killing zombies. 
 When you first start the game you will be level 1, but as you earn PP you will level up and earn 
 more health blocks, inventory space, attack/throw upgrades, speed upgrades and even new skills.
 
  
  Frank can learn a number of skills, ranging from lifting up a zombie and throwing it into a crowd 
 of zombies, jumping off a wall and then into a zombie or even shoving Franks hand into a zombies' 
 stomach and ripping its guts out. And least we forget the Zombie Walk, obtained at level 50; I 
 think this one is self explanatory.
  
  Willamette Parkview Mall is surprisingly big. With 5 plazas, a movie theatre, grocery store, food 
 court and even a huge park in the middle. Every plaza is different in its' own way; North Plaza, 
 for example, is under construction (Or at least it was) so expect to see scaffolding and construction 
 items lying around. Wonderland Plaza on the other hand has a main focus on children which includes 
 a number of different stores, a playground type area and even a space shuttle ride around the top 
 of the plaza.
  
  The 72 hours of play converts to roughly 6 real hours. So the main game is a minimum of 6 real 
 hours every time you play. After you get ending A during 72 hour mode, you unlock Overtime Mode 
 which is basically the 4th day after the original 72 hours. And then once you beat Overtime Mode 
 you unlock Infinite Mode, which I will explain below. Overtime Mode lasts between 1 and 2 real 
 hours, depending on how fast you beat it. With three modes to choose from, Dead Rising shows it 
 has a lot of replay value.
  
  Infinite Mode, obtained by beating overtime mode, is unique in its own way. Some people hate it, 
 some people love it. I personally think it's OK and here's why there are so many opinions on it; 
 your health basically depletes every 1 minute and 40 seconds. Food doesn't respawn. You see where 
 this is going? Well zombies aren't your only enemy either; survivors and psychopaths (Explained 
 below) will also be out to kill you. But killing them gives a benefit to your survival in infinite 
 mode, they all drop some food. There are two achievements obtainable during infinite mode; 5 Day 
 Survivor and 7 Day Survivor. 5 days in the game converts to 10 real hours and 7 days converts to 
 14 hours. I have achieved 5 Day Survivor and netted myself a nice unlockable, the real Laser Sword, 
 which is basically a lightsaber.
  
  Psychopaths and survivors and what add that extra factor to this game. Psychopaths are a fancy 
 word for bosses. You will fight as many as up to 12 different and unique psychopaths. Most are 
 optional but some are part of the story. Survivors are what make and break this game. All survivors 
 with the exception of one or two plot related escorts are optional. Escorting survivors can be 
 a headache. They will most likely get themselves either stuck or killed. Every survivor is somewhat 
 different so some will be easier to escort back to the security room than others.
  
  The security room is basically your home base. You can save your game there and most of the cases, 
 which are another word for story missions, revolve around there.
  
  The save system and text size. These are major issues with some people so I will explain them stage 
 by stage;
  
  Save system; this is not a Fault as some people like to think of it as. I personally do not have 
 a problem with the save system but some people dislike the game because of it, and here's why. 
 You only have one save per storage device. And unless you have a memory unit then your hard drive 
 is your only storage device, meaning you only have one save. And you can only save in certain places, 
 such as the security room and bathrooms. It makes you think when and where to save, unlike Oblivion 
 for example where you can just save anywhere. Like I said, I don't have a problem with it but some 
 people do.
  
  Text size; I do have a problem with this though. If you have a HDTV then ignore this paragraph 
 as it will not affect you. But for most of us, including me, we only have a SDTV so unfortunately, 
 the text size will be very small. I can read it 80% of the time so for me it does not ruin the 
 game. But every TV is different so obviously it will be harder to read on smaller TVs and such.
 
  
  Now to move onto the graphics; The graphics are not top notch like G. R. A. W, for example, but when 
 there are hundreds of zombies on screen at once, something had to give to allow for this. Don't 
 get me wrong though, the graphics are still very good, in my opinion.
  
  Sound is pretty good too. The voice acting from the main characters has been done nicely and well, 
 even the zombie noises are fairly good. The soundtrack if you could call it that, isn't as good 
 as what you might expect. It's more elevator music than anything else, although there is some good 
 music in certain places or scenes. Luckily though, a custom soundtrack makes up for this and makes 
 bashing zombies to Queen a fun experience.
  
  As mentioned earlier, there is a lot of replay value depending on how you want to play it. There 
 is a wide variety of achievements, ranging from falling a distance of X feet, to killing X amount 
 of zombies, even eating all types of food available in the mall.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is one of the most fun games available for the Xbox 360. With hundreds of 
 different weapons to use to dispose of hundreds of zombies and a superb story, what more could 
 you ask for?
  
  Dead Rising opens up a new era of gaming, with its unique gameplay and intense story, any gamer 
 can easily enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising EASILY, the most anticipated title to come to the 360. Why not, all the videos showed 
 off some amazing graphics, awesome UNLIMITED WEAPONS TO USE! Changing your clothes anytime you 
 wanted to, yeah why wouldn't this game be the Game of the Year if it could. Dead Rising, makes 
 all the big stuff look like a piece of cake, but all the little stuff make this game almost frusterating 
 to the point OF INSANITY! Dead Rising starts off with Frank, a Journalist who is on his way to 
 a city for some TOP NOTCH Journalism, with a helicopter pilot... Well, of course this city has all 
 gone to hell for some mysterouis reason and all that junk. Well, you finally get to the mall were 
 you are dropped off and said to be pickd up in exactly 72 hours. So, now you must rescue and try 
 to save all the people you can, but wait. Its clear. When you first get in the mall Entrance, you 
 will see a bunch of survivors talking, being dramatic and crying over some damn dog. Well, you 
 are forced to find some things for the barricade to block the zombies, when you find this mysterious 
 old guy on the other side walking. You take a picture of him and he starts freaking out, this is 
 when the Campy starts getting into action. The old lady, goes towards the barricade and blows it 
 open to get her sweet little dog, that has been terrrorized, well, if one suffers THEY ALL DIE! 
 All the zombies come into the mall and kill everyone EXCEPT 3 people, Otis a older security man, 
 Brad a agent and a chick (can't remember her name) . Well, thats when you start to go rescue people 
 and find out why everything is well everything.
  
  The gameplay for this game is crazy. Going around and killing a zombie with anything you have ever 
 wanted, IS NOW TRUE!! You can go around shooting, stabbing, nailing, anything you want! Don't get 
 to involved with useless zombies, because your incharge of rescuing DUMB NPC (non player computer) . 
 The A. I. for NPC's are pretty much the dumbest people ever. Probably next up in Dumb and Dumber. 
 If you run away from Zombies, they go in and fight them. Well of course escorting these NPC's will 
 be the biggest waist of time considering they will die on the way there, you will throw the controller 
 and say DAMN THIS GAME, and ten minutes later comeback to play just a tad more. Fighthing bosses 
 never got creepier. Everytime you fight a hard wicked boss, you get the crap kicked out of you, 
 you will be everywhere. And then when you beat the crap out of them, they die some horrible nasty, 
 disgusting, R rated movie death. It makes you cry, but at the same time your like SUCKA!! Going 
 to shop to shop never gets funnier... TRYING ON LITTLE KIDS CLOTHES, never gets more pointless. 
 The worst thing about this game, is the darn saving areas... Theres only like 4 of them and there 
 pretty much impossible to get there when you want to.
  
  This game is unbelieveable in graphics. The players life motions, cheek bones look awesome. Everytime 
 i see it, i just stop and go OMG!! All the running and fighting motions look perfect. Guns and 
 suites look great as well.
  
  There is really no sound in tihs game except well, when the zombies moan for some pointless reason, 
 or when you are fighting a bad guy, some cheezy rock and roll band will play, and your like GET 
 OFF MY SCREEN!! All the guns have noises, that actually SOUND REAL AND NOT FAKE!!
  
  Overall, this game is really good. But this is also one of the most annoyest games you will EVER 
 PLAY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  For a company that has been doing the zombie thing to death, Capcom sure does find ways to keep 
 those flesh eating undead back for more. It probably would have been easy to do another Resident 
 Evil retread ( RE 4 not included in that statement) , but Capcom instead used the power of a next-gen 
 system to bring us a totally different playing experience. After spending much time with Dead Rising, 
 I have to say that Capcom is definitely on to something here as this is a fresh game with an interesting 
 twist on zombie action and manages to put together an interesting story at the same time.
  
  Graphics: The character models aren't quite CG movie quality, but they are nice and detailed 
 enough to get the job done. The huge mall is very nice and well put together. The amount of zombies 
 on screen at once is mind blowing. Sound: The voice acting in the game has that good old B movie 
 cheese kind of vibe. Considering the subject matter of the game, that makes perfect sense. Everything 
 else, from the sound effects to the mall music and such fits in to place like it should.
  
  Control: Serviceable. Switching back and forth between the radio and weapons can be a pain at times. 
 Fighting can be really fun once you get to higher levels and open up more attack moves. Gameplay: 
 This is where Dead Rising separates itself from the land of mediocre games. This is not just a 
 game about killing zombies (although if that's your cup of tea, then you can do that) . There are 
 lots of things to do in the overrun mall, and there is no way that you will do it all in one play 
 through. There are many side missions throughout the game, but time contstraints between main mission 
 objectives means that you won't be able to do everything at once. Although this makes sense, this 
 is also one of Dead Rising's main faults. If you don't really know where you are going or are strong 
 enough to take on some of the tougher bosses, you could find yourself losing a lot of time and 
 may not make it to your next main objective before time runs out. If you miss a main objective 
 time, then its game over and you have to start from your last save point. Depending on when you 
 saved, you may find yourself stuck in a rut, and having to start over from the beginning. However, 
 this isn't totally bad as you start over at whatever skill level you left off with. Plus, you could 
 always do some missions you missed before. The game is fun enough to cover up these few misteps.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Dead Rising seems to add some of the best qualities of an action game, an RPG, 
 and a B movie. All in all, its a pretty nice package that is definitely deserving of your playtime. 
 If its undead..... make it dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a action adventure horror game from Capcom that is filled with, and I do mean filled 
 with... zombies. You play as Frank West, a photojournalist that is investigating a strange event 
 that is taking place at a mall.
  
  In Dead Rising you will be stuck inside this mall for 72 hours. As you play the game Frank will 
 level up. He kind of sucks when you start off but as you level up you will get more health, item 
 slots, new moves, ect. There are main storyline missions and extra side missions. Most of the side 
 missions are escort missions. These can get old real quick, the people your escorting usually don't 
 do the smartest things and sometimes there are so many zombies that it gets quite challanging. 
 The game employes a time system and you have to manage your time while playing the game which isn't 
 really alot of fun. If you miss the start of a storyline mission then it's game over. You will 
 either have to start all over or just reload your game. In this game you only get one save game, 
 so if you saved your game at a point in time where you can't get back to the location where the 
 story mission starts then you have no choice but to start the game over. The good thing is that 
 when you start the game over Frank will stay at whatever level you were at so all you will have 
 to do is play the missions over again but that can get old.
  
  The first thing that impressed me about Dead Rising is the amount of zombies on screen, it's crazy. 
 Sometimes it can be a pain getting through all of them because there are just so many. You can 
 use just about anything in the mall as a weapon, lead pipes, guitars, shovles, chainsaws, CD's, 
 soda pop cans, there is also a gun shop if you feel the need to shoot your zombies. All the zombies 
 are nice but they are really just nothing more then a obstacle for you to get around. The really 
 interesting characters are the psychopaths, they're like mini bosses I guess. The only bad thing 
 is that some of them are only in the side missions so you might not get to see them because you 
 just might not have enough time to play that mission.
  
  Dead Rising is a great a great looking game. Even with a screen full of zombies the frame rate 
 stays steady. The main characters, psychopaths and all the zombies look good and animate well. 
 The cut scenes look good and are done with the in game engine.
  
  The sound in Dead Rising is also very good, all of the weapons sound really good when connecting 
 with a enemy or when a firearm is shot. Also for the most part the voice acting is done pretty 
 well.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a interesting game, there isn't really any other zombie game like it. The 
 real-time gameplay kind of sucks, I didn't do alot of the side mission for fear of missing a main 
 storyline mission and having to start over. And having only one save game is just stupid. Those 
 two things don't ruin the game but they do hinder it just a little. If your a fan of zombie games 
 or you like the movie Dawn of the Dead you should check out Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaddyDeath
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  Well I have never thought that getting chased through a mall by a bunch of flesh eating zombies 
 could be fun, it was. From the first moment you see zombies eating there victims remains you can't 
 help falling in love. Who doesn't want to smash a person (although dead, still a person) in the 
 head with a barbell untill they are covered in blood and brains. I for one get quit blissful when 
 I disembowel people I mean zombies. So for all you nay sayers out there who think that games are 
 destroying our youth, You will be sorry when the zombies come and your 12 year old melts its face 
 with a frying pan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telomar
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a fun game there's no question. There's nothing quite like beating hordes of zombies 
 with a park bench or coathanger. Pick your weapon, you can use anything and it is incredibly fun 
 the bash throngs of zombies.
  
  Over the 72 hours there is a fair amount to explore and try out to keep you interested and you 
 have a reasonably fun and complete game with a reasonable story line. Not the best but certainly 
 enough to hold up.
  
  So what's the problem? Aparts from becoming a little repetitive it's two fold, and it isn't one 
 everybody will notice, particularly many early adopters that likely have HDTVs already, even I 
 didn't pick it up until I switched TVs with my 360. On many TVs the text will be totally unreadable. 
 It is simply too small and not clear enough. Add to that the fact that it flicks through reasonably 
 quickly and the game has one serious flaw that massively detracts from what would otherwise be 
 a very fun game. How any company ever let that get through QA I have no idea. I would love to have 
 given the game 8 or above as it has the makings of a great game but with a bug like this it is 
 hard to refer to it as anything other than just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayze78
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I waited MONTHS for this game to come out. Finally, after the big summer drought it comes out. 
 To be honest, I was kind of disappointed. I pre ordered it at Gamestop, so I got a cool blue t 
 shirt that says Chop 'til you Drop and it has a shopping cart full of weapons. I love wearing it 
 in public.
  
  Anyway, the game is quite fun.... for awhile. It is fun running around killing and hitting zombies 
 with random objects. At night, when they become more fierce, they are quicker and tougher, and 
 your weapons break all of the time. Even a big metal pipe is broken after many uses. Its kind of 
 aggravating at times trying to find a weapon. You can carry some with you, but you have to carry 
 healing items with you as well... like a big ol' jug of coffee creamer, that was my favorite. Or 
 wine.
  
  The game's story is pretty interesting. Frank, or Frank Action West as I call him, is the hero. 
 The cutscenes have humurous dialogue, and Frank is like the typical guy checking out the ladies. 
 All in all, this is a good game. I really enjoyed it for awhile. Its certainly worth playing to 
 get your zombie kiling fix in a comical way. After awhile, for me, it started to get old. The boss 
 battles were a little frustrating. If you die, you have to start all the way back to the save point 
 and battle the whole way back. The save points are far away from each other, so it sucks. So I 
 say, rent it first. Some freaks need a constant zombie killing fix! This is a great game for it! 
 But some people it comes and goes in phases. That is why I say rent it for a few days. If you love 
 it, buy it, if not, then rent it from time to time, or wait for the price to drop. I ended up selling 
 my copy and got most of my money back in time for Saint's Row (which I love) . But I still have 
 the cool t-shirt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonDougan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I think dead rising is a great game if you do the actual case studies or kill zombies or just kill 
 psycopaths dont get me on the spelling of that. I think all the characters are pretty good sometimes 
 a bit annoying when they always contact you on the radio and your just trying to get on with what 
 you were doing. I like the idea that you are a photographer just trying to get a closer look at 
 the things going on in the town. the game is very interactive like you can use pretty much anything 
 as a weapon which is good my favourite weapon is the extractor ! Graphicly this game is amazing 
 10 out of 10 for that. The story line is fairly believeable unlike resident evil or something. Overall 
 a great game and i hope someone will feel the same way about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbuhler
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I really don't like this game. Not that it's a bad idea, but Resident Evil pulled off the zombie 
 thing so much better. First off, being trapped in the mall makes for very repetetive gameplay. 
 Not only are you ALWAYS killing zombies (yes it does get old) but you're killing the same ones 
 in the same place, over and over. Snore!
  
  The story is pretty good. I'll give it that. But, as so many people have pointed out, the save 
 game system sucks. The save areas are far apart and often hard to get to so you'll end up replaying 
 entire sequences of the game over and over. Again... boooooooring.
  
  And I really don't like the 72 Hour Mode . Because you're always under time pressure you can never 
 just explore the mall without failing a time-critical mission. The best part of this game *would 
 be* the exploration of the mall and playing with all the weapons. Kinda like GTA or something... you 
 get bored doing missions so you just run around wreaking havoc.
  
  This game might be up someone's ally, but I'd definitely recommend renting or borrowing it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  If you want to have a fun game without the fluff some games have, this is for you.
  
  You are Frank West, a photojournalist trying to get the scoop from a tip that something is happening 
 a small US town of Willamette, Colorado. From the start of the game, you know that you will be 
 having a fun time. The game follows is motto of being a sandbox type of game, but with the setup 
 of the save system (one save per account) it deviates from it's open ended game play. With that 
 aside, if you think of it could happen, it would. You can run over zombies with lawnmowers, kill 
 psychopaths (and yes, that includes three convicts) , use swords, take pictures and eat. The game 
 has level system that ties in with the photo part of the game as if you shot good pictures that 
 you get more PP (Prestige Points, aka XP) . For a fun game that you would play time after time, 
 this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Enter the strange world of Wilmette Mall as journalist Frank West does his best to uncover the 
 scoop of a lifetime. When a small town is placed under quarantine by the National Guard, something 
 big is obviously happening, but what West finds is stranger than anything he expected: a zombie 
 infestation beyond imagination! Now, in addition to uncovering the truth, he must work with unlikely 
 allies to save the few survivors crowded in the mall while staving off zombie attacks.
  
  This is a grisly and fast-paced adventure that could only spring from the minds of Capcom. As Frank, 
 you have a total of 72 hours to get the information for your scoop and then make a hasty retreat 
 out of the mall. In addition, youll be tasked to help survivors escape from a variety of predicaments, 
 most being at the hands of rabid zombies out to chew them up and spit them out. Youll be aided 
 in this task by a wide variety of weapons that you scrounge up from the mall stores: items such 
 as baseball bats, cleavers, propane tanks, and even the odd ensemble of bowling balls, shower heads, 
 and parasols. Since the items you use wear out and break after bashing them about so many times, 
 youll have to think on your feet to stay alive, constantly stocking up and replacing your impromptu 
 weaponry. Inventory management seems to be a particular trend in Capcom games, and theyre more 
 often the source of headaches for the player. In Dead Rising, youll start off with a very limited 
 amount of item stock spaces; as you progress in the game, youll be granted an extra slot every 
 so often. As a result, you have to strike a balance between weaponry and healing items, deciding 
 whats the best stuff to carry with you as you navigate through an area. Theres no place to store 
 the items youve picked up and want to keep, but since everything breaks quite often and items 
 regenerate in your wake, theres not really a whole lot of reason for a Resident Evil style item 
 box. The downfall to this is that late in the game, it becomes a little challenging to stock up 
 on food items. As Frank navigates through the mall, one of his fellow survivors will be watching 
 the security monitors, and will call if he spots someone moving about. Being called can become 
 a real nuisance, at times. Theres not really a good spot to answer the radio, since every area 
 of the mall is crawling with the undead. Since the game doesnt pause when Frank answers the transceiver, 
 its all too easy to get snagged by a zombie while youre listening to the call. If this happens, 
 the call starts all over again, which can really start to chew into your time, especially you cant 
 just forward through the dialogue. In addition to these missions, you can also gain a nice little 
 experience boost by taking photos. No, not like in a Fatal Frame sort of way, but just by snapping 
 shots of the action taking place. Each of the pictures are worth a certain amount of points based 
 on whats going on in each picture. For instance, if you take a picture of a crowd of zombies, 
 itll be ranked as horror; if you pop a goofy mask on a zombies head and snap a picture, it gets 
 ranked as an outtake. See a zombie get its head bashed in? Well, thats brutality. Is a survivor 
 crying? Thats drama! Theres also special pictures you can take, indicated by the quick flash 
 of a PP icon above a characters head, that are worth massive amounts of points. Okay, so I guess 
 that parts a little like Fatal Frame. :P
  
  Graphically, the game is filled with all the bloody drama weve come to expect from Capcoms installments. 
 Theres a surprising assortment of zombie character models, and the survivor models are distinctly 
 varied and full of personality. The mall itself has all sorts of small details added to it, which 
 makes the process of wandering in and out of stores intriguing. In addition to finding out what 
 exactly can be used as a weapon, most of the stores have individual soundtracks being piped through 
 their speakers, so in spite of its horrific denizens, its almost as if youre just taking a casual 
 stroll through the local mall.
  
  The game has an incredible amount of length, and a couple of additional modes of play available. 
 The story probably doesnt change very much between the different modes, but since you are so pressed 
 for time in the game, you have the chance to take things down a different route, select different 
 missions to try out or save different people. I dont think its possible to see everything Dead 
 Rising has to offer on the first playthrough!
  
  The bottom line is that this was a fun and addictive game to play, and its definitely worth experiencing, 
 especially if youre a zombie fan! The story is very compelling, and youll find yourself racing 
 from event to event, uncovering the mystery behind the zombie infestation of Wilamette. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crshnbrn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Don't let that title fool you. I love the game; I think it's one of the best games I've played 
 in a while. The big thing that gets me is the controls. IMO lately, I've noticed that several games 
 have bad controls schemes. All games should have an option to map your own controls. The really 
 frustrating thing is when a zombie grabs you. Those skills you learn don't always work in time, 
 and when you have to press a button to get them off, sometimes it doesn't give you enough time 
 to press the button. Oh yeah almost forgot, another big problem I've encountered is when bringing 
 the people back to the security room, they have a ledge to climb on. When you have multiple people, 
 most of the time they just sit there running into each other, like they're fighting over who gets 
 to climb up first. Sometimes you have to go down and kick one back just to stop it, that was really 
 annoying. It also wastes time. Also that walkie is freaking annoying, they should have had a headset 
 for that thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auti_13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very good. Some that was very good is the different tipes of zombies and no one 
 repeat like in other games. There were a few times that the framerate dropped for no reason almost 
 to the point I thought the game froze, but that only happened a few times and might have just been 
 my system acting up. and another thing that I want to say is the story of the game that is very 
 good .
  
  The sound is not very good but is very fine. Is not very special but also not very bored. Voices 
 were all pretty well acted out, the dialogue was fitting and the music complemented the action 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarytiger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  this has too be one of the best games to date
  the graphics are exellent
  and the number of zombies on screen are breath-taking and without having lag
  and the music is 
 superb, and all the sounds that you get by hitting zombies or something they sound really realistic! 
 like planks of wood or lead pipes and shotguns!! and theres so much to do. You can just go kill 
 zombies, mess around, try on clothes, do the cases (missions) the options are endless
  resident evil fans will love this zombie smashing game and people who have never even heard of 
 resident evil would like it . its also got little easter eggs in it, like the megaman costumes 
 and megablaster and Jills sandwiches
  
  althought there are a few things in the game which would upset a few players like the save system, 
 the saving is quite bad because you can only have one save file and the places where you can save 
 are quite limeted and the survivors can get annoying sometimes since they can get in the way of 
 your weapon sometimes and a few other things that might disapoint
  
  but all in all it is a great game and is very addictive even though the save system is quite bad 
 dead rising will have you keep coming you back on it .! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoJoMcJoJo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  I love the game the way you can do alot of the stuff but there is a downside when you talk to people 
 the writing is tiny and it is hard to read so that was the bad side the good side is that you can 
 do heaps of stuff like use a lwan-mower it is pretty good.
  
  The makers of this game should have made the writing bigger or change font type because it is a 
 pain in the rear because some of the people don't talk to you.
  
  I wish it was over the internet or coop multiplayer at home but this are things next time the company 
 good improve on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreenToad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 25, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very unique hack and slash. Usually these games lack any depth, and Dead Rising 
 is no exception. Now I'm not insulting the game, but you get what you see. Massive amounts of zombies 
 to be destroyed in ANY, by which I mean anything you could think of, way possible. You take common 
 mall items like say...... a bench. Go into a horde of zombies and smash them up. Crowbar more your 
 style, look no further. Maybe you are old school and enjoy the chainsaw, go right ahead. If you 
 like zombies and killing lots of stuff this game is for you.
  
  Gameplay- As youths we are told not to judge a book by it's cover. That is not the case here. You 
 get exactly what you think you are getting here. Nothing but 100,000s of zombies and weapons. The 
 basis of this game is that you are a reporter and are getting the scoop of a lifetime. You find 
 the zombies and uncover conspiracies to uncover the truth. The story line is very cheesy but that 
 is what makes this game so funny. Everything is very melodramatic. There are main scoops in which 
 you must be in certain places in certain times to activate. The game is set on a time schedule 
 of 72 hours that is worked into the game very well. It makes you feel like you're always on the 
 move. To advance in the game you must do all of these mission exactly when they are given to you 
 or you can not advance. You don't have to do them but I would reccomend it. The problem of the 
 saving that you may have heard really is not that bad. You only get 1 save file per storage device. 
 Basically you get one save, no more. You can overwrite it anytime though. In between missions you 
 can save random survivors and escort them to the save room. These escort missions are generally 
 fun but their AI is reallly pitiful. My favorite part of the game are the psychopaths. They are 
 survivors who just went absolutely crazy. I don't want to spoil that for you though. You will find 
 that out on your own.
  
  Graphics- I was a little let down here. The good part of the graphics is that the zombies do look 
 incredible and the environments are very colorful and well done. Even all of Franks outfits that 
 are obtainable are with him in cutscenes. The cutscenes however, is where the game gets on the 
 ugly side. The character models just don't look that good. Sometimes outfits will just seep into 
 your skin or hair will go freely in and out of your body. They could have used some find tuning. 
 All in all though this game looks nice.
  
  Sound- Not any memorable soundtracks to mention here. Most of the music is either rather generic 
 or Muzac. I have to say Muzac was quite fun to kill zombies to. The game's sound effects is where 
 sound really adds to the game. The zombies sound real, and the weapons hitting them sound painful. 
 The most harmful sounding to me personally were the hedgeclippers. Value- If this game really comes 
 short in any department, it is the game length. Now I'm not done with this game, but I can tell 
 it is rather short. I have beaten story mode and it wasn't that long. Now it does merit many playthoughs 
 and there is an infinate mode, but it wasn't quite what I wanted. If there is any reason not to 
 buy the game it is this.
  
  Tilt- I really enjoy this game. It is simple, bloody fun. You should not just buy this game though. 
 Make sure it is the game for you. This game is very much action oriented and not much strategy. 
 If you like action games this is a must buy. Survival Horror fans, don't look at this and see a 
 resident evil type game. It is survival horror but it is not like past games. Surviving is rather 
 easy and health/weapons are everywhere. If you think this type of game is for you have no hesitation 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I finished Dead Rising a few days ago but really wasn't in the mood to write a review right away. 
 This is one of those games that I probably would have skipped over if it weren't for all the good 
 things I've heard about it. Most of them were accurate, the good and the bad.
  
  The graphics were all around good. The screen can get full of dozens of mindless zombies at a time 
 but sometimes the framerate gets choppy especially when the blood and gore start to fly. The variety 
 of different sizes, shapes and colors of the characters was a nice thing to see in a game. Usually 
 games tend to stick to thin, adult people but this pretty much had everything covered except for 
 children. There were a few times that the framerate dropped for no reason almost to the point I 
 thought the game froze, but that only happened a few times and might have just been my system acting 
 up. Last thing I have to say in this department was that the cutscenes character models were very 
 good.
  
  The sound department was fine. Nothing special and nothing bad to say about it. Voices were all 
 pretty well acted out, the dialog was fitting and the music complemented the action of the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much a beat 'em up with some strategy and shooting thrown in. Sad thing 
 is that picture taking was often easier than the actual shooting element of the game. Why you can 
 move and strafe while with a camera and not with a gun is a strange thing to leave out. There were 
 tons of items to use to kill off zombies but I found that it's easier to remember a few good items 
 and leave the rest laying where they are. The rest of the game revolves around advancing the plot 
 by making sure you're at a certain place at a certain time, rescuing NPC's and taking pictures. 
 The few complaints I have about the game are mostly due to the poor AI. Friendly AI is about as 
 dumb as the zombies, the reason for this is that the computer pathfinding stinks. I dont know how 
 many times I had to back track because a character was stuck on a door or just couldn't get around 
 some zombies. This fact alone might cause a few reloads. Another thing that didn't make any sense 
 was the addition of cultists in the game about 2/3 of the way through. The zombies would completely 
 ignore these people dressed in yellow and stupid masks... so why not just get a yellow garb and 
 a mask to run around in?
  
  The review is pretty brief but there's not a lot to talk about. It was a fun and interesting change 
 of pace from other games availible. The addition of the achievements and multiple endings might 
 get some people to revisit the Willamette mall again and again, but I've seen the best ending and 
 might only dabble with the game when I'm bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DramaRyan984
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Who wouldn't love playing a game where you are trapped in a mall filled with zombies? Well, its 
 amazing. The only problem I have with the game is that the playing area is a little small, but 
 thats when you get for being trapped in a mall. Sure, there is very little space to play, but Capcom 
 made great use of what they do give you. There is so much to do in this game that it will make 
 your head spin. You can spend all three days just getting survivors or beating the story. You could 
 run around and try on all the clothes or eat all the food. My favorite thing to do is to get a 
 car in the tunnels and just trash zombies. Its a blast. I highly recommend this game to anyone 
 with a 360, you wont be let down. Just enjoy the carnage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oOo_GH0ST_oOo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  this game is definatly one of the highend 360 games of this year, this game has surely fantastic 
 visuals on normal tv's but once hooked up to a HD set it just gets better, the gameplay is great 
 and keeps you doing somthing nearly thoughout the whole game, and the fantastic over time and infinative 
 mode just brings more fun and story to the game, some people where worried about the 1 game save 
 system, but accually i found it very useable, you can save when eve ryou want, and as much as you 
 want but wit only 1 game slot, it also asks you if you want to save when a new case ha started, 
 also the achievements in this game may seam absolutly insane when you first get this game like 
 kill 53, 439 zombies WHAT THE HELL! but once you start playing the game you see that its very do-able, 
 you will about 40 g/s for the most of the game but once you get to the last day it can shoot up 
 to 400, by the time you end, then you can start a new 72-hour mode to try and get more or start 
 the newly unlocked over time mode, with a new story.
  over all FANTASTIC one of the top titles this year for xbox 360, a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clownofpoetry
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the most interesting games to ever come out for the X-Box 360 thus far and 
 it shows. The number of characters on screen at once is massive. I've never seen this many people 
 crammed into one area of a video game at once. This is crucial on how you must survive in this 
 game, knowing how to evade these zombies and other pests of the game will be key in many parts 
 of the game. In the midst of avoiding the thousands of zombies that are around, you gotta fight 
 to get ahead. The fighting is easy to do and it is a lot of fun as well. Fighting is not limited 
 to guns at all. You can literally take advantage of anything in this game to defeat your foes. 
 Televisions, toolboxes, shelves, shower heads, and nightsticks are just examples of what's available 
 to use. However, it's not perfect, the camera angles sometimes get in the way and random glitches 
 can bug this game. The AI isn't as smart as it could be either, but it is okay none the less. In 
 the end, the game isn't very hard nor is it very easy, it's got a lot of reasons that gamers would 
 want to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jester182
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Some aspects (loading, controls) need some work. Wait until a price drop to go out and buy it. 
 If you like just killing things in 1000's of differect ways then this game is for you. Overall 
 the environment is very well done and in certain places is very detailed. Some of the character 
 voices and some of their facial expressions while talking annoyed the hell out of me. I love the 
 camera aspect of it because you can get some funny pictures to show your friends but otherwise 
 it's kind of useless to use. Overall I think this is a game you should have in your collection 
 because you will find on certain days that you want to hack and slash and this is great for that. 
 As for a game that you can keep playing and get really into I say stick to Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper1989
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw dead rising, i thought it would be amazing. Thousands of zombies on screen that 
 are all trying to eat you. However, zombies are slow and dumb and you have a lot of weapons at 
 your disposal to massacre them all. The first time you play Dead Rising for yourself you will be 
 amazed at how amazing the graphics are. The textures on the characters are truly life like and 
 the zombies also look great with huge bites out of their faces. As you have gathered, the game 
 is very gory but in a fun way. Mow down a crowd of zombies with a lawn mower and blood spews everywhere. 
 There are a huge range of weapons on dead rising from a bowling ball to a sniper rifle. Each weapon 
 slowly deteriorates and the character, Frank West, drops it.
  Dead Rising doesnt appear to be a hack and slash at first, you have to save lots of scared characters 
 that are in need of your help. You can decide to leave them or save them, its up to you. There's 
 also some scary psychopaths that will do anything to try to kill you and are quite difficult to 
 kill.
  The game gets boring very quickly though, pressing x x x x x x x x xx x x x x xx x x constantly 
 is about as exciting as licking your hand. Exciting for some maybe but boring for everyone else. 
 The character, Otis, the janitor of the mall is so annoying and frustrating. He calls you to tell 
 you where each character is to save them but you cannot attack zombies while your on the walkie 
 talkie so you cant always answer him. If you don't he just keeps ringing you until you answer with 
 some annoying comment like, why dont you ever answer, its rude .... yeah and its also rude to disrupt 
 someone when they're getting their faces bitten off.
  The save feature is so annoying for this game. You have to get back to the security room to save 
 the game. You have completed 25% of the game in this slot you have just played and its taken you 
 2 hours. Your making your way back to the security room to save the game and you get killed........... you 
 have just wasted 2 hours of your life and will probably go and eat your 360 remote. This game is 
 basically Ninety Nine Knights but with zombies. Its good for the first twenty minutes but gets 
 extremely boring after that. It should have been used as a tech demo for the 360 and nothing else. 
 This game is still worth a rent though so don't remove it completely off your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurlmak
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  I have never been so frustrated with a game until I played Dead Rising. The idea and game play 
 are great, good graphics and a classic spin with the old trapped in the mall with zombies. I really 
 wish I could've played it.
  
  This game would not allow me to load my saved game. Extremely frustrating when you put five hours, 
 have the system recognize your last save date and level, but not allow you to load it, making you 
 start a new game every time you turn off your system. I dont recommend this game to anybody, don't 
 bother wasting your time playing just to get aggravated and frustrated when you take a break and 
 come back to play it later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamza3000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Story:
  
  Dead Rising follows the harrowing tale of Frank West, an overly zealous freelance photojournalist 
 on a hunt for the scoop of a lifetime. In pursuit of a juicy lead, he makes his way to a small 
 suburban town only to find that it has become overrun by zombies. He escapes to the local shopping 
 mall, thinking it will be a bastion of safety but it turns out to be anything but, it will be a 
 true struggle to survive the endless stream of undead. Players will also encounter other survivors 
 along the way and by helping them can acquire valuable clues as to what has happened
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Players will have full reign of a realistic shopping center, utilizing anything 
 they find to fight off the flesh-hungry mob and search for the truth behind the horrendous epidemic. 
 The variety of different stores in the mall offers players an endless supply of resources including 
 vehicles, makeshift weapons and more. There are 250+ weapons in the game which makes it more interesting. Players 
 have also a camera which they can use to take photoes and get PP (Pristage Points) . There are many 
 other ways to make pp. I did not play this game but i think pp helps you to unlock fighting moves.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall it is a very nice game. Think there are many zombies and you are trapped in a mall, what 
 would you do. Thats right, kick zombie butt 's by utilizing anything you find and be a hero. Its 
 just another ordinary day at the mall . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game if you can learn to deal with a few problems. The first problem is, using 
 guns sucks. Aiming is really hard and slow. The second problem is, if you try to play the game 
 the right way, it's really hard. Just trying to getting survivors to the security room will probably 
 cause you to break a couple controllers. And boss fights ain't easy either. One of the cooler things 
 about this game is that there are a lot of different endings. You can play the game like a cotton-headed-ninnymugguns 
 and just go around killing zombies for the entire game, or you can try to save as many people as 
 you can in the 7 hour game. The most satisfying ending is finding out what the game calls the truth. 
 The truth, of course, being why people are turning into zomies. All these endings give the game 
 a load of replay value. There are like, 250 weapons in the game, most of which are completely useless. 
 But when you're fighting zombies with weapons are really usefull, it's one of the must fun gaming 
 experiences you'll ever have. Taking poctures to level up is a really unique level up system. Be 
 sure to find some of the secret photo chances. The give you 1000 pp for a 100% picture. It's a 
 crapload of zombies in a mall the size of a town. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toasted_Gnome
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Well capcom... you made another zombie game...
  
  FREAKING AWESOME!
  
  lol
  
  ok so I hear about his new game called dead rising, i download the demo and i ended up sitting 
 in my basement all night kicking the crap out of mindless, relentless, dead-but-not-really-dead 
 zombies.
  
  When i first popped the game into my 360 i was in a good mood, having just bought the game i was 
 interested in giving it a test run. Lets just say it was one helluva test run. I played through 
 the story mode until my eyes burned, my thumbs were numb, and i had only scratched the surface. 
 I decide to call it a night and clicked on End Game , thinking that it would save my progress and 
 i would be able to pick up the next day, well it DID save my progress... long story short i started 
 over. But enough of that.
  
  First, I would simply like to point out the amazing looks of the game. It really feels like a mall, 
 right down to the shiny waxed floors that have been waxed by Otis, a mall janitor that assists 
 you along your travels. There are shops everywhere, and you can use nearly everything in the place 
 to ensure survival. It looks just like a real mall, although, it seems kind of large for a town 
 of only 53 000 people...
  
  next the game plays alot like resident evil, which is a good thing. But Dead Rising adds more of 
 a free roaming feel, which is incredibly cool when you think about it.
  
  Once i completed the long drawn out somewhat disappointing storyline, which was actually a decent 
 story for a zombie game, but zombie games just don't make sense. I unlocked a free play mode, a 
 dream come true! In this mode you can roam anywhere in the mall doing what you must to survive, 
 without the hassle of rescuing people and defeating Carlito. Over and over and over again... i 
 swear that guy simply defies all logic, i have shot him numerous times, blown him up, run him down 
 with a truck, and even cut him with a katana... he has a strong will to live i suppose. My first 
 stop in the free play experience was a quick trip to the Columbian Roastmasters in the Paradise 
 Plaza (a nice place by the way) , grabbed some all popwerful orange juice, and i made my way through 
 the courtyard to the North Plaza. The entire North end of the mall is under construction, so there 
 is few stores there. I went into the hardware store and picked up a few things while avoiding horendous 
 amounts of zombies that were brain hungry. As far as i know i came out with a can of paint and 
 only one bottle of orange juice. After that i took a casual stroll through the dumbstruck zombie 
 horde into the gun shop, came out with a few sniper rifles, a few shotties, and a bunch of handguns, 
 oh and an orange juice. All hell broke loose.
  
  Overall this game is awesome. It has near unlimited replayability, and it is something that I will 
 keep for a long time. Whether you are running down thousands of zombies in the parking garage, 
 or placing novelty masks on their heads, you are having a blast. A great game with, sometimes a 
 little glitchy, but hey, its a zombie game...
  
  i give it about an 8 for the simple fact that you can pick up and play anytime, and have a great 
 time.
  Two Numb Thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyneburn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  To all gamers i would recommend trying this game before buying it. I myself found that i just could 
 not save enough, there were not enough spots to rest and keep my data. I really did like the game 
 but i love being able to save anywhere i want and not just be forced to save it particular areas. 
 Well finally yes the game was good it had an excllent storyline, great graphics, the sound was 
 smooth and suspenseful &amp; it had a great value for the quality of the game, but still if possible 
 in your area rent this game before buying it to see if u like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbcnoob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  With Dead Rising for the X360 it is a great game for a great system. There are nice graphics, along 
 with sound and detail. I may speak for some people when I say zombie games should be about killing 
 them, and then finding out the story. I dont want to do a story, i just want to kill zombies. Dead 
 rising gives you a choose on if you want to kill 53, 594 undead people or find out why this happened. 
 I found out what happened, and personally I think this could happen. So basically, this game should 
 have been on two sperate disc's. At least I think so. One for story mode and the other for owning 
 all the zombies, with different weapons and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising
  
  The concept of the game is awesome. Kill zombies while your trapped in a mall. O right, there is 
 a pretty cool story behind it to. Great no? Yeah! But there are some things that take the overal 
 experience down, wich is so stupid, because this game could have been better. But still, it's pretty 
 darn good.
  
  Graphics:
  Nice graphics, notice that there are hundreds of enemies, so the level of detail with such numbers 
 is awesome. There has been payed alot of attention to detail, such as bloodstains, breakable glass, 
 etc. Wich all looks great, the animations of it all look pretty realistic.
  
  Gameplay:
  Pure action, wich has been properly done, you can use a enormous amount of ways to kill or harass 
 zombies. The save system is the only big problem..... this takes the game down.
  Some say it adds a bigger thrill, me personaly..... the save system is something that has been made 
 to give a different look on the game, and make it more challeging and thus longer. But this fails, 
 because it's so darn annoying.
  
  Sound:
  Nice and gory, you can hear every attack, crisp and clean, and the voices and moans of people and 
 zombies are properly done.
  
  Great game, but the save system is to big of a deal for me, and I think alot will have to agree 
 on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today, and absolutly love it. I have spent about 5 hours playing and wanted 
 to share my feelings. The graphics are good, the gameplay is great. When they say evertything is 
 a weapon, they mean it!!! I thought like many that endless bashing of zombies would get old quickly, 
 but this isnt the case. With so many options and people to save, its not getting old at all. The 
 game isnt overly difficullt either. Once you head outside the mall, things get a little troublesome 
 for a while, but it isnt anything impossable to handle. I would recommend this game to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liratheal
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I went into Dead Rising with low expectations. I've played Capcom zombie games before, and always 
 found them awkward at best. With my low expectations in check, I started the game up. I was relatively 
 surprised, Capcom had coughed out a zombie game where the controls are not frustrating, the weapons 
 were plentiful (And fantastic fun) , and you are encouraged to dive at the nearest hoard of zombies 
 and start hacking and beating. I did attempt the missions, but, to be honest, I found them to be 
 like a chore. Something that you knew had to be done, but you'd rather leave it to the last minute. 
 I'd suggest that anyone buying this game should really go at it for the zombie slaughtering and 
 hilarity of the weapons, over the almost clumsy missions. It certainly plays well, looks good and 
 offers you a lot to do in the time frame, and there appear to be a large amount of unlockables, 
 which can be fantastic fun to attempt. As with Capcom games of the past, the game save system is 
 potentially frustrating, if you're on that last bar of health and a way away from the nearest restroom 
 or the safe area.
  
  If you don't run at the game with the highest of hopes for it, you should be entertained for some 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: styphin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the pessimists - Dead Rising is by far my favorite game for the XBox 360. The game 
 has great visuals, an interesting time-based concept, tight controls and gameplay, loads of zombie 
 killing violence, and is all backed up by a solid story.
  
  However, let me address a common complaint about the save system. The fact is that you only get 
 one save file per profile, which limits you from restarting at a previous point. BUT, that doesn't 
 necessarily mean it's a bad save system; IMO, it adds a certain element of strategy to the game, 
 forcing you to think twice before saving. For instance, since your missions are timed by the in-game 
 clock, saving right before a mission expires will mean restarting at that point makes it difficult 
 to complete the mission before time's up.
  
  However, the game allows you to save at very opportune times and personally I have never had a 
 problem with the above scenario. Instead I plan ahead, which greatly improves the experience of 
 the game.
  
  The game itself, as you've probably heard, is about a photojournalist named Frank who gets dropped 
 off at a mall full of zombies in hopes of uncovering the reason of the zombie outbreak. I won't 
 get into the story, but instead will explain how absolutely INCREDIBLE the gameplay is. In the 
 mall, EVERYTHING is a weapon. You can literally pick up almost any object in the game and use it 
 to fight your way through swarms of zombies. Guitars, plant pots, cooking oil, katanas, lawnmowers, 
 chainsaws, frying pans (which can be heated to fry zombie faces) , shower heads (which you pop into 
 a zombie's head, causing blood and brain matter to shower down upon your victim) , bowling balls; 
 the list is literally endless. And of course there's a plethora of firearms you can use to pop 
 some zombie skull. It's amazing how much detail went into the object system of the game, as many 
 of the weapons have multiple uses as well.
  
  The in-game time system is very amusing as well, as you can witness the entire day from daybreak 
 to sunset in a very believable way. During the day the sun is bright, the zombies are lethargic, 
 and elevator music plays throughout the mall. At night, the zombie's eyes turn red and become much 
 faster, the lights in the mall (which must be on a timer) eventually turn off, leaving you in almost 
 total darkness, and even a recorded message plays on the overhead loudspeaker announcing the closing 
 of the mall (not that any customers are around to listen.) The level of detail is astounding.
 
  
  You also have a LOT of flexibility to do whatever you want in the game. You can choose to tackle 
 the scoop missions, which are given to you via a walkie talkie from a friend; you can choose to 
 escort survivors from varying parts of the mall to the safety room, or not, essentially deciding 
 who lives or dies; fight the psychopaths who have gone insane from the terror of the zombie crisis, 
 a combination of all of that, or you can choose to just simply run around killing zombies to your 
 heart's content. It's all up to you!
  
  Seriously, this game is just a lot of fun for anyone with a penchant for zombie mayhem. Although 
 quite different from Capcom's Resident Evil series, the survival mechanism is still quite prominent, 
 and if you're into survival horror, then I am certain you will love this game as much as I have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattman012691
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. So many weapons to choose from and so many ways to kill a zombie. Also, this 
 game has amazing graphics, even if you don't have an HD tv. One small problem though, you can't 
 read what the text says very easily without an HD tv. The mall you get to walk around in is huge 
 as well, with many little easter eggs and tricks. Dead Rising is probably one of the most fun games 
 I have played in a while. It's not on Xbox Live, so that makes it not a competitive game, which 
 adds a type of fun factor and it gives you so many things you can do. I would definitely recommend 
 that anybody with a 360 buys this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  You play as Frank West, A Photojournalist who goes to whellamette mall to find out what is going 
 on!
  
  GOOD- Hundreds on undead; Tons of weapons to choose from; engaging story, you choose what happens; 
 brilliant sound effects, music and voice acting; real time structure; still frame rate
  
  BAD- if it was'nt for the still frame rate the graphics would have a 7; it does'nt last 74hrs; 
 GAMEPLAY-
  The gameplay in this game is so god dam good.... no, awesome!!!, this is one of the best games ever 
 on the 360, you can use any weapon at your dispossle, including, knifes, guns, rods and even pans 
 and stupid things like Pies, and many many more, the great thing about the game its got hundreds 
 of onscreen zombies giving you hours of fun to hack and slash through em all. you can level up 
 in the game to 50, every time you do you'll earn new moves and more health, get books to incresse 
 you skills
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics in the game are realy realy good, there face impressions are so reallistic, but the 
 graphics itself is'nt that great, but the frame rate in the game is realy great saying theres tons 
 of brilliant renderd zombies onscreen.
  
  SOUND-
  The sound is superb, the sound of a bat hitting the zombie is so saticfing and sounds so real, 
 the moan and growning make a great scary sounds and music is taken from classic horror movies and 
 the voice acting is brilliant!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlabbe
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  When I purchased my Xbox 360 several weeks ago, Dead Rising along with Madden 07 were my first 
 two games to rent. As a rule, I never buy without renting. thank that I rented this one first. 
 Before I say why I didn't like it, here's why I did. On a high Def computer monitor, this game 
 looks awesome, and almost glitch free. Blood splatters well, inanimate/partially animate graphics 
 stay on the map for a very reasonable amount of time considering the low memory this system has, 
 and the control scheme is easy enough to master that you wont spend time Getting adjusted. What 
 I didn't like: Replayability: NONE.
  This game is replayable approximately .10 of a time. It wears thin VERY fast. There just isn't 
 enough there to make a game out of. Its primary focus was to show off high def graphics, and kill 
 things. It does the first well, and the second is ok. You run around killing zombies and taking 
 pictures in a mall. That's about all. You have little side missions that allow you to reunite people 
 for primo photo ops, but nothing more. You do that over and over and over and over. thanks.
  
  Multiplayer: NONE
  No coop mode, no challenge mode, no arcade-just-kill-things mode. Nothing 
 to do on Live, notta. Story line: mild and uninteresting.
  If youre going to have a single player game with one and a half objectives (killing zombies and 
 taking pictures, respectively) it had better have a killer storyline. This one doesnt. No drama, 
 No impending doom, no reason to be down there except to take pictures of people youd rather be 
 killing. The in-game characters speak in small amounts about why this is happening, and some random 
 old man you took a picture of, but its not dramatic, and reasonably uninteresting. So after all 
 that your whole reason for being in this game is to kill zombies. Which is all fine and dandy, 
 but leave me a free for all mode, where I can just kill zombies and not be annoyed by a cell phone 
 ringing, or a person tagging along. When you kill zombies constantly for 4 or 5 hours, and the 
 mission is to go across this zombie infested area to take a picture of something you have no emotional 
 or game related interest in, I start to lose interest. This game is great as a rental, but not 
 worth anything more than $20.
  What would make it better in my opinion? Take the photographer aspect out of it. Its great and 
 all, but without a decent storyline its an annoyance. This game should have been made as it was 
 marketed: killing zombies in copious amounts. Which it does to a certain degree, however it would 
 be an incredible console game if the game centered around it. Give me a multi player option. Let 
 me and my friends take out zombies together, over live and on console. Have a mode where you can 
 set traps for the other players, and lead zombies to them with some sort of bait. Have a competitive 
 mode where youre both put on a map to kill as many zombies in a set amount of time, or kill X 
 number to see how long it takes. Kill a zombie and get an instant replay option. Get a bonus for 
 killing several at once. Execute one of the many level mandated (yes you level up, by the quality 
 of pictures you take, mostly) special moves, and get a slow motion, cinematic scene of rendered 
 zombie death. It should be more like a sports game than an RPG. Make it intricate, gruesome, and 
 graphic. Make it something that parents would hate and protest against. Only then do you have a 
 good zombie killer for a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhyselupton
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  I personally loved the game But just really hated how the save sytem was to spaced out and took 
 ages just to reach. Lets say i rescue a survivor get them to a location and need to save because 
 im nowhere near the security room. and they end up die and having to restart from a verry far and 
 long time ago now that annoys me doing the same thing over and over. And another downside to this 
 great game is the survivors A. I. they're just complete dumb asses they go out of their way just 
 to kill the nearest zombie verry dificult when your utterly surounded by zombies and you just want 
 to get the hell out of there .Loved the psychopaths they're always enjoyable to play and just the 
 constant freedom to do anything in the mall and out. Nothing like a zombie thrashing frenzy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gskehans97
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising for my Xbox 360 is a Hell of a Great Game! it's just fun to play and just kill all 
 the zombies over and over again! The best thing about this game is that killing all the ZOMBIES 
 is  are alot of weapons in the game and 
 i don't like how if u die u have to stat the gameover! I just hate thast part. The gameplay for 
 this game was very good . the Graphics were great . The sound was really good and there for i give 
 dead Rising for the xbox360 a 9.0 outa 10 Great game here by CAMCOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zinn-x
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Sparing formal introductions, I just finished the game, absolutely loved it. One thing I have to 
 get out of the way first: the save system, an aspect that many reviewers hate about the game. You 
 only get one save slot for the game. I was annoyed with it too at first, but it ended up adding 
 to the charm of the game for me. One of the themes in the storyline is taking responsibility for 
 one's actions. The save system plays into this -- it requires you to be very careful and take the 
 story that much more seriously, since you can save yourself into a hole. I managed to do it right 
 the first time. Perhaps if I'd screwed it up near the end I'd be singing a different tune, but 
 I know this system was a risky design consideration by Capcom, and I like it. At least if you have 
 to start over, you can bring your character skills and levels to the new game.
  
  The story gripped me the whole way through. An overarching time limit set an appropriate sense 
 of urgency to the whole situation -- Frank has exactly 72 game hours to get his story and get the 
 hell out of the mall. And this story keeps moving. There were times my heart was pounding so hard 
 I felt faint, absolutely entranced in victory over a boss and eager to see where the story leads 
 next. I remember my heart just dropping and thinking oh **** I'm screwed when I watched the ending 
 to the 72 hour mode, and then the Overtime mode started with a whole new day's worth of story. 
 Definitely a pleasant surprise, and very challenging. I think Frank is one of the most believable 
 characters I've ever encountered in a game and really enjoyed following him around the mall for 
 the last few days.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, this was excellent too, if a little less so than the story. There was a good 
 variety to the story missions, such that it didn't seem to drag on or get too repetetive like many 
 open-ended games do. One thing I appreciated was how zombie-killing was integrated into the game. 
 Since dispatching zombies in hilarious ways with a huge variety of weapons is a major selling point 
 of this game, one could expect it to be a major focus of the missions as well. The thing is, it's 
 not. While destroying zombies is an undeniable and unforgettable part of this game, the missions 
 don't focus on it. You don't have any kill this many zombies within a certain time limit objectives, 
 which is nice. Instead, the zombies are in your way as you travel towards some objective and you 
 can choose how to deal with them, or not deal with them.
  
  Between story missions, the game affords ample time to explore or do the side missions. The sheer 
 number of these secondary objectives adds a lot of replay value to the game. I defy anyone to do 
 them all in one go. Many of the missions involve psychopaths, boss characters that are evil, completely 
 insane, or both, (my favorite was Adam, the chainsaw-juggling psycho clown) . Defeating bosses often 
 allows you to get powerful weapons which can help as the game gets harder (and it does) . A lot 
 of reviewers rag on the number of escort missions in the game. I didn't find this to be so bad, 
 since you can choose to completely ignore them. What I didn't appreciate was how bad the human 
 AI is when you do choose to partake -- it's pretty bad. Oftentimes I would just get fed up while 
 escorting someone and just leave them to the zombies. Capcom could have done better here, but since 
 escort objectives are typically secondary to the main missions, it's not so bad. Completing the 
 side missions allows you to gain experience points and level up Frank's skills, inventory, health 
 and speed, which also helps as the game gets harder.
  
  The graphics were impressive at times, less so at others. Its still hard for me to believe that 
 it's even possible to animate so many zombies which such fluidity and expression simultaneously, 
 but the Xbox 360 generally does it without a hiccup, (and the zombie animations are just great, 
 very believable) . I did notice some LOD issues where the difference in polycount on the character 
 models is very noticeable between certain distances. Oftentimes in large groups of zombies, you'll 
 see the same model several times which is a bit disconcerting. The mall itself is a mixed bag. 
 It was skillfully rendered, with very distinct areas to it, but in the end it is a mall, and I 
 think malls are generally boring looking. Oh well. Overall the graphics were very good, and a lot 
 of little touches here and there, like an excellent draw distance, well-modeled and animated characters 
 and cutscenes, and subtle depth of field effects, made a positive difference.
  
  Sound? Pretty damn good. The sounds the zombies make are downright creepy and very realistic. When 
 I say realistic, I mean that if I were to encounter a zombie on the street, I'm pretty sure it 
 would sound like any one of the zombies in the game. The music scattered throughout the game, from 
 the cheesy mall muzak to the more intense boss themes, really helped set an ambience without being 
 too overbearing. The weapon and attack sounds were appropriately brutal -- hit a zombie with a shovel 
 and you'll be treated to a satisfying *thunk*, or try slicing limbs off with a meat cleaver. Everything 
 sounds as it should. It was downright impressive on my 2.1 system, and I can't even imagine how 
 awesome it would be with surround. Terrific.
  
  I have just one major gripe with the game. It's Otis, the security guard who calls you on your 
 cell phone and tells you about the side missions that are available to you. The way this is presented 
 is exceedingly annoying. At any moment of the game, the phone can start ringing. It will keep ringing 
 and ringing until you stop what you're doing to answer it. Then Otis will tell you about something 
 he saw on a security monitor, which doesn't seem to make much sense considering he's standing next 
 to a ventilation pipe throughout the game with nary a monitor in sight. But that's neither here 
 nor there. The problem is how the phone interrupts what you're doing. If you don't answer it, it 
 will annoy the hell out of you, and if you do, you will be wide open to attack since all you can 
 do is run and jump while on the phone. Supposing you do get attacked, the phone hangs up and Otis 
 calls back, scolding you for cutting him off. The game is obviously timing these calls on a schedule, 
 but having the phone ring while you're trying to concentrate in a boss fight is really obnoxious 
 and why my room phone is sitting unplugged on the floor right now. Jeez!
  
  Anyway, aside from Otis, this game is great. The gripping story, interesting gameplay, great graphics 
 and sound, and even the wacky save system come together to make Dead Rising a game worth owning, 
 and definitely my favorite on the Xbox 360 right now. I really couldn't put it down until I had 
 unlocked the infinity mode and now I want to go back and try the missions, unlock the achievements, 
 and do all the stuff I couldn't get to the first time through. And there's still a lot to do!
 
  
  Not sure how to fit this in, but I noticed that Capcom seems to really be making fun of American 
 culture in many ways in this game. The story, the setting, the cell phone... or maybe I'm reading 
 into it too much? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klabut
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Having to spend 3 days of my life fighting for survival in a mall infested with thousands of zombies 
 doesn't sound to appealing to some people but to me it was an experience of a life time.
  
  Capcom has always been famous for there zombie killing/survival horror genre most famous being 
 the Resident Evil series. But with Dead Rising the take the genre to the next level in all aspects 
 of gameplay, vioence, and story. In Dead Rising you play as a newsreporter/photographer Frank West 
 who gets tip that something big is happening in the town of Wilamete, Coloarado a small hick town 
 with nothing to do but kill some time at the mall. He gets there via helicopter. As he is in the 
 helicopter he notices road blocks and police, FBI, ect. And humans that don't look so right. This 
 is happening because the town of Wilamete, Colorado is infested with zombies. As he is taking pictures 
 w he notices the Wilamete Parkview Mall and asks the pilot to land him there for reasons uknown. 
 He just says come back in three days and remember the name Frank West I will soon be famous. I 
 honestly don't know what he was thinking that practically suicidal, he probably just to show off 
 and be a badass [/sarcasm] I think he wants to find out the story as to whats going on. and get 
 a good scoop on it
  
  As he lands on the deserted rooftop he goes through the security room into the mall. As he gets 
 into the mall he sees some survivors It also seems as if the doors are baracaded and around the 
 mall are thousands of Zombies. Next thing you know the zombies get into the mall killing the all 
 the survivors in sight and next thing you know you are fighting for your very life and see a black 
 man telling you to come with him.
  
  Next thing you know you are back in the security room with 3 people Otis washington the janitor, 
 and FBI agents Jesse Mccarney and Brad Garrison. Basically those guys are the main characters of 
 the game, them and a few other people that I can't really say cause it could easily ruin the story 
 sorry. Brad and Jesse are both FBI agent who I think they are partners but it never really explains 
 that well. They are both featured in most of the cutscenes, however Brad you will do a few quests 
 with and Jesse justs sits in the Security Room all time. Otis is probably in my opinion the worst 
 character in the game, he really isn't featured in any cut-scene and all he does is sit there and 
 call you is what really gets on my nerves. Most of of his calls are just him telling you where 
 you are and where survivors are located. If you are going to attempt to get the 50 survivor achievement 
 or Trans-missionary for answering all of his calls which I think would be a pain then your going 
 to probably have to answer almost of all his calls, but if your doing the campaign it can be quite 
 the pain, for when you talk to him you can't fight at all all you can do is run in circles trying 
 not to get attacked by zombies and if a zombies gets you he will automatically call back in the 
 next few seconds saying you're rude and the call starts over, some of his calls however you have 
 to answer no matter what but most of them you can just avoid. In the playing Dead Rising you can 
 play the game one of two ways. You can either do all cases and scoops and beat the game and have 
 a clear picture of what happened, or you can just kill a ton of zombies and maybe save a few survivors 
 doing no quests at all and having no clue where or how the zombies were made. They are both good 
 ways to play the game for if you plan on getting all 1000 achievements you will probably have to 
 play the story at least 3 times.
  
  Throughout the whole entire game you will find yourself running across the mall doing quests and 
 killing zombies with all kinds of zany weapons, and I mean ALL KINDS. There are practically like 
 70 weapons to use in this game for then half could be considered guilty pleasure. I mean no matter 
 where you are in the game you will find something to kill zombies with. I mean look at the choices, 
 chainsaws, swords, shelf racks, benches, knifes, guns, umbrella's, you got like tons of choices 
 to choose from and I can practically guarentee you all weapons do something different. Some weapons 
 may be truely kick ass and kill zombies in a slice like the Katana. Or weapons that really aren't 
 even worth looking at like the box, or the squirtgun, don't forget the toy lighsaber. But really 
 you will never be unarmed in the game of Dead Rising. Then there is a different kind os enemy in 
 this game the Psychopaths which are bosses that you can find in certain places of the mall. Some 
 you have to find automatically doing the story some you kill for more resources like more weapons 
 to use. Dead Rising definitely has some very strong gameplay elements and a surprisingly good story, 
 and lots of challenging task to top the game off. What separates this game from other zombie killing 
 games Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Fatal Frame, ect. Is once out of ammunition you can't do anything 
 else OMG I have no rifle bullets left and I can't pick up the chair and bash the zombies head in 
 . Well that is not the case in Dead Rising for you use almost anything as a weapon. Go into a sports 
 store and pick up the bowling ball to use, the gym and use weights, and so on. Dead Rising in all 
 honesty is probably the first game enabling the player to do this and does a good job of it keeping 
 frame-rate, and lag issues to a negative no matter how many zombies there are on the screen.
  
  In Dead Rising like other games you will have a standard level system. The level system in 
 Dead Rising is definitely a pretty good leveling system. You level up just by doing the basic tasks 
 of the game. 500 PP for every zombie you kill 20,000 for every thousand you kill. You get PP for 
 beating bosses, escorting/saving survivors and rescuing survivors, and so on. The level system 
 is pretty rewarding. When you level up you get full health and one of several things. Either stock 
 increase to carry more weapons, a new move to use on your zombie such as jump kick or Karate chop, 
 an extra health bar so you won't die as easy, extra speed so you run faster (obviously) , extra 
 throw distance so you throw enemies farther, and extra strength so you are more powerful. Leveling 
 up in the actual game itself will take some time depending on what your doing, usually killing 
 zombies for hours straight won't have you leveled up very fast. While saving survivors can level 
 you up pretty fast. It takes probably like somewhere from 10-30 minutes to level up. Maxing out 
 your character to level 50 will definetly take some time and effort. It's not hard but if your 
 willing to play the game at least twice in order to do so then go for it. All you get at level 
 50 is 20 achievement points and a new move which I won't share with you
  
  The health system in the game at times I guess is pretty forgiving. Basically to get health you 
 just eat food that you will find all over the game in various stores. Most food healsl different 
 health depending on how healthy it is. For instance cookies, chips, snack, pizza, etc only do one 
 health. Meat does two health. milk and dairy products usually do somewhere from 3-4. And surprisingly 
 beer does the most since there are several different beers, wines to drink I will say they go somewhere 
 from 4-6 bars of health I guess beer is considered healthy by some standars. In all it's a pretty 
 good system food is pretty easy to find in this game there's usually a food store pretty close 
 it seems like so it's not that hard to get some health/food
  
  As a reporter in the game you do have a camera that you can use to take pictues. It's really not 
 the most exciting part of the game, all you do is hold L and hit A to take one. All you really 
 get for taking them is PP and a few achievements. But in all honesty there is really no point in 
 actually taking pictures. You get 50 shots to start off with but can go to the camera store which 
 there are two in the to get more pictures. But really you don't have to take pictures there is 
 limit for how many you need to take or can take. But I guess there is some stuff that's fun to 
 photograph and if you really want those points go for it.
  
  The game does however like any game suffer from a few problems, but makes me sick to my stomach 
 is how easy they could have changed these problems. I mean the save system is just horrible. I 
 mean instead of saving it from the start menu you have to either do it in the safe zone of bathroom. 
 And I mean there are only like 5 bathrooms in the whole game and they take so long to get too which 
 makes it pointless to even try saving there. The most common place you save at is the safe zone 
 since you go there once finishing most of your quests some quests it will make you save once finished 
 but I mean the save system just isn't all that great, especially considering that some circumstances 
 it could be more then halfway across the map and you will have to run there while trying to not 
 get killled, the worst case scenario with the saving is that you have limited time to get back 
 when yes there is a limit to how long the case takes before you have to start over and are across 
 the map with no time to get to the save point. I mean having to beat a hard part of the game and 
 then run all the way back to the safe zone to just to say is preposterous I mean come one capcom 
 I think this is something that you guys could have easily fixed.
  
  Overall the AI is pretty good the game seems to challenge you to try and do hard stuff. Like if 
 you want to get guns which will make the game a whole lot easier you have to kill Cletus which 
 is one of the hardest bosses in the game. And if you want PP to try and level up you are going 
 to have to work for it and it will take some time. Most of the zombies in the game are obviously 
 not to smart of course all zombies do is just stand there and if you get close you better run off. 
 In Dead Rising it's mostly like that. When a zombie does grab a hold you to get it off you constantly 
 press why while spinning the analog stick. It usually works however sometimes it seems as if it 
 doesn't do anything and they will like fall on you and you will lose like increments of 4 bars 
 which really isn't to fun at all. Most of the psycopaths are obviously pretty challenging most 
 take lots of different tries and strategies in order to defeat. If you really don't think you can 
 beat some of them then I would try going for Zombie Genocider (53,954 kills) and get the real mega 
 buster but it's up too you I know it helped me in some places.
  
  The first time through the game it will seem somewhat hard to beat and will take a while but one 
 thing I like about this game is that it has some really cool unlock ables. Like the real mega buster 
 which is a mega man type gun that you get after killing 53,954 thousand zombies which it's actually 
 worth it. And once you get to higher levels there will be lots of cool stuff envoled that can sometimes 
 result in guilty pleasure.
  
  Overall I think Dead Rising was a good challenging game that I would recommend to any fan or aficionado 
 of the zombie killing survival horror genre. For some people it's not worth the price and for others 
 it's not worth the time but if your in to these kinds of games then I would have to highly reccomend 
 it to you. It may be hard at first but the game is worth the time if you want to have some zombie 
 killing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaccharycnegrin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  i have seen played and right now reviewing dead rising first thing i have to say is wow just amazing 
 capcom did a great job on this game . i had fun i was just loving it . but now to the bad stuff 
 the controls and combos are a littl hard and we all know ht escourt missions bu the sad thing is 
 i can only play it for 3 day and then it plays it self if capcom had a how long to you want to 
 play this game setting then i would highly recomennd it but it didnt so i give it a 9.8 out of 
 ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quick-smoke
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE IT i like it where u can pick up almost evry thing u see. The storyline is good but it gets 
 boring after a while. THE ONLY THING I HATE IS THE SUPID GUY OUTSIDE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! GRAFICS ARE GREAT 
 i mean GREAT! NOT AS GOOD AS OBLIVION my best and fav game. i only played tt at my friends house 
 but still i love it. bowlingball, chainsaw, and i can't remember the last one but it starts with a 
 m. IT SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO  THE BOSSES ARE VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY 
 VERY VERY HARD. I hope i can buy it soon but I just bout oblivion a week ago and i beat it. so i 
 donno matbe I will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lioneluk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  i agree that this is a very good game, very good depth and very good diversion in what you can 
 do. if it wasnt for a few points that in my own opinion let it down it would be one for the best 
 games over the past few years.
  
  :- RT targeting really peevs me off when you have the screen faceing one way but frank ( you) is 
 facing in the other direction, you either press LT for camera or RT for gun/throw item. but it 
 automatically focuses on where franks looking not where u ws looking on screen.
  
  :- save system im sure its been very cleverly thought out that u can only have one save file and 
 only save at certain points.
  
  :- the dam phone ringing!!! even if u answer it u cant fight!! anyone heard of bluetooth headsets 
 or loudspeakers?
  
  other than those few point i think that this is a brilliant game.. graphics are not the best ever 
 but the complexity of having so many items/zombies on screen at anyone time was more of the aim 
 than 10/10 gfx ( the 360 needs more substance than flashy gfx imo so a good start)
  
  So much to explore and find out that u have to play over and over again. lots of easter eggs and 
 treats and the comedy aspect and choice of weapons breaks up the repetative zombie killing. very 
 good replay value.
  
  peace... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clarki_92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The Best Game i ever played. My opinion is: Really Good Game play + Graphics.
  Okay Sound
  Bad Price - It's Too Expensive! But i Would Buy it!!!
  
  So go out to the game shop and BUY 
 THIS GAME BECAUSE IT IS THE BEST! But there is something they could have done better: The Map is 
 not the best i have seen. That could have been Waaaaay Better but it sure is fun to kill 53.000 
 zombies with diffrent sorts of weapons. Buy it!!
  
  
  
  The Best Game i ever played. My opinion is: Really Good Game play + Graphics.
  Okay Sound
  
 Bad Price - It's Too Expensive! But i Would Buy it!!!
  
  So go out to the game shop and BUY THIS GAME BECAUSE IT IS THE BEST! But there is something they 
 could have done better: The Map is not the best i have seen. That could have been Waaaaay Better 
 but it sure is fun to kill 53.000 zombies with diffrent sorts of weapons. Buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardboardonly
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Hands down the best zombie game ever. Tons of weapons, lots of space to use them against the teaming 
 hoards yearning for a second death, and innovative game design to boot. Many people have complained 
 about the saving function, even calling it a serious flaw. I strongly disagree and see that kind 
 of claim as a slap to the face of game design. To me, that is like saying that a jumpshot shoud 
 always sink in a basketball game or that a car shouldn't wreck when it hits the wall in Burnout. 
 It is a consquence of not performing as the general will of the design requests you too. That is 
 what a game is. Learning the rules and doing your best to get a good outcome. I'm not going to 
 go into much else as the reviews on this site and others have covered plenty. I just wanted to 
 defend the save function. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estearns
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I liked the game and want to playit but I had trouble scratching the surface. Everytime I sit down 
 to play this game I find my self gong off on tangents and just messing around. This was great but 
 I found that it took me away from the main story line. I also had a problem with the map andthe 
 saving spots. I felt like the map isn't as interactive as it could be. especially for a game that 
 is strictly based in one location. The map should be very detailed and should have a much deeper 
 control scheme and more info. I become very angry witht eh process of saving. I always found that 
 when I really needed to end the game it was difficult to actully get to the saving point. Other 
 games like GTA and Resident Evil 4 have this saving mechanics wich I feal is a good Idea and does 
 have an importand role in complicating the game. This can be a good thing because it will allow 
 for the player to think more about how they go through the game and saveign then becomes more part 
 of the game. Sadly I found that the savign spots to be too spread out in this game and did not 
 allow for quick recovery. Besides that I had no other problems with Dead Rising. I sometimes wish 
 that the aiming was better designed in a tight situation I found it dificult for me to through 
 something the way I wanted to . I think this is one of those games that will be rememberd for a 
 long time but I don't think it was the killer game that Xbox needed to get people to buy there 
 system right before the launch of the ps3 and Wii
  that was there chance now if people dont' have a 360 they are going to save for a ps3. I would. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JINJOPLATER
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  i have been a capcom fan for as long as i can remember and after not havin played a game from them 
 in a while.. i remember why i love their games so much! its got everythin every zombie genre fan 
 could want, or even if your a gamer who jus likes his fun, its got everything, from using anythin 
 as a weapon to dressing up how you like. and the main thing of course... THE KILLING!!! coz lets 
 face it... why do people like GTA so much? THE KILLING SPREES!!! now dont get me wrong.. thats 
 all fun, but there are the challenges in there to keep the hard core gamers out there like me happy 
 with some solid missions.. and you will will want to play through at least twice. having just got 
 the true ending last nite i am still playing it after a week when i would of been bored and completed 
 other games by now.. this jus keeps on goin. i am now running around in my megaman costume bashin 
 zombie heads and it aint gettin old ;)
  its the reason i got a 360... and i sugest you all get it, you wont be dissapointed!.... games 
 like this is what capcom do best :D
  JINJO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DR_RISK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Possibly the most anticipated game in the Xbox 360's short history. But does it live up to the 
 hype?
  
  Its here! Its here! Its finally here! As the calendar turned to August 8th, 2006 that is what 
 countless gamers and Rob Zombie and/or George Romero fans were likely screaming while hopping up 
 and down on the line at Best Buy or EB Games. Why? Because thats the date that what is probably 
 the most anticipated Xbox 360 game in the systems short history was released. The game in question 
 is Dead Rising and, unless youve been buried under the cold earth yourself for the past year or 
 have never held a game controller in your hand, you know all about this game already. Its been 
 hyped with an ad campaign and marketing strategy that make Karl Roves election year tactics seem 
 subtle. But does it live up to the hype? Indeed it does, my friends. When it comes to video games 
 and zombies, no one has the pan galactic gargle blaster recipe down better than the folks at Capcom 
 who have been bringing the dead back to life for the better part of the last ten years in their 
 Resident Evil series. While most of those titles were slow, methodical, terror builders with the 
 occasional monster in the closet type scare for good measure, however, Dead Rising takes a much 
 less subtle approach. The dead are far easier to dispatch in Dead Rising doe one thing, and thats 
 good because there are a lot more of them than youll see in any Resident Evil game.
  Im reminded of the tagline for James Camerons Aliens: This time there are hundreds of them. 
 Yes the stories and previews hold true, Dead Rising puts literally hundreds of enemies on the screen 
 at once and it is a spectacle to behold. Mowing a few dozen down in one swift move with a lawnmower 
 from the malls lawn &amp; garden shop is every bit as fun as it sounds as well.
  Im reminded of the tagline for James Camerons Aliens: This time there are hundreds of them. 
 As we revealed in our recent preview, the story of Dead Rising puts the player in the shoes of 
 Frank West, a photojournalist who is always looking for a scoop. When he gets wind of odd happenings 
 in a small Colorado town his nose for news leads him to investigate. There is no communication 
 with the residents and all roads in or out have been blocked, so Frank hires a helicopter to take 
 him there. On the way in he finds that the whole place is overrun with shambling, decaying, flesh-eating 
 zombies, Raccoon City style. Naturally, Frank decides to do some shopping and has his pilot take 
 him to the mall. I seem to remember a movie about zombies in a mall nah, that couldnt have anything 
 to do with this game. Actually the fact that the main gameplay in Dead Rising takes place in a 
 mall is where its apparent similarities with Dawn of the Dead end, but I still see it as a bit 
 of an homage by Capcom to the film that they based their most successful console game series on.
 
  
  Like Resident Evil before it, Dead Rising is quite linear, but in terms of gameplay the two couldnt 
 be more diverse. You wont find yourself searching for keys or pushing objects around to open hidden 
 rooms here. Instead youll be tasked with various missions and side-missions, most of which involve 
 rescuing some helpless mass of pixels (okay, polygons) which has gotten him or her-self trapped 
 somewhere and is in danger of becoming a zombified Scooby Snack if you dont intervene. Missions 
 will also help Frank get his story and unravel the mystery of why this sleepy town suddenly went 
 to hell in a nicely decomposed hand-basket. The missions and especially the side quests get a little 
 redundant, but the player doesnt really notice that much because the action itself is just so 
 freakin fun that it transcends any problems that the game has.
  
  Fortunately, the problems are relatively few. Besides the repetitive rescue/escort missions, the 
 most glaring issue in Dead Rising is the save system. You get one save per memory device in this 
 game. One. Uno. One less than two. Since the game plays out in a real time format (Frank has 72 
 game hours to get his scoops, save the survivors and get the hell out of Hell) with missions requiring 
 Frank to be at a specific place at a specific time to advance the story, this makes it entirely 
 possible (nay, probable) to save yourself into an unwinnable situation. If your last save point 
 is too far from the next mission start point to make it in time, the story mode ends abruptly. 
 You can start over retaining all the experience Frank has obtained thus far (Frank learns new abilities, 
 attacks and such through a nice system of leveling-up) , but it is still starting over at the beginning, 
 something that is never any fun.
  
  Most of the pre-release hype that surrounded the game focused on the way it harnesses the 360s 
 next-gen power to have so many baddies on the screen at once. While that aspect of the game is 
 impressive and awe-inspiring, its just the tip of the iceberg in Dead Rising. Much more interesting 
 is the variety of weapons available and the unique ways in which the player can put them to use. 
 There are plenty of obvious weapons such as guns and knives and baseball bats, but just like Shaun 
 and Ed throwing Prince and Sade records at the zombies in the backyard in Shaun of the Dead, Frank 
 can use things like pieces of fruit, cans of dog food, TV sets, toys, and pretty much everything 
 found in this haven of consumerism as a formidable or hilarious weapon. Youll want to replay the 
 game just to see how you can use various items to kill the dead again and again.
  
  And you will want to play again because there is just no way to see it and do it all the first 
 time around. Its like Disneyland with zombies. In addition to all the amazing ways common items 
 can be used to kill a zombie or twenty, the game offe3rs up a very nice system of support items. 
 There are no health sprays or herbs that magically restore some or all of your health like in Resident 
 Evil. Instead Frank regains health by eating and drinking. A loaf of French bread can be thrown 
 at a zombie, but it doesnt do much good as a weapon. Let Frank eat it and it restores some health. 
 Let him make a sandwich out of it with some meat and cheese and it restores more health. A frozen 
 dinner can be ingested as-is and restore a bit, but pop it in the microwave and it is much more 
 effective. Its a nice touch that adds a bit of realism to the game.
  
  Is Dead Rising perfect? No, its far from it, but it is something that a lot of games should be 
 but arent, its fun overall. Annoying save system and repeating escort missions aside, it is a 
 jolly good time with a lot of replay value. What more could we ask for? Maybe the next one will 
 have zombies that shoot back like in Romeros Land of the Dead. Okay, maybe thats not such a good 
 idea.
  
  review by bradley. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising takes place in the small town of Willamette, CO where, for some reason, a zombie outbreak 
 has occured. You play as a freelance journalist, Frank West, who goes to this town to investigate 
 what is really going on. You begin in something called 72 hour mode which is basically the story 
 mode. You have diffirent cases which needs to be solved to discover the truth. You will also be 
 informed with diffirent side scoops where, if you choose to, you get to meet survivors of the zombie 
 outbreak.
  
  The case files and the side scoops are totally optional. You can choose to ignore them all and 
 go on a zombie killing spree but you won't get any information about what casued the outbreak. 
 The side scoops also offers a great amount of PP points which are like experience points. You start 
 out as a level 1 but when you gain a few levels you become faster and stronger making the game 
 a whole lot easier.
  
  Just about anything in this game can be used as a weapon. You have access to alot of diffirent 
 stores in the mall where you can pick up what it has to offer and use as a weapon; like a sledgehammer 
 from a hardware store. That's pretty much the key element in this game to making it as much fun 
 as it is. You can pick anything and just go nuts but be careful; weapons break after a while when 
 you use them.
  
  The graphics in this game are great considering the amount of zombies on screen and it runs smoothly 
 throughout the game. Soundeffects are totally awesome when you use weapons on zombies. Dead Rising 
 is one of the most original games I've played and the total mayhem of zombiekilling will have you 
 glued to your 360 for a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonen151
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I always did love zombie games. A long time ago I found out about Dead Rising. I thought this game 
 was amazing. Now that I have it its even more amazing. Let me start with the review not ^.^
  
  Gameplay: When you start to play, you feel like the game was made for the 360. You feel the 
 power through the controler of how powerfull it is. You are able to do everything and never look 
 at the control confused on how to do something. When I first started playing I though hmm I think 
 I will go to the gunshop and kill them with guns. When I got the guns the controls sucked. There 
 is a reason for this. Capcom didn't want you to use the damn guns. They wanted you to use all the 
 other amazing weapons so you can expierence the whole gameplay. The controls rock.
  
  Graphics: What can I say. The graphics are amazing. The cutscenes are beautiful. The game is screaming 
 out make me into a movie I already have the human like graphics. Sound: Matched to perfection. 
 Every single weapon has appropriate sound that counterparts with how you use it. The zombies gurguling 
 for breath is amazing while you chop thier heads off with a katana.
  
  Value: Dont even ask just buy it its worth 60 bucks.
  
  Reviewers Titlt: Truthfully the only 
 thing I found wrong was the left behind co-op. im sure there will be a download for co-op but for 
 now it is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pondarosa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Dead Rising is of the the best, if not the best single-player action-adventure games 
 to have come out this year. This game, along with Oblivion earlier this year, have proven that 
 you can still have terrific single-player experiences that don't have multiplayer as a crutch. 
 Dead Rising is well polished, looks and sounds great, is tons of fun and is easy to pick up and 
 play. I won't go too far into plot details - you are a photo journalist investigating strange-goings-on 
 in a small town shopping mall. The strange-goings-on turn out to be zombies, thousands of them, 
 and Frank has to try and survive for 3 days until his ride shows up to get him out of there. The 
 game mechanic is such that you can really do whatever you want. The storyline is presented to you 
 in cases , which will unfold in certain places at certain times. Doing these help you to uncover 
 the mystery, but it isn't actually mandatory that you do them. If you fail a case however (i. e. 
 - don't show up or finish a case in time) , all of the other cases will automatically be failed, 
 and you can choose to keep playing until your time runs out, or restart the game. You cannot fail 
 a couple of cases and then go back and pick up the story from where you left off. If you want to 
 run around the mall and mindlessly slay zombies for the entire time period, that's up to you. The 
 story is decent, not outstanding, but the voice acting is great and the story really takes a backseat 
 to the action anyways. A few twists and turns may have helped to make the story more memorable, 
 but the awesome gameplay makes the story almost inconsequential.
  
  The save system is viewed by many as a negative, but is actually a great feature, in my opinion. 
 If you are a gamer that inches your way through a game by saving every 2 minutes, Dead Rising will 
 more than likely not be your cup of tea. You get one saveslot - and while you can override that 
 save slot as many times as you like, whenever you override you last save game, it is gone. If you 
 save at a bad time and don't have enough time to make it to the next case, you are done. There's 
 no way to go back. You can either keep playing and just not progress the story, or you can choose 
 to start over. But in a nice twist, when you start over, you will start from the beginning, but 
 all your levels, stats, and abilities will remain. If you choose to start the game over when you 
 are a level 20, you will begin the new game as a level 20.
  
  Leveling is another great part of Dead Rising. You start out as a level one, somewhat slow, weak, 
 and without the ability to carry a lot of items. Over time you can make your way up to level 50, 
 with tons of health, crazy kung-fu fighting moves, and much faster. You gain levels by earning 
 Prestige Points, which can be earned from defeating lots of zombies, bosses (named psychopaths 
 ) , and from taking entertaining pictures (you are a photojournalist after all) . While I won't go 
 to far into it, taking pictures is a lot more fun than you think it would be and is a great addition 
 to the game.
  
  Since this is a 360 game, I have to talk about the achievements. The achievements in this game 
 are probably the best balanced that I have seen in a 360 game thus far. You would have to be completely 
 inept at gaming to not get around 200 of them, but only the most dedicated and skilled gamers will 
 be able to get all 1000, or even get 900 of them. While 2 of the achievements are a huge pain in 
 my opinion (more on that in a moment) , these achievements are well-thought out, lots of fun and 
 a blast to try and get.
  
  The only real black-eye on the game, in my opinion, is the Infinity mode. You gain this mode by 
 beating the 72-hour mode and the Overtime mode (which itself is unlocked by finishing the 72-hour 
 mode a certain way) . While it sounds good in concept, the execution almost guarantees that casual 
 fans will only play it once (to get the aforementioned 2 achievements you get for surviving for 
 a certain amount of time) . Essentially, Infinity mode does not end until you die. To help speed 
 that process along, however, one bar of health is deducted from your life bar every 100 seconds 
 or so. There is food to eat to regain your health, but once you eat it, it doesn't come back. All 
 of the zombies and bosses you faced in the game are running around ready to cut your game short 
 as well. It's a cool idea, but when you take into account that there are no saves or continues, 
 and that a day in game lasts about 2 real time hours, trying to last more than a couple of days 
 becomes a real commitment. Giving the option to save once a day, or at the end of every day would 
 have made this mode a lot more enjoyable, and there really is a lot of intensity and strategy involved 
 in this mode. At the same time, doing so probably would make this mode a lot easier, and that dosen't 
 seem to be what they were going for. A small blemish on an otherwise great game.
  
  Well, that does it for my very long review for Dead Rising. I hope that if you were on the fence 
 that this has convinced you to give the game a chance. It will definitely be one of the most memorable 
 single-player experiences you've had in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesprinkler187
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Finally there is a game where when you chop off a leg a whole body does'nt remain on the floor. 
 I love horror and gore games and this one is at the top of my list.. Also the freedom to do anything 
 is great and has a special orginality about it. The upgrades are tight as hell, weapons, books, 
 mixing drinks.. I could do this all day. The AI is a bit goofy at times and you have to try little 
 tricks like opening a door then returning so the zombies dissapear from the door to help save you 
 from being eaten alive and the people you rescue. As for people who say its TOO gory.. They can 
 lick a pogo stick because thats what I want and thats what horror movie &amp; game fans want. The 
 sounds are excellent and voice overs also. The graphics are top notch with little to no slowdown. 
 I love the chaotic feel to the game too like you don't know what the hell is going to happen next 
 or which mission you should persue first.. so it has a hell of a great replay value. All in all 
 this game is awesome to the core but with a few AI and control issues I have to give it 8.9. Hope 
 this review helped.
  
  The Sprinkler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Being able to use practically everything as a weapon makes for a great and unique gameplay experience, 
 entertaining boss-battles great story, good graphics, awesome sound-effects and the save-system 
 makes the game challenging and also gives it great replay value
  
  The Bad:
  The AI of the bosses and survivors tend to be quite dumb sometimes, Very few saving locations and 
 saving your game with to little time left on the clock can be a disaster, also Otis bloody phone 
 calls during the missions are pretty annoying
  
  The Review;
  Yeah, yeah i already know you sneaked peaked on the score and you know that I like this game, let 
 me tell you this though... I thought this game would suck, I tipped it to be one of the worst titles 
 to come out for the Xbox 360 this year and I couldn't imagine how a game with tons of zombies in 
 a mall could be any fun, well as you now can see I was wrong.. oh well lets cut to the chase now 
 shall we?
  
  You start the game in a helicopter playing as photojournalist Frank West sent out to cover a story 
 about mysterious happening that have recently occurred there. And you get there only to find there 
 is zombies absolutely everywhere. Then you fly over this giant mall and a government chopper shows 
 up forces you to land and Frank jump off and tells the helicopter guy to pick him up again in 3 
 days. So you have to survive in the mall during these days to think out why almost everyone have 
 turned to zombies, uncover the plot and save as many survivors as possible, oh and also use everything 
 in your surroundings to take out the zombies in the most brutal, bizarre or hilarious ways.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Rising is quite straightforward though not that repetitive since you'll 
 face different phsycopats and have different objectives and all the time use different weapons, 
 all missions are also time-based keeping the action more pumped up and also a little more challenging. 
 What also does the game more challenging is the save system.. both in a good way, but also in a 
 bad way.
  The good is that you really have to be and your feet and stay alive until the next savepoint witch 
 forces you to think and focus at the task at hand. The bad is that if you die you can be set back 
 several hours gameplay wise if you're not careful since the game has very few autosaves and only 
 one saveslot. This can be very punishing since if you save the game with very little time left 
 on a mission and you can't finish it in time you'll loose the mission, if it's a Story mission 
 you will be forced to start over again since you no longer wil be able to progress in the story, 
 though you can at that point save your status for Frank... yep that's correct the game also has 
 some RGP elements meaning that you will raise in level, gain new skill get more health etc. and 
 if you save your status you will begin the game from scratch but you're a lot stronger, though 
 I would have preferred a solution with more saveslots or at least more autosaves. There is another 
 good thing about this though, that you will have much reason going trough the game several times 
 handle different situation in differently.
  
  The graphics in the game are good and sharp the characters models look great as do the mall that 
 looks very believable though it's not the best I've seen on the Xbox 360 but it's good enough to 
 be eye pleasing and won't be anything that bugs you
  
  The sound in the game is awesome, great music, great but also funny voice acting and the sound 
 effects from the different weapons are basically perfection.
  
  So overall Dead Rising is a great game. Though a great games with problems that could have been 
 solved differently without much effort. Still it's a game that fans of the genre and those that 
 have been waiting to slay zombies in all kinds of ways simply have to try out.
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2DragonZ
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Capcom is known for it's great fighting game mechanics. With great graphic, fluent animations, 
 and great use of next generation technology on populating models. This game could be a real contender 
 for becoming a franchise. But it failed at gameplay designs for me, and yes, I'm talking about 
 save points. Although the producer mentioned the save points are deliberately designed in this 
 way to put the intense focus on players, and also to prevent players cheat the game by loading 
 and saving. Ok, great, that just ruins my whole experience towards the game, In a game with so 
 much freedom (raiding shops, trying on clothes, killing zombies with different weapons) , the design 
 team offers players only one save, and at desinated save points only. This kills all the fun. I 
 can't remember how many times I restart the game simply because I saved at a wrong save point and 
 ruined the rest of the progress. Not to mention boss battles are mostly human characters and they 
 are insanely harder than killing zombies. Hello, Capcom?! I bought this expecting to kill zombies 
 for fun and this is disappointing. I hope Capcom will not use this save once feature on their next 
 great action game The Lost Planet , because it sucks !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brikon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  If i get stuck i just start a new game, i don't plan to get the true ending but still screw the 
 true ending i just play to have fun and i think it does the new game+ thingy because i started 
 a new game and i was level 2 after the first part with the helicopter thingy. So that was kinda 
 cool. well i need to get to 100 words because the simpsons are on right now. and I need to start 
 a new game because i only have 1 health block left and i went to the security room to get food 
 but no food is left there so thats why i'm.... starting a new game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp00ky89
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I do not have the words for how remarkable the game is. It's defiantly the best title out for the 
 360 to date, and gives me high hopes for what is around the corner!
  
  Capcom has once agian popped open the crate full of zombie horror, and they deliver in spades. 
 I have never ever had this much fun in any game ever. Period. The game is fantastic with amazing 
 graphics, fun game play, and an interseting plot. Although the game can be extremely hard, and 
 frustrating at times. Mostly due to the time limit, and harder then hell boss fights.
  
  You play as Frank West, and ambitious freelance photographer who has covered wars ya know. He's 
 given a tip that all is not what it is in the small town of Willamette, Colorado. So he hires a 
 helicopter pilot, grabs his trusty camera, and gets going. When he arrives he realizes all is not 
 what it seems, and asks the pilot to fly him to the local mall. He jumps off onto the roof, and 
 seeks to uncover the truth.
  
  The true genius of Dead Rising is the fact that it doesn't think of it's self as anything more 
 then a game about killing zombies, but there is a plot there, and an amazing plot with many twists, 
 turns, and holy crap moments. I was attacked with so many emotions including grief when a certain 
 character died. This is defiantly one of the best plots for a 360 game currently, and it should 
 be played through in its entirety just to witness the fantastic story.
  
  The game play is nothing sort of brilliant, and fun. I could spend hours popping zombies heads 
 off with a sickle, or slapping them around with a frozen trout... Yes a freaking frozen trout!!! 
 Name one other game that you can do that in? I'll give you a minute..... Thought of one? No? Okey 
 Dokey lets move on shall we? The amount of weapons in this game is endless. You can use pies, trucks, 
 uzis, guitars, Teddy Bears, and anything else you see! The only issue I had was the insane time 
 limits, which could often force you to begin the game from scratch if you saved at a bad time. 
 The boss fights are also pretty rough, usually forcing you to begin battles over, and over agian 
 for what could be hours. Despite the hard difficulty level, the game play is amazingly, fun, and 
 nearly orgasmic... Yes I said orgasmic!
  
  On to the sound. The moans of the undead are perfect, and creepy. The voice acting is pretty good. 
 The voice actors for Frank, Jessie, and Brad deserve major kudos. Their lines were delivered perfectly, 
 and with great emotion. The soundtrack was alright. A few of the songs were defiantly lacking, but 
 what do you expect from heavy metal, and gangster rap? The song by DREA called Justified deserves 
 honorable mention though, it plays at the end of the game, and is amazing!
  
  In conclusion, right now this is by far the greatest game for the 360. An amazing romp through 
 a zombie infested mall full of dark secrets. Anyone who owns a 360 should purchase this game right 
 away. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising id definitely your new source for action. As a freelance journalist in search of a 
 scoop, you are forced to survive in a mall with zombies.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. When you begin, you will instantly be able to use anythin at your disposal. 
 Swords, guitars, guns, skateboards, anything goes in the fight for your life. You can toss knives 
 into the zombie's heads, and take a picture of the ensuing gore for points. After all, you are 
 a journalist.
  You will spend the 72 in-game hours working with a Special Forces team to rescue survivors. The 
 playtime only adds up to about 7 hours real-time, so you have to work fast is you want to get the 
 acievements for saving them all.
  The Special Forces team will lead you through several cases, in the end learning the ridiculously 
 stupid truth about the zombies. Fail one case, fail them all, but starting over isn't so bad, since 
 you get to keep your current level and physical attack skills when you restart.
  If you complete all the cases and get to the heliport, you will go into overtime mode, where you 
 have more goals and more zombies to kill.
  Finish Overtime, and you will have free reign of the mall, and an infinite number of zombies to 
 slaughter.
  
  The graphics are great, and the camera seamlessly allows you to capture gory still-lifes. The aiming 
 system is very good, reminiscent of Resident Evil, Capcom's other zombie thriller.
  
  The sound is seamlessly integrated with the game. Along with a cast of B-list actors, you will 
 find yourself laughing at the guitars' noises when you bash in zombies' heads.
  The actors all portray psychopaths, people who didn't quite keep their sanity during the outbreak. 
 they provide a good laugh, as does the splattering of blood all over the mall floors.
  
  Amidst thousands of Easter egss and gags, DR easily makes a name for itself among action-horror 
 games. Though pricey (60 bucks new) , it is definitley worthe the action-packed fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapowa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  dead rising, i thought when i first seen it, looked to be overshadowed by the launch of other 360 
 games. but its not. its probably the best game on xbox.1,000's of weapons to bash, smash and crack 
 onto zombies, it has a never-endin feel. and with many different endings it will have you coming 
 back for more a lot more times than you will bargain for. one of the best weapons is the lawnmower, recreating 
 that zombie film from peter jackson [cant remember it] . there is lots of others as well like the 
 chainsaw, the broadsword and, bizzarly, a mailbox. the camera also encourages you to take pictures 
 with four different catagories to capture, horror, brutality, drama and erotica. also there is plenty 
 of physcopaths to fight and if you suceed in defeating them you will most of the time get a special 
 weapon off them. all round a great effort from capcom. exellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Capcom is known for introducing video game zombies as we know them in the Resident Evil series. 
 Tension and scares are a constant, every time you open a door or turn a corner. Because you know 
 they might be there.
  
  Dead Rising offers you exactly the opposite. You know the zombies are there, they're not sneaking 
 around, they just flock in your direction. Yes, flock, since these zombies gather in exceptionally 
 high numbers.
  
  The story of Dead Rising could have been subtitled Dawn of the Dead: the Game, since that is pretty 
 much what it is.
  
  Dead Rising tells the story of freelance reporter Frank West, who is hunting for that special story 
 that might award him a Pulitzer Prize. It all begins with Frank on a helicopter, pursuing a lead 
 that takes him to a sieged town. What goes on below gets him even more curious, as he takes pictures 
 of violent mobs attacking a woman on the roof of a building and surrounding a school bus. After 
 this short scenic route paved with brain-thirsty zombies, Frank orders the pilot to land on the 
 roof of the mall and come back to pick him up in three days.
  
  As it turns out, the mall isn't as safe as Frank thought, and due to a stubborn old lady and her 
 poodle, security is breached and the mall is now crawling with undead things. So basically, Frank 
 now has 72 hours to search for the truth while trying to survive.
  
  The path to the truth is set as a series of case files, which are the basic storyline missions. 
 Case files happen at a specific place on a pre-designated time and day, and you have to get to 
 them and complete the missions. All the case files are connected and have a sort of progression 
 system, so if you fail one, you won't be able to get the next.
  
  Aside from the main quest there are also a series of side quests, entitled Scoop Missions. These 
 are optional, but they will reveal more info about whats happening. Scoop Missions involve finding 
 survivors, escorting them back to safety and fight some psychopaths in between. Psychopaths are 
 other survivors in the mall, but they've gone insane and are now as dangerous as the zombies themselves. 
 They're somewhat unconventional boss fights, with the bosses being anything from a clown with a 
 chainsaw, crazy cult leader, shotgun-wielding redneck and enraged store owners.
  
  There are tons of these escort missions, and they're somewhat annoying because of the bad AI. Some 
 survivors won't move unless you hold their hand, others have to be carried because they're injured, 
 some actually get weapons and can fight with you, but they don't, because they're as dumb as a 
 post and can't follow orders properly. And you really can't do all of the missions you are offered, 
 so if you're the kind of person who like doing everything in every game, forget it. You don't have 
 time.
  
  Completing missions is one of the ways to get Prestige Points. Prestige Points (PP) are basically 
 Frank's experience points. As you gain PP, you level up and he gets new abilities (such as being 
 able to carry more items or run faster) and cool moves, such as walking on the back on zombies 
 or perform some painful wrestling finishers.
  
  You also get PP by killing zombies and taking photos. Since Frank is a reporter, he can grab his 
 camera at any moment and snap a picture of anything around him. Pictures are rated according to 
 their content: drama, comedy, horror and eroticism.
  
  Exploring the mall is as dangerous as entertaining. The mall is of gigantic proportions and there 
 are tons of things you can use to arm yourself. There are obvious items like guns, pipes and baseball 
 bats, but then there are mannequin arms, laser toy swords, CDs, jewels, lawn mowers, chainsaws, 
 benches, plates Basically if you can pick it up, you can use it as a wepon. Random zombie carnage 
 is a lot of fun, especially when you can sear their faces with a hot frying pan, stick Servbot 
 masks on their heads, break flower pots on their skulls, beat them with baseball bats, spill grease 
 on the floor to make them slip and fall, hit them with a gigantic teddy bear, throw a propane tank 
 and shoot it for a nice explosion the list of fun activities goes on. You can also find some alternative 
 means of transportation such as skateboards and bicycles (even a shopping cart) that you can use 
 to run zombies over.
  
  Fighting off hordes of zombies becomes especially hard after dark, when they seem to gain renewed 
 hatred. They are so pissed off that their eyes glow red and they get a higher grabbing range.
 
  
  Aside from weapons and vehicles , there are other useful items as well. Books can teach you new 
 skills like driving or a new combat move, and there are food items that you can mix in blenders 
 or cook in the stove to give them a more powerful effect and sometimes even special abilities. 
 There are also a number of clothes and accessories for Frank to wear, including a horse head, sunglasses, 
 Megaman helm and suit, a dress, and so on. There's nothing more hilarious than shooting zombies 
 with no shoes and wearing a horse head. Well, there is, he could have been wearing the dress...
 
  
  Unfortunately, save spots in the game exist only in restrooms and mall security rooms. Reaching 
 them involves passing through an ocean of zombies who want you as their next snack. Don't think 
 you won't die, because you will. And probably often too. The game only has a single save file slot 
 (I wonder who came up with that silly idea) , so if you die you can either load that file or start 
 the game all over again but with Frank's current level and abilities. This isn't so bad, since 
 you can do those missions better and faster now that you are higher level. The downside of this 
 single save slot is that if you happen to have saved your game at a point where you get stuck with 
 the case files, you can't backtrack and are forced to start over.
  
  Graphically, Dead Rising looks sharp and smooth, even with those hundreds of zombies filling up 
 the screen at the same time. The attention to detail all around the mall is fantastic, as well 
 as in every single object existing in it. The zombies look creepy and gruesome and show all different 
 decomposition states, which is quite impressive. They actually look better than many movie zombies.
 
  
  The sound effects are what set the mood for the entire game. Every object that you use as a weapon 
 has its own unique sound. Break a window, and you hear realistic glass shattering. Break a skull, 
 and you hear a squishy sound. Be it gunshots, blunt weapons, dishes breaking, everything sounds 
 exactly like it should.
  
  The background music isn't really a topic of conversation, since its similar to what you would 
 hear in a real mall (something I like to call elevator music) and it just slips into the background 
 in the middle of grunts and groans, especially in highly zombie-populated areas.
  
  Dead Rising is a brutally violent game, but the violence takes a secondary place to the sillyness 
 fest of showerheads stuck into zombies' skulls gushing blood or zombies wandering aimlessly because 
 they have street cones on their heads, among other equally hilarious moments. It's a game that 
 is unique in style, story and appearance, and overall, an enjoyable experience.
  
  It gives a whole new meaning to survival-horror.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full 
 text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=deadrising 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moosey_1989
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. it has great replay value, its fun and its highly addictive. You must buy 
 this game! Its easy to play and get used to and there is so much different stuff to do like defeating 
 all the psycho paths and saving all the survivors. You can never get tired of this game its so 
 god damn awesome. Although the graphics dont really test the xbox 360 to the maximum it is still 
 a must buy. The game isnt too testing but it doesnt matter as you will have to complete the game 
 a number of times to get all of the different achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Its fairly evident that Capcom are the real masterminds as far as bringing zombies to life in 
 their games; clearly demonstrated with their everlasting Resident Evil franchise. Capcoms infamous 
 zombie-killing series has seen its ups and downs, but after awhile of traversing the same gloomy, 
 dark hallways, corridors and whatnot, it gets rather dull. Sometimes, you just want to go around 
 and kill zombies like theres no tomorrow. My friends, this is where Dead Rising rolls in and grants 
 your very wish. 
  
  In the game, you take on the role of photojournalist Frank West, whos on his way via helicopter 
 to a small town in Colorado to get the scoop on the next big story. But when you arrive there, 
 you see that the army has quarantined the city and eventually find the whole town littered with, 
 you guessed it: zombies! While hovering around the city, Frank gives the pilot strict orders to 
 come pick him up in seventy-two hours at the helipad of a shopping mall. From there on, you must 
 brave yourself against not only hordes of zombies, but also numerous psychopaths if you hope to 
 survive.
  
  Now, theres more to Dead Rising than just walking around and killing zombies, much more. Rather 
 than just have you kill zombies for three days and return saying, Hey, I killed some zombies! 
 Capcom put in an actual story for the game. Beyond landing in the mall with the pressure of having 
 to survive for three days, youll find yourself coming face-to-face with some friendly and not-so 
 friendly individuals. Dead Risings story is certainly passable and not half bad considering the 
 concept of the game, but its not like its worthy of getting an Oscar or anything of the sort. 
 
  
  While youll have plenty of opportunities to kill zombies, the game really encourages you to complete 
 the main missions which are called Cases. Each day requires you to meet a certain number of Cases 
 which advance the story and your knowledge of what exactly is happening and why. If you dont meet 
 the required Cases for that day, youll lose any chance of fulfilling the other ones and be forced 
 to either start over or load your last saved game. With that in mind, you wont want to waste your 
 time doing nothing but slaughtering zombies for your own insane pleasure. 
  
  Speaking of which, there is one very noticeable problem with Dead Risings save system: you only 
 get one save. Yes, you can overwrite this single save space but thats all you have: one save space. 
 As it may sound, Dead Risings saving system is very unforgiving and feels more like a means to 
 force you keep playing the game over and over. But in actuality, you wouldnt need this save system 
 to get the most out of the game. While it does force you to keep going through the game and find 
 more and more items with each try, it does get quite monotonous before long. But once you look 
 past the games restricting save system, youll find a very solid and worthwhile experience in 
 Dead Rising. 
  
  As far as controls are concerned, Dead Rising feels very smooth for-the-most-part. The on-foot 
 action is very solid and the combat system is surprisingly simple as the main means of taking out 
 zombies is to melee them, or toss items at them. The only real problems with the games on-foot 
 controls are found in the controls that have you aim your weapon. Reason being is because you cant 
 move while aiming and will find yourself needing to adjust your aim quite often, which can be the 
 meaning between life and death. Fortunately, the majority of the game doesnt require you to aim. 
 Instead, you typically just need to worry about beating up zombies and psychopaths, who are used 
 as the games boss fights.
  
  In terms of Dead Risings boss battles, theyre fairly challenging and tend to require some patience. 
 However, once you know what to do and how to expose these psychopaths weakness, its all downhill 
 for them. While the boss fights do certainly present a good amount of challenge, you can are able 
 to leave that area and return later to finish your task. Although most of Dead Risings challenges-with 
 the exception of meeting the required Cases in a day-dont think that means that zombies are going 
 to be that much easier on you. In fact, the zombies can be at your relentless mercy one second 
 but then be your demise the very next. This is thanks to a very realistic enemy AI that makes the 
 games zombies act slow and dumb, but at the same time vicious and formidable once theyve surrounded 
 you and gotten you in their grasp. 
  
  Unfortunately, the same cant be said for your allies and the other survivors in the mall. Most 
 of the time the only allies youll have are those that you need to rescue, which as you expect 
 are used as escort missions. In order to ensure the safety of these lost individuals, youll need 
 to escort them from their current location to the Security Room, which is the only safe place in 
 the entire mall. The problem with this is that the people youre leading to the Security Room tend 
 to make many imprudent decisions along the way. Just to make this clear, some of the mistakes theyll 
 make include getting stuck behind a pole or tree, trying to take on a horde of zombies by themselves 
 or even just randomly stand still and go in the opposite direction that youre heading. With that, 
 you might be thinking what the payoff is and why you should even bother. Well, escort missions 
 tend to be the most effective way to gain points in the game, and its usually well-worth the long, 
 hard journey back to the Security Room. 
  
  Escorting survivors isnt the only way that you can obtain points in the game; you can also gain 
 points by killing fifty zombies at a time and defeating psychopaths. However, the boss battles, 
 while many not quite as plentiful as the escorting opportunities and killing zombies is the slowest 
 way to earn points. Youre probably wondering what exactly you get for attaining points by killing 
 and escorting. Well, by taking on these tasks you can help Franks level increase. In other words, 
 Dead Rising has a leveling similar, one that works almost exactly like a role-playing games leveling 
 system. For every significant task you take on in the game, youll come that much closer to reaching 
 the next level, which ends at numero fifty. There are several awards for reaching a new level, 
 such as gaining more attack power, a better toss distance, a new special move, more health bars, 
 speed, carrying space, the list goes on. The idea of leveling up in Dead Rising really works quite 
 well and it helps to make things a little more varied as you gain new attributes with each level.
 
  
  Dead Risings action may vary depending on what level youre at, but no matter how much youve 
 leveled up, the games action remains top-notch. Needless to say, the idea running around killing 
 zombies in the midst of taking on other tasks sounds awesome. But Dead Rising does such a fantastic 
 job at executing how the game feels and plays, that youll often find yourself lost in craze of 
 killing waves and waves of zombies. This is all thanks to just how incredibly visceral and fun 
 the game pulls off its style of combat. At first, youll think Dead Rising plays like any other 
 third-person action game. However, once the madness and mayhem erupts, youll find that the game 
 plays unlike any other due to how intuitive and slick its presentation is. Youre typically able 
 to dish out mayhem in two ways: melee attacks and tossing items. Tossing items can help to clear 
 a path for you when zombies are in your way. However, using melee weapons to take on multiple zombies 
 at once can be just as rewarding. I mean, lets face it, what else beats knocking a zombie out 
 with a trash can, slashing them in half with a katana blade and shredding them to pieces with a 
 lawnmower?
  
  To compliment the sheer pleasure of killing hordes of zombies, Capcom has given Dead Rising a true 
 next-gen appearance thanks to the power of the Xbox 360. The game looks very sharp and detailed 
 for-the-most-part, particularly on an HDTV. The environments look especially crisp most of the 
 time and look very realistic up-close. The character models themselves look quite pragmatic in 
 the cutscenes, but youll notice the detail on them go down quite a bit when actually playing the 
 game. But the most pleasurable sight in Dead Rising is observing the colossal and seemingly endless 
 amount of zombies on-screen at once. Its really quite impressive seeing how the game manages to 
 hold so many characters on-screen, allow a great deal of interactivity with the environment and 
 all the while manage to keep a very smooth framerate. In fact, about the only times youll notice 
 any framerate issues is when bashing a huge group of zombies huddled together with one of the larger 
 items in the game. What also helps Dead Rising to look as incredible as it does is the blood and 
 gore effects in the game. These effects are used so effectively, that youll at times find yourself 
 killing zombies just for the insane pleasure of watching blood spew from their undead bodies. 
 
  
  If theres any real knacks one can have against Dead Risings visuals, it would have to be that 
 there are some noticeable pop-up problems in the game from time-to-time. Another concern with the 
 games graphical performance is that if youre playing it on a standard television, youll have 
 an extremely hard time making out the text at the bottom of the screen when called via cellphone. 
 The last problem concerning Dead Risings visuals are that the load times, while quick are very, 
 frequent. Youll often find yourself waiting through three to four load screens before getting 
 back into the action. But these are really just subtle issues with the games graphic engine and 
 when youre out in the mall getting down and dirty with zombies, youll often be immersed in the 
 visual flair of the game.
  
  Like the games visuals, Dead Risings audio also helps to make killing zombies even more gratifying. 
 The games sound effects are nicely varied; youll easily be able to tell the difference between 
 what it sounds like to hit a zombie with a bench and with a knife or baseball bat. When using weapons 
 like a bat, guitar, stool, bench or beating stick, for example, youll get a nice whack-like noise 
 when hitting a zombie. On the other hand, when slicing zombies up with a knife, blade or katana, 
 youll in-turn get an incredibly pleasant slash and whish noise when cutting them apart. There 
 are many other subtle sound effects to the game such as how youll hear the blood that emits from 
 zombies hit the floor quite clearly. Dead Risings sound would be perfect with all these pleasurable 
 sound effects, but the voice-acting, while not bad, does bring the overall effect of the games 
 sound down. Most of the voice-overs tend to have some fairly cheesy dialogue and dont really speak 
 in a way that youd expect them to, aside from the psychopaths, they sound crazy enough. Fortunately, 
 this will barely matter to you when youre out there showing the flood of zombies whos the real 
 maniac of the mall.
  
  With all that said, its pretty apparent that Dead Rising is a very solid game. It doesnt quite 
 manage to grasp perfection, but with all the great things that can be said about the game, its 
 rather hard for you to come to saying something negative about the game after going through the 
 game yourself. With an excellent combination of sharp graphics, terrific audio and just plain fun, 
 insane and addicting action, its pretty hard to go wrong with Dead Rising. While the game does 
 lack a multiplayer and interactive online mode, this remains a must-play and for most gamers must-have 
 title. If youre looking for a game that will provide hours upon hours of fun, mindless violence, 
 then Dead Rising is the safest purchase you can make. In fact, even if youre not looking for a 
 senseless game, Dead Rising is still worth a look since it executes zombie-killing so well and 
 presents itself in such an impressive way, that youll be hard-pressed to say no to this insane 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XT-inc
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for all 360 owners as there has not been a decent game out since maybe 
 july or march it has been a long wait for us 360 owners. There is alot to do in this awsome zombie 
 related game mind you there are a few flaws throughout but Ill get to that later. The main story 
 is basically you must do missions over a simulated 3 day span in order to figure out what happened 
 to cause the zombie outbreak all while rescueing survivors. Your character Frank West was it? anyway 
 has a full 50 levels to level up as you get pp from snapping photos, killing zombies and saving 
 people. When leveling up you get more item slots, health, speed, throwing distance and an array 
 of special moves such as the suplex, disembowl, neck breaker and summersault kick which can prove 
 usefull in maiming the undead. There is a vast array of weaponry in this game everything from battle 
 axes, assault rifles, katanas, and benches down to big sticks of lipstick and cooking oil. If you 
 do not like Franks appearance you can go around to any of the stores most of which have some piece 
 of clothing for you to put on which then gets transphered into the cut scenes which by next gen 
 better be the same for all games as in other games where your holding rocket launchers and then 
 it goes into cinimatics and you have like an smg is just lame. there are a few drivable vehicles 
 like motorcycles and cars as well as skate boards and bikes. Now for the flaws.... The survivor 
 AI is the worst ever it will make you vomit in rage having to escort 8 complete RETARDS all the 
 way to the save room. The will always run into zombies getting grabbed in which you must kick/ 
 attack the zombie off which will hurt the survivor as well they will walk straight into walls and 
 other objects getting stuck on small ledges and potted plants. Some of them may be equipped with 
 a weapon which is good if you waypoint them which instead of them following you they run to a place 
 you signal them to. However some have quirks like you have to carry them or offer your shoulder 
 all the thin women cannot hold weapons and you must lead them around by holding thier hands which 
 is just stupid. If you give them swords, or shotguns chances are they will cut or blast your health 
 away and the you die and it sucks. One of the more aggrivating issues with the multiple AI's is 
 that when you need to get to the ventalation shaft on the roof there is a large step up and if 
 you have 3-4+ people at once they all bump into eachother and dont climb and you can't leave them 
 on the roof as thier health goes down slowly if you leave thier area which is BS as there are never 
 zombies on the roof. The infinity mode is not what I nore many fellow gamers wanted it to be. your 
 health goes down and you need to get food to live as it slowly depetes to prevent people from camping 
 in the safe room to rack up time for the leaderboards. however there is no save and all you do 
 is run and eat. Im not sure exactly what I wanted it to be maybe just like a really huge set of 
 missions like go here get that bring it back for fellow survivors ect... But the epic lack of save 
 feature makes the five day and seven day survivor achievements almost unattainable. Picture this 
 your health slowly goes down there are no saves you pretty much just sit in a corner munching food 
 as your health slowly goes down and occasionally going for more food. now what does the lack of 
 save mean to you? well what I just stated plus 3 days is 6 hours roughly making the 7 day survivor 
 achievement impossible as you have to camp and eat food for roughly !!13 HOUR STRAIGHT!! not an 
 exclaimation just a note I cannot play that long and Im hardcore at gaming and since many of us 
 get random freezes with the 360 imagine how manyways your 360 could accidently fail now imagine 
 what you would do if on your 12th hour your 360 froze. Picture finding out that you just wasted 
 the last 12 hours of your life digitally eating corn in a corned not being able to do anthing else 
 with your tv or 360 as you watch your health slowly go down... you would be very very sad.
  
  Overall great game just try and over look the flaws.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Zombies in a mall. Everything's a weapon. Car's, lawnmowers, guns, signs, diamonds, trash cans, 
 stuffed animals. Tons of costumes. Even people to save if you are into being the hero.
  Dead Rising is just plain fun. On the most basic level you are running around and re-killing everyone's 
 favorite undead. Kill as many as you can and try to survive. You don't even need to follow the 
 story if you don't want to. You can just kill zombies all you want.
  The story actually seems decent, of course I haven't finished the game yet so it could fall flat 
 on it's face to at the end of the game. In a nutshell you are a hotshot photojournalist that has 
 gotten a scoop about something going on in a small town in the middle of nowhere. I won't go into 
 anymore detail than that but lets just say there are tons of living characters to interact with 
 (even if most of them die) , and some of the comments are just plain funny.
  
  Gameplay - Simple control layout, mindless zombie slaughter... yes!
  
  Graphics - The gore level 
 is through the roof (when you use the lawnmower if you just stand still the zombies walk into it 
 and get the legs chopped off... and they keep coming!) , and the detail on just about everything 
 is fantastic.
  
  Sound - Groans of the dead, decent voice acting (Cletus!) And lots of fun weapons.
  
  Value 
 - Shuffle into your nearest game store and get this game. If you can't remember the names just 
 raise arms to shoulder hieght and approach the clerk mumbling Brains.... 
  
  This game is NOT for children. Parents need to be mindful of the game selection that they allow 
 thier children to play. It is YOUR responsibility to raise your children, not the goverments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmoxon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  After the genre defining awesomeness of RESIDENT EVIL 4, you'd probably forgive Capcom if they 
 wanted to have a rest from developing survival horror games for say the next ten years. I mean, 
 there really is no way that the game can really be improved up upon that much just because we now 
 have our new shiny next gen hardware to play with. But obviously they didn't feel this way, instead 
 coming straight back out with yet another undead infested experience that is sure to make any fan 
 of zombies find a big grin on their face from the moment they pick up their controller till the 
 end credits begin to roll (and actually much further beyond that too) . With DEAD RISING though, 
 Capcom haven't tried to top that game, but have actually created a very different kind of action 
 adventure. Where as RESIDENT EVIL 4 was a slower paced, shocking, set piece fuelled extravaganza 
 of an adventure cum shooter, this game is just completely insane. Throwing literally hundreds of 
 enemies at once, and featuring a unique timed game design, its a unique and highly satisfying (if 
 occasionally frustrating) experience.
  
  During your trip through the mall where the game is set you will kill a lot of zombies. And I 
 mean a lot. The game even keeps count of how many zombies you have actually slaughtered and has 
 ridiculous 360 achievement point goals such as one where you are asked to kill over 53 thousand 
 of the buggers. It's also one of the best looking and sounding 360 games so far, with no framerate 
 issues to speak of (which is impressive considering just how much action is onscreen at once) and 
 just loads of really great mushy crunchy zombie sounds that are always nice
  
  Despite the fact that the presentation is fantastic, its really got nothing to do with why the 
 game is so brilliant. There are actually two reasons why the game is so much fun, one of them is 
 the gameplay, the other is the story and more importantly the cutscenes. While nearly everyone 
 who reads this will no doubt know that DEAD RISING is a very action orientated experience, what 
 is actually surprising though is just how good the cutscenes are and how interested you become 
 in the story because of this. The voice acting is generally good and the characters are all interesting, 
 the main character is a flawed and memorable hero and even the games many bosses all have intriguing 
 personalities that are built in just the one scene before you fight them and their subsequent death 
 scene after their defeat. It also helps that the game has a light hearted air about it and is also 
 packed with the kind of pun filled jokes and very darkly comic occurrences that just make it feel 
 like you're taking part is just about the most classy b grade zombie flick ever conceived. Basically, 
 the movie sequences are just as fun as the game, and that's a really big achievement when you consider 
 the fact that games really don't come much more fun than this. When you manage to pick up your 
 jaw and recover from the cutscenes you will then get on with playing the game, and I guess that 
 means I should try and tell you why it is so much fun. The truth is, this really is a game that 
 you have to experience to understand why its so good but one of the main reasons is just the wealth 
 of stuff you can do in the game. Knifes, baseball bats, potted plants, bench's, dumbbells, even 
 stuffed teddy bears, you can pick so many different objects and use them to dispatch zombies with. 
 Stick a showerhead into a zombies skull and watch the blood pour out of the top or watch as you 
 kick a soccer ball at a large group and see it bounce off them, one at a time knocking them all 
 down as it goes. There's more, even cooler weapons at your disposal, along with a variety of firearms, 
 but to be honest I just don't want to spoil the enjoyment of actually discovering the stuff that 
 can be done with them on your own. The said boss fights are also some of the best I've seen in 
 a game for a while and the game packs a really challenge, especially towards the end.
  
  There are problems here though, while the core gameplay really couldn't be much more enjoyable, 
 the structure of the game itself often leaves a little to be desired. This is mainly down to the 
 fact that Capcom decided to limit your time in the game (you have to escape on a chopper after 
 playing 72 hours in the game, which is like 6 or 7 real life hours) and this means that you only 
 have a certain amount of time to get too and complete each mission, luckily you only have to complete 
 certain missions to see all of the games story, but there is a wealth of side missions that you 
 will completely miss on your first and even second trek through the game. Of course this isn't 
 actually that big a deal, as this is definitely something you WILL want to play through multiple 
 times, so having so much new stuff to do every time you play it can only help really, its only 
 really a negative thing because rushing through the game like you are required is just not something 
 you really want to do, personally I'd rather just kill zombies straight for the 72 hours (which 
 you can do, but you fail the story missions if you don't do one) but it doesn't seem to be how 
 Capcom want you to play the game. Despite this, and a few other niggles there is no denying that 
 anyone with the slightest interest in this game will have an absolute blast when they get their 
 hands on it. The action is intense, never has the feeling of being outnumbered hundreds by rampaging 
 zombies come even close to being as well done and it really does show what the 360 can do. On top 
 of that there just really is no other game like it, it's a unique and fulfilling experience that 
 may frustrate you slightly, but overall its hard to deny just how utterly hilarious and incredibly 
 addictive killing those zombies with the hundreds of weapons at your disposal really is.
  
  The Good Stuff:-
  So many zombies.....
  .... and so many ways to kill them.
  Makes you laugh, 
 a lot.
  Brilliant cut scenes.
  
  The Bad Stuff:-
  Starts off hard and gets even harder.
  Game structure feels a bit broken.
  Save points are 
 far apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer-fx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Have you seen my chainsaw?, why yes its right here in my face.....
  Ok im not good with jokes but i know a good game when i see one, this... is one :P. I've always 
 dreamed of a Dawn of the dead like comedy/zombie game stuck in a mall having fun with zombies and 
 now i've got it, and i have to say its better than anything i could have hoped for...
  
  Gameplay ----11
  Yeah i gave the gameplay an 11/10, theres a good reason for it though. What you'd 
 think would be a standard hit and kill type game... is, but the difference is its never ever gets 
 old, and with the shear pick of moves to preform on your foes every kill is pleasure in its own 
 right.
  You don't have to beat all your slow paced meat bags to death, you can literaly hit em with the 
 kitchen sink...
  
  Graphics ----10
  Ok not the best the 360 can offer, but they are good, very good always pleasing to see a zombie 
 torn in half, what can i say, they rock not zombies the graphics... but zombies are cool, i mean 
 who doesn't like zombies?
  
  Sound ----10
  Again, Dead rising shines through here, every single item.../person in dead rising will make different 
 sounds depending with what you do with em. I'd recommend the pounding sound of a jackhammer busting 
 through a zombies chest plate.... great thing is its funny not horrific :D
  
  Value ----10
  I should really just put the symbol for infinity there, becuase yes there is far to much to do 
 in dead rising, you can save people, uncover truths , kill people..., take pictures, make drugs 
 , eat nice foods form the best shops the mall has to offer or even hunt cultists with a high powerd 
 rifle its all good, and its all up to you! So you blow a main charcters head of with a sniper rifle 
 by mistake... it was his fault for getting in your way not your fault! P
  
  What more can i say on value? If you've got an imagination you'll ever get tired of Dead Rising
 
  
  Buy this game, and while your at it, Buy the movie Dawn of the Dead, not the crappy remake the 
 1978 classic and enjoy it, that movie and this game go into my top 3 in both fields. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  It might not have any multiplayer modes to it but their is so many other things that you can do 
 in the single player mode play bowling exsept from the zombies have to be the bowling pins pop 
 into the music store pick up a couple of cds and get rid of the ones you dont like (ofcourse that 
 means throw them rapidly at the zombies eat that elton jon) . Plus if you have seen the movie everything 
 in the game is just like the movie so you can follow the same storyline which i think is pretty 
 cool or you can make things diffrent you can also change your attire so its your choice what you 
 want to wear and with the free downloads that is on the xbox live you can have even more clothes 
 and yes there not charging for them!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T_HitmaN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  Possibly the most anticipated game in the Xbox 360's short history. But does it live up to the 
 hype?
  
  Its here! Its here! Its finally here! As the calendar turned to August 8th, 2006 that is what 
 countless gamers and Rob Zombie and/or George Romero fans were likely screaming while hopping up 
 and down on the line at Best Buy or EB Games. Why? Because thats the date that what is probably 
 the most anticipated Xbox 360 game in the systems short history was released. The game in question 
 is Dead Rising and, unless youve been buried under the cold earth yourself for the past year or 
 have never held a game controller in your hand, you know all about this game already. Its been 
 hyped with an ad campaign and marketing strategy that make Karl Roves election year tactics seem 
 subtle. But does it live up to the hype? Indeed it does, my friends. When it comes to video games 
 and zombies, no one has the pan galactic gargle blaster recipe down better than the folks at Capcom 
 who have been bringing the dead back to life for the better part of the last ten years in their 
 Resident Evil series. While most of those titles were slow, methodical, terror builders with the 
 occasional monster in the closet type scare for good measure, however, Dead Rising takes a much 
 less subtle approach. The dead are far easier to dispatch in Dead Rising doe one thing, and thats 
 good because there are a lot more of them than youll see in any Resident Evil game.
  Im reminded of the tagline for James Camerons Aliens: This time there are hundreds of them. 
 Yes the stories and previews hold true, Dead Rising puts literally hundreds of enemies on the screen 
 at once and it is a spectacle to behold. Mowing a few dozen down in one swift move with a lawnmower 
 from the malls lawn &amp; garden shop is every bit as fun as it sounds as well.
  Im reminded of the tagline for James Camerons Aliens: This time there are hundreds of them. 
 As we revealed in our recent preview, the story of Dead Rising puts the player in the shoes of 
 Frank West, a photojournalist who is always looking for a scoop. When he gets wind of odd happenings 
 in a small Colorado town his nose for news leads him to investigate. There is no communication 
 with the residents and all roads in or out have been blocked, so Frank hires a helicopter to take 
 him there. On the way in he finds that the whole place is overrun with shambling, decaying, flesh-eating 
 zombies, Raccoon City style. Naturally, Frank decides to do some shopping and has his pilot take 
 him to the mall. I seem to remember a movie about zombies in a mall nah, that couldnt have anything 
 to do with this game. Actually the fact that the main gameplay in Dead Rising takes place in a 
 mall is where its apparent similarities with Dawn of the Dead end, but I still see it as a bit 
 of an homage by Capcom to the film that they based their most successful console game series on.
 
  
  Like Resident Evil before it, Dead Rising is quite linear, but in terms of gameplay the two couldnt 
 be more diverse. You wont find yourself searching for keys or pushing objects around to open hidden 
 rooms here. Instead youll be tasked with various missions and side-missions, most of which involve 
 rescuing some helpless mass of pixels (okay, polygons) which has gotten him or her-self trapped 
 somewhere and is in danger of becoming a zombified Scooby Snack if you dont intervene. Missions 
 will also help Frank get his story and unravel the mystery of why this sleepy town suddenly went 
 to hell in a nicely decomposed hand-basket. The missions and especially the side quests get a little 
 redundant, but the player doesnt really notice that much because the action itself is just so 
 freakin fun that it transcends any problems that the game has.
  
  Fortunately, the problems are relatively few. Besides the repetitive rescue/escort missions, the 
 most glaring issue in Dead Rising is the save system. You get one save per memory device in this 
 game. One. Uno. One less than two. Since the game plays out in a real time format (Frank has 72 
 game hours to get his scoops, save the survivors and get the hell out of Hell) with missions requiring 
 Frank to be at a specific place at a specific time to advance the story, this makes it entirely 
 possible (nay, probable) to save yourself into an unwinnable situation. If your last save point 
 is too far from the next mission start point to make it in time, the story mode ends abruptly. 
 You can start over retaining all the experience Frank has obtained thus far (Frank learns new abilities, 
 attacks and such through a nice system of leveling-up) , but it is still starting over at the beginning, 
 something that is never any fun.
  
  Most of the pre-release hype that surrounded the game focused on the way it harnesses the 360s 
 next-gen power to have so many baddies on the screen at once. While that aspect of the game is 
 impressive and awe-inspiring, its just the tip of the iceberg in Dead Rising. Much more interesting 
 is the variety of weapons available and the unique ways in which the player can put them to use. 
 There are plenty of obvious weapons such as guns and knives and baseball bats, but just like Shaun 
 and Ed throwing Prince and Sade records at the zombies in the backyard in Shaun of the Dead, Frank 
 can use things like pieces of fruit, cans of dog food, TV sets, toys, and pretty much everything 
 found in this haven of consumerism as a formidable or hilarious weapon. Youll want to replay the 
 game just to see how you can use various items to kill the dead again and again.
  
  And you will want to play again because there is just no way to see it and do it all the first 
 time around. Its like Disneyland with zombies. In addition to all the amazing ways common items 
 can be used to kill a zombie or twenty, the game offe3rs up a very nice system of support items. 
 There are no health sprays or herbs that magically restore some or all of your health like in Resident 
 Evil. Instead Frank regains health by eating and drinking. A loaf of French bread can be thrown 
 at a zombie, but it doesnt do much good as a weapon. Let Frank eat it and it restores some health. 
 Let him make a sandwich out of it with some meat and cheese and it restores more health. A frozen 
 dinner can be ingested as-is and restore a bit, but pop it in the microwave and it is much more 
 effective. Its a nice touch that adds a bit of realism to the game.
  
  Is Dead Rising perfect? No, its far from it, but it is something that a lot of games should be 
 but arent, its fun overall. Annoying save system and repeating escort missions aside, it is a 
 jolly good time with a lot of replay value. What more could we ask for? Maybe the next one will 
 have zombies that shoot back like in Romeros Land of the Dead. Okay, maybe thats not such a good 
 idea.
  
  Reveiw by Jack. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwr1982
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  When the game starts It all seems abit too slow (almost like a zombie shuffle) But as soon as the 
 Zombies start tearing through the Mall its time to say Game over man Game over , you have to swing 
 left to right with anything you can lay your hands on (Chainsaws, knivies, bins, teddy bears - 
 Yes teddy bears) And only after the first slaughter you can sit back and smile and shout THIS GAME 
 IS CHUFFING SWEET. You play a journalist trying to scope the big story on this poor little town, 
 work your way through the story to uncover the plot or simply hide in the loos and fill your pants 
 with wiff juice, you have 72 hours to get your ass back to the hellypad to escape (thats about 
 8 hours gaming time) . But do not fear 8 hours is not enuff to play everything in this game theres 
 plenty to do giving it a high re-play factor plus the blood spraying zombie graphics are fun to 
 watch as well as play. Even if you have never seen Dawn of the Dead (a must watch movie) the game 
 is so far one of the best 360 games on release... now time to kick sum more zombieee asss!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reilly86
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Once again Capcom delivers another survival horror game that takes the genre in a new and interesting 
 direction. Dead Rising is set in a huge shopping centre with all kinds of shops and entertainment, 
 but for some reason mindless zombies are roaming in the surrounding area just outside the main 
 doors. With a small group of survivors trying to block the door with anything they can find a mad 
 hysterical woman notices her beloved dog is trapped with the zombies and tries to rescue it, but 
 all she does is get her self killed but worse off all the undead monsters are now let inside the 
 shopping centre, and so begins Dead Rising.
  
  Game playThe game plays perfect, there is no frame rate problems which is always important for 
 moments off extreme fighting or running away, which is always a problem with games that appear 
 on other formats. The loading times are quite frequent but thankfully are short and dont prove 
 to be any problem with the flow of the game. It plays in a similar style to the Resident Evil 4 
 game. When firing with a gun, the camera moves behind the player showing a small target which is 
 where the player is aiming at. The zombies move in the same way as the Resident Evil games and 
 dont really prove to be much of a problem if you keep a good distance away from them. Something 
 that has never been done in a survival horror game before is to make the main character a journalist. 
 But dont worry, he isnt a skinny weedy looking person who takes pictures and wrights notes down 
 in a small book, he is a zombie killing machine using anything that he can find to redecorate the 
 place in zombie brains. The aim of this game is to find out what is going on, which always seems 
 to be what every survival horror game is about, and save as many survivors as possible by finding 
 them and bringing them back to the safe point, which is a security room that can only be accessed 
 through the roof as the main doors have been welded shut to stop any zombies getting in.
  There are many different ways the game can be completed, the main quest is to find out who or what 
 is behind all this and get as much photo evidence as possible to prove your case, or if your not 
 very adventuress then stay on the helipad for 3 days and finish the game that way.
  Of course the most important aspect of this game is all the different shops in and round the shopping 
 centre. Some of the shops have been placed for changing the appearances of the main character, 
 these range from different types of shoes, hats and clothes. There is a huge selection of each 
 off these to be found but it does depend on the shop that the clothes come from, for example, if 
 the clothes come from a kids themed shop then the clothes will be too small and have childish theme, 
 if the clothes come from a womans garment shop theme he will were a womens dress! Crazy but it 
 does keep the humour up for a game that has a dark serious story line. There is also some strange 
 pieces of clothing like a giant Lego style head that can be worn over the top of your normal head, 
 it doesnt offer any protection from zombies but does give the player the ability to almost customise 
 the main character to look any way they want.
  Apart from clothing shops, there are many that hold all sorts of weapons for close combat or projectiles, 
 they also depend on what shop is entered. Sport shops tend to supply bowling bowls, footballs and 
 skateboards whereas DIY shops supply chainsaws and sledgehammers. All of the weapons have there 
 strong and weak points, for example footballs can be kicked and knock over a number of zombies 
 but does very little damage unlike the chainsaw which it perfect for close combat but when it is 
 thrown, it does very little damage. Golf clubs can be used to whack golf balls at unsuspecting 
 zombies which most of the time does kill them in one hit, and then there are weapons that can be 
 travailed on or moved around like skateboards, shopping trolleys and of course the most violent 
 weapon of them all which is a lawnmower which can chew up about 100 zombies before it finally breaks. 
 Some weapons do next to no damage and last for a couple of hits such as fish that can be found 
 in pound.
  Sadly the game does have some problems and although there arent many, they really do let the game 
 down. The first major problem that anyone will notice is that there are at times just too many 
 zombies in areas that have very little weaponry, a good example of this is when rescuing a female 
 survivor who is hiding behind a jewellery counter. The zombies instantly surround the counter but 
 as luck would have it there is no weapon at hand which means having to take on up to 30 zombies 
 using your bare hands.
  Later on in the game, sees the early release of some very violent inmates, who have somehow, got 
 a jeep into the park area of the shopping centre, which is located in the centre. This isnt much 
 off a problem, but if you can image that the shopping centre is a ring shape and the violent criminals 
 are located in the centre of the ring then it becomes a problem. Trying to get to the other side 
 of the centre, means having to trek across the park in which the jeep which is also equipped with 
 a machine gun starts to hunt who down. This does become a pain and a nuisance when taking survivors 
 to the safe point.
  Saving is also a factor in this game, there are just too few save points and too much of a distance 
 to get to the next one, which can sometimes result in death as it is just too far to keep treading 
 back and forth to the nearest save point.
  Weapons can only be used for a short time, which is all ways a pain. Chainsaw and sledgehammers 
 seem to last for no more then 30 zombies and guns are hard to find as the only shop that has them 
 is at the northern most part of the centre.
  
  GraphicsMost gamers today think that graphics are more important then anything else in the game, 
 the good thing is that this game doesnt disappoint. The graphics are unquestionably next gen. 
 the detail on all the human characters is almost life like, boasting realistic hair movement, body 
 movement and even the lips move in a believable fashion. Older humans have detailed wrinkles and 
 some even have red veins that can be seen in the backs of there eyes.
  The zombies are equally as detailed as the human characters, each has it differences like parts 
 of the face missing such as checks so the teeth are on display to bits of the scalp so the brain 
 is showing. This gory detail is amazing and does go underappreciated and unnoticed. There are about 
 15 or so different styles of zombie and all act a little bit different to each other. At night 
 the eyes light up red and which helps to locate them in the dark.
  Lighting effects are very well produced and help to give an eerie feel to the locations which is 
 better seen at night when the outside lights shine through the windows and cast shadows on the 
 floor.
  But of course the best graphics are the locations them selves. All a perfected in detail, and is 
 different for each shop, so even when playing for the tenth time, there will still be things that 
 were overlooked last time.
  The team behind this game have also used to Xbox 360s ability to blur objects that are moving 
 fast or that are at a distance and it looks fantastic. Overall they are some of the best graphics 
 seen on the 360 to date.
  
  Soundthe sound is always a hard point to review, there is only music when something dangerous 
 is after you like psychopaths, and the rest of the time the game is silent apart from the sound 
 effects.
  The moans and groans of the zombies are very unsettling and really makes up for the lack of music. 
 But the human moans and groans are the complete opposite of this, they can become very frustrating 
 as all they seem to do is cry and scream.
  Voice acting is quite good and believable but like most games there is a long pause between each 
 characters speaking. If you are using a surround sound system, the game sound is perfect but sadly 
 sound poor on a normal stereo sound system.
  
  Achievement pointsMedium to hard, some are very easy to unlock such as fall from a height of six 
 feet, and nock 30 zombies over with a parasol, whereas others are much harder like getting 50 survivors 
 out of the shopping centre. So if your looking for an easy 1000 points, then try some were else.
 
  
  ValueThe price tag is still very high at &pound;50, but the game does have a lot of hidden secrets 
 and an infinite replay ability. But remember that this is not Resident Evil and is a little bit 
 more light hearted. Great fun but can be frustrating.
  
  Review by Reilly86
  15 Sept 06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerkingg
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this if this game was a boat, it would be the titanic.
  It would go down and never stop.
  Excuse me you think this game is good but its realy bad.
 
  Its like having your eyes pulled out dropped on the ground and stomped on.
  I would say its good if you could see the words on my non-HDTV screen.
  Whats with that, only 
 47% or so have got HDTVs.
  So im saying the only thing im gonna do with this game is sell it or give it to the grim reaper 
 so he can kill it.
  Maybe ill just blend it up and put it in my smoothie.
  So im going to come out and say thanks for reading my report/review.
  IM saying now that its 
 a very bad game like 200 people in my area like it.
  200/6 million people!
  Thats why i want you to know this game could be better and shouldn't have a squel of a man taking 
 photos of guys in underwear.
  Score: 1 mall zombie out of 10
  
  Go get Lego star wars or Tom Clancy Vegas
  @Thank you Gamespot for letting me review this game@
 
  @Don't Fire me now@ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeV192
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  If you like fighting games this game is for u. But ure weapons break. As you level up you gain 
 weaponless abilites. If you have ever played a zombie game and liked it this game is for you. THey 
 Say use any weapon you want but you cant use everything its kind of unrealised when your weapon 
 breacks and when a new golf ball/Hcokey puck re appers. But when you Kill a zombie it is fairly 
 realistic BLOOD AND VARY GOARY. This game is awsome its looks like a renter but a buyer for a fact 
 jack.
  In this this game you are a reporter and are going to a town with the military surrounding it. 
 You take pictures of Zombies and Take on on and kill pscopaths. When you finsh a case you are a 
 step closer to beating the game. I have never played a game like this on it should be bought and 
 played for ever by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a long review i supose but hopefully informative.
  
  Well dead rising, killing zombies with multiple weapons has to be cool right? Yeah it largely is 
 BUT there are a few things along the way that make it so frustrating the fun gets taken out.
  
  Ok first off Im not going to spoil it by talking about the story line. All i can say on that 
 note is that it has one and you have to complete it to finish the game, ill come back to this point 
 later, just know you have to reveal the story or the game ends.
  
  The premise is that you have 72 hrs do ' do your thing ' but no, you dont, the game speed isnt 
 real time, its mega fast. Ill just say now i havent finished it yet and dear god i dont know 
 when i ever will, but ill get to this later.
  
  The game play is that there are people about this shopping mall and you have to save them, or kill 
 them depending on whats going on, but avoid zombies along the way. The game features an amazing 
 list of weapons but they dont last forever, they have a durability use, so people who thought 
 the game would be get the sword and thats it, then u are so wrong. The games controls play really 
 well, most weps have a 2nd feature and it really doesnt get tiring just ripping through massive 
 groups with some of the gore weps. If your trying to understand my stand point on the game at the 
 moment then il clear it up by saying the game is quite good as it stands but next will come more 
 cons than pro that make it the single most frustrating thing youve ever played.
  
  #1 OMG THE TEXT IS TOO SMALL. I REPEAT THE TEXT, THAT IS THE WRITING DISPLAYED ON THE SCREEN WHEN 
 NOT IN VOICE OVER IS TOO SMALL. ITS TOO SMALL!!!!!!!!. Im seriously NOT joking when i say i can 
 hardly read it . . . no. . . i mean I CANT READ IT. Please god . . wait, please Capcom release 
 a patch to increase the size of all your text, please i beg of you. Its all i want for Christmas. 
 This is no joke, if i had a HD tv maybe it would be different but my 40 wide screen TV on all its 
 settings cannot display this text so that it can be read. To make matters worse they colour some 
 of the text and it makes it not even slightly guessable. I have no idea what im doing on this game 
 half the time cos when text pops up im normally killing things and on my last energy piece so dont 
 really read it . . i mean STRAIN MYSELF TO GUESS AT WHAT ITS SAYING. In short teh txt ist teh smallest!
 
  
  #2 This phone keeps ringing ALL the time. Yes you can end it by answering it but guess what it 
 does. BRINGS UP Pt 0.001 TEXT. You cant read it anyway, and it unequips everything in your main 
 hand so if ur in front of zombies, you may as well just bend over and shout: hows this for tasty 
 meat? 
  
  #3 Do i have hands? Now ive not managed to do this but by accident but you cant just use your fists 
 if you have something equipped in your inventory. You have to drop the lot cos the first thing 
 in your hands auto equips.
  
  #4 You can save the game at 1 point at anytime in your 72 hr game mode. This doesnt mean you can 
 save it once you could save it a million times, but every time you save it, it overwrites your 
 last one. Going back to my 'come back to later bits' this is the source of all my problems. Its 
 good but bad at the same time. Its bad because if you CANT READ THE TEXT LIKE ME, then you have 
 no idea whats going on EVER. I must have restarted the game 8 times cos i kept getting a message 
 saying 'the info has disappeared into the night' or something and the game ends and you have to 
 load your previous game. This for some people may work out just great but if your like me and realise 
 you have less than 30 mins GAME time to do a game critical mission, and saved it just before you 
 found out . . .you have to start the whole damn game again. OR if your like me and start again, 
 get back to where you were and then go outside and get killed by some absolute fools in a jeep 
 EVERYTIME, you have to go back to your previous save which is either back at the absolute start 
 or in the useless GAME WILL CERTAINLY END IN 4MINS (Game time) save state. The saviour in all of 
 this is that when you save, the game saves all your stats and when you do start another game you 
 satrt at level 21, not back at 1. This next bit isnt a spoiler cos anyone who gets this game will 
 get sick of this, so ill give you a heads up. IF I PHOTO THE MYERS KISSING ONE MORE TIME, im gonna 
 execute them just before they see their way to the vent and spit on their dead bodies.
  
  Another + point to the save thing is that it will stop you finishing this game in 2 hours or so, 
 cos as you advance the story the clock moves forwards in massive chunks.
  
  So. APART FROM THE TEXT. This game is funny, ill never get tired of putting the lego head on and 
 watching the cutscenes, this game is so great its all in game that kind of footage, when i had 
 to restart for the 3rd time i had a horse head on before i saved and i started back in the chopper 
 with a horse head on. Brilliant.
  
  The game is good but damn frustrating. There are loads more things i could say but this is already 
 too long as it is. As a final word, buy it. it is a lot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising For Xbox360.
  
  THE GOOD : Zombies, Anything As A Weapon, Great Graphics, Great Sound, Otis And Brad, Frank West 
 Is The Coolest, MEGA BUSTER!!!!!!!, Great Video Game Story.
  
  THE BAD : Save System Annoys You Although It's Not As Bad As Everyone Says!!!!!!!
  
  
  
 
  First off i should say that i was waiting for this game for 3 and a half years!!!!! It was a Tuesday 
 The 12th Of September 2006 when i went into town to Harvey Norman, I ran into the Xbox 360 game 
 section and i looked, i was in total Awe!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  It was there, Dead Rising Was there, i picked it up and ran to the counter, I lay $120 on the counter 
 and said thank you.
  
  They wouldn't let me buy it for some stupid reason!!!!!!!!!!!!! So it took them a whole 10 mins 
 for them to figure out what was wrong, it turns out it was something to do with the barcode, I 
 Brought the game and went home and i played it with an amazing anticipation.
  
  Now Onto my review mcphee!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Have you ever been watching a movie like Dawn of 
 the Dead, Zombi 2, Land of the Dead or basically any zombie movie in existence where at the end 
 of the movie there's always that final onslaught of zombies that swarm upon the hapless humans, 
 and just go about devouring them and you see the other ones running away in terror, and trying 
 to fight them off? Now have you ever watched a movie like that and thought: Hey that'd be awesome 
 to be a part of? Well thanks to the fabulous work of the people at Capcom you can be that guy at 
 the end of any zombie movie who's injured and has to run through swarms of zombies in a desperate 
 attempt to get away. In Dead Rising you play as Frank West, a freelance photojournalist, who goes 
 to a small town in Colorado to investigate some rumors about the town. Once in the town you get 
 to control Frank and get used to the picture taking system that's implemented in the game. Taking 
 pictures of zombies amassing near school buses that have been abandoned in the middle of the street, 
 a guy standing on top of a car fighting off the dead that are trying to make him their lunch, and 
 other such wonderfully horrible picture opportunities. Then you're just dropped off on the top 
 of the Willamette Parkview Mall (which in my opinion is way too big for a small town like Willamette, 
 but hey) . After the cinematics that set up the basic story for the game you actually get to control 
 Frank and wander down into the mall.
  
  Once there you come across a group of survivors setting up a barricade against the undead hordes 
 that have gathered at the main entrance of the mall, the supposed leader of the group tells you 
 to find stuff to help strengthen the barricade, not that you actually help with the barricade mind 
 you. The zombies break into the mall in an exquisite looking rampage of violence and mayhem! This 
 humble reviewer actually giggled maniacally at this and loved standing on top of a kiosk to get 
 pictures of survivors futilely trying to fight off the zombies. This is actually one of Dead Rising's 
 great points. The massive amounts of zombies on screen at a time. I don't know if Capcom actually 
 succeeded in implementing the suggested thousand on screen, but they did manage to put in a lot 
 of walking shambling corpses. The maintenance tunnels especially have a lot on screen. I would 
 like to express this mathematically if I may: Bunch of zombies on screen + shotgun = a bloody (literally) 
 good time! The game manages to capture the look and feel of a shopping mall very well. It serves 
 as a nice contrast of the indiscriminate zombie death that you'll be dealing out by the handfuls. 
 The environments look clean and orderly despite the zombie outbreak. The zombies in the game look 
 amazing, there are of course occasionally the group of zombies that contain five that look like 
 one another, but there are several hundred on screen so of course some zombie models are going 
 to be reused. The models for the survivors (or zombie food as I affectionately refer to them) all 
 look different from one another, I don't recall any one survivor looking similar to another. Gameplay 
 : The gameplay is hands down some of the most fun I've had in a long while. While others may whine 
 about annoyances like the timed missions and how you have to be at a certain point otherwise you 
 have to restart the game, I found it rather easy to kill a bunch of zombies, a psychopath, and 
 be back at the assigned area within the time limit. See not only do you get to fight the undead 
 citizenry of Willamette, you also occasionally come across some survivors who have decided that 
 basically you're a hindrance to their survival, so you're gonna die. These boss fights are really 
 the main annoyance in the game. More than once I almost flung my controller to the floor, but I 
 think they made these fights very difficult because it's easy to mow down the zombies with little 
 to no problem. Which is really the meat of the game. Killing zombies with a bunch of everyday items, 
 sure you'll probably just want to kill 'em with a gun chainsaw or sword, but how often do you get 
 to kill zombies with a drilling weapon that when you ram it into a zombie's stomach then proceed 
 to use the zombie on the drill as a weapon (body spins and knocks down other zombies, and loses 
 limbs in the process) ? Or use a shopping cart that's been fitted with all sorts of blades to make 
 it a unstoppable cart of death? Or a lawnmower? Want to throw a pie at a zombie, how about rolling 
 a bowling ball and knocking over the dead like walking bowling pins? Dead Rising lets you use any 
 item as a weapon, it's especially fun when you're cornered by a crowd of zombies and all you're 
 other weapons have broken, and you end up hurling a book at 'em just to keep 'em back. Another 
 great aspect of the game is you often come across just normal survivors who are quick to follow 
 you, in the hopes that you'll take them back to the security office so that they can be rescued, 
 the great thing that Dead Rising does is that you don't have to ensure these peoples survival. 
 You can often times just use them as a hapless tool to keep the zombies off of you while you and 
 possibly another survivor run off to get back to the security room. Also sometimes you get treated 
 to a video of said survivor being pinned to the ground and get eaten by five or so zombies (just 
 like in the movies) , but sadly you don't ever really get to take a picture of something like that. 
 The photography aspect of the game is something they encourage you to do, but don't force on you. 
 You could easily get through the game without taking more than two or three photos. Graphics : 
 Beautiful graphics! Really next-gen. The eye opener to the game was that the game could support 
 1000 zombies on screen at once. The other cool thing was that if you sliced a zombie, you could 
 see the insides. Very nice detailing by Capcom. Very gory graphics by Capcom, and CC is known for 
 being gory. If you are lost, you won't mind it because of the gorgeous backgrounds and scenery. 
 CC hits big in this department. Games these days need eye candy, something to pull the consumer 
 in. Dead Rising brings you just that. The humans look real, the zombies look amazing (even though 
 they may have missing body parts) . The cut-scenes play a huge roll in this as well. The expressions 
 on a persons face tells that they don't want to die, or they are hiding something. The graphics 
 are great, simple as that.
  
  Sound : The sound in Dead Rising has to be some of the best sound work I've heard in a video game. 
 Not for the voice acting, good though it may be, it's for sounding like a real mall... apart from 
 the vast number of flesh eaters I mean. All throughout the game you'll hear a bunch of cheesy muzak 
 play throughout the mall. Which actually leads to the ambiance of the game. I think it's a nice 
 contrast to the constant moans and groans of the zombies. The zombies sound great, they'll shuffle 
 around moaning, and if you should happen to get too close to one of them they'll roar in agitation 
 and lunge at you, complete with a nice juicy chomping sound. Also I love the fact that Capcom went 
 all out with the weapons sound effects. Hit a zombie with a baseball bat, it sounds like you're 
 hitting a zombie with a baseball bat. Wail on 'em with an electric guitar it will produce a pleasing 
 crunch sound along with some minor chords from the guitar, and the chainsaw! I think it's just 
 loads of fun (in an evil sadistic way) to run down a corridor filled with zombies with a chainsaw 
 ripping into zombies with a wonderfully sawing sound.
  
  The game has great replayability, after you complete the main story mode you unlock Infinite Mode 
 where you can run around killing zombies and not have to worry about that pesky timer/scoop missions. 
 Overall I would highly recommend this game to just about anyone who has a 360, you'd be hard pressed 
 to find a better zombie game. At least, until the sequel comes out.
  
  This game takes the one question that any Capcom, or zombie fan asks themselves, What would you 
 do if there were zombies everywhere? and lets them act it out. Whether you are interested in a 
 good story, some fun zombie killing, or are just looking for a good Xbox 360 title then look no 
 further. With a very indepth story, great characters, increadably indepth gameplay, and just neverending 
 fun, this is a game that any Capcom fan, zombie fan, or Xbox 360 owner should buy. This game is 
 the reason to buy a 360!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Ever since I saw Dawn of the Dead in the early 80's as a kid I've always wanted to play a game 
 that allowed you roam around a shopping mall and kill zombies, and here it is. I know that it's 
 not supposed to be based on Dawn of the Dead but it's hard not to draw comparisons with the film, 
 I mean come on, how many other films are based on zombies and shopping malls!! Dead Rising sees 
 you taking up the role of photo journalist Frank West who has been sent to Willamette, Colorado 
 to investigate a story. But when he gets there Willamette isn't looking like it should......... 
 As the game begins your helicopter lands and youre told that the pilot will be back in 72 hours 
 to pick you up. As you make your way inside to the security room, a quick glance in the direction 
 of the parking lot tells you everything is not right. The security room that you start from is 
 your base, where you have to guide the survivors to, save the game and certain "cases" start from.
 
  
  The game itself is broken up into case files (main story) , scoop missions (rescuing survivors and 
 guiding them back to the security room and all out, shooting, slashing, burning, hacking, beating 
 zombie killing fun. The case files are time sensitive and if youre not where you are supposed 
 to be, the case files close and the story is over. You can carry on if you want but the main story 
 is closed and this can be really harsh, especially with the save system but more of that later. 
 The scoop missions will be radioed through to you and marked on your map which you can then set 
 a way point on. These usually involve rescuing survivors and "trying" to lead them through the 
 few thousand zombies that are hanging around and as you guessed it, this can become very frustrating 
 when they get caught because of poor AI. Or you can forget all of this and just go on a zombie 
 killing spree, with over 250 weapons to choose from can be great fun. These range from cuddly toys, 
 CDs, diamonds, light sabers, Lego heads, to the more lethal handguns, shotguns, SMGs, sniper 
 rifles, katanas, swords, lead pipes and the such.
  
  The actual main story will only take 5-6 hours to complete (I didn't time it so it could longer) 
 but the scoop missions will take up most of the time. The main story is about you finding out why 
 the town has been turned into zombies and you escaping to tell the truth. Like I said before, these 
 are all time releated with you needing to be at certain places at the right time. For example one 
 of the cases starts at 6.00 am with another 2 cases following that and the next case starting at 
 11.00am. So you have to complete all 3 cases and be at the allocated designation by 11.00am to 
 start the next set of cases. Fail to complete any of the cases and the main story is lost. I decided 
 that it's almost impossible to do the main story and do all the scoop missions and be on time. 
 There are a lot of survivors to be rescued, with 84 characters in the game to be either rescued 
 or killed, time is the essence. The scoop missions usually involve going to a set place within 
 a certain allotted time limit. Then you either have to talk to the character to get them to follow 
 you, use books to speak certain languages or kill a mini boss to rescue hostages but all of the 
 rescued survivors need to be lead back to the security room where you earn prestige points for 
 every survivor who is saved. The prestige points are used to level up and earn new skills, more 
 health or the ability to carry more. So the more survivors you can get back the better. When and 
 if you complete the game there are 2 more modes to unlock, overtime mode which allows you to start 
 a new game from the beginning of day 4 and infinity mode, which not a lot is known about but I 
 reckon it will let you play without time limits or something along those lines.
  
  The save system is harsh, when I first played Dead Rising I nearly gave up because of this and 
 it takes time to get used to. You can save your game in any of the toilets, the security room and 
 a couple of other places which unlock as you progress through the main mission. The problem being 
 is that you can only have one save and this means if you saved it in an inopportune moment such 
 as not leaving yourself enough time to reach the next case then it's game over (if you want to 
 complete the main story) and I had to start the game fresh 4 times before I got the hang of the 
 save system but once you've figured it out, it's not really a problem. Just expect to start the 
 game again more then once. The saving grace with all this is, when you do have to start the game 
 again you keep your characters level and kill count. You start with a 0 kill count but it will 
 add onto your previous kill count and gives you a grand total when you finish the game. So in all 
 after some rather poor beginnings it does get better when you realize how and when to save your 
 game.
  
  The graphics are great with the Xbox 360 being used to the fullest. The high resolution textures 
 of the main characters being a high point, the zombies themselves (all though not high resolution) 
 are great with enough variation to make you think that your seeing a different zombie nearly every 
 time. With literally hundreds if not thousands of zombies on screen at once there are bound to 
 be zombies standing next to each other that are the same but the sheer variations in the crowd 
 engine makes you think that they are all different. There are buckets and buckets of blood in Dead 
 Rising, with nearly every weapon producing a lovely spray of red goo spraying in all directions, 
 including at you! The more zombies you kill the more splattered you look, the walls look and the 
 floor looks, fantastic. Its about time we had an adult game where you can hack a zombie in half 
 with a sword and cover the walls, the floor and yourself with blood.
  
  The sounds are some of the best parts and really add atmosphere to the game. From stepping off 
 the helicopter and hearing the groans from the parking lot to the sounds of a zombie being cut 
 in half with a katana, they are all excellent. The dialogue is a bit cheesy but the voice actors 
 have all done a great job and it all blends together so well.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is an incredible game and for me is the best horror/zombie game on the market 
 today. I would of given it a score of 9 or higher if the save system hadnt been so unforgiving. 
 But its so much fun you wont mind playing over and over again. For example, I finished the main 
 story and a few of the scoop missions, raced back for the helicopter, to find out there are something 
 like 5 endings which are all different depending on how you play the game. I wont spoil it for 
 people but sufficed to say that Ill be playing the main story mission again. Let alone going back 
 and trying to do all the scoop missions. The game also supports online ranking so for the people 
 who have Xbox Live there is a place to compare scores and even who has spent the longest in the 
 mall. Dead Rising is all that and more, well done Capcom for giving us a zombie game that we can 
 be proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco12334
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game is really fantastic and really deserves a higher score that 8.4. Firstly, there are literally 
 hundreds of flesh-eating zombies on screen at once but you would of probably thought that would 
 bring down the frame-rate and slow things down big time, but it really dosen't. At first, when 
 the game was in production, I honestly thought that you could use anything as a weapon, but you 
 can't but that dosen't mean you there isn't a wide variety because, trust me, there is. From Battle 
 axes to toy lightsabre style swords, SMGs to water pistols, which all have a different effects 
 for example, a bunch of CDs would not do a thing but push them back a little but it is still quite 
 amusing doing so. You must survive for 72 hours which is 3 days, it may not sound long to you but 
 there is alot of replay value, mainly due to the fact that you must save lots of different survivors 
 scattered from all over the mall which you have to do in a certain time, which is very hard especially 
 when your playing the game for the first time. This game doe's have a few bad points though but 
 the main one is proberbly the fact that the Survivors have quite a dumb A. I but this dosen't matter 
 that much as it makes it a bit more of a challenge to escort them back to the safe room without 
 getting eaten by mindless zombies. If you played the demo from the Xbox live Marketplace and thought 
 this was an easy game, you are totally wrong as the full game is very challenging and can sometimes 
 be quite annoying. Overall, this is a FANTASTIC game and definitely worth paying the full 50 quid 
 for, or even getting a xbox 360 for. And thank you very much for taking the time to read my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodzillaX8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  The gameplay is amusing for an hour or two when you first begin playing, simply because it's fun 
 to run around grabbing new weapons and wailing on mindless drones with them. However, the zombies 
 quickly become more like a chore to kill than fun to kill. You usually end up running past all 
 the zombies as fast as you possibly can in order to complete your cases on time. If the cases weren't 
 timed, the game would be much more enjoyable and easier for me to play through. I personally enjoy 
 a much more relaxed pace when I'm going through my games, rather than being forced to run as fast 
 as I can between several areas of the mall. Granted you don't have to do the cases, but if you 
 don't, you don't get to see the storyline progress. The storyline is quite intriguing, contrary 
 to what you'd expect from a standard zombie slaughterfest.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  I took points off of the graphics because of a couple of things. One, the zombies look a little 
 bit too fake for my liking, they're so bland that they aren't even scary. Two, they apparently 
 only felt like making 10-15 different zombie models, so it just looks stupid most of the time when 
 you're killing 20 of the same zombie. Other than that, the game looks pretty good most of the time.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  This game has really good sound design. The zombie sounds are creepy without being intrusively 
 loud or obnoxiously repeated, and all the weapons/items sound realistic when you bounce them off 
 of the walls or zombies' faces. When there is music, it is chosen well.
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  The game, to me, isn't worth $59.99 just because it is extremely repetitive. I got my copy 
 on ebay for $45 and I wouldn't pay a penny more than that for it. Tilt: 5/10
  
  A lot of things in this game just leave a sour taste in my mouth. Some of the boss fights are just 
 ridiculously hard for no real reason. The bosses will quite often take advantage of your character's 
 incredibly slow hit recovery time to hit you again, making it impossible for you to move before, 
 ultimately, dying. The time limits quite often make it hard to get any of the lesser missions done 
 without failing the main cases. The weapons all break way too fast so you end up spending most 
 of the time hunting for new weapons, as yours keep breaking. The save system can be annoying since 
 you have to fight your way through hundreds of zombies to reach the save points, and after fighting 
 a boss and being low on health and low on weapons, this is quite difficult at times.
  
  All in all, the game is worth owning, but don't expect a masterpiece, and don't pay the full price 
 tag for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamstmx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising takes what you know about previous Zombie games, gives it a huge facelift and then 
 takes it to the next level. Although this isnt much like Capcoms predecessors, such as Resident 
 Evil, its still an absolute classic game. This is why:
  
  When you start the game you may be wondering, why the hell did i tell that helicoper to come back 
 in 3 days! How am I going to last that long when there is litrily thousands of Zombies buming about! 
 Well you have a few things hidden up your sleeve, for instance a nice Baseball bat for clearing 
 out the crowds, or a ranged sniper to take out the Queen infested Zombies. There is over 200 different 
 items and wepons you can use to disembowl, bash up, or just make a mokery of the Zombie foe. Personally 
 my favorite is the Small Chainsaw which cuts through the Zombies like butter.
  
  The storyline you may think is a bit crazy, but then you just get into the swing of things and 
 understand that its meant to be quite light hearted, even a comedy at times, you really start to 
 get invloved.
  
  The aim of the game is to survive until your ride comes back to pick you up, and in the mean time 
 undercover the story behind the outbreak. Along the way you come across survivors which are generally 
 baracaded in a shop somehwre and need help to get back to the safe refuge of the Security Room. 
 The Security room acts as your base of operations, and usually the spawning place of your story 
 missions allowing you to come back here, chill out and save your progress. The storyline however 
 is completely optional, infact every mission in the game is optional and is totally up to you whether 
 you are bothered to do them, or just rampage around the mall with a lawn mower adding to your kill 
 count. You may think to your self, 72 hours in a mall where 5 minutes is equal to an hour doesnt 
 seem that long, and to be honest, it isnt. You can get through the 72 hour mode in a day! But thats 
 not the point, if you hadn't already of noticed but there are multiple endings, all of which require 
 you to fullfill certain objectives through out your stay in the mall to aquire them. Each time 
 you play through you get to continue at your current level, and so changing the way you play through 
 the storyline. (hopefully taking out bosses quiker this time round and getting all the unlockables)
 
  
  These different endings affect what you do next in the game, for instance if you complete the game 
 with the best ending (A) you will unlock Overtime mode, and then onwards to Infinate mode!
  
  These different modes and unlockables make the duration of the game much much longer, you want 
 to come back to it to play it again and again just to level up to that maxium of 50 unlokcing new 
 moves and equipment along the way. Its almost like a miniture RPG in the way your character progresses.
 
  
  As you can probaby see, i like this game, and so should you! Get over the save system, this can 
 be annoying at times, but at the same time makes it even better because it makes you feel that 
 you really need to survive, else your way back at your last save! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  You're in a zombie infested mall and low on bowling balls. A group of people wearing yellow raincoats 
 with green masks come charging at you -- do you fight your way through them and hope for the best 
 or jump off that ledge and hope for minimal damage? This is one of many situations where you'll 
 find yourself scrambling for the nearest weapon in Dead Rising. 
  
  It's an action game where you play as Frank west. Frank is a photojournalist who's always looking 
 for the next story to cover (even when his life is on the line) . The game starts out in a hellicopter 
 and you fly over a city guarded heavily by the military. The reason why they're blocking it is 
 because the whole town is infested with zombies. You then get dropped off in a mall where you have 
 3 days to uncover the truth behind this invasion. 
  
  Think about this for a moment; if you were trapped in a mall crawling with zombies for 3 days armed 
 with nothing but your camera and the clothes on your back what would you do? look for something 
 to beat those freaks back into the grave with of course! That's what Dead Rising lets you do -- 
 there are seemingly hundreds of weapons to discover. Pretty much every weapon has it's own strength 
 and weakness. You can find them laying around the mall. For example, if you go into a toy store 
 you'll find frisbees and stuffed animals. 
  
  It's not a repetitive adventure where you just kill zombies for the sake of doing it. While you 
 can do that if you wish, you'll be left out in the cold when it comes to the actual structure of 
 the game. Your challenges are divided into 'cases' where you'll have to be in a certain place at 
 a certain time. Getting there shouldn't be difficult because you can get a guide arrow which points 
 which way to go if you ever need help. 
  
  If you're not a smart player the save system can be a real hassle. You only get one save slot; 
 every time you save the game it overwrites your previous save. If you save in a spot where you 
 can't get where you need to be on time or you don't have the right weapons then you have to start 
 the game over again. Your level and moves will carry over so it'll be easier the next time through. 
 I actually never once had a problem with the save system, the only reason i restarted the game 
 so many times is because I wanted to get my level up so my run through would be easier.
  
  Starting over won't be much of a hassle because Dead Rising is a rather funny game. There aren't 
 many games I can think of that let you wear a women's dress, a children's bear mask and white sneakers 
 while you blast zombies with a shotgun. The dialogue is great and the bosses all have distinct 
 and memorable personalities.
  
  Graphically Dead Rising is an awesome looking game. The environments look very crisp and detailed. 
 (particularly Wonderland Plaza) Every weapon animation hitting flesh is just marvelous. The cutscenes 
 can look ugly at times, though; there's a lot of clipping issues and people's hands don't look 
 so great when viewed up close.
  
  Dead Rising is backed up with fantastic audio, the voice acting and all the sound effects sound 
 really smooth and just like it should (especially the excavator which is my mom's personal favourite) . 
 You can pretty much tell how a character will sound when you first see them (before they talk) 
 which is the way it should be. The music could have been better though, it's quite forgettable 
 and it's not something that'll stand out in the audio department unlike the music in, say, Half-Life 
 2.
  
  Dead Rising's story mode isn't the longest game in the world by any means -- It's a little over 
 7 hours. Normally that would be disappointing but that's not the case here. There are 50 achievments 
 to unlock, and you'll eventually unlock overtime and infinite mode. Even if you couldn't unlock 
 anything in Dead Rising it would still have tons of replay value. There are so many juices to make, 
 weapons to find and costumes to check out.
  
  The bottom line is this game will hold your interest for weeks to come. As long as you're mature 
 enough to handle an extremely gory game then you should go buy this game as soon as possible. Thanks 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperPenguin012
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  "Dead Rising" is game about a photo journalist named Frank West investigating a supposed riot going 
 down in a small town that has been blocked off and quarintined from the rest of the world, but 
 once he gets there he discovers that it is not a riot, it is a zombie attack. you are trapped in 
 a mall for 72 hours and you have only that long to figure out what's going on and kick as much 
 zombie butt as possible. So in this game i thought there was a ton of different weapons and activities 
 in this game. For example of the different activities you can adventure into to is you can either 
 just run through the story mode and try to get the best ending grade you can or you can go through 
 it slowly and try to save as many survivors as possible. I would say this is a great game if you 
 want to pass the time. Also if your into those achievement points then you can spend hours on end 
 trying to save fifty survivors, jumping a motorcycle 33 feet in the air or just murdefying 54,000 
 zombies to get that wonderful genocide achievement. Now if you're into beating everyone in the 
 leaderboards, you can try to get to the highest level as you can and beat everybody else. So there's 
 my review i thought it was a cinematic delight and i still enjoy playing it after a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxsteven
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  The Good
  This next Generation game and the graphics are really good.
  You can use almost everything in the mall as a weapon making the game more interesting .
  After 
 you beat all cases in the game you can extend your fun by going back into the mall and killing 
 the rest of the zombies The Bad It's kind of a rip -off of 'Dawn of the Dead' (the movie remake) 
 because you are trapped in a mall and both have zombies On the minus side :
  
  The Bad
  You have to be in a specific spot in the mall at the right time to do the cases.
  If you aren't 
 you can keep playing but you have to survive 3 days to get to another ending of the game.
  If you die anywhere in the game you have to start over with 20 minutes of running through hallways 
 to get back to where you were in the game.
  If you go on a survivor mission the AI doesn't follow you that -sometimes the AI goes into a group 
 of Zombies .
  The 'Save' system in the game is borderline broken and awful !
  
  This could be a great game with some tweeking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfscr
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I have never come across a game like Dead Rising and I was waiting by my letter slot for the postman 
 to deliver this gem. When it came I was delighted and ripped open the envelope like it was Christmas.
 
  
  The first thing I noticed was that the graphics was amazing; it was the icing on the cake that 
 is dead rising.
  
  The gameplay made me wonder how they could fit so many functions on the Xbox controller as there 
 is so much to do. Games like this I usually avoid because Im not a fan of the horror genre but 
 instead it was humorous and the things you do to repel the zombies make me laugh endlessly.
  
  The bad points of this game are near to nonexistent, most people will complain about the single 
 save slot but thats what makes a survival horror game. Theres also the fact that you can barely 
 see the text onscreen if you have a standard television but I dont see the point is playing this 
 game on a standard TV. HDTV sets make this game incredible.
  
  Finally there is discussion on whether this game suffers from State of Emergency syndrome but 
 not to worry because this game doesnt endure this.
  
  In conclusion this game is a funny experience and will want you playing again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucidcoder
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  If you can't appreciate the gushing blood and severed limbs, you need not apply, but otherwise, 
 you'll find a completely enjoyable, cathartic, and even humorous experience worth 20+ hours. This 
 is easily one of the most unique, stylish, and well-designed games of the year. After playing this 
 game, I can't help but think how ingenious it is to place a zombie survival game inside a large 
 shopping mall. The zombie-consumer metaphor alone gives the plot depth, and the frequent cutscenes 
 give an urgency to solving the mystery of how an entire town turned into zombies. The mall is the 
 perfect place to explore and find hundreds of interactive items for fun and self-defense. The initial 
 difficulty is discouraging, but all of your hard-earned experience points stay with you on replays -- of 
 which you'll likely have at least a couple. This is the video game equivalent of the movie "Groundhog 
 Day", where Bill Murray has to keep replaying the same day until he absolutely perfects it. If 
 you want to save every survivor in the mall, while defeating all of the psychos, and reaching all 
 your story checkpoints, you'll have to reload and/or start over several times.
  
  The biggest complaint of many is the fact that you are only given one save file. While this limitation 
 might seem "artificial" or "unfair", the fact is that it adds greatly to the sense that your actions 
 matter, and that you really want to survive to your next save location. But if you screwed things 
 up to0 bad, you might not want to save. It's the same kind of thing that made the infamous flashlight 
 limitation of Doom3 make the game that much scarier. The game designer engineers the rules of the 
 game to create the experience he wants you to have. Don't complain about it, but instead try to 
 make the most of it. No chess player ever complained that it was unfair that you could only move 
 your knight in an L-shape. That's just the rule of the game.
  
  The best part of this game is the replayability. After you've completed the game, you're still 
 likely to go through again just to explore the mall and play with items you missed the first time (s) . 
 And the Live Achievements are a game unto themselves. I went all the way through the game and got 
 the A-ending with only 340 Achievement points. Getting the rest is like a scavenger hunt. If you 
 can get "Frank the Pimp", I tip my hat to you, sir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Gamers have been killing zombies for years with typical weapons, but it has always been a pipedream 
 to kill them with anything you can find, akin to the the movies. Capcom thought about it and used 
 the 360 as a test subject for their newest game to work like that... Dead Rising.
  
  Playing as photojournalist Frank West, you take your opportunity to enter a giant mall for the 
 'scoop of a lifetime'. What he didn't realize was that there were zombies running the mall, and 
 his only lift out gets back in 72 hours.
  
  Picking up whatever you can find, it's up to you to uncover the mystery and save a few people on 
 the way.
  
  Killing zombies and psychos (humans who have gone mad, which was pretty much mini-bosses) is fun, 
 and the game capitalizes on that by giving you reasons to do it. The sheer amount of weaponry is 
 impressive, but you can't exactly pick up everything. Not that it's much of a flaw, since you get 
 a lot of awesome stuff. The way to keep the zombie killing fresh is to never capitalize on it. 
 People shouldn't bother screwing around with the game and not much other than that, because it 
 DOES get tiresome.
  
  The way it sounds, its looking more and more like the perfect game, right? I thought so too, but 
 it has flaws that are hard to ignore.
  
  Above all, the save system is a little testing. Only 1 per profile, that means you can't save in 
 different places around the clock and go back when you screw up. That is really stupid, since the 
 game gives you a certain amount of time to do what you must, and the 'timed events' are numerous. 
 I don't blame you for accidentally failing a story mission because you didn't save close enough 
 to the point or can't get there in time.
  
  The janitor, Whatshisface, also doesn't seem to have a life. He'll often call you on the phone, 
 a lot of time during boss fights or even amidst huge zombie crowds. If you want any hope of completing 
 the game with a good enough ending, you're going to have to listen to him, which means you are 
 unable to use your hands for the length of the call. If you get attacked or hang up during the 
 call, he'll just call you again. It's annoying as hell.
  
  Dead Rising ends within 5 hours, whether you want it to or not, due to the timed length you have 
 to stay in the mall. Not that it's that bad, but the fact that you have to do an overwhelming amount 
 of things to get a good ending sucks. Besides the story missions, which must be done to even beat 
 the game, there are dozens and dozens of inept survivors around the mall. That's means only 1 thing, 
 escourt missions with bad AI.
  
  The only chance more often than not the survivors have to actually get into the safe haven, is 
 to give them your best weapon and hope it lasts long enough, because they usually don't.
  
  The sound and graphics are pretty good, but nothing amazing. The voice acting and sounds are cheesy, 
 which may or may not be a good thing, considering how serious you even wanted this game to begin 
 with (both you and zombies can wear servbot heads, how serious were you expecting?) .
  
  If Dead Rising was better designed it could have been a true killer ap. Unfortunately, I found 
 it difficult to truly enjoy what it had to offer other than zombie killing, however gruesome and 
 satisfying it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Ok so i Bought a Xbox 360 just because i liked the looks of this game ( and 2 - 3 others ) . I haven't 
 gotten really far but i'll try Writing some things i noticed about it.
  
  Good Stuff : - Great looking Graphics, pretty unique from what i've experienced before.
  
  
 - Very Realistic &amp; fun Gameplay, Though windows and other things you break Magically repair 
 themselves ( though not a problem at all)
  
  - Alot of Gore and body parts fly about with the right Weapons Very very fun not to mention adds 
 to realism.
  
  - A MASSIVE Selection of Weapon, Basically anything you can find within a huge mall you can use
 
  
  - Weapons Get damage, this i liked, because it adds more excitement. wouldnt be so fun if you could 
 run around with the best weapon and mow everything down without any problem, Searching for stuff 
 is fun imo.
  
  - Very Challenging Gameplay becomes Tense, so Try to be quick with your tasks.
  
  - A Wide 
 Variety of Clothes, hats, glasses, Toys, etc you can wear. and they also show up in cut scenes, Fun!!
 
  
  - Many things with Alternate Fire Example, you can either use a Bowling ball to Bash a Zombies 
 Skull into oblivion or use it to Bowl down several of them you even decide the power of the throw, 
 Same with hockey / puck etc, Many many more of these are on other items.
  
  - Rides are also included, you can jump on a skateboard to make things speed up, or you can use 
 it to mow down a few zombies, Or jump in a car or a Motor bike and do the same, not to mention 
 Lawnmower which is my favorite so far, But after a while you a prone to fall off so be careful.
 
  
  - To stay alive there is food &amp; drinks Shattered all over the mall, very easy to find, go to 
 a Obvious location and search, and Ofcourse you can mix and make your own food, either put a Frozen 
 food in the microwave and heat it up for Extra health, or Combine two things in a Juice maker /mixer, 
 Careful some can become poisons, some make you Stronger and immortal for short periods, etc...
 
  
  - As you Get further into the game you get to unlock a wide variety of Special moves, Weapons, 
 and much much more. to name a few. Roundhouse kick, power rush, suplex, neck twist, face crusher, disembowel, somersault, 
 and so on
  
  - Books also are very helpful here, though you would think Frank has better things to do than read 
 in this crisis. Anyway keeping books and either combinding them with other books does a bunch of 
 bonus effects, more health from food, longer durability on specific weapons etc.
  
  - You can also unlock Achievements And bonus modes when you complete the game
  
  - Also the 
 Sound in the game is one of the Biggest Factors, everything you do has the Perfect sound so realistic 
 so Good, Main reasons the game is a big hit ;)
  
  I could go on naming good stuff, but some you have to find out, so much to do and see. Bad Stuff 
 : - Escort missions are kinda good in the beginnning when you first start off, but they wear thin 
 after a while. and the frustration when they die or get stuck behind you if you are leading them 
 back to security room.
  
  - Save System, is not the WORST but it isnt the best, there are many save locations around the 
 mall, but you only get ONE save, so if you Screw up and save in that tough spot, there is a chance 
 you might start over so careful, Thankfully you can save stats ( level, Attributes etc) so you 
 can start at the beginning with the level you Reloaded from, so thats a pluss IF you screw up.
 
  
  - Text size is TINY i couldnt read anything without sticking my head to the screen - Time limits 
 and countdowns are kinda lame, But it makes it more scary and challenging, hardcore players will 
 probably like it more than i did.
  
  - AI on the people you rescue is mediocre at best, if you lead them through small hallways and 
 narrow doors they might get stuck in a loop and run into the wall until you run over and get them, 
 they also run very very slow most of the time, so you might have to send them to a location and 
 guard them from behind, because if you run too far from them, they usually stop and get attacked 
 or just run into zombies, this could be much better imo, big flaw.
  
  Overall : This game is one of the best Games i've played, even if i havent gotten that far, i like 
 what i see. i highly Recommend this game, if not satisfied try the Demo from Xbox live Market place, 
 where you also can download other items to the game.
  
  Score : Definitely a Amazing game
  
  Get it, you wont regret it, unless you are really bad 
 at playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo704
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  none stop play every thing you want in a game and more no slow down ever even with the hole screen 
 full with zombies, fast paste, zombie killing fun does what it says on the tin.
  If i was wanted to buy a xbox 360 this game would make me buy one its worth every penny. I can 
 not for res evil 5 now. this game is hard on some bits and easy on some but not to easy thats why 
 this game keeps you coming back for more and more every time u put your 360 on a gem of a game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrojelly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Well i had to say the minute i heard Capcom were making a zombie game i went straight to Gamespot 
 and did research being a big fan i couldnt wait.
  The demo was released and i seemed to play for days even with the limitations.
  
  Then the 
 game was fully released and i was overjoyed, BUT... i wasnt 100% happy, now i loved the demo and 
 it blinded me to some annoying factors of the full game, the first is the save system, at the moment 
 im still getting used to it.
  
  I would have to travel from one side of the mall to the other then fight a boss, then fight my 
 way back just to get it saved... now this wouldnt be a problem but im still finding the whole real 
 time difficult mixing with the saving.
  
  Maybe you dont have time to save so you have to continue then you'd better hope you don't die because 
 then you got to start from the last save, but with me complaining about it, it also please's me, 
 how you ask?
  
  Well a challenge keeps me interested and keeps me coming back and, boy, does dead rising pose a 
 challenge, the amount of things to do, side missions or main mission, more game modes etc keep 
 you entertained way after completing it.
  
  Capcom sure know how to make a good zombie game and if you over look the difficultly and save factor 
 then you won't have much to hate! buts thats just me, i think everone who is a zombie fan HAS to 
 look at this and at least give it a days play, it deserves it.
  
  Also let me say the graphics deliver very well, and those without a HD tv won't understand as you 
 will only see these amazing graphics with HD, hence it causes a problem in one area (for me anyway) 
 the text is almost impossible to read on a none HD TV.
  
  Its got its moments and its got its flaws, but this game is unique and you wont find anything like 
 it, it may need a little tweaking but why bother? this is a great game to add to your'e collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix2005x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  OVERALL THE GAME IS WELL PUT TOGETHER. SOME SIDE MISSIONS ARE POINTLESS AND ESCORTING PEOPLE IS 
 PAIN. CONTROLS FOR THE GAME ARE VERY SIMPLY AND UNDERSTANDABLE. DOWNFALL IS THAT INTERIOR OF STORES 
 SHOULD BE MORE REALISTIC. CAMERA SYSTEM IS EASY TO EDIT AND GET A HANG OF. DAMAGE TO THE PROPERTY 
 IS UNREALISTIC AND STRUCTURE GETS HEALED. MAKES NO SENSE SHOT OUT GLASS IT SHOULD NOT BE REPAIRED. 
 UNLESS ZOMBIES HAVE SIDE JOBS. THERE IS NO REAL NEED FOR A PART TWO. RESIDENT EVIL 4 IS A FINE 
 SERIES IF YOU ARE LOOKING INTO KILLING MORE ZOMBIES AND UNCOVERING A GREAT STORYLINE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil.
  Silent Hill. Both scary games, no?
  
  Dead Rising is from the makers of Resident Evil, Capcom, who aimed to put one thing in mind: As 
 many enemies onscreen at once. Indeed they made it.
  
  Dead Rising is a game that focuses around Frank West, a hardcore photojournalist who 'covered wars' 
 or will 'do anything to get a story.' Sounds cliche, but it fits the bill. As he rides into the 
 town of Willamette in a helecopter, he notices many strange things. People calling for help, people 
 eating other people, and the military blocking off all the roads. He asks to be dropped off at 
 the Willamette mall, and requests the pilot to come back after three days. Indeed, during the first 
 few minutes of Frank's adventure into the mall, he is confronted by the one fear that Resident 
 Evil has trained us for. Zombies.
  
  The graphics and art of the game, are stylistic to say the very least. Everything is either colorful 
 and vibrant, or dark and gloomy. The draw distance of course, though, is very far during the day, 
 but is limited at night when the lights go out. As you near the next few days in the mall, you'll 
 notice the zombie population spike up, and soon you won't be able to get to the food court without 
 becoming food yourself.
  
  The sound, of the zombies and everything else, is amazingly awesome to say the least. The music 
 though, a little bit on the low side. It gets a little dull without original game music to go with 
 the mood and atmosphere the game is trying to project. I guess the most music you get is from the 
 beginning when the zombies break in, and during boss fights. That's basically it.
  
  This game retails for $60 at conventional centers.
  I would suggest buying it off Ebay to save 
 yourself two or three dollars.
  
  Overall, this game is worthy to buy, but if you're not into repetitive gore fests and mindless 
 zombie killing sprees, this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great exclusive from Capcom for the X360. Nothing is better then shooting, slicing, 
 beating, smacking, blowing up, and running over zombies.
  
  Gameplay: There is no better zombie game then one in a mall. The mall adds great variety in the 
 weapons, since there are tons of stores. You can go outside, inside, or underneath the mall. This 
 gives good variety in the areas of play. There is a story in all of this zombie killing, and it 
 is great and immersive. As Frank, you need to find out who started this zombie outbreak and stop 
 it. It may not sound good, but it is very good and has some suprising plot twist. One negative 
 thing about the gameplay is the save system. One save for a gamerfile, which isn't that fun when 
 you have a save in overtime mode and want to go back to 72 hour mode without deleting your other 
 save.
  
  Graphics: In the cutsenes, the graphics are quite good. Out of cutsenes, the game is very well 
 detailed, but you feel like the 360 can do so much better. But remember all those zombies on screen, 
 and you don't have to worry about the graphics. They aren't that bad, but it isn't Oblivion or 
 Fight Night Round 3.
  
  Sound: This game has amazing sound. Every weapon has its own unique sound. There is nothing like 
 the sound of taking a battle axe through a zombies torso. The zombie sound in the background is 
 eerie, and so are the footsteps. You always find yourself turning the camera around because you 
 swore you heard a zombie running right behind you. There isn't alot of music, but each psycho has 
 there own unique song, and they are very good. This game has some of the best sound I've ever heard 
 in a game.
  
  Value: Dead Rising has some pretty good replay value for a singleplayer game. Whether your going 
 back to see an alternate ending, or going back for some more achievements, there will always be 
 a bit more to do. But in the end, this game has no multiplayer.
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review on Dead Rising. Now get back to gaming!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryking_Fyre
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game originally wasn't on my radar at all, I had heard some things about it, yet this survival/horror 
 game from Capcom didn't peak my interest at all. That changed immediately once I played the demo 
 on the Xbox Live Marketplace. I must've gone through the demo a good 20-30 times before I tired 
 myself out. Needless to say, I picked up the game from the very first day it was available, and 
 I wasn't disappointed at all.
  
  Starting with the graphics, obviously you'll see many better looking games than dead rising in 
 the 360's lifespan, but the art style and graphical detail and texture looks superb. The mall looks 
 clean and polished, weapons look realistic, textures on NPC's are some-what detailed. Considering 
 that you can have upwards of 200 zombies on the screen at once, the graphical detail is impressive 
 in DR. Of course, the in-game cut scenes look absolutely amazing.
  
  The one aspect of dead rising that really makes this game is the sound effects. Every weapon in 
 the game sounds like its real life counterpart, there is not one weapon in the 250+ that sounds 
 bad. The sounds of zombies moaning and moving around at night, to the calm and spooky music that 
 continually plays over the malls PA system, to the voice-overs of the supporting NPC cast... it's 
 all done brilliantly and will keep making you want to come back for more. It should be noted that 
 the 'Psychos' have the best voice-overs in the game. 
  
  The game play, people who think that this game is just a hack and slash inside of a mall really 
 need to try this out. Dead Rising is truly a free roam game, although in the main story mode you 
 only have 72 hours inside the mall. You can partake in the main story line on one play through, 
 and then in another play through you may just decide to save civilians and tourists, or maybe even 
 seek out those crazy psycho bosses. Its completely up to you. Players looking for a 'true' free-roam 
 can try out the infinite mode after you beat the main story and overtime mode. Can you survive 
 for 7 days while your health diminishes over time? 
  
  Rent or Buy this game? I'd really have to say it's a must-buy for anyone who owns a 360. There 
 is no multiplayer mode, but if you're an achievement freak this game will keep you hooked. There 
 is no way to get all 50 achievements in three or four play throughs, but going back through and 
 aiming for a specific achievement really adds a unique feel to the game. However, if you don't 
 care about even one single achievement, I'd have to say give her a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DancingJesus7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game comes around and changes the way we play forever. This is that game. 
 The game takes place in Willamount Colorado where you , Frank the journalist learns of a scoop 
 that crysis has spread throughout the town . When you get there, lo and behold ZOMBIES!. THe game 
 never takes itself too seriously and goes about in a campy bizzare way. Needless to say the story 
 is actually quite good and I found myself wanting to progress through the game just to find out 
 what happens. The setting takes place in a huge mall in the town and offers a ironic contrast being 
 that the mall is clean and everything perfect when infested ugly, dirty zombies are mucking about 
 in it. Though the gameplay is where it truly shines mounds of weapons can be used at your disposal 
 while exploring and making your way through zombies. Katana- Check , Chainsaw-check Shotgun -Check 
 , Lighsaber- Check , Bowling Ball? - check. The developers have really put a true amount of polish 
 into allowing different ways to destroy zombies and they are all fun and interesting. The game 
 also offers plenty of bosses known as pyschopaths that you will encounter on your journey to put 
 those weapons to use. Not giving to much away they are all hilariously demented (meniacal laughing 
 clown with chainsaws) . The other half of the gameplay consists of saving survivors throughout the 
 mall, these are presented to you in an optional manner but you will usually have time to complete 
 them in between story mission. One of the quirks in the game though that hampers it slighty is 
 the save system , no co-op and certain escort missions. These aren't enough to detract from the 
 overall enjoyment of the game. The audio in the game is crisp and clear and every weapon has a 
 distinct and great sound to it. The sound of zombies getting crushed by a lawn mower is paticularly 
 disturbing and perfectly executed. Music in the game is presented nicely as well, the cheery overly 
 happy escalator music in the background fits perfect while you are chomping zombies limbs in half. 
 Also each psychopath has their own theme which are mainly rock themed. The game offers tons of 
 replayablity and lends itself to multiple replays just so you can see what is all availble. Being 
 in a mall has never been this much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is truly a great game. It provides everything a good game should, and even some crazy 
 extras for plain fun. I haven't really had my blood flowing like this game made me in years. It's 
 like being a child all over again. It's just immense fun to grab practically anything off the floor 
 and attack zombies. That isn't the only asapect though, as their is a storyline and dialogue to 
 deal with. This brings in some of the problems. The story is fine, by all means, but the way you 
 have to uncover it is troublesome. This brings in the save system, which again degrades points 
 from the score. Dying, or failing to accomplish a certain storyline mission, rewards you with a 
 game over. Well, I guess it's realistic, but its highly frustrating. This is made up by the sheer 
 fun of the action and most of the general freelance missions. The weapons may lack depth, but the 
 amount of them adds the sheer excitement factor. The sounds used for each item are also painfully 
 realistic, causing you to wince when connecting a 2x4 with someone's head. The graphics give good 
 effect too, though some animations and clipping stop this from a perfect 10. Even with these problems, 
 Dead Rising just begs to be replayed. There are multiple endings to the game, one being true, and 
 the rest a way to achieveme gamer points (though they are valued all the same) , so the replay factor 
 is definitely embedded. I whole heartidly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys action, zombie 
 games, or pretty much games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrevelbull
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Now a LOT of people have whined on about certain aspects of this game but I really do think these 
 people have forgotten what a game should be... Challenging! And this game hits that nail right 
 on the head. You can save the game at any point you like but you only get one slot. Stopping you 
 from quick saving every 30 seconds and getting through the whole thing without actually getting 
 to be any good at it! The bosses are sometimes very, very tough but they're not impossible. If 
 you think about their patterns and their tactics and change the weapons and tactics you are using 
 accordingly you'll win! What's the point of having EASY boss levels?!? it defeats the object of 
 having them there! When it comes to the difficulty settings this game is just right.
  
  Besides all of that, what really matters has been overlooked by many. The story is great. There 
 is a real sense that the developers put thought into creating the characters and making you care 
 what happens to them. The storyline develops well, revealing little pieces of information in order 
 to make you really want to drive on and find the true reason behind the outbreak.
  
  This game is also pretty big and incredibly detailed. Almost everything in the stores can be eaten 
 or used as a weapon. The scenery is varied from the flourescent lit supermarket to the greenery 
 of the park to the claustrophobic confines of the still under construction North Plaza. The graphics 
 in the game are very colourful and give a good feel to the game and the amount of bodies on-screen 
 at any given time can be immense. And they don't just all spot you and come straight for you. The 
 amount of seperate reactions and the clever AI really makes you think "Have they spotted me yet?" 
 and really makes you feel like the huge crowds are actually made up of true individuals.
  
  What really makes this game great at the end of the day is that it is literally rammed with zombies 
 for you to destroy with as much force as possible (even if you are doing it with a fish or a can 
 of beans) . There have been very few games that can keep a smile on my face like this one has. Grade-A 
 top class gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beechyz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  I have had this game a week now and i've already put in around 15 hours of game play. IMO Gamespot 
 have been highly critical of games alately and this is one of the games that i believe is highly 
 underated I have started this game from the begging 6 times, thats not because of the save system 
 but because i have CHOSEN too! What im trying to say is that i think this game is ment to be played 
 over and over again and imho i don't think the save system is such a huge letdown. The gameplay 
 is fresh and fun and if like me your a fan of slapstick comedy this game will be right down your 
 ally. You can't just slaughter hords of zombies but you can humiliate them aswell! ive thrown pies 
 in their faces, covered them in paint ,put clothes hangers in their mouths, the list is endless. 
 This game is full of comedy moments and i would recommend it to anyone. a must for any 360 collection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Taking its inspiration from the original and contemporary Dawn of the Dead films, as well as from 
 Capcoms previous zombie-themed games, Dead Rising arrives on the Xbox 360 as a unique and action-packed 
 experience that makes surviving in a mall for 72 hours quite enjoyable. Dead Rising has taken a 
 good while for the people of Capcom to bring to fruition, but the game has made many strides from 
 when it was first seen at E3 2005. While certain issues with the saving system and game structure 
 will almost certainly make players grit their teeth, the delicious zombie carnage and effective 
 storytelling more than carry the experience above many contemporary action titles.
  
  The backdrop for the game has photojournalist Frank West investigating some strange behaviour in 
 the town of Willamette, Colorado. As a freelancer, Frank has to locate work on an ad hoc basis, 
 and the strange happenings in Willamette perk his interest. Hiring a helicopter pilot, Frank flies 
 over the city, snapping pictures of the madness that appears to be taking place. From up in the 
 sky, the scenes play out like riots, with various town members attacking others, gas stations exploding, 
 and vehicular passengers being pinned down. While flying over the towns central mall (and its 
 only distinguishing characteristic) , Frank and the pilot are spotted by a military chopper and 
 ordered to land. Frank quickly instructs the pilot to come back for him in 72 hours and then makes 
 a daring leap to the helipad on top of the mall.
  
  From this point, the game proper commences, and Frank is left to explore the shopping malls mysteries. 
 From the beginning, Frank meets up with some interesting characters, including a couple of government 
 agents, a mall security guard, and a mysterious Hispanic boy-girl duo who seem to know more about 
 the ghouls roaming the streets than they let on. Frank constantly stays in contact with these various 
 survivors and operates out of a high-level security office in the mall. From this location, Frank 
 can access an elevator down to the ground or use the air ducts to sneak in from up high.
  
  Suffice it to say, once in the mall, Frank discovers that it is packed with hundreds of the walking 
 undead, and theyre definitely ready to chow down. Of course, these arent your Resident Evil-style 
 zombies that travel in small groups of 2 or 3 and lumber towards you; these Dead Rising zombies 
 are slightly more aggressive (in particular at night time) and they are commonly clumped together 
 with dozens of other zombies, and even hundreds of others, in certain instances. In a way, this 
 allows Dead Rising to use zombies in a way that has never really been done before (chiefly due 
 to technical limitations on older consoles) , and they serve as more of a roadblock than an actual 
 physical threat. This being said, the zombies are quite good at giving you several bites if you 
 get too close to them, and theyll even knock you down in some instances (watch out for the female 
 zombies that try and bite Franks nether regions, yikes!) . Certain sequences can even get downright 
 desperate, as youll be trying to complete an objective, yet youll be swarmed by dozens of angry, 
 brain-munching baddies.
  
  What truly distinguishes Dead Rising from other zombie games is the way in which you can use the 
 malls items to dispose of the zombie mobs. Once again, the zombies are often more of an obstacle 
 than a threat, but youll no doubt have countless fun dispatching them with various items. Want 
 to go to the sporting goods store and use a baseball to put them to the ground? Can do. How about 
 shooting golf balls at them from afar? Great fun. Then again, the hardware store has all sorts 
 of fun stuff, whether it is the copious supply of chainsaws, paint buckets, 2x4s and even an excavating 
 drill that impales one zombie and then spins around the poor ghoul, knocking other foes out of 
 the way in the process  just messy fun. Of course, malls have more than just hardware stores and 
 sporting goods departments. Things can get pretty wacky in Dead Rising, as you can start throwing 
 CDs at zombies, hit them with giant toy bears, put coat hangers in their mouths, and hit them in 
 the face with a cream pie from the food court. On top of these countless absurd weapons, there 
 are additional items that would be found in any mall that can be used against the undead, including 
 benches, potted plants, trashcans, and cash registers.
  
  Whats really great about the weapons is that they truly interact with the zombies in different 
 ways, much like the elementals of Kameo affecting the trolls in various fashions. A lot of this 
 credit has to be given to the sound design, as each item and weapon throughout the mall truly sounds 
 different, and youll get satisfaction from the sawing of sinew and flesh when using a lawnmower 
 on the opposition or when using a heated frying pan to melt a zombies face off. Not only do the 
 items sound great, but they also react appropriately when used. Its great to see a bench fly through 
 about eight zombies and then keep bouncing along the ground until it falls on its side, and its 
 also very cool to use something like a sledgehammer that puts zombies down with frightening immediacy.
 
  
  There are many other items in the mall as well, including copious amounts of clothes that allow 
 Frank to change his appearance, and some useful books that augment his skills. The clothes come 
 in all varieties; these include fedora hats, running shoes, t-shirts, slacks, short shorts, business 
 suits, goofy hats and childrens apparel. All of these clothes add to the absurdness and humor 
 of the experience, especially when you find yourself killing zombies while wearing a toy mask paired 
 with a nice cream-colored suit. Of course, the shoe can be on the other foot and Frank can put 
 some goofy masks and such on the zombies  great fun. The books add to Franks skill set and will 
 allow him to get more out of certain items he finds in the mall. A health book, for example, will 
 double the amount of healing power food items provide, and these can be anything from orange juice 
 to potato chips. Another book actually makes bladed weapons three times as durable, and this is 
 important seeing as all items will break at some point. The fact that weapons break is a good little 
 game device, especially since it encourages you to try new things  although its hard to believe 
 people wouldnt just experiment on their own.
  
  As said, though, the zombies are more of an obstacle; the true meat of the games narrative comes 
 from rescuing hostages, defeating resident mall psychos, and uncovering the various facts and leads 
 that will guide Frank to the truth. Dead Rising juggles all of these elements in sort of an odd 
 way, but its a style that some will get used to quicker than others. Essentially, each day of 
 the 72 (three days) hours has several moments in which Frank will have to be in one place to get 
 a story-specific mission. In between these times is when Frank has to rescue some hostages and 
 kill some random psychos  these are called scoop missions. Since an in-game hour takes about 
 12 minutes, Frank doesnt always have a lot of time to screw around, but hell certainly be able 
 to have some fun in specific stretches. Getting to the story missions wouldnt have been such a 
 big deal if Dead Risings save system wasnt so bizarre. Essentially, you only get one save per 
 profile on one device, meaning unless you have a memory card, youll only get one save slot. On 
 top of this, save locations are somewhat sporadic (security office, bathrooms) . Then again, the 
 save system is also really at the mercy of the of the odd level advance and story systems. Frank 
 is constantly levelling up as he goes though the game, but if you happen to save in one of these 
 compromising spots and cant make it to the next story mission, the game forces you to restart 
 the story completely. This is pretty lame, especially since its not really that necessary seeing 
 as people would naturally want to replay a game like this, anyway. It seems possible that the developers 
 painted themselves into a corner and needed this strange and punishing system to ensure people 
 were strong enough to proceed, but it still isnt that great of an idea, regardless. Either way, 
 the game can be quite difficult early on, and only when Frank gets new skills and attributes does 
 the action become more manageable.
  
  When levelling up, Frank will be given either a new attribute (speed, strength, throw distance, 
 stock, health) or a new fighting skill. The attributes progress naturally and gradually allow Frank 
 to handle himself better against the bigger hordes, but the skills he learns are actually much 
 more practical and hands on. Some moves will be pretty basic, enabling Frank to push zombies 
 away when grabbed or walk on top of the shoulders of a big group of zombies, but the advanced moves 
 get a whole lot crazier. Building from Franks (presumably) past life as a wrestler, Dead Rising 
 enables you to airplane spin, suplex, throw, and bulldog zombies. You even get some crazier moves 
 later on, including one that allows you to completely disembowel your zombie enemies for an instant 
 kill  pretty wild.
  
  When youre not using these moves on zombies, youll likely be squaring off against the games 
 colourful boss characters, known as psychopaths. These sequences are memorable for two reasons: 
 1) for how the characters are voiced and presented, and 2) for how the battles themselves play 
 out. On your travels through the mall, youll encounter a killer clown, a machete-wielding Vietnam 
 veteran, a biblical cult leader, and a demented butcher, just to name a few. The AI of these bosses 
 isnt always the greatest, but the characters are so interesting and their attacks so bizarre and 
 cool that its easy to get into them. Some of these foes are quite hard if you are at a low level 
 or not prepared (appropriate equipment and food) , so youll have to be mindful of when you take 
 certain missions. Boss battles can be a great addition to a game, and Dead Rising is just such 
 an example of this.
  
  The other scoop missions come in the form of escorting survivors back to the security office. Just 
 like the psycho missions, youll be radioed these stranded individuals locations through a walkie-talkie 
 by a guy named Otis, a (now former) mall security guard. As a small aside, the game doesnt time 
 these alerts very well, and youll often be getting a call from Otis during a boss fight or youll 
 run through a loading screen and hell come right back and say, Hey, dont cut me off and then 
 proceed to recite the whole location again  not cool. Regardless, the escort missions can be fairly 
 entertaining, especially since youll often have quite a few people following you at once (this 
 is made more so by the random people youll find who arent radioed in by Otis) . Youll usually 
 have to convince people to come with you in some way, but the solution is never usually that far 
 out of reach. The AI of the survivors can be somewhat maddening sometimes, especially since youll 
 be summoning them towards you and theyll be stuck in a wall or not moving (and likely getting 
 chomped by a zombie, too) . Some of the variance in how they behave is intentional, though, and 
 youll have to hold the hands of the timid, carry the injured, and slap around the weak-minded 
 wimps. Arming your survivors is usually a good idea, especially since their weapons dont break 
 and they can hold their own much better while holding a handgun, baseball bat or lead pipe. Some 
 of these escorting sequences even play out quite dynamically, as youll have a group of people 
 following you, but one may fall behind and be killed. This cues up an in-game cutscene of the zombies 
 overtaking the survivor and shows the human being killed in some gruesome manner, sometimes with 
 them even turning into a zombie in the process. Frank has a notebook for holding photos of all 
 of these survivors, and their status is updated (dead, undead, alive, found, etc.) as you play 
 through the game.
  
  An additional activity within the game is photography. Since Frank is a photojournalist by trade, 
 he can take many photos of the malls locations and inhabitants. By doing this, Frank gains Prestige 
 Points (PP) that help with building up his character level, and they can also unlock certain achievements. 
 The photos are classified in various categories including drama, action, brutality, and erotic. 
 The goal is to usually get a lot of subjects on the screen at once or to have something very close 
 to you (say, like a zombie) , and to also have some action going on (explosion, survivors fighting 
 or hugging, etc.) . This camera system certainly adds a cool wrinkle to the gameplay, but it is 
 mainly optional for the main storyline progression.
  
  A lot of the credit for Dead Risings entertaining fun has to be given to the presentation and 
 sound design. The quality of the sound effects was mentioned earlier, but the music and voice acting 
 is also quite good. The score provides some memorable and moody pieces, especially the opening 
 music in the helicopter and the music that plays during key story points  it has a sort of John 
 Carpenter vibe. The ending credits music is actually decent, too, in a sort of cheesy, pop-rock 
 way. The voice acting is uniformly good, and the actors play the in-game characters with just the 
 right balance of campy humor and over the top scenery chewing to help make a player smile from 
 ear-to-ear. The only notable star is Devon Sawa, who plays Frank West, and some might remember 
 him from the movie Idle Hands. He delivers the lines for West in such a cocky and self-assured 
 way that you cant help but like the guy by the end.
  
  Visually, everything in the game comes together quite well. Dead Rising has taken big strides since 
 E3 2005, and the biggest beneficiaries have probably been the player model of Frank West  which 
 has some great facial detail and clothing textures  and the zombies that you will face. The zombies 
 arent amazing models by any stretch, but the amount of variation between them and the fact that 
 they all animate well and move independently is quite a sight. In fact, seeing one fall down some 
 stairs chasing after you and then knock over some of his buddies is really damn cool. The zombies 
 dont even use ragdoll physics, but rather a much more rigid physics engine that actually fits 
 the zombies stilted movements perfectly. The mall is quite vast in scope and the recent Marketplace 
 demo only shows about a sixth of the malls actual size. The sheer number of shops and locations 
 in the mall is great, and the fact that so many items can be used (there are some that can be seen 
 but not used) is most excellent. That being said, there is a tad bit of slowdown in certain sequences, 
 and the lip-synching  while good  isnt quite right. The loading times in particular seem a bit 
 excessive, but you will get used to them. Really, it just seems that by this day and age, with 
 a hard drive, load times shouldnt be this often. Its more the amount of them rather than the 
 duration, but again, theyre tolerable.
  
  The main portion of Dead Rising  the 72-hour mode  will last most players in the neighbourhood 
 of 15 hours. You will almost certainly not get all of the bosses, scoops, or achievements the first 
 time through, so this definitely increases the likelihood of a second or third playing. The achievements 
 are actually quite creative, and youll be rewarded for killing various amounts of zombies (theres 
 even one for killing the exact population of the town) , putting masks on zombies heads, stealing 
 a vehicle from some pesky convicts, killing psychopaths and photographing various people and places. 
 There are a quite a few achievements so youll definitely have to work hard in order to get them 
 all.
  
  The game actually features two additional modes, both of which add substantial value to the game. 
 The first one is called the Overtime mode, and it allows Frank to get into the story a bit more 
 for an additional 24 hours. Since this mode ties heavily into the story, youll have to find out 
 yourself what it entails, but suffice it to say, theres a good deal of action and new story revelations. 
 One does get the feeling that this mode might have just been broken off from the existing story 
 to add value, but it does suit its status as a stand-alone mode so thats good. The other mode 
 is the Infinity mode and this allows Frank to survive in the mall for as long as possible. In 
 this scenario, bosses randomly spawn around the mall and no story points are to be had, but youll 
 be losing health at a reasonable clip. Youll have to stockpile food and weapons to survive, and 
 the food in question does not respawn. The longer you survive, the higher your score will be, and 
 this will go onto the Xbox Live leaderboards. The only catch is that this mode might tax some peoples 
 360; its hard to want to leave your system on for ten hours when you cant save in this mode.
 
  
  On the whole, theres a lot to like about Dead Rising. It provides a great zombie game that doesnt 
 rely on the usual scenarios of scares and dread. There are definitely some creepy moments in the 
 story and some crazy bosses, but the game manages to effectively use humor, original combat, and 
 absurd situations to create a unique experience that is exclusive to the Xbox 360. The extra modes 
 provide some additional value, and the entire package should please those whove been waiting for 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Well i've been waitin for this game for quite some time, since 1st videos appeared and the demo 
 was released on the marketplace and must say i'm slightly dissapointed.
  The gameplay is great. You gotta love the "pick anything up and use it as a weapon" feel to the 
 game. The thing that mainly lets this game down for me is the time based idea. It seemed a good 
 idea at 1st but when i missed the 6AM case file and the whole story of the game was covered up 
 and uncoverable. Really cheesed me off.
  Another thing to note is the save game option. There seems to be a lack of areas to save your game 
 (a simple save option in the menu would of been handy) and there is only 1 save slot so you cant 
 really have too much fun (due to the time limits)
  The game is actually quite difficult with all the pshycopaths roamin about and the thousands of 
 zombies on top of that and once you die you have to restart from a save point (which always seem 
 out the way or a lack of!)
  On a brighter note, the numerous shopping malls offer plenty of items to play with to dispose of 
 your undead foes. Anything can be used against them and make some comical moments worthy of a space 
 on Frank's camera.
  All in all a game worth playing, but i'd recommend a rent before cleaning out your wallets with 
 this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is one awesome game. The only downfall is if you dont have an HDTV the game sucks. You 
 have to squint or sit 2 inches in front of the tv to read the text of the game. I had to squint 
 to barely read it and it was still fuzzy but then when I got my HDTV I could read it crystal clear 
 from 10 feet away. So this game is a lot better with an HDTV. The game is a pain in the butt since 
 you have to try and rescue people because they are all stupid and end up dying cuz they suck at 
 fighting. So the escort missions suck and make me mad. I just want to play the game to unlock the 
 infinite mode where you can play until you die without any stupid missions. Just so I can run around 
 and kill zombies the way it should be!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazlor
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Well ive been playing it for a good 5 hours now and heres my review
  
  Graphics: Impressive considering the amount of characters on screen. However it doesnt like some 
 resolutions via the VGA cable. FPS is constant with no slowdown so far Gameplay: Ugh... A sore point 
 and im surprised this didnt get fixed during testing is the save system. While its fun to kill 
 zombies with the varying weapons the escorting missions are the bane of this game. One save. Ive 
 just gone and done 2 hours of the mission only to end up dead. Guess what. You have to completey 
 restart from 2 hours ago. This is NOT fun at all. If this wasnt so, or saves could be on seperate 
 slots at least it wouldnt be half as bad. However it can get extremely tedious restarting and doing 
 the same crap every couple of hours.
  
  Sound: Some nice sounds from weapons and squelching of blood is awesome. Im extremely disappointed 
 with the fact that dialogue is very short and half of it isnt even spoken!. It just comes up FFVII 
 style in a dialogue box. Its Next gen and they couldnt do this? Also the Music is kinda weird but 
 fresh. However this soon gets repetitive.
  
  Value: Depends where you buy it. I got it from Tesco's for 40 and to be honest im doubting the 
 value because of its shortness and restrictive gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of those games that is just so unique (for a video game at least) that no matter 
 how crappy the game is you can still find some reason to play it. Luckily Capcom has not made one 
 of those games. It has made a good game all around.
  
  The game consists of many missions associated with rescuing survivors and killing psychopaths. 
 All while trying to avoid an endless supply of zombies throughout the mall. Many of these missions 
 are optional and in your first playthrough you will learn this very fast. The game has its own 
 time limit for completing things, so completing every mission is real challenge. The majority of 
 people will not do this for at least 3 playthroughs. Luckily you can save your stats all through 
 the game. However, what makes all of this more difficult is that there is only one save slot. So 
 if you screw up and accidentally save then it's all over. One of the most impressive parts about 
 the game is the large amount of objects lying around the mall that you can use as weapons. Pretty 
 much everything you can think of is sitting somewhere. Your character also has his own set of moves 
 to combat his enemies. Many of which are just plain awesome (Level 50 skill is very interesting...) . 
 It's just too bad that the controls for these moves are so similar that it becomes difficult to 
 pull off the correct stuff. Another annoying problem is that the people you rescue are pretty stupid. 
 They run into things and get themselves into trouble all the time. That coupled with the unforgiving 
 save system causes a lot of pain.
  
  What really impressed me about Dead Rising were its visuals. Though the graphics are very nice 
 that is not what I mean. It's the design of everything that is most impressive. It's hard to think 
 that this is a Japanese game. Everything in the mall is just so North American. Every item and 
 location has a very familiar look to it. It's amazing how few games out there are actually this 
 detailed and take place in a modern everyday location. It would be nice to see more games like 
 this.
  
  Even more impressive is the soundtrack. While the music is a little out of place (yet still catchy) 
 the sound effects are perfect. From the footsteps to a blender to the sound of a zombie getting 
 his head ripped off. Everything is so clear and often brutal. It's always nice to see a game pay 
 so much attention to sound design.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a great game for someone looking for something completely new. With the 
 way the game systems are set up it makes for a game that is not too short and not too long. It 
 has a few problems, but overall the more you play the more you can overcome them.
  
  PROS
  + Gameplay made for multiple playthroughs
  + So many weapons!
  + Viscious sound effects
 
  + Great sense of humor
  + Zombies In A Mall!!!
  
  CONS
  - One save slot?
  - Story sort of dies at the end
  - Stupid A. I
  - Controls for skills are complicated
  - It's 
 pretty much the same thing over and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adragon_hart
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Any fan of the cult zombie classics should definately pick this game up. I enjoyed the sense of 
 urgancey that the game created as you went through the 72 hour mode, however the dfficulty went 
 up so much as I went into Overtime-mode I quickly became frustraded. The sheer number of zombies 
 on the screen is a great dynamic, the "Madmen" that are also in the mall however could have been 
 replaced with something a little more story oriented, and the fact that the goons in the Humvee 
 respawn at the most inopportune times was a serious flaw. The graphics has an almost comic book 
 feel to them and made the game a visual treat for me without being too over the top. Though to 
 AI of some of the survivors coud have been tweaked so that instead of stopping to whack/shoot the 
 zombies behind them and get overwhelmed in the process they could have just run by like I did, 
 or give it a multi-player aspect would have been nice. Overall I enjoy the game and won't be trading 
 in anytime soon, besides, I still have to finish the Overtime-mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon727
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most action packed game i ever see i wish i had but if you buy this game you 
 chose wisely. great job. This game is not to hard or not to easy it's just perfect have never seen 
 anything like it. capcom makes the best graphics they are my favorite their true passion is making 
 zombie horror games. I hope they never stop making their games. Their games have some of everything 
 action, adventure, intense violence, blood and gore, language, and some time even in use of tobacco 
 alcohol and maybe drugs. But i still think it is very cool. I bet no one else can make a game like 
 this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  My first gaming experiance with the 360 has not disappointed so far. The graphics are darn good 
 and the game play is a blast. My only complaint is it looks to me that they spent a bit too much 
 time on the cut sense and not enough time on animating the mall. There are some areas that should 
 bust up if hit with baseball bats, etc that the bat just ghost through. However, I'm having a ton 
 of fun with this game. Overall:
  
  VERY good graphics
  Great voice acting
  hot chick characters
  mysterious story
  and thousands and thousands of zombies to beat the 
 crap out of (including old, chubby ladies) .
  
  So far, the 360 has not disappointed - one game down, 500 to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic85044
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is, in my opinion, a great, fun game, and being able to just go and kill zombies if 
 you wnt to, I don't think it could get any better than that. If you're playing this game on a SDTV 
 (like I did) than it rally has some visual flaws, because this game was really made for HDTVs, 
 and it definetly shows, but it is still a great game either way.
  
  The main part that everyone focuses on when they look at this game is that they can kill ombies 
 like crazy with a large variety of weapons (over 100 in fact) but there is actually a very decent 
 story behind this whole thing. And based on what you do or don't do, you will get different endings 
 to the story.
  
  The game has controls that are quite easy to learn and you will definetly catch onto them after 
 just a few minutes of gameplay (about ten for me) . But the buttons that you will be using most 
 often are X (attacking) , B (for different cmmands, i. e. picking up items, opening doors, talkng, 
 etc.) , Y (used to have your survivors follow you) , A (jumping, duh!) , and LT (look mode which makes 
 it much easier to hit something with a gun) . There's also other things that other controls do, 
 like you can press left on he D-pad to check Frank's (the main character's) watch.
  
  The things that were most frustrating about this game to me, and probably to lots of other people, 
 were 1) the survivors in this game are mind-numbbingly stupid (you hve to either set a guide point 
 or continuously tell them to follow to make them follow you) 2) the save system is annoying at 
 times, because you can only have one saved game, of any mode, per profile. Also, the fact that 
 there are only a few place to save in the whole mall is sometimes irritating, but if you go with 
 the main storyline (CASES) you will be stopping by the Security Room a lot, and there happens to 
 be a save point there. But having a save-wherever-you-please save system would not make the game 
 dfficult. And 3) Otis the janitor and his stupid tranceiver, it gets so annoying, mainly because 
 yo can't be doing anything, or do anything, when you pick up the trancever, or are talking on it, 
 and if you cut him off, he calls you back saying how rude it was that you did and you have to listen 
 to his message all over again.
  
  Dead Rising has many different things that you can do and many side-quests (SCOOPS) that you can 
 perform. The game also has decent bosses (PSYCOPATHS) some of which are more difficult (sch as 
 Adam, a psycopathic chainsaw-juggling clown, or Isabela, a woman who tries to run you down with 
 her motorcycle) and some simpler ones (like Jo, a fat female cop who has taking some girls hostage, 
 or Cletus, a mad hillbilly who has taken control of a gun shop) .
  
  Those who are lookng for a place in this game to just kill zombies, I would recommend the normal 
 72 HOUR MODE, and just kil zombies instead of doing the CASES. The reason for this is that the 
 games INFINITY MODE has your health constantly going down, little by little, and fighting zombies 
 and being bitten up like crazy won't help when you're trying to survive. Also, the 72 HOUR MODE 
 has unlimited food, while INFINITY does not.
  
  But as I said before, this is an astounding game nd I would recommend t to anyone who enjoys a 
 good zombie game, or games that are set in malls, if that's more of your style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Capcom have created the ultimate zombie game. It makes so much sense; obviously zombies are scary 
 and well suited to a survival horror genre set in a creepy mansion (eg Resident Evil) . But I truly 
 believe this is how zombie games should be! Slow moving undead freaks and one living guy with a 
 whole host of weapons and items to use in order to survive. Setting? A shopping mall. Perfect. 
 The action is crazy and the presentation is impressive; hundreds of zombies crowd the screen with 
 no lag in sight. The text on the screen is very nearly the worst thing in the game, you can't even 
 read it unless you have good eyesight or an HDTV. Nonetheless, the visuals are sweet, vibrant and 
 gory, perfectly suited to this game. Another impressive technical feature is the sound effects 
 which are so brilliantly authentic, it makes the whole experience more visceral. Gun shots, blood 
 spurting, chainsaws, cars, broken glass, explosions, screams; it's all very impressive. In terms 
 of gameplay, the game is somewhat of a hit and miss. The controls are simple and intuitive and 
 slaying hundreds of zombies is great fun. Most weapons have two functions and using them is easy. 
 Combat is excellent with a wide range of moves to pull off. The mechanics of the game are not so 
 hot however. With only one save slot and limited places to save progress, things can get highly 
 frustrating. I remember doing several missions in a row, forgetting to save and dying. I had a 
 choice to either load that save and so do everything again, or start the game from the beginning 
 with all my current stats intact. At first this may seem an odd choice but after a while you start 
 to see the beauty of it. After a long while I mean; once you've gotten used to the save system. 
 The most annoying aspect of the game, and one that severly limits its potential, is the real-time 
 element. The game is basically set over a period of three days in which the player is free to do 
 whatever they wish. If however, you want to complete the main story and so see the ending etc, 
 you will need to keep to a strict time limit on everything you do. For example, I had to get medicine 
 for this guy and that meant killing a deranged shopkeeper to get the key to the pharmacy. I had 
 not come prepared with decent weapons, nor had I saved the game recently. I eventually beat the 
 psychopath but it had taken so long that all future "cases" (missions) had become forfeit and automatically 
 failed because I was too late to start the next mission. I knew that at my last save point, I still 
 wouldn't have time to do it again, so I continued the game anyway, keeping my stats. At the time 
 of writing this review I'm on the last day with a few hours to go until the rescue helicopter arrives. 
 I can't do the story anymore because of time failure so I'm just doing side quests (or "scoops") 
 in the meantime; trying to rescue as many survivors and get as many achievments as possible. The 
 only good thing about this is that I can start the game again with my powered up character and 
 retain all the moves I acquired the first time I played through the game. Overall, the game is 
 a enormous fun and almost perfect except for the frustrating faults it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that treads into familiar territory but doesnt disappoint. You play Frank 
 West, a freelance photojournalist trying to uncover a story in the town of Willamette, Colorado. 
 Your helicopter pilot brings you to the Willamette mall and is going to pick you back up 72 hours 
 later. Your job as a photojournalist is to uncover the story behind the zombie outbreak and along 
 the way help survivors escape the mall, defeat dangerous psychopaths, take plenty of pictures, 
 discover the dark secrets of what really happened, and return to the heliport all in 72 hours.
 
  
  The game has plenty of strong points and very few shortcomings, the biggest shortcoming is the 
 save system. The save system only allows you one save slot, so you cant go to a previous save 
 if you find out your latest save prevents you from uncovering the whole story. The upside to the 
 save system is that your status and level are maintained regardless of what happens. You could 
 be level 28 at the last part of the game and save, and then start the game over from the beginning 
 and still be at level 28, which actually makes the game more fun. When you die the save and load 
 menu is confusing, the first option is to load from your last save which is pretty self-explanatory, 
 but the other option is to save and quit, which doesnt mean save your progress through the story 
 and then quit to play later. It means save your status and level then start the game over from 
 the beginning. But chances are that youll only make that mistake once.
  
  Dead Rising is a wonderful game with beautiful graphics (easily one of the best looking Xbox 360 
 games to date) , awesome story, fast paced action, tons of zombies, and endless hours of replay 
 value which makes this game easily recommendable to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sh1nka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game has had me hooked since it was announced, I bought a 360 purely to play this and Oblivion.
 
  
  So I was a little dissapointed when I played this. It's a good game! but it has some very stupid 
 flaws that make you think they were forgotten about until the last minute.
  
  One of the most Annoying Flaws is the save system. If you have just survived one of the (sometimes 
 ridiculously hard) boss fights (another flaw due to lack of ability to hide behind things well) 
 you could still easily get mashed to crap on the way to the save point if your weapons break. Another 
 Flaw is the lack of ability frank has to use traditional weapons well, for example he can very 
 easily kill a room full of zombies with nothing more than a chair, but when it comes to hiding 
 behind an object to avoid being shot... well... it's obviously to much of a challenge for him as 
 the only real protection you are offered from that **** with a shotgun is a pillar or other item 
 that is taller than frank. (sometimes this can mean you have nothing to hide behind at all!) Another 
 Flaw is the stupidly hard difficulty level on the bosses. Now, I like a challenge, but when I shoot 
 a man in the head with a pistol over 13 times... it's about time he was hitting the floor, but 
 when he shoots me 3 times (on any point of my body! and occasionally through a wall!) and I die, 
 it can get a bit much. This however can be fixed..... by starting the entire game again with the 
 same level you had and working through it again. Now, this shouldn't be... I should be able to 
 level up enough in the time it takes me to get from one boss to another to fight them well... not 
 have to start the entire game again.... for the 5th time because this boss can shoot off 2 of my 
 6 life blocks at a time  _ 
  
  But, having said all of that, and moaned to my hearts content.... I still stick by the view that 
 dead rising is a great game. The violence, the weapons, the sheer number of zombies and the story 
 make this game worth playing over and over ( haha!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Thousands of zombies to brutally slaughter (53,594 to be exact)
  Hundreds of weapons, items and food within Wilimette Park View Mall
  Lot's of hidden extras
 
  Brutal sound effects
  
  Cons:
  Save system is horrific (especially when it comes to the mission here you must retrieve the bombs 
 from the maintenence tunnels)
  Frame rate suffers slightly
  
  Bad Glitch Areas:
  none so far
  
  Overview:
  This being one of the earliest thought 360 titles, it never fails 
 to impress, with SWARM technology, superb sound, thrilling atmosphere and fun mortuary destruction, 
 this huge act of necrocide can last for ever, even though you can blaze through the game in 3 hours, 
 its huge environment and replay value refraine you from stopping the carnage.
  One of the only major flaws is the horrific save system, scarce saveareas and only one save block, 
 you can really only have one game going on at once. But despite that, this game is instantly replayable 
 and offers great fun for months to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss7460
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Wow... the thing that I totally LOVE about this game is that you don't even have to follow the story. 
 You can go around killing zombies and being silly the whole time if you like. The story was very 
 interesting and the psychopaths were really hard! (especially the Vietnam soldier) There are endless 
 possibilities with the weapons in this game. I don't even know if I found all of the weapons, but 
 my favorites were the SMG, the sword, and the chainsaw.. A few of the downsides were that there 
 weren't enough save points, so I would die and have to play about a half hour of stuff I already 
 did. Also, rescuing civilians wore out after a while, their intelegence was very low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CKYHellview96
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have to say, THANK YOU CAPCOM!! Finally a game is released where you can beat the 
 hell out of thousands and thousands of zombies with anything that isn't nailed down! Dead Rising 
 is a truly fantastic game, yet of course with any game it has it's flaws...
  
  Gameplay:
  As simple as you can get, just grab yourself a weapon, and beat the crap out of anything that moves! 
 There's a huge variety of weapons, from guns and knives to huge parasols and benches to guitars 
 and even Megaman's arm cannon! Weapons of course break after a while and you have limited inventory 
 space, but you can level up and increase the space along with a few other stats by getting Prestige 
 Points (PP) . There are many ways you can do this, ranging from killing 50 zombies (500PP per 50 
 zombies killed) to escorting survivors to the security room to taking photos of the hordes of undead.
 
  Some of the weapons are truly hilarious (soccer balls anyone?) and some are just plain satisfying 
 (lawnmowers!) , though there could have been a few more that are actually shown in the mall but 
 you can't use (the kitchen sink for one!) , but hey it's a start.
  There's only one real problem with the gameplay and that's the save system - you only get one save 
 and if you don't get to a certain place at a certain time (if you can be bothered with the cases, 
 which aren't 100% necessary) you'll have to load an earlier save. If you save at a point where 
 you can''t reach the next case in time you'll have to start over! Luckily you can save your attributes 
 to make things easier but still, it's frustrating. Also the survivors can be pretty stupid but 
 at least they aren't necessary to finish the game.
  
  Graphics:
  Not the best graphics I've seen, yet the fact that there are literally hundreds of zombies on screen 
 at once makes it pretty impressive. Blood stains your clothes too, which is a nice effect. Lots 
 of blood in this game, so this definitely isn't for kids.
  
  Sound:
  Some decent music every now and then, but not much. The sounds of the weapons are all fantastic 
 and the voice acting is great, but the zombies' groans get repetitive.
  
  Value (WARNING: SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD) :
  
  The main game (72 hour mode) will last around 6-8 
 hours (including some relatively short load times and cutscenes) , but if you finish all the cases 
 and get back to the helipad when you're supposed to, you go into overtime mode which is essentially 
 another game day (an hour lasts 5 real minutes) so you'll get another hour or 2 out of that. If 
 you manage to finish overtime mode you unlock infinite mode where you go around killing everything 
 that moves without having to worry about missions and such. Your health slowly depletes in this 
 mode so you can't last forever, yet because you can't save this is a good thing as you'll be playing 
 non stop.
  
  (END SPOILERS)
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is a fantastic effort by Capcom, and I hope for a sequel or two in the near 
 future. Worth every penny and great fun. Will last you forever if you love zombie killing as much 
 as I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1J0241
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  This game is basically just a blood fest of killing. Not the game for people who are not into non 
 stop killing. But that is not just what this game is about there is something going on that you 
 must figure out. By taking pictures and helping people and finishing the game. This game consists 
 of boss battles that can be difficult some would say ridiculously hard i would say just right. 
 Unfortunately it is not the demo as it seems there is a crucial time limit and things to do before 
 the end. Buy it if you want but find a way to see the real game not the demo to see if you want 
 it. I was not disappointed because this game was like made for me it is exactly what i have been 
 looking for in a zombie. It puts a new and well needed zombie game not just sequels to old games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeleNel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  Dawn of the Dead, oops... I mean, Dead Rising, is a great gaming idea that should have come along 
 sooner. With all the hack and slash games out, it's finally about time that someone got the zombies 
 involved with it. Trapped in quite a large mall, you get to kill tons of zombies and save others 
 all the while figuring out the truth. A decent storyline, it gives the conspiracy theorist something 
 else to yell about.
  
  Gameplay is great, any and everything is a weapon (my personal favorite is the shower head) . And 
 with enough different things to use in the mall, it keeps you guessing as to how different things 
 will be used.
  
  Dead Rising is one of the best games of the year IMO. With a surprisingly high replay value and 
 multiple endings, it makes for a great shopping day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Imagine this: you're an up-and-coming freelance photographer that's found an interesting lead that 
 could be the key to skyrocketing career. It's got its dangers, but you're willing to do what it 
 takes to get the story of the year - what you don't realize is that you'll be doing so in, well, 
 a shopping mall. Oh, and by dangers, expect nothing less than thousands of blood-thirsty zombies 
 trying to keep you from leaving the mall alive...
  
  Put this unique idea together with Capcom - a company that is known for its zombie horror games 
 - and a truly unique title for the Xbox 360 is born. Dead Rising takes the fairly bland "beat-em-up" 
 genre of games and adds several new twists to it to come out with a fun, yet frustrating, zombie 
 killing mayhem.
  
  The game premise is simple: you have three days in a shopping mall to gather as much information 
 and photographs of the zombie infestation as possible. Along the way, you'll meet other characters 
 that are also trying to stop the infestation as well as hostages that need rescuing. Survive the 
 thousands of zombies by picking up anything and everything to be used against them, and you'll 
 make it to the end of the 72 hours. Most items in the various stores of this large and diverse 
 mall can be used in some way, whether it be to attack your enemies or restore your health, and 
 you'll need to utilize all of them in order to survive the game.
  
  Of course, there's a good chance you won't be surviving the game the first time through. Due to 
 a slightly flawed saving system that can put you in impossible mission situations, the game will 
 most likely need to be restarted a few times before it can be completed. To make up for this, though, 
 Capcom lets you keep your character's statistics and level at the current state, instead of truly 
 restarting the game each time. After building up a strong character, flying through the game will 
 be a much easier, and more appealing process.
  
  Graphically, Dead Rising is gorgeous. The character models are amazing - truly enhanced when being 
 played on a high-definition receiver - right down to the skin textures and facial expressions of 
 each person. The stores in the brightly colored mall are quite diverse, and each reflects it as 
 so. And, while you'll have to load the various sections of the mall you're in to compensate for 
 this, its generally worth it once you realize the fine attention to detail that Capcom put into 
 each and every shop. Most notably, though, are the zombies - in the heat of the moment, players 
 can expect upwards of 1,000 fully animated zombies on their screens at one time, all of which look 
 gorgeous. Capcom has always been known for their fine graphical touch, and they continue to hold 
 that title in their latest title. Oh, and the best part? The frame rate hardly ever drops, despite 
 how much chaos is going on.
  
  As far as sound goes, the game delivers what one would expect in such a unique situation. The mall 
 has very easy going music playing through it, while zombies will moan and groan before being beaten 
 with whatever weapon the player is currently using. Other than these, don't expect much, though 
 what is present is well done - especially the voice acting during cut scenes.
  
  All in all, Dead Rising is a very good game - it's a fun new take on a bland genre of gameplay, 
 and provides a frustrating-yet-addictive method for doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was like "Meh." but after watching a few gameplay videos 
 and downloading the demo via Xbox Live, I quickly learned that when you're trapped in a mall with 
 53,594 zombies and deadly psychopaths, it's hard to not have a good time. The overall story to 
 the game is kind of weird throughout the entire game, but so is being trapped in a mall with zombies. 
 If you beat the game and got the true ending, then you know what I'm talking about. I like the 
 whole way you can quit and all the information from that game is saved and carried over to the 
 next 72 hour mode you start. It makes it easier for you to defeat enemies and rescue people. The 
 only two flaws I found in the game were the A. I and the very small text. When you rescue people 
 and have to make it back to the security room within a short time, the A. I of the person (s) you're 
 saving just seems to be fighting against you and doesn't want to to succeed. I like it when you 
 have to carry or lead a person to the security room. It makes it a lot easier for the player. The 
 small text also ruins the game a bit. It's hard to read what others are saying when you talk to 
 them which either makes rescuing them harder and preventing them from rebelling against you. The 
 cut-scenes are just gold. I love the graphics in them and just want to watch them over and over 
 again. Overall, Dead rising is a unique gaming experience with tons of reply value and a few flaws, 
 but I think everyone should get to experience through the power of the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  No matter what capcom always makes the best zombie games even if its a big departure from their 
 previous series (resident evil) this game is a, azing you play as frank west a crazy reporter trying 
 to get the big scoop on a zombie incident in a small town thats a summary of the story eventually 
 youll end up at a huge mall that will also eventually become infested with zombies your job is 
 to get the big scoop and get out of the mall in 3 days or 72 hours this is where the interesting 
 part of the game comes in basicaly you are within these 3 days (in game the minutes are like 20 
 minutes each) you will be given story missions at specific times and also side missions you dont 
 have to complete side missions but all the story missions must be completed if you dont get to 
 a story missin in time guess what you have to start the entire game all over yeah its really bad 
 so doing all the missions in one go through is almost impossible (in fact your chances of beating 
 this game in one try is really low takes some getting used to to be on time)
  
  what makes it even worse is the save system its horrific you get one save per storage device so 
 unless you have tons of hard drives and me cards you get one save so if you screw up and save in 
 a position where you dont have enough time to be somewhere you have to restart.
  
  but on to the good parts is the actual zombie killing its amazing frink is a killing machine theres 
 so much to do im not even gonna try to name it all
  
  also probaly one of the best parts of the game is the prg system when you start the game frank 
 is a wuss basicly cant run cant fight cant hold more than 4 items has a very little life bar and 
 such but after you start leveling him up he slowly becomes stronger and by the end of the game 
 frank should have no problem fighting is way through hoards of zombies and maniacs
  
  Teh Good:
  fun extremly fun
  tons to do
  rpg level system
  lots of zombie
  great vocie 
 acting (except some chezzy characters
  frank is custimizable
  over 200 weapons i think
  great story (if you can finish)
  about 20 hours of gameplay before you may start becomming tired 
 of it which is really good for a game like this
  and more
  
  Bad:
  save system and time system
  
  plus you may bak yourself into some though situations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wordlfe619
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game. Its amazing, bloody, fun, addictive, awesome, gory, full of weapons, zombie-killing, 
 and just a fantastic video game. The best game on the x-box 360 by far. The mall is huge, the weapons 
 are soo cool, the storyline is clever, and you get to kill zombies, who doesnt want to do that? 
 This is in my top five favorite games of all time. And if ur not down with that then we've got 
 two words for ya: S*CK IT!!!! This report of Dead Rising was brought to you by your friends at 
 Degeneration X, and to remind you that if ur not down with us then, well, you stink. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asystole76
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising should have been a great game. The concept behind the game is genius. That being said, 
 there is little excuse for the few things that ruin the experience.
  
  First and foremost in the game save feature. It stinks!!! One save, tha'ts it. Once you die its 
 game over. You have the choice to go back to your latest save or start over with the achievement 
 level you are currently at. Honestly, though, who would want to go through all that again even 
 leveled up?
  
  Secondly, the gameplay is overly time sensitive. There is a lot to see and do. This gives the game 
 high replay value, but also deters you from saving as often as you would like and should. If your 
 not at the right place at the right time you will miss key opportunities that have major impact 
 on the story.
  
  I did like the premise of the game. There are a ton of things to do and killing zombies in fun 
 and inventive ways is a great way to pass some time. However, what I consider bad choices in design 
 just ruined the experience for me.
  
  I would still recommend this game (as a rental) , but it won't find its way to my top 10 anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt63
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game looks amazing and is very funny he use of the weapons is very clever and remanisent of 
 the old pc game postal 2 , but is very difficult , and very frustrating with no real goal ,but 
 shows of xbox to its full potential no save points for ages is the worst thing along with the way 
 your way out is blocked from a mission with neverending zombies as if to say stay where you are 
 until you kill that boss , but the graphics are amazing sound and feel of the weapons are spot 
 on its worth buying but not at 50 quid come on microsoft drop the prices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipper847
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising The pluss sides
  
  Graphics: amazing graphics of the entire game they have thought all frew the game for graphics 
 not just one area.
  
  Game Play: The Game play at first when i heard this i thought was going to get rpeative but after 
 playing the full version its also amazing im just haveing fun using the fryingpan burning the zombies 
 to "death".
  
  Replay value: I think it will have alot of replay just going around the mall and out side hitting 
 zombies when ever you want to.
  
  Down sides
  
  Alot of people was saying that the save system was not that good. It could be better but i didnt 
 mind this way as useualy i take alot of advntage over saves and im saveing every 2 mins but with 
 this system its more of a challenge.
  
  MP
  
  This would be fun With MP but again im not bothered at all because the single player is just as 
 fun but might be in with a d/l who knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanluke
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  The day i finally got the game I almost wet myself with anticipation. I was worried about the save 
 system at first, but it is fine I dont see what the fuss is about. I can also read the text perfectly 
 in my sdtv. Anyway about the gameplay its great, gory and graphic. Just what a zombie fan expects,
 
  Sure the survivors are stupid but the game rules.
  
  The Sound
  The sound is the best it makes you cringe, in a good way you hear squelches, bangs, moans and spine 
 chilling screams.
  
  The Story
  The tale of Frank West is great, the twists the turns its great.
  
  The Characters
  Frank 
 West: Cool photojournalist, in the wrong place at the wrong time.
  Otis: Annoying senoir.
  Brad: Cool Dhs Agent
  Jessie: Hot DHS agent This game is great i give it 9.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  When I think of zombies I think of George Romero, or even Resident Evil hell even doom. But not 
 dead rising. The game is pretty good for a little while and there are those "HOLY S#!^" moments, 
 but it doesn't go where it should've gone. The save points are the abosulute worst part of the 
 game. FInding a save point is a pain in the royal backside, and its camera is sometimes a little.... werid. 
 And how does a knife go out after 15 zombies? But in its defense, the game is extremely fun and 
 addictive. I mean come on, who would want to play a game where drinking alcohol pays off with lots 
 of health. And the weapons are as fun and imginative as you want them to be. But you should rent 
 this game just to be safe, its a cool game but its no Halo-killer or even RE4-Killer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Dead Rising is a GREAT 360 game, but i wouldnt spend 60 bucks on it. Great 
 gameplay and stunning graphics, Dead Rising is a game that all 360 owners should try out.
  
  The good things about this game are: The weapons... so many choices from just about anything 
 you see to lawn mowers... yeah...
  Also, the graphics are, in my opinion, really good. Great on High-Def...
  
  The bad is: that 
 it kind of gets old after a while of just shredding down mobs of zombies over and over, and getting 
 killed over and over to for that matter...
  
  All in all, Dead Rising is a great 360 game, and i think that everyone should try it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Zombie killing is fun, but for how long? I can't answer that yet, but I'm thinking that I'm just 
 about there. Graphics are okay, but nothing to scream about (get it?)
  
  Sounds is fine, but nothing to say.
  
  You know, the only thing about this game is the unique 
 gameplay.... killing zombies.... oh, right. It's fun, but switching weapons and killing gets old. 
 Maybe it wouldn't be so bad if there were more and better save points. That made me really mad.
 
  
  Rent it.
  
  Alright, I just got the 100 word minimum. This should take care of that. If the game was better, 
 I don't think there would be a problem talking about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  After spending only a few short hours playing Dead Rising, I'd have to say this game has won me 
 over in spite of initial misgivings and pre-conceptions I had about it. I read the inintrial review 
 and wasn't real, ly a fan of games that find you having to escort often frustrating AI characters 
 through whatever madness the game is designed to throw at you. Visions of escorting scientists 
 out of catacombs on the Original Syphon Filter raced through my head and I felt my senses tensing 
 up at the thought of purposely getting involved with a game that features similar activity. While 
 I have found Dead Rising to be a bit frustrating on that level, the fun factor that comes from 
 spreading as much gore around as possible makes it all worthwhile.
  
  You play as a reporter who has seemingly gotten the jump on a majnor story that appears to be centered 
 around a supposed riot/civil unrest going on in a seclusded mountain town. Once touching down on 
 the roof of the local mall, you become privy to information that leads you to dicover that the 
 entire town is over run by zombies. Once inside the mall, the story has you set to rescue any and 
 all remaining humans from the waves and waves of non stop living dead. Once inside the mall, your 
 character gets access to possibly the widest and most entertaining assortment of death impliments 
 that any game has ever offered. As you slash, shoot and slice your way through hordes and hordes 
 of zombies using anything from lead pipes to lawn equipment, the player acquires more and more 
 information regarding not only why and how the infestation occured, but you get handed the daunting 
 task of trying to rescue any living survivor you come across hiding along the way. Graphically, 
 this game is as impressive as most any other 360 title, especially in HD, and features quite an 
 extensive control scheme to expand upon as your character levels up. The contol sceme takes a minute 
 to adjust to, but you should be able to bludgeon, splattter and dismember within minutes of picking 
 up the controller on this one.
  
  The horror and gore in this game is definitely not appropriate for the kids. Cursing and extreme 
 violence make this one an "M" for sure, but if you hapen to be of age and truly love a good slasher 
 fest, this game is a must, even if it's a rental. I also like the way they broke down achievements 
 on this one. All in all, a very solid title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has had experience with Zombies. They've dealt with them since the first Resident Evil game 
 was released way back around 10 years ago. But the problem some may have had with the series is 
 that the idea was survival, and getting through the game without dying. The same is in place here, 
 in that you have to survive in the zombie infested mall for three days. However, thats the attraction 
 of the game, that the mall is covered with Zombies!
  
  Frank, a photojournalist gets a scoop that something huge is happening in a small town in Colorado. 
 He is taken by helicopter to this town, to find that it has been quarrantined by the army. In the 
 town, it seems there is a riot under progress. When they approach the mall, their chopper comes 
 under attack. Frank tells the pilot to pick him up in three days, and jumps out the plane. Upon 
 wandering around the mall, he notices some people setting up a barracade. One of them tells him 
 the things outside are zombies. The barricade holds, until some stupid woman decides she's going 
 to rescue her dog (which looks zombified!) , and ends up endangering everyone. Frank is advised 
 by someone upstairs to follow him. Frank decides since he's in the building, he might as well see 
 if he can get a good scoop of this incident.
  
  I might as well inform you of the games only real shortcoming, and thats the save system. Its horrible. 
 You're pretty much expected to chose your opportunites of when you should save, since if you save 
 at a point where you can't complete a mission in time, thats it. You're screwed. Thankfully, there 
 is an option where you can keep your stats and restart, so while you have to trudge through everything 
 once more, you keep everything you learned up to that point.
  
  The game's visuals are nothing but breathtaking. It captures the mall scenery very well, and in 
 a different path taken to the Resident Evil series, its fairly bright, therefore nothing will take 
 you by surprise. The game does have music, and using the weaponry is a dream. The voice acting 
 is of top material as well, making this basically one of the best sounding and looking games for 
 a while.
  
  I've avoided the zombies for a reason. Mainly because they deserve their own paragraph. When they 
 first break in, you get a glimpse of the sheer volume of which they just swarm the areas. We're 
 talking tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of zombies in the entire mall. At a time, maybe something 
 like a hundred in larger areas, and close to 30 in some smaller areas. There are only a few looks 
 for the zombies, but the fact there are a few different looks to the same creature, rather than 
 just having one or two, is just incredible, and considering the detail on the zombies themselves, 
 including the groaning, and sounds they make when they die, zombies have never been this good.
 
  
  The weapon list is just brilliant. You can use from the contemporary guns and bladed weaponry, 
 to the more unusual ones such as Bowling Balls, Golf Clubs (and balls) , and the down right hilarious 
 ones, such as the Sickle (chopping Heads off and limbs) , Chainsaws (which is just fun) , Lawnmowers 
 (amongst other vehicle-esque things, though Lawnmowers are the most bloody) and Shower Heads (make 
 them bleed in their faces, its just the funniest thing to do to a zombie!)
  
  The game, rather surprisingly does have a bit to do, other than the mindless slaughter of thousands 
 of living dead, while trying to survive. The game has case files, which act as story missions. 
 They usually involve you heading to a certain location, to do something there, then head back to 
 the security room. There is also a lot of side missions to do, which either involve escorting survivors 
 to the security room, or killing someone who's gone nuts. In fact, there are other enemies besides 
 zombies here, and they're much more dangerous than some, because they usually wield weapons that 
 you use as well. Photography is another important factor, as good shots get you a lot of experience. 
 Combining things you may find in the mall with photos can be quite rewarding. (Such as a photo 
 of a shower head on a zombie's head!) This game is a fantastic amount of fun, and should be a title 
 in your 360 library. It has style, gore, and practically everything you could possibly want. Sure 
 you'll have to adapt to the awful saving system, but once you do, you'll be rewarded time and time 
 again. There is no game quite like this in the entire gaming market! Killing the undead, has never 
 been this fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThumbsUpMaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game was the reason why I bought an Xbox 360 back in April. Then when I found out it was delayd 
 until August I was stuck to just playing demos.
  
  When it was finally about to be released, I had some mixed reactions like what if the game is too 
 repetitive and what if it's too short but I took the risk and bought it. And was I wrong! This 
 game rocks! Finally, a game worth playing on the Xbox 360!
  
  You play as a photojournalist, named Frank West, who finds himself trapped in a mall full of zombies. 
 You have three days to find out who caused the zombie outbreak. If you fail a mission or die, you 
 start at the last place you saved so don't forget to save! The save system is like Chrono Trigger, 
 you die, you go to the last save point you saved at. Except.... there's only one save slot so if 
 your friends come over and decide to play, they're gonna have to screw around on your saved game 
 file.
  
  Gameplay is awesome. You can pick up anything and use it against enemies. Really fun. Yeahp. Chainsaws 
 are awesome.
  
  Graphics... meh, I can care less. I'm not the type that notices every single detail and texture 
 and crap like that. I hate the small text though. I have myself playing really close to the TV 
 just to read Otis' calls.
  
  Sound: The mall music is perfect! But the convicts theme song in the plaza has got to go! But t 
 doesnt matter though because I find myself playing music through my hard-drive.
  
  Yes, this game is worth every penny! If you have a Xbox 360 and is looking for a really entertaining 
 game, buy Dead Rising! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedcommando9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Lets start off by saying when this game got close to its release I was exited. But I tough tot 
 myself how much fun can you have if youre only stuck in a small mall and you basically just kill 
 zombies. I said to myself if it gets lower then an 8.5 I am not buying it. Well it got a 8.4 and 
 I said forget it Im buying it anyways.
  
  I was wrong; first of all you get to explore a fairly large mall. You might not even want it any 
 bigger because I spend most of my time in one section anyways, Paradise Plaza. I was also wrong 
 about the zombies, you dont just kill them over and over, and they are the least of your worries.
 
  
  Youre timed, I hate to say it, but the entire game is timed. You get used to it, its not as bad 
 as it sounds and game spot put it perfectly, the zombies are just a roadblock. The story gets very 
 interesting you keep wondering why the zombie out break occurred and what is up with all these 
 characters you meet.
  
  The game takes a while to master avoiding damage from zombies. Its the bosses that are the real 
 challenge. But you do find a many cheap ways to kill them so I dont feel safe saying you find 
 a pattern to kill them. But you dont even have to worry about the time. If you fail your main 
 mission and dont do the side quests you can run around the mall, do whatever you want, then if 
 you get bored, restart the game and do the main story line.
  
  I beat the game 10 times although possibly more because the achievements and unlockables keep me 
 coming back. I am the one who wrote the achievements guide but I still need 8 more because Im 
 too lazy to unlock them right now. (edit I got them all :D) Aside from the immense replay value, 
 the graphics are fine. You do notice polygons and such but you dont really pay attention to that, 
 you pay attention to the hundreds of zombies that can be on the screen at once. On HDTV it still 
 looks Faaaantastic, shiny and glossy things everywhere.
  
  I still give this game a 8.6 but it is still worth the buy. One other thing to add is that the 
 NPCs In the game that you have to escort are horribly programmed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExaltedSin50
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game is the main reason I picked up a 360, and Im glad I did.
  Dead Rising turns the horror classics Resident Evil into an extremely addictive action/arcade game. 
 And compared to the Resident Evil series, Dead Rising wins in terms of intense, large-scale zombie 
 massacres and just all around fun.
  You start the game as Frank West, a photographer with a war background. When following a scoop 
 of a lifetime, Frank finds himself inside a town infested with the undead. He finds refuge in 
 the town mall, which also houses dozens of survivors and maniacs. You start off in 72-Hour mode 
 where you have those 72 hours to complete missions (or cases as theyre known in game) to figure 
 out what is going on in the small town.
  The game play in Rising is very simple and will only take a few minutes to learn. There are a few 
 glitches around the game, but nothing to make you toss the game out. Frank will get caught on some 
 things here and there, but never really stuck. Also, climbing can be a nuisance when you need it 
 most, but you can get used to it pretty quick. Some of the bosses are very difficult, and take 
 patience, especially when you have a low amount of health bars at the start of the game, and yet 
 you just have to use the somewhat lackluster A. I. against them. If a boss is chasing you, just 
 allow him to get stuck behind an object, and shoot at him. But even though theyre incompetent, 
 the bosses still know how to kill you, and they do it well. The scoop missions, as well as many 
 of the games achievements and unlockable items, allow the game to be played again through completion 
 of the main story arc. Youll find yourself wanting to go back and keep playing, unlocking more 
 stuff and killing more zombies. Dozens of scoop missions allow you to rescue as many survivors 
 as you can. Despite their idiot A. I. systems, you can give them weapons to help fend themselves, 
 but the real challenge is rescuing them from a heard of zombies that they so willingly walk into. 
 Everything about this game is fun. Putting the small glitches and useless A. I. aside, you can do 
 whatever you want in this mall, using every item to slaughter helpless zombies. Nothing gives better 
 satisfaction then knowing you can kill an undead creature using soda cans. Or perhaps a large, 
 stuffed teddy bear?
  Pick this game up if you love to have a good time killing the already killed. You will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks43215
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is an enjoyable game that you can just play to pass the time. You Start out as this journalist 
 that covered all these things like wars and what not. Now that he heard about this city being quarantined 
 from the public he heads into the town to see that some strange thing is happening to the people 
 of Willamette. He goes into the mall. While in the mall he runs into a few characters. You can 
 save people or you can just let them stay there and most likely meet their maker. You follow the 
 story line uncovering more clue of how this "zombie" infestation occurred. There is this on annoying 
 guy named Otis Washington. I hate him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docwoo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Dead Rising for about a week now, and I can honestly say that it's one of the 
 most frustrating games I've ever played! First, I'd like to take this opportunity to issue a warning: 
 anyone who hated those awful "escort" missions in other action/adventure games probably won't like 
 Dead Rising very much! Remember those missions in Resident Evil 4 where you had to escort the President's 
 daughter halfway across the game without getting her killed? Or the missions in Metal Gear Solid: 
 Sons of Liberty where you had to do the same for Otocon's sister? Remember how furious you were 
 when those characters kept getting themselves killed because the AI was too dumb to keep them out 
 of harm's way? Well, I've got news for you: a LOT of the action in Dead Rising involves escorting 
 characters with the very same dumb AI. You'll pull your hair out time and time again as characters 
 you're trying to escort keep running into walls or take several minutes just to figure out how 
 to get through an open doorway. People who buy this game because they're looking forward to exploring 
 the HUGE mall will also be dissappointed. You only have a certain amount of time to complete the 
 missions in the game, which doesn't leave much time for exploring. Finally, the save system is 
 one of the worst I've ever seen! The save points are spread so far apart from each other, that 
 you'll often win a hard boss fight only to be killed on your way to the next save point! Oh yeah.... Otis 
 calls wwaaayyy too much! Overall, this is a good game, but play at your own risk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasren
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  i thought the game was a rip off of dawn of the dead. yeah it was fun smashing up zombies for the 
 first 20 minutes. But after awhile it gets old Very quickly i might add.. Plus the Gun aiming mechanics 
 are slow and pointless. so if you cant hack um you are long gone...... the story well was prety 
 straight forward not much to it... your a report and you report stuff.. the only cool factor i 
 can find in this game... and the only thing that i found in this game that sold it... was simple.. 
 the fact that zombies where in it... now if it was over ran by pac men.... no one would be interested 
 in it... im sorry but i say this game is a 5 at Minimum didnt deserve no 8.. yeah the detail was 
 ok but after goin back thru this game again i dont think it was worth no 60 dollars... So im considering 
 this a disapointment to the video game industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FerdinandC
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is really good, the graphics also. I like the characters, the story, maybe a little 
 short but is very fun, you can play before you finish it and is not boring. The difficulty is medium, 
 it is difficult in the beginning, but soon it is easier. I did not like the ends.
  Dead Rising is the best game of zombies. it is a very original game, something never before seen. 
 from now is a classic one. All must have it! I wait for a sequel soon.
  Note: I spike spanish and my english is not excellent, I hope that you have understood to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panasonicyouth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  alright so where do i start.. dead rising is like getting that gift for christmas about 4 months 
 early. but since its early santa also decided to leave you just a small piece of coal with this 
 awesome gift.
  yes i am reffering to the save system. altho i have rarely taken advantage of the save systems 
 in other games with thier 40+ blocks and all that. who really thought it was a smart idea to allow 
 1 save through out the entire game.
  even tho i never used other save systems the way i guess the developers intended i always relied 
 on having a least maybe 3 or 4 extra spaces to save to relieve some of the stress you get.. and 
 let me tell you, you will get stressed out in this game to the 9th degree.
  
  but the problems with this game have been harped on enough that im sure people who havent played 
 it feel like they have because so many people just complain.
  
  what this game does right tho is create this world where you can literally go nuts and do some 
 vile vicious things to the living undead.
  while i do not reccomend going crazy your first time thru the game (your ass will be handed to you 
 many of times in the beginning) when you have played it a few times and your level has reached 
 around 25 or 30 go on and get down.
  theres nothing more satisfying than ripping a zombies intestines out then going on to whipping 
 a small chainsaw out and performing a double lariat and sliciing off every zombies head in your 
 radius.
  
  the visceral excitement you get from this game is something that lacks from many games today.
 
  i have on many occasions just got plain jumpy at the thought of running around in my mega man 
 suit blasting away with his cannon.
  
  this game is pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising for the Xbox 360 is perhaps the most original and greatest games on the 360 to date! 
 It features a massive number of weapons, great sound, good graphics, and easy controls to make 
 it a sturdy must have for any 360 owner. With multiple endings, many side quests, tons of boss 
 fights and so many unlockables, Dead Rising will keep you coming back for many times to come. And 
 as for the infinity mode, it is a sheer delight! Running around a mall killing zombies is SO much 
 fun! And when you unlock the real mega buster (By getting the zombie genocider achievment) , fighting 
 bosses will be the easiest thing ever. So do yourself a favor and get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this brief so I can get back to playing this. Somehow they managed to get a vial of crack 
 into this game because I can't seem to seperate myself from it for very long. Bottom line this 
 game is fun as well as challenging. Varying weapons, enemies, scenarios, and two unlockable modes 
 make for tons of fun and lots of replay value. I love the fact it combines action with the photo 
 opportunities to set itself from most horror games. I'm a huge RE fan so this was a good but different 
 addition to the genre. My only real complaint about this game is the dialogue and voice overs. 
 Anyways, if you're looking for a fun game that will make you wonder what happened to the rest of 
 week this is definitely the one to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirlonic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I found Dead Rising to be fun, simple, and addicting while at the same time allowing for more difficult 
 moves and button combinations to entertain the ranges of gamers out there. If you have a sick or 
 twisted mind and enjoy hack and slash and some shooting this is a great game. You'll love the kill 
 counter and survival mode. Draw backs: If you're looking for the top of the line graphics, look 
 else where. The graphics in this game do not seem next gen like everyone has been advertising, 
 but it does have an impressive number of zombies/psycho's on the screen at once without suffering 
 from a loss of frames per second... There is very few areas that there is a loss of fps when you 
 damage or effect 20-30 zombies at once, but only minor loss, no biggie. Also the game can be a 
 little difficult at first cause of the low starting life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Foamy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Cool game with plenty of acheivments to unlock that will keep you playing for hours. Getting the 
 hang of the controls can be tricky, but it should'nt take you longer than 30 minutes or so. The 
 only frustrating things about the game is the save option and the pint-sized text. Of course we 
 shouldn't be too pissed about the saving option as this is how it used to be with old-school game 
 like Resident Evil and such. The bosses are tough and saving people can be a pain, but it makes 
 it more realistic if that's possible about a game with zombies in it. In closing the game is worth 
 buying and HELLO it has ZOMBIES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fable2142
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  The game is alot of fun, as I said about the feeling having this many weapons is great. The weapons 
 are well balanced so there really isnt that fantastic weapon in the beggining. As you travel from 
 plaza to plaza you see the endless amount of zombies (in and out of the malls) , there are so many 
 and you know you can never kill them all. Preserving your weapons untli you really need to use 
 it, sparing bullets on the bosses. Jumping across shelves while throwing every weapon you have 
 the the enemies climbing up. Shooting golf balls at on oncoming set of zombies. Even fighting humans 
 it is great. But as I bought the game, I turned it on did the first level and it said the disc 
 was dirty and it was brand new!! Something is wrong with this and it is happening to many people 
 the game has problems, most likely the game story will give you a new copy as they did for me but 
 it did happen again. Just remember to take the cd out of the 360 when you finish playing it. You 
 must find many humans in the mall and save them, there are humans that want food, humans that try 
 too kill you, humans trapped in boxes, stores, and etc. The game is usually just go help Brad fight 
 the boss in the beggining, then you have to go get something to help while they tell you nothing. 
 It is annoying how Jesse closed the door on me when I saved Dr. Barnaby (second case file so I 
 am not ruining anything) . You really start to like Frank more and more, he might get you angry 
 at some of the words he says but then he will do something that makes you like him more. The game 
 is great, it deserves what it got. No frame rate problems even with the amount of zombies, but 
 the disc problems is terrible, and the game gets hard really fast after being easy. Once you get 
 to Isabella you really got to get better (one of the most annoying, frustrating bosses in the game) . 
 Well that is my review I hope it helped you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Capcom's long-running Resident Evil series has long been at the forefront of the whole games-featuring-zombies 
 movement, so it's somewhat surprising that Capcom would be the force behind a game like Dead Rising. 
 Dead Rising may feature zombies, but that's where the similarities to Resident Evil end. You've 
 never played a zombie game quite like Dead Rising. In fact, it's safe to say that you've never 
 played any game quite like Dead Rising. Dead Rising has its flaws, to be sure, and its unusual 
 structure will limit its appeal for some, but it offers up an utterly unique and mostly outstanding 
 experience that some people won't want to miss. The game casts you as Frank West, a freelance photojournalist 
 who heads to Willamette, Colorado, after receiving an anonymous tip that strange things are afoot 
 in the quiet little burg. When he gets there, he discovers that nearly the entire population of 
 Willamette has been turned into zombies, and he heads to the Parkview Mall, the town's one distinguishing 
 characteristic, to investigate further. He tells his chopper pilot to come back for him in 72 hours 
 and ventures into the mall to uncover the causes behind the incident. Like any zombies-in-a-mall 
 story worth its salt, the plot of Dead Rising works in a few jabs at American consumerism, and 
 on the whole it's an entertaining story that's told through a series of well-directed, well-acted 
 cutscenes. If you want to discover the story, though, you need to be in certain places at certain 
 times. Dead Rising is structured so that each of the 72 hours between Frank's arrival at the mall 
 and his scheduled departure lasts about six minutes of real time, and the game is always very clear 
 about where you need to be and when you need to be there to follow the thread of the story. If 
 you fail to follow the thread of Frank's investigation into the incident, you can still play through 
 the game's 72-hour time frame; you just won't discover the reasons for what happened or get the 
 best possible ending. Some people may find this structure somewhat limiting, but it does provide 
 goals, and within the context of this structure you have a great deal of freedom to choose what 
 else you want to do with your time.
  
  The Parkview Mall is a really remarkable location for a game. It's a vast complex with hundreds 
 of unique shops, each of which has items on hand that you can grab and make use of, though some 
 items will naturally be a lot more useful than others. For good measure there's also a large park 
 in the mall's center and a lengthy network of subterranean maintenance tunnels. The mall is richly 
 detailed and it looks fantastic, which is good because you're going to be seeing an awful lot of 
 it. Talking about backtracking in relation to a game like Dead Rising is kind of pointless. If 
 you're under the impression that, at some point, the game will leave the mall and start taking 
 place on the streets of Willamette or some such thing, you can put that thought out of your head 
 right now. You're trapped in the mall and that's that, and for better or worse, you're going to 
 be covering the same territory over and over and over again. In addition to all the aforementioned 
 stuff the mall has, there's one more very important thing the mall contains: zombies. Tons of zombies. 
 Literally thousands and thousands of them. It's truly remarkable just how many zombies the game 
 throws at you, and their overwhelming numbers can sometimes lead to a sense of almost suffocating 
 peril. These are not the new-fangled smart zombies you may have seen in more recent zombie films 
 like 28 Days Later, though. These are just good old-fashioned shambling, lurching, incredibly stupid 
 zombies. The only thing that makes them threatening is their sheer numbers, and you'll want to 
 scour the shops for the most useful items to help you fend them off. Anything you grab, though, 
 whether it's a lead pipe or an electric guitar or a katana, is going to break eventually, and when 
 this happens, you'll immediately find yourself holding the next item in your inventory. The problem 
 with this is that it can make it easy to accidentally use something you're not intending to use, 
 like a food item you're carrying for when your health starts running low. The zombies aren't just 
 a danger to you. There are other survivors stranded in the mall, and if you manage to rescue some 
 of them, you'll earn prestige points, which help Frank along the way to levelling up. (Prestige 
 points are also earned for killing zombies and for taking pictures with Frank's trusty camera.) 
 As Frank levels up, he'll earn more health, the ability to carry more items, to move faster and 
 to throw things farther, and, most interestingly, he'll learn new and more effective zombie-killing 
 techniques. The combat in Dead Rising is simple yet satisfying, particularly after Frank's arsenal 
 of moves has developed a bit. A lot of these moves are ridiculously over-the-top, such as the disembowel 
 technique which enables Frank to punch his hand right through a zombie's stomach and rip out its 
 rotten insides, and they're all a lot of fun. In addition to fighting zombies, you'll also find 
 yourself face-to-face with the occasional psychopath. These loonies run the gamut from chainsaw-wielding 
 clowns to snipers to knife-tossing butchers. Some of these fights are more fun than others, but 
 on the whole they provide a nice alternative from the constant zombie-killing. Unfortunately, the 
 challenge of escorting the other survivors back to the safety of the mall's security room is sometimes 
 augmented by the fact that they have incredibly lousy AI. These people are so dumb, they make your 
 average horror movie bimbo look like a genius by comparison. They'll often run up against walls 
 or other obstacles. In narrow passages, they can sometimes completely block your path. And getting 
 them to follow you into certain areas can be needlessly difficult and frustrating. On the other 
 hand, some things which one suspects were meant to make some of these escorting tasks more difficult 
 seem to have had the opposite effect. Specifically, some survivors need to be carried to safety 
 by Frank. This prevents you from fighting the zombies or using any items in your inventory, but 
 in fact we found it much easier to push our way through zombie mobs when carrying someone, and 
 the zombies rarely seem to attack Frank if he's got someone on his back or is supporting someone 
 with his shoulder, so long as he keeps moving. As a side note, any time someone in the mall dies, 
 you're notified in huge letters across the screen. It's a great touch that can make you stop and 
 ask yourself what you could have done differently.
  
  In addition to its unique concept and the uniquely huge number of zombies the game throws at you, 
 Dead Rising also has a rather unusual save system. You're limited to one save per storage device, 
 which means that it's entirely possible to save yourself into a situation from which survival is 
 very, very difficult, or from which making it to the next step of Frank's investigation on time 
 is impossible. (If you do restart from the beginning, though, you carry over whatever level you've 
 achieved, which should make it easier to get back to where you were before.) Whether you feel that 
 this system makes the overall experience more compelling or just leads to unnecessary frustration 
 may be a matter of personal taste, but in any case it requires you to make your choices in the 
 game more carefully. Along with the notifications you get any time someone in the mall dies, the 
 fact that you can't rely on always having earlier saves to go back to if you screw up contributes 
 to a sense that your actions and choices in the mall matter, not just for you but for other survivors 
 as well
  
  Visually, the game is incredibly sharp, detailed and gorgeous. There are occasional graphical issues 
 , such as textures sometimes noticeably popping in on zombies when you get close to them, but the 
 overall presentation is so outstanding that minor things like this hardly detract from it. The 
 biggest problem with the game's visuals, in fact, is that anyone who plays the game on a standard 
 television is going to find the text very difficult to make out. It may not be impossible to read, 
 but nevertheless this seems like a huge oversight on Capcom's part. Either that or a deliberate 
 ploy to force more people into buying HDTVs just so they can read the text in the game. The sound 
 in Dead Rising doesn't quite live up to the other aspects of the presentation. The mall muzak is 
 perfect but there's just not enough of it, and you'll hear the same hard rock song many times over 
 as you make your way through the park. On the other hand, the voice acting during cutscenes is 
 generally quite good. However, while escorting survivors or hanging out in the mall's security 
 room, you'll hear the same few voice clips so frequently -- including one particularly annoying sobbing 
 sound -- that you may feel like turning into a murderous psychopath yourself. Dead Rising isn't a 
 particularly long game, but you may find yourself starting over a few times just to level up and 
 be better equipped to take on the zombie hordes, and even after you complete the game, there's 
 plenty of incentive to play through it again. You can always try to improve your performance and 
 get more survivors out of the mall, and the achievements are numerous and varied enough to give 
 you plenty to do in your quest for gamerpoints, if you're into that sort of thing. Dead Rising 
 may not be for everyone. Some may find covering the same territory over and over again tedious, 
 or feel that the game's save structure leads to unnecessary frustration. However, those for whom 
 a uniquely structured game like this holds appeal will find that spending 72 hours with tens of 
 thousands of zombies at a mall in a small Colorado town is an experience they'll not soon forget. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggerboy2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I don't see how any one could get messed up on the main missions because you 
 can always save right after you complet one. The zombie killing is awsome, I love the ability to 
 pick up any weapon any where. Saving the living people makes me fell good inside and its easy just 
 use way points and give them weapons. They don't die very fast if your around them because the 
 zombies go after you mostly. As for the save system, I don't know wtf they were thinking but it 
 sucks. Every thing about the game i love except the saving system. I hate R. E (not RE4) games because 
 they are to freaky but this game did it just right so its not to freaky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer40
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say I've enjoyed this game to its fullest and its an amazing game overall. 
 I was super hyped for this game and it lived up to the hype for me.
  
  This game is very well made, and very, very fun to play. Some people like to say things like doesn't 
 killing zombies over and over get boring? , you know what i say? No it doesn't get boring in the 
 slightest, in fact its one of the best things ever. With over 250's worth of weapons at your disposal, 
 free roaming like gameplay, the very detailed graphics, and some of the best sound ever in a game, 
 this game has to be one of my favorite games of all time.
  
  So the game starts out as you, Frank West, a photojournalist, out to collect a story on the small 
 town of Willamette because of the recent outbursts he's been hearing about. His helicoptor pilot 
 drops him off at the local mall, and says he will be back in 72 hours exactly and once the 72 hours 
 are up you must be on the helipad or he will leave without you. Frank soon learns that these are 
 not mere riots but they are the living dead, or zombies. Well I don't want to give too much away, 
 but the game starts off with a ton of people boarded up in the mall, when some crazy idiotic old 
 woman destroys the barricade to get her precious dog and lets the zombies into the mall (pretty 
 dumb eh) . So Frank meets up with a few people and they lock themselves into a security room where 
 you must exit through an air vent to explore the inner mall.
  
  This game runs on a timed system, where you will need to be at certain places at certain times. 
 This game also cycles through night and day sequences. You will have 72 hours to complete everything, 
 and in regular time it is about roughly 10-15 hours game time.
  
  You will need to finish different case files throughout the game, each one needs to be met at a 
 certain time or game over. You will get a communicator from a man named Otis, the janitor; he will 
 use this to call you throughout the game giving you information about different people trapped 
 within the mall, thus giving you all the side missions throughout the game. He can become very 
 annoying at times, and sometimes doesn't realize that you're being horribly mauled by zombies, 
 when he complains that you're rude and shouldn't disconnect from him. You probably wont be able 
 to do every side mission unless you want to mess up the story by missing a case file but you can 
 do a few before time runs out.
  
  There are different types of missions in the game, one of them are escort missions, ugh painful, 
 painful escorts, anyway you will need to find the people trapped within the mall and escort them 
 back to the security room, sounds easy huh, well not when your surrounded by 60 or so zombies. 
 There are 3 types of people in escort missions, one is the healthy people, they will walk and act 
 on their own while following you, you may give them weapons if you wish, in my opinion these are 
 a pain in the rear because they always stay back to kill a zombie or two and you cant do anything 
 about it. The second type is small defenseless people, usually teenage girls, you will need to 
 lug these people around while holding their hands, they cant hold any weapons or fight for themselves 
 so basically its either hold my hand or get left behind. The last and probably most annoying people 
 are injured people, these people will most likely have a fractured, sprained, or broken bone and 
 you will need to lug them around the mall on your back or else they will limp slowly while being 
 eaten alive by zombies.
  
  The second type of missions are psychopath missions, in these mission you will need to kill an 
 incredibly hard boss type person, usually they have a person or two kept captive, but sometimes 
 you need to kill them for the story, or to unlock a store, like the gun shop. Psychopaths are easily 
 explained as psychotic humans that have gone crazy from the recent zombie outburst, most of these 
 psychos will die in a horrible manner which is very fun to watch sometimes (clown anyone) .
  
  The mall itself is huge in size, there are 6 different indoor sections and 2 outdoor sections... 
 well I guess 1 outdoor section but I count the underground area outdoor. Anyway each section of 
 the mall usually has different amounts of zombies from what I've noticed, and have different styles 
 and stores, like north plaza is mainly weapon orientated, food court is well... for food, etc. 
 the outdoor sections consist of a park, and an underground parking area, i myself never go outside 
 much unless needed too.
  
  The save system in general isn't as bad as what most people say, it is only that they give you 
 one file to save on and if you save at a wrong time then game over for you. Normally it didn't 
 bother me much and there are plenty of opportunities to save so I wouldn't worry about this if 
 you thought this was going to be a problem for you.
  
  This game has leveling up system where Frank earns experience from doing various things. The experience 
 is called pp you gain pp by, killing zombies, killing them in special flashy ways, killing psychopaths, 
 rescuing people, and taking photos, when you level up you learn new moves, and gain stats like 
 speed upgrades and power upgrades. The level limit is to level 50, once there you will no longer 
 gain any pp and will be as strong as you can be. At first you will be wimpy and most likely scared 
 to fight zombies, but once you get to level 30 or so zombies will seem like killing a small kitten, 
 only more dangerous and not as cute.
  
  Taking photos in this game isn't necessary at all but it is very helpful. There are many different 
 types of photos. Grey photos are... well nothing, red photos are violent photos, green photos are 
 funny photos, pink are erotic photos (we all know you love zombie erotica) , and orange are drama 
 photos generally taken when something dramatic happens between survivors. Photos give pp based 
 on how well your photo was taken, and in some cases how many enemies are in the photo, and how 
 creative the photo was.
  
  There are about 3 types of zombies, dumb zombies that do nothing but wander around, slightly aggressive 
 zombies which slowly limp at you and try to hit you, mostly aren't successful though, then there's 
 aggressive zombies which sprint at you with full speed, and usually always nail a hit on you. There 
 are 2 things that make zombies different, one is a hard hat some zombies wear these and when you 
 try to shoot them it'll just ting right off their helmet, another is the cop zombies, I'm guessing 
 they have protection under their suit or something because I've noticed they take longer to kill 
 than normal.
  
  There are many ways to kill zombies, one of them is melee combat yes your fists, these trusty things 
 will be used to fight off zombies if you ever get left without a weapon, at first it takes about 
 20-25 punches to kill someone. After you level up a bunch it'll go down and you will learn more 
 melee combat moves, most of the new moves learned will be able to kill off zombies in 2-3 hits, 
 so your fists are a good weapon in this game.
  
  The way you heal in this game is, well... by eating food. Food can be found easily throughout the 
 mall, different types of food heal different amounts of health. Food can sometimes be mixed in 
 blenders or cooked to add better healing effects or in some cases cool side effects, such as 1 
 hit kill spit.
  
  There are also books you are able gather in the game. Books give you a special bonus for being 
 held in the inventory, and only if they are being held in your inventory. It tells you what bonus 
 each book gives you when you pick it up and read it. Some books give your things like, *certain 
 weapon type* lasts longer, or food heals you more, or your punches are stronger. Books are mostly 
 optional, but sometimes you will need one for a mission such as the Japanese tourists, for them 
 you'll need to pick up the Japanese language book to speak to them and have them join you. I myself 
 never use books too much but they are very useful.
  
  Now the fun part, weapons there are so many weapons in this game its not even funny... well its 
 not supposed to be funny but you get my drift. Weapons don't last forever in this game, they made 
 this so you basically couldn't get yourself a chainsaw and go to town on 50,000 zombies, most weapons 
 break after a good 20-30 kills. There's 4 types of weapons firearms, melee, vehicles, and hat/helmet 
 type things. Capcom got really creative on these, some of these weapons i thought would be pretty 
 normal like the lead pipe for instance, i threw it and guess what it sticks into one of them and 
 blood comes draining out of it, best thing ever. Firearms aren't the best in the game but are very 
 handy for most bosses, unless you've got yourself a shotgun I wouldn't bother killing zombies with 
 them as you can be more successful with a good smack to the face. Melee weapons are too wide of 
 a category to explain all at once so I'll try and slim it down a bit. One category would be basic 
 melee which are easily found throughout the mall, such as cash registers, these are basically just 
 a weapon where you give a zombie a good ol smack and they will die in about 2-3 hits. Second category 
 i like to call weak as hell, but fun to use weapons , like a toy light sword, these weapons usually 
 kill zombies in a good 15-20 hits don't use these unless you really want to they are fun to use, 
 but if your trying to survive i doubt your handy dandy king salmon will fight off 50 zombies. Third 
 category would be what i like to call your screwed when I get this category, pretty much weapons 
 that kill a zombie in one hit, like a sword, or my favorite a chainsaw, basically you rip zombies 
 to shreds with these like they were a tissue during flu season. My fourth, final, and favorite 
 category would be creativity category, these weapons consist of creative ways to kill zombies, 
 like the good ol excavator, yes you know the giant drill on the trailers you've always wanted to 
 use, and the shower head, yes I've had some good times with the shower head you'd just have to 
 see it to know what I mean. Next are the vehicles not many of these, but there are a good few, 
 I can name 4 off the top of my head, a sports car, motorcycle, shopping cart, and a lawn mower, 
 these weapons are pretty straight-forward just walk/drive into the zombies and watch them drop 
 like bombs. Lastly is the hats, these handy little things help it so that zombies cant bite or 
 see you they will just wander around aimlessly until you chop his head off with your trusty katana.
 
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are very good. The graphics are great but not the best, it's 
 the detail that surprises me, in some cases they have names and labels for all the food items and 
 different items throughout the store. The sound is very well done I can't explain it very well 
 but there is nothing better than hearing a chainsaw rip through the flesh of a moaning zombie.
 
  
  Now I love what Capcom did for all the game references, like Megaman and Resident Evil. They have 
 various Megaman items throughout the mall, and of course Jill's Sandwiches .
  
  Overall this is a very good game and most 360 owners should consider getting it, now on to pros 
 and cons.
  
  Pros:
  -Very fun to kill zombies
  -Big mall
  -TONS of weapons
  -Pretty neat level up system
  -Many Capcom game references
  -The sound
  
  Cons:
  -OTIS 
 SHUT UP!!!
  -Save system for some people
  -MIGHT get repetitive for a few select people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyahnyah5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising, another great game for the next-gen console, The 360. But there are a little things, just 
 a few minor things, that Dead Rising did not do very well. But still, there is alot more things that 
 it did do well. Really, who wouldn't want to become a zombie killing machine, killing zombie by the 
 thousands? Lots of people, and that's why there is Dead Rising! The story starts off with you, Frank 
 West, comin' to Willamette, Colorado in search of a big scoop. (Since you're a photojournalist) 
 What you find is zombies, zombies, and more zombies. But of course, you think that it's a riot, but 
 then again, would the national guard be blocking off all entrances out, or in to the town if it 
 was just a riot? (Don't think so.) You decide to land in a mall, where you think it's zombie free, and 
 where you can get good pictures, and have a story. Guess what, you were downright wrong, I guess it's 
 just not Frank's lucky day. Although the story was very well done in my opinion, there were sometimes 
 where I just went What the.. I thought iw great, but why would you want to go around doing missions 
 for people you just met? There is a motherlode of zombies over there, and they're in need for some 
 butt whoopin'. I really think that the Gameplay and controls were solid, except for one little problem, the 
 combinations of moves and maunevers were just so hard to do with each one of them having the almost 
 exact same combination to do them. When i wanted to a double-lariat, I ended up karat chopping. 
 When I wanted to disembowel, i lifted up. And it was quite annoying. The sound and music was good 
 quality, from the sound of the chainsaw turning on to the zombiez horrible groan of terror, it was 
 very well done. The songs were great too. But in my opinion the voice acting was like alot of other 
 capcom games, quite cheesy sounding. Now the graphics, they were a pure masterpiece, everything had 
 very nice detail. The zombies looked great in addition! The characters are sometimes more realistic 
 looking then others. I tihnk capcom made somethings a little cartoony visual like. Would someone 
 actually look like that when they yell "I DON"T ALLOW VADALISM IN MY STORE!!!!!!!" Now here is 
 some bad stuff, alot of animations looked rather cheesy and clunky. And it really get's me mad 
 when items that you can't use are 2d textures. Sometime it just gets so cheesy looking that it 
 gets me mad i turn off the game. I also found some things in the mall, that should have been weapons. 
 Final Verdict: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I love zombies. I adore Dawn of the Dead.
  It's the greatest zombie movie -if not the greatest horror movie ever made.
  I'm talking about 
 Romero's '78 version of course, not the 2004 one.
  Running zombies are gay.
  
  Anyway, since i live in Europe, i had the pleasure of waiting an extra month.
  Not all was lost 
 though, i still had the demo which i played constantly.
  I almost thought at a certain point i didn't want the game anymore
  cause all the killing got 
 boring.. and am i glad i still bought it.. jeez.
  I would've missed out big time otherwise.
  
  The game starts with one of the greatest intro 
 sequences i have seen in a
  very long time; it captures everything perfectly; the tension and situation.
  Lots of references 
 to Dawn of the Dead, aswell.
  
  Visually stunning on my HD monitor, (yes i don't have the money for a HDTV
  so why not use that 
 great VGA cable?) i loved bashing zombies heads in
  with Sledgehammers, Dumbells, Benches.. and loved driving them all over
  with a Lawnmower or 
 throwing Pies in their faces. "Wow lame, it's only killing zombies with a few items then?" Well.. 
 the object of the game is to make your story about the whole
  situation, as reporter Frank West. If you save people, you get scoops.
  If you don't, well.. 
 tough luck for them. You got 72 hours (game time, not real) to investigate the shopping mall the 
 game puts you in.
  You can make funny snapshots of dead zombies, or make pictures
  of the victims and get lots of Prestige Points (which make you lvl up) .
  It's all about survival, 
 and should you accidentaly die, the game gives
  a choice to start all over, but... with your current lvl and stats!
  
  You can do all the quests 
 or just hang out in the mall, trashing everything
  as you go, doing absolutely useless stuff. It's all up to you.
  Of course you will meet alot 
 of interesting characters, like a psychotic clown with 2 chainsaws, or a shop keeper which hangs 
 zombies up in
  body bags. You want to keep tracking down those civilians to make sure
  you see everything in the game.
  
  Since it's relatively short, it also means it's highly replayable.
 
  You start out with a 3 day survival, go to a 5 day survival plan, then a 7 day one and finally 
 an infinite survival of quality time shopping. I'm glad Capcom still haven't lost it's touch. At 
 least not with zombie-games.
  No one could've done it better.
  This game is pure gold, and in it's unrated greatness, it's even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dgrimes14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  You know that rewarding feeling that occurs when you just beat a mission or objective in a game 
 that you work really hard at? Feels good doesn't it? Well don't expect any of the sort when playing 
 through one of the Xbox 360's newest and hottest games of 2006. This game, originally slated for 
 the launch lineup has been delayed several times, and just recently finally emerged. Despite the 
 obvious frustration among many people, there are just countless numbers of gamers who can't get 
 enough of Dead Rising.
  
  Now, before I get on the negative side of Dead Rising, lets talk a little bit about the positive 
 side. Dead Rising has an excellent storyline that will captivate you and keep you wanting to go 
 back for more to find out what is behind the zombie outbreak. I found the storyline to actually 
 be pretty deep, considering zombie invasions are a pretty big cliche among the different outlets 
 of media. However, the best thing about Dead Rising is the thing you will spend the most times 
 doing. KILLING ZOMBIES!!! I cannot think of something that has felt quite as rewarding in a video 
 game as bludgeoning a zombies with a lead pipe, mowing them down, spinning them around with excavators, 
 and slashing them in half into zombie cross-sections. It is so enticing to see how many zombies 
 you have actually killed upon the games completion.
  
  Now on to the bad side of Dead Rising, and that deals with the insane difficulty of this game. 
 And I don't mean that it is hard, it is HARD!! The save system is obviously one of the games many 
 faults. There is only one save slot (unless you have a memory unit in addition to the hard drive) , 
 which pretty much means that if you accidentally save in/at the wrong place/time you are pretty 
 much screwed.
  
  Another fault leading to the difficulty is the timing system. In all of the story missions there 
 is a certain time you have to be at a certain place at a certain time. This is in no way lenient 
 at all, if you are not there, you will no it, as the story completely shuts down, and you can say 
 goodbye to the true ending. Adding to this timing system is the boss fights. For most bosses you 
 will need some kind of a gun or rifle. And if you happen to save at the wrong spot and are at a 
 boss fight without a gun, chances are you may have to start over.
  
  So in the end, although I had many extremely frustrating experiences with Dead Rising, I am still 
 glad that I got through the whole story as well as unlocking some of the games 50 achievements (which 
 are very unique and fun to obtain) . If you are not at all a hardcore gamer willing to restart your 
 game every once in a while, I completely recomend this game to you. However, if you don't feel 
 like your skill or patience level is up to the challenge, I recomend you stay far, far away from 
 Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giraffin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was really good after i leveled up. Dont quit if your not doing good the few couple hours, 
 wait till u level up and you'll have more fun. The amount of zombies was really high, and the game 
 was only choppy for like a couple minutes when i was playing. Everyone who likes zombie games should 
 get this, it is extremely re-playable so youll be playin it for a long time. One of the best X360 
 games so far a must get for X360 fans. cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdestroyer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  seriously, i have never played a game so many times as much as i have this one, im on my 6th time 
 through, so yeah its fun. lets break it down:
  
  Gameplay: you think it would be, linear pick-up-and-smash-zombie game, but no, it has a story (and 
 its surprisingly good) there are tons of weapons in this game, ranging from guitars to a rock, 
 you name it. the good sides are: thousands upon thousands UPON THOUSANDS, of zombies to kill, in 
 TONS of different ways to kill them. there are about 6 or 7 different endings, so ALOT of replay 
 value. bad sides: zombies get annoying, survivors get annoyed, BOSS BATTLES GET ANNOYING etc...
 
  
  Graphics: GOOD LORD ALL MIGHTY! the texture in this game is AMAZING! like when your driving the 
 car it looks smooth and shiny and reflects the environment around you, and every thing looks like 
 it should. they may not be the best, but its not ugly either. 
  
  Sound: this is also amazing, you have a great soundtrack (except a couple songs) , when you hit 
 with an electric guitar it makes a hard rock sound (fake but cool) and alot of the sounds sound 
 exactly like they should in real life. like when you throw a pie you hear a squishing, splatter-like 
 noise just like when.... you..... throw.... a pie at someone yeeeeeah
  
  Value: like i said i have, YOU WILL PLAY THIS ALOT!!!!! its definitely worth the 60$.
  
  Tilt: 
 i still have no idea what the hell this is.
  
  all in all, if you love zombie games or just want to waste time doing something fun, then no doubt 
 about it, BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and all but the only thing that is upseting is the saving part; the only time 
 you can save anything is when you are either in the bathroom or near a couch and if you are really 
 close to one and hardly any life left it is pretty upsetting when you get so far and have to do 
 it all over again because you didn't quite make it to the saving point. Other than that i think 
 that this game offers exciting game play and really good graphics. I thought that it wouldn't have 
 that good of graphics and look like another XBOX game but for the 360 but fortunately it wasn't 
 so thank you CAPCOM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lee2099
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you're a guy, and you have a girlfriend, you've probably been dragged to the mall. Don't 
 you feel for these zombies? Walking aimlessly just browsing? hahaha. Anyway, this is a great game. 
 The enviorment can use a little more tweaking in my opinion, but the character designs are spectacular. 
 The game's controls are good, however, the camera is still something I'm struggling with (not to 
 mention those convict bastards!) I think Capcom found another staple in their arsenal of genre 
 killing games. This whole zombie phenomenon by Capcom is probably a safe bet they can use like 
 they do with Street Fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game I have been waiting for since I got my Xbox 360 back in November. This game's 
 kill zombies with everything attitude is somehow fresh to me, considering the many zombie games 
 there already is. On to the review!
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  not that good, but when you got 1000 zombies on-screen and and the game looks this beautiful and 
 smooth, You gotta give the developers credit. The other thing is that we are not even a year into 
 the Xbox 360's life, so I give them a thumbs up.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 the melee combat is pretty well done, but the driving and ranged weapons have some 
 problems. For the driving, the vehicles are not good at making tight turns, which is bad when you 
 are driving in the tunnel. For guns, The manual aimming is too slow and the autoaim is too off. still, 
 these can be blown by since they add challenges to the game.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  GONE GURU! The theme songs for the psychos are awesome and the happy mall song make this creepy 
 game even creepier. The weapons all have different Sound FX that make them fit very well with the 
 game. The voice acting is very well done then as well. Value: 9/10
  
  Hardcore gamers: This is a must buy!
  Casual Gamers: Rent it first! The game's save system is 
 very punishing for those looking for a quick gaming fix only, but I would still see if you can 
 fit yourself around it. its worth it if you can.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  I love it and reccommend a purchase. This game was my most anticapated game for the 360, and it 
 was worth it!
  
  Overall: 9.1/10
  Gone Guru! Now to take a chainsaw to those zombies over there.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a drone, dumb-downed game, where all you do is run through a mall and kill zombies, 
 but much to my surprise the game is so much more then that. The graphics at times are stunning, 
 and the fade/blur effect was used almost flawlessly. There are a few glitches here and there 
 but overall the game looks like a masterpiece, small details that at first glance you take for 
 granted. The gameplay is a touch slow, but once you get used to it, its quite nice. The storyline 
 (I havent played too far yet, and have not finished 72hr mode  as of writing this review) is 
 good, bordering on excellent. The audio is pretty much non-existent but with everything going on 
 sometimes you forget that you are listening to silence... Although there are those moments in the 
 game where you want silence so you can hear the whimper of someone you need to rescue and the audio 
 clues help you find them. (You can always play your own tunes on the dashboard of course if it 
 doesnt crash your game that is) Overall the game is really fun, and at the same time very irritating, 
 since even in the beginning stages the endless flow of zombies and psychopaths are overwhelming 
 and you may be loading from your save point fro an hour ago! Since the save feature/points are 
 few and far between, so except some stress. Which is what you want sometimes, you dont want the 
 game to be a breeze either, but this one will have you going back hours worth of gameplay a few 
 times.
  
  Its unfortunate that there is no multiplayer, they had so many options to have multiplayer game 
 modes, and with next-gen systems ALL GAMES should have some form of multiplayer, and to that end 
 CO-OP!! This game is perfect material for co-op game play, so unless its hidden away and only unlockable 
 after you reach some hidden milestone it was a huge let down that there were no multiplayer game 
 modes.
  
  This game should be rented, for a price tag of nearly 80bux (after taxes CAD 65 USD) not nearly 
 worth that price, maybe when the finally lower 360 prices some of these games might be worth buying, 
 but for now.. Rent this one. Although make it a week rental, cause it is immersive and with the 
 slow pace a couple day rental may just not be enough time to fully enjoy this release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  this game has amazing graphics and visualy makes you want to kill zombies in so many ways. The 
 sound when you chainsaw a zombie feels great. The entire mall and driving motorcycles and convertibles 
 cruching zombie bodies is awesome. The only downside is that when you aim with your gun you cannot 
 move at all. Also that the game never ends and it takes forever to finish the game completly. The 
 achievments take some time but are also easy. If you like chopping up zombies crazy people and 
 Special forces have fun with Dead rising. The best part is taking a gun with 150 rounds and going 
 into the tunnel and just waste a Zombie that moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djpinto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  ok ok so your probally wondering "should i go out and get this?" Well you should read this first.... 
 Now i know most of you are think great another RE well your wrong. the game is pritty intense. 
 well Frank West is a freelance photojournalist on a hunt for the scoop of a lifetime. In pursuit 
 of a juicy lead, he makes his way to a small suburban town only to find that it has become overrun 
 by zombies. After finishing the game's initial 72 Hour mode, players will find the story continues 
 even further in Overtime mode. In terms of how long that will actually take, the 72 Hour mode can 
 be completed in roughly seven hours, including cut-scenes and discounting game reloads. The Overtime 
 mode can be beaten in less than two real hours. An Infinite Mode can also be unlocked, though it's 
 entirely devoid of story elements. Instead, it challenges players to see how long they can survive 
 as their health bar constantly depletes. Heres the cartch you only have one save slot and on top 
 of that you have to learn how to waste your time very wisely. the game is very story driven and 
 one messup and you have to load and load and load again but at least you'll really get in to the 
 story and get to kill swarmafter swarm of zombies. Now bottem line:
  
  It's got a great sense of humor, and fits snugly into the grand scheme of ever-growing zombie lore. 
 It's something any self-respecting horror fan can't afford to miss, since it's basically the video 
 game equivalent of a B-movie. It looks great too. Capcom really nailed each character's facial 
 textures and created character models that animate naturally, lending authenticity to the cut-scenes. 
 Dead Rising's strongest visual aspect is the sheer number of zombies that can appear onscreen at 
 once without a framerate hitch. Taking a convertible down into the maintenance tunnels and plowing 
 through crowds of two hundred or so walking dead is really impressive. With so many zombie models 
 included in the game, Capcom still managed to render enough visual differences to keep them from 
 getting repetitive. Unfortunately, this seems to have required frequent loading zones. Though they're 
 not terribly long, it will become wearisome to sit through a load every time a new mall section 
 is entered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajr101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game to say it simply is just fun. This is the first game like this and its great Who doesn't 
 like running around killing thousands of zombies i know i enjoy it great graphics, sound, and teh 
 gameplay is ok BUT DANG THIS GAME IS HARD with the horrid saves and plain hard game this is teh 
 first of its kind and its good maybe they will make a better one in the future with better way 
 to save and the computer ppl talk during gameplay not just during scenes. So to finish this review 
 i say if you like killing zombies ( with anything or anyway) and your just looking to have a good 
 time pick this one up its defiantly a keeper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is just one of those games where you have to try everything, but not to fast, and try 
 to have so much fun under the limit. It's great that this game is not related to Dawn of the Dead, 
 but it does have a great story line. With lots of characters to save, and lots of experimenting 
 with food and weapons, you will have this in your head for years to come!
  
  The story is, well, can be great the first time through, but will get very stale after the third 
 time through. You will have your head rushing through with ideas how the zombies were created, 
 and that will be answered. Anyhow, you are Frank, a journalist. You wished to be dropped off at 
 the mall, which I say is a funeral, and you have to survive for three days. You will also have 
 to save your friends to get level up or awesome power ups by leveling up the experience they give 
 you. Sounds great for one of those players that like to play Pikmin.
  
  The sound is just perfect. Your slashing with the great and mighty katana throught the burning 
 off faces of zombies from the frying pan is just superb! The voice over is just great, but sometimes 
 can be a little of, fake. For an example, you just killed a shopkeeper, realistic isn't it? Anyways, 
 he dies funny, but right. The clown, Adam, has a gory effect, but you have to see it! The music 
 is just one word, odd. You will deal with the elvevator music from the mall to the Prisoners' Music 
 of Kid Rock or something. Bosses have the rock sound to it, and the mall is just classic.
  
  The controls is just a second thought. You got the Resident Evil 4 pointview with having the 
 camera over you shoulder when you aim with your weapon. Sometimes you will get frustrated with 
 bosses when you just want to do what you want! Bosses fights are usually not fun, but you will 
 have fun killing the zombies. You also have to get adapt with saving your survivors too. Some will 
 have to hold hands or be picked up for whatever. It's not a great sytem, but you will get used 
 of it after awhile.
  
  The game's graphics are just awesome! When you go outside and examine how far you can actually 
 see a zombie is just fasicinating! Also, the gore effects and paritcal effects are just pushed 
 to the limit. The loading will sometimes get alittle too repetitive, and it will get you when you 
 get to the cutsenes, but it isn't that bad when you come across some games that the Xbox 360 produce.
 
  
  Dead Rising is that game where you have to have just because it was the curious development. I 
 surley enjoyed the story and have fun with the RPG element of having to leveling up by saving your 
 friends and companions. If you haven't played this is just like not playing Pikmin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas12934
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Well its finally happened a game where your stuck in a mall with millions of zombies. The cool thing 
 is Anything and Everything is a weapon. From throwing pies in a zombies face to Cutting zombies 
 in half. its a very cool game lots of places to go and very hard bosses. very cool moves to use 
 on the flesh eaters and u can drive! Also you can even dress up as a girl for god sakes! so if 
 your into zombies basher and shooters, this is the game for you. so go ahead and buy this awesome 
 game for only $60.00.: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgorf
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  When I start playing the game, I had a lot of fun killing zombies with the different weapons. Graphic 
 is pretty good and even better is the sound.
  Each weapons have a distinct sound. The sound made by some weapon was very satisfying for me and 
 added a lot to the game.
  At first, I was very impressed and I was expecting a lot from this game. But then the way save 
 game is handle ruin everything for me. If you like running around for 15 minutes and die just before 
 a save point, it's the game for you. I just don't like it and I stopped playing it just after a 
 few hours of play.
  It's too bad a save game ruin a good game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising has the most unique and laid out weapon system imaginable. You can grab almost all 
 the things you would fine in a gigantic shopping mall. The game has the most driven storyline, 
 the goriest scenes you'd ever fine in a survival horror game, and some elements of comedy.
  
  Graphics- 10/10 For a game exclusively for the Xbox 360, Dead Rising not only plays well but 
 looks excellent. All the detail added to each character's bodies and expressions. The zombies also 
 have some flare added to them also. The amount of blood in this game is unimaginable, each drop 
 stains the floor or your character (Frank) 's face/body.
  Gameplay-9/10 All the weapons in this game give you the ability to do whatever you want, almost 
 everything is a weapon. But there should have been more weapons to get more out of the game. Frank 
 has the skill to perform any type of move, whether it be wrestling techniques or even hand to hand 
 combat situations. In order to do that however you need to reach a certain level of experience 
 which also adds how far you can throw zombies, your health, and the power that your attacks deliver. 
 Frank also comes equipped with a camera, in which you use to take pictures that'll add to the experience 
 you gain.
  Story- 8/10 Alas, another great story driven game from Capcom. The only problem is that sometimes 
 when you want to just kill and obliterate zombies you just don't have time. There are various modes 
 in this game that make up for it, but you still have to have some sort of defect in those modes. 
 The story in this game is also great, if you play Dead Rising for the first time, you'll be puzzled 
 until you keep going and find out who caused the zombie outbreak, what caused it, and why. As a 
 photojournalist you have to uncover this bizarre mystery while taking pictures to try to reach 
 your goal.
  Sound/Music- 10/10 The sounds in this game are quite wonderful, zombies moaning and groaning as 
 you knock their bodies to the floor. The sound of blood splattering all over the place and the 
 weapons also add effect when considering the sound in this magnificent game. The music in this 
 game is okay, basically it's mall music, but once you're fighting a psychopath (boss) they come 
 with their own theme song and each song will leave you to memorizing the lyrics, the beats and 
 everything.
  Overall- 9.7 This really is a must-buy for the Xbox 360. Dead Rising is a steady, paced game that 
 will require you to think, make choices. This game delivers all of the zombie goodness you've seen 
 or played in other games like Resident Evil into one huge package. There are so many unlockables 
 in this game that you just want to collect all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supafroman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  To start off this game is probably the best title out for Xbox360 other then Olivion. Now the game 
 is a tad on the hard side when you start off not knowing anything like lets say SMG locations. 
 But it gets better and a little easier. Where this game outshines everything is the sheer number 
 of zombies you can get on the screen without any lag. This game's two biggest downsides is time 
 requirements and Otis. Time isnt so bad but you need to get to certain places on time or else the 
 stroy drops completly. Now the second is Otis hes always calling you and it gets pretty anoying 
 but still something you can ignore. Its definatley a must buy because the story aint bad, and the 
 fun of killing zombies with the largest variety of weapons ive ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiDfreakcave
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  People might think that Dead Rising is a Resident Evil wannabe. But no it isn't. Dead Rising is 
 the most fun game I ever play, the graphis are GREAT! The use of store products like TV's, Trash 
 Cans' etc. is FUN! It just REALLY fun. Trust me, it is. But useing the camera to take pictures 
 is not that cool. You have to get to a higher place to take the pictures, but sometimes you have 
 to get lower to take closer pictures at the Zombies and they alway have to try to kill me but I 
 kill them first. And the Other thing, when saving a cilvilens, use somethings else instead of a 
 shotgun because you might slip the trigger and killed one. So still, Dead Rising is Worth Playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlag
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  This game almost did not make it into my collection due to something I read about only having one 
 save. Without upgrading I play along with my one save and it works just fine. I restarted the game 
 at least 5 times as I learned things. Even if you restart it, you still retain all of your original 
 attributes/skills/photos.
  
  Enough about the save "problem". This game is so original and it fulfills one of my greatest fantasies, 
 having free run of a shopping mall. Throw in Zombies and now I can play survivalist/FPS'er/adventurer. 
 Dead Rising, in my opinion, is highly virtual. The graphics are perfect. The maps are superb, the 
 detail excellent. The overall sound does not stick out in my head as being great but, sound are 
 funny and gross (bowling ball to the face anyone ?!?)
  
  The free roaming nature of this game and the manymanymany possibilities (weapons, blender drink 
 combos, clothing, etc) make it very entertaining.
  
  I can not stress enough how great this game is. Do not rent Dead Rising - just buy it already! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game at first had frustrated me. It is confusing in some sense, especially the fact that CAPCOM 
 made this you would think they knew what they were doing. The save system on this is not the greatest 
 because you only get one save file and it is difficult to save your game when you have many zombies 
 after you and that you do not have many places to save. The trick to the game is to collect a lot 
 of PP which is basically points so that you can build your energy and power, and item stock etc. 
 If you do that early on in the game and then start over and do the whole game you will be fine, 
 but is annoying that you must do that just to have a chance at beating this game. The game is good 
 and it is fun. It is interesting that you can pretty much use anything in the store too. When you 
 save and quit after dying you get to keep your points even when you start a fresh new game which 
 is really good because you could not do that then I do not think anybody could beat this game. 
 Try it out and rent it first. You may or may not like it but it definitely grows on you after a 
 while if you are not sure at first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeSuS_iS_bLaCk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  What happens when a bunch of zombies go shopping? A hell a lot of fun. Dead Rising is not just 
 any next gen game, it is THE only real next gen game. It combines millions of zombies on screen 
 with amazing graphics and tons of objects with physics. Not only that but everything that you can 
 push can be picked up, thrown, eaten (if food) , or lets you ride on (vehicles) . It's just endless 
 mass killing more exciting then any Grand Theft Auto game. Tons of fighting moves like jump kicks, 
 wall jumping kicks, and throws all which you learn throughout leveling up in the game. You can 
 gain experience in many ways. As a journalist you need to take pictures as proof of what you've 
 seen. The amount of points you get through photography depend on many factors such as the amount 
 of zombies or people on screen and what they are doing.
  
  Except for the voice acting this game was brilliantly written and well presented. Anyways the main 
 plot of the story is you a free lance journalist Frank have traveled to a small city when you heard 
 a little hint on something big happening. You travel by helicopter noticing something wrong about 
 thi place. Civilians are attacking everybody and don't seem very normal, as you fly above the city 
 you notice a mall being ambushed by these crazed civilians. You drop down on to a roof and meet 
 a strange man who tells you to go inside. Basically you have to find out where these zombies are 
 coming from and who is controlling them.
  
  Well that's all I have to say about Dead Rising. An amazing game that is a MUST-BUY for any 360 
 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphicles
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  As a B-Horror movie fan, I have always had the fantasy of brandishing a katana in a shopping mall 
 full of zombies ever since I first viewed George Romero's, Dawn of the Dead. Many years of therapy 
 and growing up slightly have driven this fantasy underground, until now. Not only the graphics 
 good; it has sound effects that are as gross, if not grosser than the visuals. You can actually 
 distinguish the difference between a zombie's head exploding from being hit with a bowling ball, 
 and a torso being cleaved in half by a battle axe. There are so many different objects to kill 
 a zombie with in this game that I still have not exhausted all of my options (and I have had this 
 game for a month!) . If the objects of the game lose interest for you as a means of zombie genocide 
 then look at the many skills that you can master throughout the game. You can learn how to disembowel 
 a zombie with your bare hands, or use the zombies as a means of travel, by riding them like an 
 incredibly slow cow that happens to walk on two legs.
  The music to the game is fair, but to increase satisfaction, I suggest creating a mix of Rob & 
 White Zombie, along with a selection of favorites from The Misfits to play as a soundtrack for 
 the carnage that cuts loose in the Willamette City Mall.
  This game is not perfect. There are a few issues that I had with it, but all in all it is one of 
 the most entertaing games that I have played in a very long time. Now, if only a gaming manufacturer 
 can release an Evil Dead title for X-Box 360 that doesn't suck... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demolition93
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  im a big fan of zombie movies myself, now seeing this makes me jealous i dont have a 360, now i 
 mean JEALOUS, this is fun from what i played of a friend but i can see how it could get boring 
 but maybe it doesnt we didnt really follow the story line but it seems a little creepy with some 
 of those screen shots with the green faced rain coats people, DEVIL WORSHIPERS, and other things, 
 there is many things to do to these hopeless demented people, kiling them could get a little boring, 
 and if i were you and thinking about gettign this game i would NOW because let me tell you its 
 gorry and it proboly will be taken off the market soon.. if you got it and dont like it watch land 
 of the dead....... dawn of the dead..... if you have a sence of humor and not afraid of a little 
 blood and organs... SHAUN OF THE DEAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guinessbonez
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  OK everyone my intial inpressions of this game was oh another State of Emergency atleast thats 
 what I got from playing the demo. But after i played the final version wow what a amazing game. Their 
 is so much you can do like killing PSYCOPATHS and rescueing survivors and playing the main story. The 
 only fault is the save system which can basically **** you ove. cause If youdont watch the time 
 and you save ad you can't make it to your objective your ****ed GAME OVER. Their are multiple ending 
 that prviode alot of replay value. The best part of dead rising is knowing that in any point in 
 the game you can wipe out a chainsaw and just go crazy on hundreds of ZOMBIES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. Graphics-well 
 its not the the best looking game on the block but it not the worst eiter.
  
  Sound-Ahh its not GRAW quality but it dose its job in setting the mood
  
  learning curve-Anyone 
 with a habd can pick this game out and have fun and chop up some zombies.
  
  If only their was an online co-op mayham mode then this game would be an MUST HAVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is made by like the masters of zombies, capcom. But its nothing in the area of resident 
 evil besides the actual zombies.
  
  This game is less survival horror and more...... hacknslash zombie thing. Yep all you do is kill 
 zombies with what ever you can find, and do a few missions here and there but mostly zombie genocide.
 
  
  This game isnt just a regular hacknslash its got surprising depth. This game lets you use practically 
 any reasonable item you see and use it as a weapon. There are shovels, hammers, chairs, benchs, 
 bowling balls, and everything else you would see in a mall. And yes there are all the boring weapons 
 like swords and guns..... eww. This games story is about a reporter who wants to get a scoop in 
 a town in distress. But he finds himself trapped in a mall with zombies and crazy people. Then 
 its up to you to find the truth about what happened.
  
  This games gameplay style is mostly killing zombies. But when you want to do the story (in which 
 the game practically forces you to if you want all the good stuff) all you do is missions. The 
 main missions are called cases and you have to do them at certain times. Sometimes it sucks because 
 itll make you wait a long time before a mission starts and youll be more tense to try to get there 
 at the right time then spend time wacking zombies until you need to get there.
  
  The games structure is whats really broken. You only have one save slot and you can only save in 
 places like bathrooms and such that are scattered through the mall but are rarely near you. So 
 you'll probably say "ill save later" then you die and either get to start over the whole game with 
 your stats, or load from your old save point which is practically the game from the beggining. 
 So ya if you want to finish the story, do that only and forget about zombie killing and the rescue 
 missions.
  
  The missions in dead rising are not that fun. They are mostly rescue missions in which you find 
 a hapless person and then take them to your hideout. Seems easy, but the partner ai is just as 
 bad as the zombies. Sometimes theyll follow you , then stop to fight zombies, then get into a giant 
 pile of zombie and get killed. Chances are your only probably going to do about 3 of these missions 
 throughout your whole game experience. SO ya the rescue missions are very repetetive and practically 
 impossible, luckily you dont have to do them.
  
  The cool thing in dead rising is that you can "level up" like in rpgs. If you level up you can 
 earn new moves. These moves can be really cool like a head crusher move, an neck twister, and giant 
 swing move. Then they could be stupid moves like a tackle or jump kick. ALso you can upgrade the 
 amount of items, your health bars, and your speed from leveling up.
  
  you level up by killing a lot of zombies, rescuing people, beating bosses, taking pictures. You 
 get prestige points which are the xp points. Leveling up is really rewarding.
  
  This game is very massive. Lots of zombies on screen (the most ive seen is like 300 in one place) . 
 The games structure is huge also. There are many stores to explore, many floors and many parts 
 to the mall to exlpore. There wont be a time were you will spend most of your time in one place, 
 your always moving in this game.
  
  This games graphics are unique. they arent spectacular but they arent bad. The character models 
 are really nice and the environments are very colorful and bright. Zombies look really ugly and 
 in large piles look pretty scary.
  
  This game is really fun and you will be playing it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising tells the story of a journalist who goes to great lengths to procure a story. By now 
 however, we all know about this, and to make a long story short, the journalist finds himself trapped 
 inside a mall with thousands of zombies. The whole lure of this game is that it's up to you to 
 figure out what inside any of the numerous mall stores you want to use to defend yourself.
  
  immediately after hearing this, if you're anything like me, dreams of dispatching zombies in 
 a hardware or gun store start forming in your head, and you start foaming at the mouth. With good 
 reason too, because that is an absolutely fantastic concept, and one that could only be fully achieved 
 with the power of next-gen consoles.
  
  But (yes there is a but) , the game is held back by design choices I may never understand. Seriously, 
 I would love to have a tape of the creative meetings in which some of these ideas are born, because 
 I will never fully believe people thought these were good ideas until I see it.
  
  The first thing I speak of, and you've probably heard of, is the save system. This actually isn't 
 as bad as it's being made out to be, but it does require a fairly big adjustment. When I first 
 started playing this game, it felt more like a saving excercise than a zombie game. I may be wrong 
 here, but I assumed I would be worried about how I'm going to kill zombies while playing this game, 
 not where I am going to save next. It really detracts from the atmosphere in my opinion.
  
  Then there is a lack of a true free-roam mode. When you get the true ending, you unlock something 
 called an unlimited mode, where you play as long as you can while your health constantly drains. 
 However, even that is marred by poor design choice as much of the health items are for some reason 
 removed. Like I said, the fact that people thought these were good ideas continues to confuse me.
 
  
  Then there's Otis, who to be honest must not have any friends, or at least have any friends with 
 working telephones, because he calls constantly and rambles on like a schoolgirl. Well, why is 
 this so bad? Because the developers had the great idea to not allow you to attack while taking 
 a call, and no way to shut the phone off. So it rings and rings and rings, and by the end of the 
 game you are sure to hate Otis.
  
  To wrap it up, these are just some of the main flaws with Dead Rising, trust me there are more. 
 It does have redeeming qualities like a surprisingly good story, and you do get to kill lots of 
 zombies, but to say this title didn't fulfill it's potential is an understatement. My advice, rent 
 it, get the true ending, return it, and play the demo. Your sanity and your wallet will thank you 
 in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure fun. Kill zombies with anything you can find. Adventure in a huge mall. Meet 
 some interesting people and psycopaths.
  This game is one you don't want to miss.
  Once again, this is a game where you can do anything you want. You don't have to follow through 
 with the story if you don't want to and there are plenty of neat things to do. And with all the 
 different endings and achievments you can get, you will play this game over and over again.
  You are Frank West, a journalist sent to the Willamette Mall to find out what the hell is going 
 on. You find that the mall is infested with zombies. But thats not all. There are also cultists, 
 the Army, and like I said before, Psycopaths. All you can kill with any, ANY weapon you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowHYREN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the course of this game, you will undoubtedly love and hate Dead Rising. Its both rewarding 
 and stressful. All in all, its an extremely enjoyable game that you should only play if you have 
 the patience to try things over and over.
  
  Gameplay - This is where DR truely breaks the mold. Like Capcom claims, everything and anything 
 is a weapon. Theres just so much fun stuff packed into this game. Some of the escort missinos can 
 be a pain, for example the survivors that dont help you in any way. But a few survivors are a godsend 
 when surrounded by zombies. DR presents many new ideas, and succeeds with almost all of them
  
  Graphics - The 360 is capibible of a bit more, but lets face it: thats not why you bought this 
 game. if you only buy games for the graphics, you dont deserve a 360 in the first place. Sound 
 - Most sounds are quite good, especially the ambience music in parts of the mall. it really puts 
 you in the game. Weapon sounds are quite accurate as well, and when using 5.1 surround sound the 
 maintenence tunnels are a scream.
  
  Value - On top of it all, DR has an excellent story. Im not going to spoil it for you though. You 
 will gets many hours of enjoyment out of DR, as some of the achievements are incredibly hard to 
 get.
  
  Tilt - I love both Capcom and zombie games, and especially zobie games by Capcom. its no surprise 
 i love Dead Rising and i hope you do too. But remember, patience, patience, patience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbiter2118
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I had been watching Dead Rising for about a year before it came out, way back when Capcom was designing 
 it. Since then I knew that it would be an awesome game, and I was right! I got a 360 the day before 
 Dead Rising came out in preparation, Dead Rising is one of the main reasons I got the Xbox 360, 
 and I think it was worth the $60 price tag that came with it. First off it has tremendous replay 
 value, I myself have beat the 72-hour mode game four times, and overtime twice. The first time 
 through you can do only the main missions, the second just side missions, the third anything else, 
 or try to go for some of the games wide variety of achievements. There are 50 achievements each 
 worth 20 points, some are challenging, some are not, and some are just plain fun! They keep you 
 coming back to try and complete them all. Unlike PDZ where its achievements are in increments of 
 10, 100, 1000, making them rather dull, Dead Rising has a range of points, from eating all the 
 food, wearing all the clothes, beating bosses, saving people, bowling for zombies, or killing 53,594 
 of them. But if it's just non-stop zombie killing madness you want just beat overtime mode to unlock 
 infinite mode, where you go head to head with not only endless zombies but also all the survivors, 
 and bosses, you've encountered. Don't just stand around in the corner, because your health is always 
 declining, and you must search from plaza to plaza, from store to store to find food to feed yourself, 
 but all the humans you defeat drop food to help you on your never-ending quest. By far the best, 
 coolest and most unique feature in Dead Rising is its weaponry, which consists of, well, anything, 
 and I mean anything. Capcom boasts that the game contains 250 plus weapons. They range from guns 
 to your normal zombie killers (bats, knifes, swords) and the truly bizarre like Frisbees, mega 
 man blasters, cash registers, benches, trashcans, and king salmons. So if youre into random zombie 
 killing with fantastic weapons or great storylines, Dead Rising is the game for you! BUT if you 
 don't take my work for it, try it before you buy it; just download the FREE DEMO from the Xbox 
 360's marketplace! Hope this helped, and happy zombie hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tighfield
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Tired of playing those games that scare the crap out of you? This game won't do that but you'll 
 sure of heck have a fun time disposing of zombies! What I do like about this game is the amount 
 of weapons to choose from. While some may not be very effective, it adds more realism to the game. 
 One thing that bothers me is the save feature. You only save at bathrooms or in the security room 
 & once you die you have the option of saving your status & starting all over or loading up a previous 
 save. Which most likely you haven't saved in awhile so that would really suck. But I love this 
 game & I recommend anyone to play! Mow those zombies down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay in this game is gory and fun. Youll have fun riping zombies heads off. Or 
 tearing them in half with a chainsaw either way its really fun.
  
  graphics- The graphics are basically very solid. Not the best. But look great but you will have 
 issues if you dont have a high def tv. If you dont youll notice the text is really hard to read.
 
  
  sound- The sound of this game is awsome. When killing the zombie and hearing they die or try to 
 bite you sounds excellent. Its awsome! Value- The game will having you coming back quite often
 
  
  tilt- All blended together this one outstanding game. If your a zombie fan and youve ben waiting 
 for the one great zombie game its hear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I am gonna keep this short and sweet. Dead Rising is a fun game with tons of gore but minor problems 
 that may turn people off of it. Pros: 1. Pretty well developed story mode 2. Tons of unlockables 
 and achievment 3. good graphics 4. the sound effects are perfect 5. Story mode has tons of different 
 endings so you can keep playing it over and over again without getting too bored 6. fun rpg-like 
 leveling system 7. Melee skills that never get old 8. So much blood and gore that its funny 9. 
 Three different modes to choose from
  
  Cons: 1. survivor AI is 1 step lower than retarded. 2. No multiplayer 3. Ruined the Infinate mode 
 4. Characters seem to shoe no emotion except for anger in their facial expresions 5. Otis calls 
 you in the most inconvinant times and when you are talkin on your walky talky you can defend yourself 
 at all. 6. Its almost impossible to read the text in this game so its hard to know exactly whats 
 going on most of the time. In the end i really likes this game overall. I do think they should 
 have made infinate mode more like a free mode, and i think the really should have spent more time 
 on the suvivor AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cranbar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  its a great game but..... there are bad things like the save points. Why do all the people at capcom 
 want to make people want to walk a long didtance in the game to save! Like sometimes it gets frustrating 
 to play because when your with a group of people that you saved and if you diue for them trying 
 to save them from the prison people or the other crazy people in this game youll find it anonnying. 
 Alson the a. i in this game is horribal! If you give the people that you saved a weapon they just 
 attack the zombies when your trying to get away from them. But there are some good thuings in the 
 game like the voice acting, all the weapons, and how crazy the people are in this game. If i had 
 to pick between MADDEN 07 or DEAD RAISING i would definliny pick DEAD RAISING. (And alson all you 
 loving madden fans i played it, its just another stupied EA sports game just to take your money) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the new zombie game by Capcom and its so FUN it beats sex..... no wait no it doesnt. 
 Anyway, this game puts you in the shoes of Frank West and you're covering this zombie story in 
 the town of willamette collorado. You cover ur story in the mall and this mall IS OVER RUN BY ZOMBIES. 
 THEY ARE ****ING EVERYWHERE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! And there's many ways to kill them using a huge arsenal 
 of 250 weapons, ranging from stuffed bears to chainsaws. The Game is so gory ITS GREAT. The Graphics 
 are good but the Character Models, aside from Frank and a few main characters, they arent too special. 
 Great Voice acting all around. This game has huge replay value juding by the fact that Zombies 
 are fun to kill, the story is great, and the 360 achievements.
  
  lastly
  if you have an XBOX 360
  GO GET DEAD RISING NOW!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clevelandrox23
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Being stuck in a mall with thousands of zombies=many many kills. In the game you basically can 
 pick up any object and use it as a weapon which is awsome. You can throw cd's, hit people with 
 guitars, and run over the zombies with a car. The missions are not all that fun and there is not 
 a lot to do in this game. Unfortunetley you can't do multiplayer or even co-op which is one of 
 its drawbacks. The graphics aren't all to amazing either but the gameplay makes up for it.
  
  This game is great for playing with friends but after a while gets rather boring. Overall this 
 is one of the top 360 games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daymar_Thrax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is fairly well reviewed already, so I'll stick to the high and low points in general.
 
  
  The game definitely has a "Grand Theft Auto" feel to it. Certainly the environment is different, 
 and the mission structure is time-triggered vs. player triggered. (The time-triggered missions 
 are definitely a love-hate thing.) There is *no way* the first time through that you are going 
 to cover a fraction of the missions. Still, to its great credit, this is the *only* XBox 360 game 
 I've played through twice. On the downside, with the urgent time-pressure, I still feel like I've 
 only hit about 70% of the game. But the game play is *not* compelling enough to play through a 
 third time.
  
  If you get the "True" ending, a neew stay-alive game mode is unlocked, but without the story elements, 
 I found this mode non-engaging.
  
  So then, the good:
  
  Good graphics. Lots and lots of zombies. Lots. Decent (though typical zombie-movie) storyline. 
 Lots of "missions" and is fun enough to play through again. Since one play-through for me was about 
 10 hours (compared to Prey which was say 7) , and that I played through it twice, this games stands 
 second only to Oblivion in terms of hours per dollar (a distant second, but 2nd nonetheless) .
 
  
  There are a number of cut scenes that are all rather well done with excellent lip-syncing.
  
 
  The "missions" were varied and context appropriate to this B-movie genre. The "feel" of the game 
 is just plain "good" in general.
  
  The bad:
  
  If you are into gamer achievement points, ther are no less than 50 categories. Some are so brazenly 
 tedious that only a social invalid would attempt them all. Who wants to play *another* 10-hour 
 play though specifically to get 20 or 40 points?
  
  The music is largely a non-issue, being neither irritating nor inspiring. The game *should* have 
 been full speech given the limited number of missions and characters. Instead, you get to read 
 text while the NPC's mutter some inane (and typically poorly acted) one-liner. Oblivion had 10 
 times the text of this game. Come on folks! When you have lip-syncing technology that looks that 
 good, use it in the main game, not just the cut scenes.
  
  The "one-slot save" can be frustrating and potentially game-ending in terms of the main plot. It 
 is soooo frustrating trying to save someone 3 to 5 times on a side-quest just to find out you are 
 10 seconds short of being able to complete a mission on the main quest-line (and if you fail once, 
 you fail the entire plot thread) . In these cases, you end up letting the side-quest time-out ( 
 i. e. letting someone die) , and sitting on your thumbs waiting for a main plot-quest to trigger. 
 You'll find yourself going on little foraging runs staying near "home base" (the security room) 
 in order to waste small time chunks waiting for "main quest" triggers to start (which often occur 
 at the security room) .
  
  Finally, on at least one mission (the chick on the motorcycle) , you can finish the quest with significant 
 time remaining and still "fail" due to which I can only call a programming bug. (This is when I 
 started my second play-through because I was basically screwed by the one-save-game limit) .
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Despite any faults, this is one of the best games to date on the 360. In 
 fact, I'd put only Oblivion before it. It was creative and took risks, and it paid off nicely. 
 I'm glad to see they've sold over 500,000 copies already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ive been following this game for months now. I read all the previews and it looked so awesome. 
 Ive always been a fan of Capcom and their excellent games. Most of them have always been great, 
 and only a few were underwhelming. Take Resident Evil for example. The series rocked, and zombies 
 were the main enemy. The problem with Resident Evil however, is that it was more atmospheric than 
 action packed, making it difficult to take on zombies in a more fun way. Dead Rising however, does 
 the opposite. It was strange that Capcom was always changing this game around and it had many people 
 wondering what the full version of Dead Rising was going to be like. When I finally played it, 
 I was able to cast most of my fears aside as Dead Rising is not only one of the most fun and unique 
 games I have ever played in my life, but its also one of the hardest.
  
  The story stars a man named Frank West who is a photojournalist that has spent his life covering 
 wars and tragedies. He gets a tip that something big is happening in a town called Willamette Colorado. 
 He hires a helicopter junkie to take him there and when he arrives, he sees that there is definitely 
 something big going on. There are people eating other people and the ones doing the eating dont 
 appear to be human. He finally arrives on the roof of the shopping mall and tells the guy to come 
 back for him in 3 days while he covers the story. He soon finds out that there is more to the zombie 
 incident then meets the eye.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  The visuals in this game are impressive and sharp enough. The environments look detailed enough, 
 the special and lighting effects look pretty cool, the explosions look nice but its the bloody 
 and gory battles that really hit the spot. If you even punch a zombie, you will see blood go everywhere. 
 It even goes all over the walls if a zombie is standing by a wall when you kill him. Since there 
 are many ways to kill them there are also many ways to get lots of blood out of them. Blood even 
 goes all over frank if he kills them up close. Adding to this is the incredibly smooth framerate 
 that comes along for the ride. Most of the time you will see about 100-200 zombies on screen at 
 once, and even if you see 1000 zombies all at once, the framerate never slows down, making for 
 a truly smooth experience. This is no small feat given Dead Risings open, expansive environments. 
 As for the character models, therere not the most detailed and arent quite up to the 360s standards. 
 Most of their faces dont animate in any way and it makes for somewhat poor models. This is slightly 
 disappointing, given what Ive seen on the Xbox 360. Other than the visuals are pretty good and 
 get the job done.
  
  Sound- 9/10
  The sound effects are fantastic. Its not really the voice acting that makes it so great (although 
 that is very good too) but its the individual sound effects for each weapon. Every weapon you 
 use has a different sound effect for when you drop it, hit a zombie with it, or throw it at anything. 
 No two weapons have the same sound to them. The music is also pretty good, aside from the cheesy 
 mall music that plays every time you enter the mall. As for the voice acting, this is the only 
 flaw in the sound. Aside from the FMVs, there is no voice acting at all when you talk to people. 
 There are only captions to read and they are very difficult to read due to being so small. Aside 
 from that, the sound effects are fantastic and give the game a very real feel.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Before we begin I just wanted to say that this was a very hard game to rate (gameplay 
 wise.) It has many ups and downs which make it hard to describe but Ill start out with the good 
 elements first.
  
  To start off, as soon as the action starts you will most likely notice how unique this game is. 
 There are 250+ weapons and objects in the mall that can be used against zombies. Sure, you have 
 your guns like the pistol, shotgun, Uzi, etc but take a closer look. You can use anything from 
 cars all the way down to CDs and cassettes. Hockey sticks, baseball bats, gems from jewelry stores, 
 chairs, tables, benches, hardware, cash registers, even toys, you name it, its there. This makes 
 for a very fun game as you can literally take anything and use it against them. And the best part 
 is that there are at least 100 zombies in every area, which makes for some real chaos. Theres 
 also another element called photographer points that level frank up when enough are obtained. They 
 can level up your health, your speed, your attack power, the amount of weapons you can carry or 
 give you a new hand to hand skill. And since this game was made by Capcom, there are lots of resident 
 evil and mega man jokes in it too. In fact, the population of the town youre in is 53,594. If 
 you defeat 53,594 zombies, you unlock mega man battle armor and his battle cannon, which you can 
 use to blow hordes of zombies away all at once. You can also change your clothes in certain stores 
 and there are unlockable outfits as well. Furthermore, once you beat 72 hour mode, you unlock overtime 
 mode and then unlimited mode which adds even more replay value. So if you just want to cut, bash 
 and slash the hell out of every zombie in your path, stop reading this review right now and go 
 pick up a copy of this game. Ill wait for you to get back
  
  Dead Rising only has a couple of flaws, but all of them are major and hamper the experience somewhat. 
 First off is the save system. The save system is the most horrendous system I have ever seen in 
 my entire life. Sure, Capcom has never been the master of Save Systems, but it has never been this 
 bad. You have to find a bathroom to save your progress, and theres only one save slot. Also if 
 you save at a point where you cant get to your next objective in time, you have to restart the 
 game over and there are very few auto saves throughout the game. Fortunately, if you have to start 
 the game over, you can carry all your stats over to the new game which makes it easier than the 
 last time. Second, is the sheer amount of difficulty this game has. Trust me, this game may look 
 easy, but its not, its real hard, especially the boss fights. Some of the boss fights are so hard, 
 that you may end up turning the game off in absolute disgust.
  
  Overall, despite Dead Rising major flaws, its still a really fun game and one of the most fun 
 titles currently available for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMac76913
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Quite a fun and entertaining way to go through a mall without your nagging girlfriend there haha... 
 This game has so many things for you to do its pretty amazing. There are quite a few missions for 
 you to play during your romp around the mall while you are waiting for your buddy to come back 
 and pick you up in the helicopter. Also, pretty much everywhere in the mall there is something 
 for you to do at some point in time if you get tired of the guilty pleasure that killing zombies 
 gives you. The game not only has pretty solid gameplay but the graphics look nice as well. Also, 
 if you are a fan of Dawn of the Dead, regardless of what it says on the front of the game case 
 you will most likely enjoy this game. I would deff. recommend it for anyone looking for a fun game 
 to play that is not in the "norm" if you will. Two thumbs up from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddles136
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Stuck in a mall with zombies, pick up anything and start bashing. Gameplay is great with an original 
 story. You can go from just running around bashing zombies, to trying to find out the story, to 
 trying to save the numerous "survivors". Definitely not for kids as the numerous ways you can dispatch 
 the zombies is very graphic with body parts flying everywhere. As for the flaws: Save system, Yes 
 there is only one save slot so don't go saving every chance you get. If you save in a bad place 
 you have to start the whole game over, but you can get used to it and work around it.
  
  Controls: First of all you pull the trigger to enter aim view, then the controls are opposite of 
 every first person shooter i have ever played. You never quite get used to the backwards sticks. 
 I often found myself throwing my weapon away while trying to send my survivors to a waypoint.
 
  
  AI: The survivors are IDIOTS they run right into zombies and can't figure out how to get from point 
 A to point B. You will think the zombies are smarter than the survivors, but with careful management 
 you can babysit the survivors to the goal.
  
  Overall a great game, great graphics, great story. One of the best titles on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejam4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Man where do i start first this games has some of the best graphics i have seen on 360 except DOA. 
 Your stuck in the mall with a large amount of weapons at your disposil you can use just about anything 
 to kill the undead. man if you have a 360 puchase this game you wont be disappointed. the people 
 at capcom really hit the spot when they craeted this gme i cant wait until there is a part 2. the 
 only complaint that i have about the game is that the game is the best 360 game since the release. 
 if you are a fan of killing zombies like in resident evil 4 than this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Wiggin
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising or Revisited?
  Remember that God awful game State of Emergency? Let's take a that game and add something that 
 everyone loves to hate (other than a fascist government) : ZOMBIES! Although Dead Rising is better 
 in every aspect than SoE, the games mirror each other in most ways minus the story and one important 
 game play mechanic. In SoE the objective is to over throw the fascist government that is oppressing 
 the people ala the book 1984 (Orson Wells) . You pick your main character and administer vigilante 
 "justice" in the first level..... a mall. Need a weapon? Use items around the mall to take out 
 guards to gain firepower. The game does have half way structured missions. That's where the simalarities 
 end thankfully. The game has a never ending supply of zombies to use your improvised weaponry against. 
 Free form quest, for the most part, that reminisces me to the GTA series with an over all Resident 
 Evil 4 esque feel. The game as some unique characteristic features. Since the main character is 
 a reporter, you can gain experience from getting photographs that enhance your scoop. Leveling 
 in the game can also unlock new moves for your character, hence, killing the endless waves of zombie 
 isn't quite as repetitive as it could be. Some of the funny sights in the game could only be brought 
 to you by Capcom. For instance, dressing up in a Mega Man outfit or putting a serve bot head on 
 a zombie that walks around confused until he becomes redead.
  The only real shame is the lack of multiplayer. I don't think I'm alone here. I mean what is better 
 than killing zombies..... nazi zombies.... nvm.... killing zombies with your friends. The replay 
 value would definitely increase with multiplayer. Competitive zombie killing..... Scott came. Ugly 
 face, so killed him..... Mmmmm. Tasty! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbadwolf86
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Depends who you are.. I am a zombie fanatic so this game was very addicting. I beat 
 it in a day.. I expect Capcom to relase more costumes though.. this would keep teh replay value 
 up. I also still want to unlock more of the achievements. It also would of been interesting to 
 walk around teh parkinglot out side the mall.. It's kinda of a evil tease.. I could go into details 
 about the bosses and what not but I loved that all. 9/10
  
  Graphics- Small text problem.. which is a pain.. but that might be fixed. This game was meant to 
 play on a HDTV. and I have to admit, the graphics are very very good. 10/10
  
  Sound- Voice acting was "ok." Though I feel Capcom got a bit lazy with the communicator.. If "Oblivon" 
 can do it.. why can't Dead Rising? 7/10
  
  Final Word- It's a game worth playing.. great experience also. Though I wish Capcom could of did 
 some Resident Evil tie in.. they said they wouldn't.. but they could of atleast had the umbrella 
 logo somewhere.. even a store would of been nice. Plus.. Resident Evil costumes? Devil May Cry? 
 Anything? Nope.. just Mega-Man and Arthur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't love killing zombies? I mean come it's just something everyone can love. I mean If 
 you could pay to be locked in a mall and kill zombies wouldn't you. I swear it's the next giant 
 family attraction. Anways this game is great it never gets old. Even after you beat the game, you 
 can still go back and play it however you want, screw the objectives it doesn't matter. You could 
 just kill zombies. The cool thing is you get achievements for it too. Like surviving for 10- days, 
 killing 10,000 zombies. Truly invigorating. Even the mission objectives are fun, and theres always 
 those side little things saying rescue this wnech or save this bastard ya know. It's fun, and you 
 level up in this game right. When you level up you get increased skill (of course) and can further 
 hack zombies. Overall great game buy it, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I really had fun with this game for the first several hours. After all, bashing 
 an endless supply of zombies with multiple weapons is fun. But where this game fails is the save 
 feature, the NPC AI , and the side missions. The save feature sucks, making it very possible that 
 you can play for 30 minutes, and die before you can reach a save point. The side missions are not 
 fun, because they have you save people. The problem is these people can't fend for themselves, 
 since the AI is terrible. So, even if you find these people, you probably won't save them, since 
 you have to escort them to the safe room. This ruins the game for me. Too bad, since the story 
 was actually pretty good. Overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurochamps2004
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  pros
  
  - guns , swords, hdtvs, lawnmowers, clothshangers, or my favorite the bear mask can all be used 
 as weapons in the game. And thats only the tip of the iceberg
  -no slowdown in the time i played the game even with hundereds of zombies runn..... walking around.
 
  - zombie parts flying everywhere
  - never takes itself to seriously
  -zombie killing never gets old
  - enviroment looks great
  - great audio
  -phycopath battle 
 can be intense
  cons
  - save system makes it hard to actually do whatever you want and finish the main quest at the same 
 time
  - some boss battle are ridiculous
  - i dont care for the escort missions
  - non essencial character have recycled character modles
  aiming is a pain on occasion
  - there 
 are only a certain amount of times you pacience will hold when you have to repeatedly start the 
 game over (who thought this was a good idea) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game looked good since the first time I heard about it, and pretty much it is. Decent graphics 
 with a great story, but the controls are kinda hard to get used to. I also don't like how you are 
 able to save. It's crazy how many zombies that are able to fit moving in one screenshot, but that 
 doesn't get me other the fact that I can' t stand the control design. I'm sure some are beating 
 the crap out of zombies and shooting up a frenzy, but I tried and tried and never could get the 
 handle on things. It looked awesome, but just didn't feel awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the best game for the XBOX 360 to date. Capcom did great in bringing the zombie 
 concept in a different format than resident evil. while at time annoying, its annoying enough that 
 you know this game will have you playing for hours trying to beat the game.
  
  story - your a photographer named frank on a scoop you got rumored to be in a small town in Colorado. 
 you get there and find out the government is already there and trying to contain the place. so 
 helicopter is the way to go. without going to much into spoiler mode, you work with 2 agents to 
 uncover the truth to whats happening in this small town while getting your own scoop.
  
  gameplay - fabulous. action all the time and with a system that allows you to grow as a player 
 with skills and a status that keep how many item you carry to health. everything is a weapon. there 
 isn't a time in the game you cant arm your self with a weapon. zombies while they are every where 
 and in no time soon going to go away, are easy to deal with, especially if your skills are high. 
 sub bosses might be a challenge if you don't put common sense into place. the only thing that might 
 get you is the time criteria the game has. while you pretty much get to do anything you want, you 
 have to continue with the story in order to get a game ending. this might frustrate players but 
 even if you die, when you start the game over you have the skills you died with and the game does 
 go faster.
  
  graphics - its a xbox 360. you'll be too into the game to notice the glitches, unless your a freak.
 
  
  overall - like I said, to this day i have not spent so much time with a game on the 360. the games 
 lacked replay value. this game does replay value.
  
  MUST PLAY, don't have to buy. i rented it and traded it in. but you can't go wrong either way. 
 a great game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow2k6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  At first you may think when you see Dead Rising that its just another Horror-Survival killing Zombie 
 game, well thats where your wrong. If you have played most of the Resident Evil and thought they 
 got pretty boring after a while but you do like Survival-Horror games then you'll probably love 
 Dead Rising. Dead Rising isn't exactly a horror game though since it has comedy in it at times 
 but there can be times where things get scary or just weird. The story is your a reporter that 
 wants to get a story about a small town with a population of around 50,000 but the the town has 
 nothing special besides a big mall. When you get to the mall you find out that its infested with 
 zombies and that there is few survivors and eventually a lot of them die throughout the story and 
 you can't exactly same them all. In Dead Rising your character has a level (think Role playing 
 game kind of leveling up) which increasing everytime you get PP. You can get PP by taking photos 
 with your camera, saving survivors, having survivors join you, and killing zombies. When you level 
 up you can gain a number of things including a extra health block, a new move, or more speed. You 
 could say Dead Rising is open-ended but not really since your limited on time and if you don't 
 complete a certain mission in a certain amount of time then you will lose the "truth" story. However 
 if you don't complete the story the game won't end you just won't get the true ending on whatever 
 mode your on. Along with taking pictures you can you about any item in the game as a weapon all 
 you have to do is go by a item and press B. Most of these weapons or helpful but a lot are just 
 for the humor. Some of these weapons include: Katana, Handgun, Butcher Knife, Lead Pipe, CDs, Soda 
 Cans, etc. There is also guns in the games like SMGs, Handguns, and Shotguns. There is also cars 
 and motorcycles in the game where you can plow through zombies.
  
  All in all the game is a great zombie game which is like no other. If you like the Resident Evil 
 series but with a twist and with some humor then you'll like this game. I definite good buy if 
 you just got a Xbox 360 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  heres the deal, MAN IS THIS GAME HARD. thats the only thing thats gonna stop casual gamers from 
 realizing that this game is amazing. if youve been playing all of these first year 360 games you 
 know they all have one thing in common. there not that hard. the main reason for this is the unlimited 
 saves you get as well as starting from where you last died or save. not this game. if you accomplish 
 anything your first reaction should be to save the game immediately after. cause if you dont when 
 you die you will be pissed. dont be fooled. this game is definitely for hardcore players.
  
  that being said, this is an absolutely fun and well made game. you get wrapped up in the story. 
 the characters are interesting and the voice acting is great. the graphics are excellent and the 
 sound is good. the game does a great job of providing some intense and tense moments. theres not 
 much else i really can say, the game has to be played to be enjoyed but be for warned it is damn 
 hard. if they gave you the ability to either continue from where you last died of save anywhere 
 it might be more enjoyable but it doesnt so if you start to play this game beware, cause you wont 
 wanna stop but youll also break some stuff in the house 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a great and original game
  It doesn't last forever but it's the best thing to come to the 360 in a while
  The graphics are 
 superb and the controls are intuitive and great
  I'm not a fan of how a slow double tap on the control stick can get you in trouble but
  This 
 is a superb game
  
  Saints Row, I meant to do that though
  SR is a crap game with a nice paintjob, and there's only simpleminded things to like about it, 
 sorry
  
  Dead Rising, however, is a fun and worthwhile experience
  Didn't mean to give this one a 1
  It's a well done, if quick, game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darwin12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game that made me get naked  
 y je yj ey y y jeyj y e r ye e er yery r hwt r thwtr ythw gy tw t tht wrth6yth w heh wtrh tew rthwerththrthrthw 
 rtw gt we w t e r e e re e rwger g grgwhtw ththtw rhtw w tt w t hw t h wh w ht e wrh jytwrnnu yumn 
 kjnege r yh y renrbwrn tyn hwrh yt rew w rwh rwy h tw tw hwh w whr tywjewt t e whwmmeyn y wer r 
 r r r h wtywrh ytwr th 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodhawk_DX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Game play: To sum it up this game is fairly simple to play. Generally one or two buttons will get 
 your character to attack. Now while this sounds over simple. The vast number of weapons in the 
 game, all with their own unique moves add plenty of depth and a little strategy to smashing just 
 the X button. There are Dozens and dozens of enemies on screen at once and each one is great fun 
 to just bash! The missions are fairly simple, you've got your boss fights with psychopaths here 
 and there. Which are satisfying battles. Each psychopath is unique and twisted in their own way. 
 You've got tons of escort missions (Which do get a little old after a while.) Overall a very, very 
 fun game and addicting for those of you who have a need to just go into a mall and destroy everything 
 you can get your hands on. The amount of content is amazing. The ability to mix foods to create 
 drinks with variable effects, the tons of cosmetic changes to your character. There doesn't seem 
 to be an end to just how many funny ways you can punish the zombies in the mall. Speaking of the 
 mall it's fairly large, you'll drive cars, bikes, skateboards, motorcycles. Anything you would 
 expect in a giant mall will be there. Chances are you can hit a zombie with it too. There are minor 
 RPG elements to the game as well. You gain PP (The games version of experience points) For taking 
 photos, killing zombies and psychopaths and escorting survivors. All these build up your character, 
 Frank West. Over the course of the game Frank will learn hand to hand moves, grappling moves and 
 more ways to bash our Zombie companions.
  
  Graphics: The cinematic look good, and there is lots of detail and various character models to 
 see. The graphics are smooth for the most part and the frame rate rarely sputters, but in my experience 
 I've seen it happen a few times. It doesn't exactly have what I would define as a "next gen" look 
 but overall satisfying to the eyes for those who care about those things, and a rather brutal blood 
 effect. Overall I can't complain much. Looks a lot better on a HDTV
  
  Sound: The game features some sounds that will get repetitive after a while. Certain weapons all 
 have their distinct sounds, the moans and groans of zombies and the repetitive cries of the survivors. 
 All in all I can't complain about the sound. There are some interesting sound tracks to the game 
 for boss battles. The game could have seriously used some voice acting for the transmissions. The 
 text in the game is very hard to read and hearing a voice rather than reading text is always more 
 satisfying. Overall: I really enjoyed this game. I wasn't too enthusiastic about it after playing 
 the demo but once I got into it, it turned out to be quite a lot of fun. Earning all the achievements 
 can be a challenge and adds more to the game play. The AI for the survivors is absolutely HORRID 
 though. If I have one major problem with this game it's the survivor's AI. Other than that I would 
 highly recommend this game to people who just love survival horror games. It's very original and 
 if you spend time getting the achievements, unlocking all the content, and seeing all the endings 
 this game will keep you busy for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ungivenglory
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  As a huge zombie movie and game fan, I can openly admit I had been anxiously awaiting this game 
 since the first screens hit the net. Yes, I was one of the people who was in line early in the 
 morning to purchase the game also. The demo had earlier that week been played for hours as I slashed 
 and smashed my way through 15 minute hordes of zombies. I couldn't have gotten that game any faster.
 
  
  I will start with the CONS and end with the PROS As much as I love my game, I also have some problems 
 with it, that in the end, a game that could have been a 9 is more a 7.5 - 8.0. First problem, the 
 AI is HORRID for survivors and some psychopaths. So many times I will be half way back to the security 
 room with survivors when 2 will keep colliding with each other, preventing either from moving anywhere, 
 further leading to their deaths and my own frustration. The survivor AI also has problem with trying 
 to run through solid walls/objects. My second problem is timing, though the case missions and scoops 
 are fun to complete, i find the game has a LOT going on at once during most of the game, making 
 it hard to concentrate on one thing at once. Countless times I will have Otis calling me with a 
 mission in the middle of a boss fight in which i cannot answer. My third complaint is that the 
 frame-rate has some awkward drop times. For example when using the sledge hammer, blood explosion 
 effects seem to drop the frame-rate hugely, as well as completely random times i will be on the 
 way to save in the washroom (whos idea was that?) and the game will slow to a crawl for 10-15 seconds.
 
  
  The last problem that everyone has seemed to notice is how terribly small and hard to read the 
 font is, there are still a few missions I have no idea what I am supposed to be doing and end up 
 just following the arrow. I was quite suprised they didn't have full voice acting for the entire 
 game instead of just cut-scenes. The game itself is great fun to play. I have never been so amused 
 with mass killing in so many ways. The amount of weaponry and attacks is incredible. The controls 
 are easy to learn. The graphics are good, no fight night by any means but for the HUGE amount of 
 zombies that can be on screen it makes up for it. My favorite was the sound effects, they were 
 incredibly well done, from every zombie grunt to every chainsaw buzz. There are definately TONS 
 of pros in which make dead rising a game to definately add to your collection.
  
  To sum things up, Dead Rising is one cool game, I have never seen so many characters on-screen 
 at once. Definately add this game to your colletion if you haven't already. If you can look past 
 the few frustrating problems with the game mentioned above, you will definately find yourself spending 
 many hours enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Zombies, the undead, brain eaters, walking corpses etc. Choose whatever term you want, but they're 
 fun as hell to kill no matter what you call them. And no game, in my opinion, has mastered the 
 time-tested art of zombie killing as well as Dead Rising. You can kill these buggers in almost 
 any way you can imagine. You can go the old fashioned route and put a bullet into their head, or... use 
 a lawnmower and watch as limbs and blood go flying as you run over a vast horde of undead. Speaking 
 of blood... it's absolutely fantastic in this game. When you slice a zombi in two with a katana 
 (diagonally) it flies EVERYWHERE., and in a realistic fashion. The vast showers that spew out of 
 the nech after you've popped a zombie's head (literally) with a sniper round is also satisfying. 
 Another nice effect is the motion blur. This is the first game I've ever played the uses it so 
 well. Hell, I spent minutes making the camera zoom around just to gape at it. Now, on to gameplay. 
 The analog setup is a bet confusing at first. You will look around as you roam the vast mall with 
 the upper left analog stick. But, when you pull out a gun or throwable object, you use the right 
 analog stick to aim, and you are completely immobile. But, if you've played Resident Evil 4, this 
 shouldn't be a problem. This game is not without its fair share of glitches however. The most annoying 
 one, would have to be the respawning convicts in the central park. You made those bastards eat 
 lead the first time around, but get ready to look on in horror as you lead the pair of survivors 
 you just found through said park and get run over and shot by those damned prisoners in their jeep. 
 Other than this though, the game's flawless. I know, I know, some of you people may be frustrated 
 with the save system (you can only have one save slot per profile) , but I think this help add to 
 the fun-factor. For too long, we've been pampered with the quicksave feature. What's so hard about 
 a game where you die and respawn at a point thirty seconds before? That's right, it isn't hard. 
 Anywho, Dead Rising is one of teh best games out on the 360 now, and I highly recommend it to anyone 
 over 17 (there's alot of gore in this game kiddies, I'm not joking) . So, get it, pop in the disk, 
 and get ready to fulfill any fantasies you've had about beating a zombie to death with a plastic 
 toy sword or mannequin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitusAndronicus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a hard game not to like. There are great little nuances everywhere, but for every 
 thing I like about this game, there are many issues that drag my opinion of this game down.
  
  First, let me be clear - Dead Rising is a blast to play. Countless zombies and other enemies 
 fall to your assortment of guns, blades, teddy bears, hockey sticks, and lots of other assorted 
 weaponry. With a good blend or horror, intrigue, and good ol' schlock, the plot is nothing to sneeze 
 at. You play as Frank West, an intrepid photographer who discovers that not all is right in a sleepy 
 little town in Colorado.
  
  You (as Frank) make your way through a mini-mall full of zombie goodness. You have 72 hours to 
 investigate the mall, saving some of the living, and killing a whole lot of zombies. As stated 
 before, there is an array of weapons at your fingertips, some useful, others not quite so much.
 
  
  The characters in Dead Rising are fairly interesting. Good voice acting helps to add to the experience. 
 The plot, while nothing ground-breaking, is enough to keep you motivated. Side-quests, called scoops, 
 are available throughout most of the game, and while these grow a little tedious, they are generally 
 interesting and add a little variety to the game.
  
  The sound in this game is really great. The generic music of the mall is spot on. The sound effects, 
 mostly those of the weapons and the zombies, really hit the nail on the head. I've never hit another 
 human being on the head with a two-by-four, but this is about as close to the sound as I'd ever 
 want to get.
  
  Visually, the game relies on the horde to impress. There can be countless zombies on the screen 
 at any given time, and there is no slow-down to be found. Most of the main characters look good. 
 The zombies and other general denizens of the mall look good, but you'll run into many of the same 
 types over and over. The animations are fluid, and there's a great blood splatter effect that often 
 comes into play.
  
  The game controls are tight and responsive, and you won't find yourself frustrated by overly complicated 
 combinations. Frank has a handful of skills that he learns throughout the game, and these are all 
 fairly easy to pull off.
  
  The levelling system is slightly random. You're given upgrades to factors like speed, throwing 
 distance, health, and so on, as well as acquiring the before-mentioned skills. You'll receive upgrades 
 based loosely around a group of levels - as an example, you'll learn the zombie ride fairly early 
 on. It's an interesting system.
  
  So with all these positives, where do the negatives fit in? The primary problem is the game's weak 
 save system. Gamers are allowed only one slot per save device, which leads to a lot of frustration 
 in the game's open-ended nature. Gamers will find themselves without enough time to get from a 
 save point to a necessary plot case, a problem only resolved by starting the game over. Thankfully, 
 the game does offer the ability to save your abilities and level when you restart, making it a 
 little easier. But you'll still find yourself starting over mutlpile times, thanks to the faulty 
 save system.
  
  Gamers will also encounter all manner of odd bugs. The game's mini-bosses, called psychopaths, 
 can sometimes respawn for no reason, leading to major frustration when escorting civilians through 
 the mall. These bugs are relatively few and far between, but they still are an aggravation to such 
 a fun game.
  
  Overall, gamers will find Dead Rising to be an entertaining game, albeit with a few glaring problems. 
 Hopefully, Capcom will be able to issue fixes to these issues in the future. Until then, I can 
 only recommend that gamers rent this first before deciding to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonqu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  BRAINS!!!
  
  This is by far one of the most enjoyable games I have played so far on the 360. It is a lil difficult 
 at first but once you start to level up it gets a bit easier. My biggest grip is the same as everyone 
 else's, the ridiculous save system. I can understand only saving in certain areas but to only have 
 one save at a time is just plain dumb.
  
  Sometimes the AI can be just plain dumb, they get stuck on benches and walls. They also sometimes 
 just stand there while being eaten by a zombie and all they have to do is move in any direction 
 to get away.
  
  Overall, though this is a fun and challenging game, with some quirks, its one that has replay value 
 to go after Achievements and to see how long you can survive in Infinity mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J02H
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing i already beat it three times it took me forever but i dont complaine like 
 the rest of u losers. Stop complaining y do u think that there are only a couple of u complaining 
 about this game cause the rest of us like this game stop trying to look for ways to critisize this 
 game its fun if u dont like stop trying to force ur opinion on everyone since there are only a 
 couple complaints from all u losers that just suck at this game people are gonna keep buying it 
 so just shut up its flaws are not that big of a deal the missions are not that hard just buy the 
 game if u want to go around killing zombies buy this game dont listen to these people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  When people think of zombies, they think of the George Romero classics, the Resident Evil game 
 series and even the Resi Evil movies! But Dead Rising is a one of a kind game. It is the first 
 game that allows u to go around a huge shopping mall finding loads of items and killing the thousands 
 of zombies in it. and i can tell u now it is 
  
  You are Frank West, a freelance photojournalist who hears rumors about a town in Colorado and decides 
 to take a look, so he hires a helicopter to bring him there, but when he gets there, he realizes 
 something is wrong here, because all the roads are blocked of by the military, all communication 
 is jammed, and there are people everwhere knocking over buses, blowing up stuff and eating humans! 
 You decide to stop at the huge mall and take a look at wats going on
  
  U get in and there are ZOMBIES! tens of thousands of them! and u get to kill them anyway u can! 
 use cash registers, pots, cds, waterguns, toys, poles, swords and practicrly anything to kill them! 
 and it is so much fun, i cant tell u how satisfying it is to put a a fake mask on a zombie and 
 then smash him with a bench! because it is just too good
  
  da only thing bringing dis game down is da save system. Since tehr are so many zombies, u should 
 have more saves so if u die, u can start from where u left of, but NO! throught the whole game 
 u only get one save and it lasts 72 game hours! THAT Crazy! I have to tell u now, ull have to start 
 the game over a few times to finish it! so aside from this, dead rising is an amazing game that 
 anyone should buy weither its for da gameplay or u just want to kill zombies! because either way, 
 youll be having too much fun to even care!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisnunezjr
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  It isn't easy to write a review for this game. I have tried and tried, I even wrote a blog on some 
 of my sentiments on it, but alas, not a review. There is so much i like about this game, but equally 
 and just as opposite i have thought about putting in the microwave and cooking it alive!
  
  Dropped in a mall riddled with zombies, you fight against time and possibly your better judgement, 
 to find the answer to the mystery. Using anything from Legoman Heads to Lawnmowers to battle through 
 the undead horde. The learning curve of the controls and their purpose takes about 30 minutes to 
 get used to, but not overtly difficult to master. As you many be aware, you are timed. In the game 
 you have 3 days to gather as much information as you can to solve what happened in this small town, 
 which turns into about 7-10 real-time hours for you and I. Now what must be understood is this: 
 You will not get 100% the first run-through. Luckily whatever you accomplished the first time around 
 will be saved for the next go-through. There are constantly mini-missions (primarily the escort 
 of survivors) that keep popping up as you are running the main storyline. Although these missions 
 break the monotony of gameplay, they do not come in much a variety, so they themselves become boring 
 and monotonous. Your character gain PP (Prestige Points) through sidequests, different pictures 
 taken, and the manner by which you dispatch the zombie mess. Now do not get me wrong, i know that 
 my view sounds very pessimistic, but i am merely pointing out the features of the game that you 
 will most likely notice pissing you off the most. I know that nothing is perfect, and i know that 
 every game has some kind of fault, I also am not a fan of time restraints within games, so that 
 being said, i can understand how my opinion is a little bit biased. But you have to agree that 
 the same routine, over and over and over again will bore even the most hardcore of gamers.
  
  To rent or to buy? That ultimately becomes every console owners question about a game. This 
 is a definite rent title. I think that it was hyped up way too much, and there were many changes 
 that could have been made. The game is still fun, but as with anything, it gets old. It may have 
 the ability to maintain its fun factor for some hardcore zombie aficionados, but for the gamer 
 with no opinion for the undead, it is just another 3rd person hack and slash fest with a timer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I like killing zombies. You probably like to kill zombies too. I think at heart, everyone likes 
 to kill zombies and sometimes you just don't to kill enough zombies in your games. Well, that has 
 all changed. If you don't like to kill zombies, Dead Rising will instantely change your mind. If 
 you absolutely hate zombies, if they scare the crap out of you or whatever, then Dead Rising is 
 your game. Don't hesitate. Get this game... GET THIS GAME! It may not be the best game but heck, 
 it's one of the best zombie games ever created. The creator's of the Resident Evil franchise have 
 brought you this "tool" and you need to except it.
  
  Now, I'm really sad to declare that a game where you spend killing zombies has its flaws so I am 
 going to get through these flaws before I become more sad. Starting off, the most noticable flaw 
 is by far the game's ridiculous save system. No typewriters here, to save your game. Instead, there 
 are certain spots throughout the game where you save. You can save once. That made me angry that 
 they'd do this because I wanted to get complete enjoyment out of Dead Rising because I love killing 
 zombies. That is really the only flaw. The graphics could've been a bit better but the mall has 
 amazing detail so you can't really ask for much other than that.
  
  The storyline in Dead Rising casts you as photo-journalist Frank West who goes to investigate a 
 town of 50,000 called Williamette. It's located in Colorado and the main attraction is a huge shopping 
 mall, so of course that's where you are dropped off. The opening scene has you in a helicopter 
 talker to the pilot. Then you get surrounded by other Helicopters so you basically jump out onto 
 the top of the mall and I have no idea how you didn't get injured but we'll just ignore that. Anyway, 
 you go in this mall and this old guy with rather large eyeballs greets you with forcing you to 
 help him and other survivors to put up a barricade to hold zombies out. "Zombies?" says Frank West 
 smartly even though it's in clear site that the whole town is made up of zombies. So this old lady 
 sees her dog outside so she runs out and opens the mall doors and this lady wasn't so smart because 
 in doing that, she just let thousands of zombies into the mall. So you are basically beating up 
 zombies, finding survivors and taking pictures.
  
  The photography system is interesting. You just hit a button to whip out your camera and then you 
 can take pictures. Each picture it'll judge how good or bad it was. This is kind of fun at first 
 but the camera can get in the way, and you are encouraged to take pictures. In Dead Rising you 
 have 72 hours to get things done before the helicopter picks you up. But that's not in real hours. 
 The game isn't so long but it can be if you spend lots of time just killing those fricking zombies 
 because that is the best part of the game hands down. Besides that, you'll be escorting a ton of 
 survivors. If you're used to games where you just escort one person around, well try 6 or more 
 for Dead Rising. These missions can get pretty tough and frustrating because the survivors that 
 your escourting don't have the best A. I. but then again, zombies aren't so smart so in a way you 
 have the edge when you don't think about the fact that there are thousands of zombies against a 
 small band of survivors. The game also has some of the most insane boss battles, or as they're 
 called "Psychopaths" in the game ever in a video game. From a double chainsaw wielding clown to 
 a crazed grocery store owner. Man, these really give the game a distinct style if beating up zombies 
 isn't enough. I don't want to spoil these bosses for you but they aren't easy. Dead Rising also 
 has some extremely bizarre cutscenes.
  
  Okay, you've read through this review but you just want to kill zombies. This game just lets you 
 kill zombies. I just can't seem to get over it. It's fast paced, awesome and you get to kill ZOMBIES! 
 You can use hundreds of items. You can hop on a skateboard or bike or just plow them down with 
 a lawnmower. You can battle with benches or toy lightsabers. Not all items are garunteed to kill 
 zombies. Most will just stun them. You need powerful weapons like benches, sickles, guns, katanas, 
 stuff like that to just slice these zombies until they're no more. You can smack a zombie all you 
 want with a lady's purse but it probably won't kill them. But just slicing these zombies gives 
 you the most satisfying feeling, you just want to kill more and more! You just love it! You can 
 feel it! You want to kill zombies! Just grab a shotgun or baseball bat and just take them all down!
 
  
  This game is also extremely interactive. You can go to a bookstore and just read books and ignore 
 the fact that zombies are all around you. You'll even learn stuff from reading these books. You 
 can go into clothes stores and change your clothes. Just wait until you see the awesome other Capcom 
 game cameo in here. It's all awesome and very customizable. It even uses a level up system so you 
 can level up your strengh, health, speed, stuff like that. To heal yourself you just find food 
 or drink and use that.
  
  The graphics in Dead Rising are incredibly detailed and have gone a long way since Dead Rising 
 was first shown. The character's faces look excellent, some however, look noticably fake but others 
 incredibly realistic. This sucks you right in and you just won't be able to get past how detailed 
 this game is. This is impossible to be an original Xbox game and you can sure tell that. The game 
 runs pretty smoothly minus the occasional framerate slowdown which isn't that noticable. The visuals 
 are fantastic, even though it looks a tiny bit sloppy in certain moments. One of the most impressive 
 aspects is how great the blood looks and there is A LOT of it. Right now, this is probably the 
 bloodiest Xbox 360 game right now; it puts Mortal Kombat's bloodshed to shame.
  
  The sound effects are spectacular. Each object you pick up sounds exactly how it should in real 
 life. I can't say there much impressive for the music and you probably won't notice it much but 
 the voices are fantastic and really bring life to every character. This is a great sound game.
 
  
  This game isn't too long but rest assure that you'll love killing zombies and will want to do it 
 for a long time. So when all else you're bored with in Dead Rising, you can always go to the heart 
 and soul of it-killing zombies. Overall, everyone needs to ignore everything else and just sit 
 back and kill zombies and you can do it in this game which is by far the best aspect of Dead Rising. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nleon1977
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  So, the sales person at my gaming store had to sell me on getting this game. I went in to by another 
 game that they had sold out of for the day and i started asking about some recent XBOX 360 releases. 
 THe first thing i liked about this game was the box. The disclaimer saying how the game has nothing 
 to do with George Romero's "Dawn of the Dead" made me laugh. The game is very addictive. Being 
 able to kill Zombies with just about anything in the mall is quite fun. I was a little surprised 
 at how fun this game was. The graphics are solid and the gameplay is simple and addictive. If you're 
 looking for a game with an in depth story, maybe this isn't the game for you. I mean, it's simply 
 running around and killing zombies. But it's the simplicity that makes it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister2zx3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Great game, very innovative game style. Cut scene voice work is good, by the model expressions 
 are lacking. Better facial animation/modeling needed. Game progression, and basically forced replay 
 through the game works well. Would like to see missions be a bit more open ended, such that you 
 can miss some parts but then are given sub missions to continue on, but with missing parts to the 
 story.. This new genre in essence opens up a lot of possibilities. Can't wait for Dead Rising 2 
 or some very similar style game play.
  
  I think this style of game could work well inside of a game like Grand Theft Auto in a Deju Vu/Ground 
 Hog Day type event. maybe having to walk up and play through until you fully succeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA_Master31619
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I have played all three modes in dead rising and let me tell you there is very little to say about 
 this game thats bad the gameplay is awesome and there is just so many things to kill zombies with 
 in my time thought I used guns baseball bats, knifes, 2x4's, benches, and umbrellas now granted 
 it does not come with out is flaws like the save system could be better by being able to save when 
 ever you want and the sound is messed up because I play must of my games at night when my room 
 mates a sleep so i have to play with headphones and franks west grunts every five steps. But even 
 with the flaws the good clearly out shines the bad and dead rising is a great games totally worth 
 the extra year wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  You know, theres so many scary games out there and so many that try to be like others, Dead Rising 
 began its own category. Its not really horror, but then again its kinda action/mystery. During 
 the first screens and previews of this game, many people, including myself, bashed this game and 
 ridculed it for its dumb look as well as something that sounded like it would have no real plot. 
 Boy were we wrong and I give much props to Capcom for improving this game every chance they got 
 as well as turning it back on us and making this one of the 360's most notable experiences.
  
  Coming into this game you would never expect an interesting plot or a plot that would even 
 make sense for that matter, but this one does and it all falls in nicely. Supported by great voice 
 acting (as well as alot of zombie noises that sound dead on authentic) and beautiful in game graphics, 
 the story will actually grab your attention and keep you wanting to figure out exactly what the 
 hell is going on and who is gonna make it out alive. Its strange because while playing this you 
 realize the story is alot more serious than expected but when going to face down the zombies it 
 can become downright hilarious. The ways of disposing of the zombies is unique, and addicting. 
 See a pistol? Leave it and grab the lawnmower instead. The fact of using about anything in the 
 mall as a weapon is so fun and funny, that instead of saving people on my spare time, I said "F*** 
 it", and killed dozens upon dozens of zombies instead by shoving hangers down their throats, bashing 
 them in the head with a guitar or grabbing a showerhead and sticking it in their forehead making 
 blood splatter all over their faces. Which brings me to my next point, which is how during your 
 spare time, on which you have to wait until a certain time of day to start the next mission, you 
 can do side missions to level up and get more people out alive. Just choose which one to do, and 
 set out. Plus, you won't have to deal wtih the zombies the entire game, in fact, they become the 
 least of your worries as later you will be fending off psychotic kamikazies who wish to sacrifice 
 you as well as dodging authorities trying to put you in captivity.
  
  Though it may seem like there is no negativity in this game think again cause there is, and its 
 a big one. Two words, Save System. The save system is terrible and leaves you only one slot to 
 save your game and gots you retreating to tough to reach places such as the security room and the 
 restrooms to save. I had to restart this game twice because I missed an important case's deadline 
 and I had already saved so my only choice was to restart. But don't think to harshly because it 
 lets you keep your stats. So restarting at a level 8 is not as bad as it seems due to the fact 
 you will be able to fly through the main missions fairly quick and have the ability to skip the 
 cutscenes and it will actually leave you less room for frustration. But still, the fact that it 
 happens is annoying. Bosses can be another problem, not as bad as the save system but they tend 
 to be cheap and leave you little room to attack especially if you have no firearm. The psychotic 
 priest is a great example. And escorting people can be a real pain in the ass as well thanks to 
 your buddies being a bunch of pansies. But do not let these faults hinder your opinion on this 
 game. This is a great piece of work and I believe Capcom did a great job with it despite these 
 flaws. In my opinion this is the best zombie game created and it looks like Resident Evil got itself 
 a worthy new cousin. Dead Rising is one of the most interesting experiences you will have on your 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnhoole
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The game play is simple but has a twist. The simple part is that you will kill as many zombies 
 as you can possibly imagine, and the way you go about killing those zombies is all up to you. You 
 can us just about anything in the mall as a weapon in Dead Rising. You can pick up 2 x 4s, baseball 
 bats, showerheads, knifes, weights, chainsaws, etc. When I say anything I mean anything, the 
 demo on Xbox Live really doesnt show how cool the game is. You will find swords, pop-cans, soccer 
 balls, and you even get to drive some vehicles. You can also find bikes and skateboards in some 
 mall shops. The twist is that you have 72 hours to beat the game so although you can go about doing 
 zombie genocide you do have to follow a time limit if you want to beat the game. You have case 
 files and they are linked together by time, you have a watch with you and say you have to meet 
 someone in a certain area of the mall but you dont get there in time you have to reload a save. 
 Although I only had a problem with the saving system once. You can only have one save per save 
 device, which means that most people will only be able to save once. I at one point, early in the 
 game, spend to much time killing zombies and to little time looking at my case file time and unfortunately 
 saved so I had to begin 72 hour mode. What 72 hour mode is, is a system were you restart the game 
 but with your stats from the previous game, so when I restarted I was still a level 6. But like 
 I said you really shouldnt run into the save problem, as long as your careful about your time. 
 The mall itself is very big, there is an outside park in the middle of the mall that you can walk 
 around in and there is also an underground tunnel you venture into and drive cars and a motor cycle 
 in, all of course while running over thousands of zombies. Aside from zombies there are also psychopaths 
 you must face too. They are survivors who have gone insane and will kill you even though you are 
 friendly. They range from a cult leader who wields a sword to a family that snipes anything that 
 moves. You only have to fight about two psychopaths but there are at least ten that you can choose 
 to fight on your spare time between cases. Frank, your character, levels up as you get PP, player 
 points. You can get player points by taking pictures, rescuing friendly survivors, killing psychopaths, 
 killing large amounts of zombies, or by doing special kills like hand to hand combat kills or skillful 
 weapon attacks that look flashy. You will gain more health, more speed, more powerful throwing, 
 more melee moves, and more item storage as you level up. The final word is that this game is very 
 fun along with being unique you will want to replay it a lot as well as get the achievements unlocked. 
 You will unlock overtime mode along with infinite mode for more replays too. Dead Rising is defiantly 
 a good choice for 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b4timer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  its good idea to be in a mall but its not taht good idea to be alone behind zombies so u have to 
 be carful and take weapons and hide in a the wc waiting for help and when they know where are you 
 will start to cry cus u know that mean ur end well this idea is great i wish they be quike and 
 start to make deadrissing 2 cus this will be cool more than every game u can do every thing in 
 the mall there is a lot of things cool i wish that there was deadrissing 2 but the problem i didnt 
 play 1 :| lol
  thanks for reading this boring story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h410m4573r_117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The graphics are friggin amazing. There are hundreds of enemies on screen at 
 once, which not many other console games can say that. One of my favorite visuals is when you chop 
 zombies in half with the katana. The sound is great too. It really makes you feel like youre in 
 the mall with thousands of zombies. The weapons are creative and cool, especially the megabuster. 
 My only problem is the controls. Its too hard to go first person and aim at people. But overall, 
 my second favorite game for the 360, behind Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBD247
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Capcom, a company known by most as the survival horror creators even if they werent the first to 
 make a game in that genre. The reason? Resident Evil, the game took the gaming world by storm and 
 its numerous sequals and side stories have been economically successful and mostly critically successful 
 games. After establishing Resident Evil as a household name Capcom went on to create other survival 
 horror games such as the Dino Crises series and Onimusha. With all of these games what seperates 
 Dead Rising from the pack?
  Although Dead Rising contains Zombies, that is the only thing this title shares with past zombie 
 thrillers. While the earlier releases consisted of a slow pace with spaced out rare action sequenches 
 and just as slow and hard to control protogonists. Compared to this experiance, Dead Rising feels 
 like Superman on speed. Fast paced non stop action is what is in store for players in this title, 
 from the get go you begin the game on a helicpoter ride avove a small town. It is here you are 
 introduced to the photo aspect of the game, while you ride above the town you see what appears 
 to be a riot taking place. You can take photos of key sequenches that reward you with PP. With 
 these points you will eventually rank up and gain new abilities, item slots, or health slots. You 
 will always have access to your camera being a photo journalist, but you wont use it nearly as 
 much as all of the other items you can pick up. There are hundreds of pieces of furniture, toys, 
 guns, lawn equipment, sports equipment and anything else that resides in the mall. This is where 
 the real fun begins.
  The games fundamental combat mechanics consists of whacking zombies around with anything that you 
 can hold. Smash a baseball bat to the side of an undeads head, mow the hoards down with a lawn 
 mower, run over hundreds of the undead in a vehicle, or cut a zombie in two with the katana. There 
 are numerous ways to dispatch the dead. The only downside to the games formula, is that you dont 
 have as much time as you would like to actually be able to destory the thousands of zombies littering 
 the mall. You are to constrained by the games linear path.
  The way in which the game is built forces you on a narrow path from the stories opening to its 
 end. You will be given Cases that you must complete in a set amount of time. You are given 72 hours 
 in which to finish the game, obviously the game time is vastly different then real time, hours 
 going by in less then an actual hour. You must be in a location at the beginning of a Case and 
 you will have a set amount of time to complete that Case, then you must race to the spot another 
 Case will take place. Some times you are given enough time to complete side quests that consist 
 of eliminating Psychopaths, or rescueing survivors of the catastrophe. Although if done right you 
 will have some extra time, it will not be nearly enough.
  Another aspect of Dead Rising that will frustrate certain gamers is the save system, although if 
 you play the game correctly, and think things out you wont have a problem, but for those that want 
 to run around and save less then often will be very frustrated. You can only save in restrooms 
 and in the security office. And there is only one save slot per memory unit. So you must overwrite 
 your previous save at all times. Meaning one mistake can force you to restart the story mode all 
 over again, although you will keep your leveled up character and all of his abilities. The games 
 sound is solid with few but well chosen licensed tracks and above average voice acting. But the 
 effects of all of the surrounding items hitting zombies create great results. The controls are 
 also very simple and allow for few big mistakes while playing. Overall the game is alot of fun 
 but to restricted in its design concept. The difficulty overall is just about right although if 
 played in a way that the developers didnt intend can lead to much frustration. The replay value 
 is also very high, you will want to come back and replay the game to just skip the story and kill 
 the undead creatures. If you take the game for what it is and not for what you may have expected 
 or wanted it is a great different experiance. In the inevitable sequal hopefully these flaws will 
 be addressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a 3rd person action game that puts players in the shoes of Frank, the games photo-journalist 
 protagonist. Frank has 72 game-hours to uncover the mysteries of the recent zombie epidemic in 
 a small town in Colorado called Willamete. Frank spends the game in a mall taking photos of various 
 encounters with zombies and survivors alike, and depending on the quality of the photographs, he 
 is awarded points which can be used to unlock different fighting moves which help him cut through 
 the unending flood of the undead. While Dead Rising may initially appear to be an open ended sandbox 
 game in the spirit of Grand Theft Auto, its not. In fact, its a rigidly timed affair that is 
 both linear and demanding of players that requires several play-throughs to experience all the 
 game has to offer. And boy oh boy, does Dead Rising sure have a lot to offer in the way of unlockables. 
 However, the game requires a level of dedication, patience, and focus that may turn off more casual 
 gamers lulled into believing (largely based on the do-what-you-want nature playable demo) that 
 the game is a playfully violent outing in a zombie infested shopping center. Dead Rising is a lopsided 
 affair it puts the player in a fun world with plenty of cool things to do, but then burdens them 
 with so many contrived restrictions and limitations at every level of play that it stifles an otherwise 
 amazing experience. One such restriction is the save system. Dead Rising features a questionable 
 design choice which only allows the player only one saved game at a time. This means that players 
 who find themselves making poor time management decisions will be forced to reload and play the 
 72 hour affair from the beginning, although all unlocked combat moves and stat increases will carry 
 over as consolation. Although the save system instills Dead Rising with a level of urgency and 
 tension which would otherwise be absent, the resulting frustration is at times infuriating and 
 not worth the marginal level of manufactured suspense that it brings to the table.
  
  Despite all of these restrictions placed on players, Dead Rising does manage to offer a delightfully 
 appealing experience from a strict gameplay perspective. All of the hundreds of items scattered 
 around the mall and its many stores, ranging from benches and plants, to shotguns and katanas, 
 are completely interactive. Frank can pick up most anything he comes across, and part of the pure 
 fun of Dead rising is coming up with new and often humorous ways to dispatch the shambling horde. 
 Gunplay is by far the weakest element of the controls, as it requires Frank to be stationary as 
 he aims, but melee combat is satisfying overall due to the fact that it is so varied and downright 
 comical. Adding to the humor, Frank can walk into the malls various clothing stores and change 
 outfits, usually with hilarious results. There are an abundance of side missions in addition to 
 the main story arc, most of which involve helping survivors reach the safety of the malls security 
 room. However there are so many of these ancillary missions, and such little time to complete them 
 all, that only players on a 2nd or 3rd playthrough will possess the combat skills and awareness 
 of the malls layout to truly capitalize on all the game has to offer. Graphics are acceptable, 
 but not outstanding. The game is at its best visually when there are hundreds of deceased abominations 
 crowding every nook and cranny of the malls corridors. But there is a lot of pop-up when approaching 
 the stores themselves, and youll often see books or CDs suddenly materialize on the shelves in 
 formerly empty locales. Character models are good, but zombie models repeat themselves a great 
 deal to the point where you will swear you just killed that particular guy a second ago. The sound, 
 on the other hand, is outstanding in every way. The innumerable ways of killing zombies all sound 
 fantastic as vital fluids spew forth onto the walls and floors. In addition, the quality of voice 
 acting is above average, especially considering the games Japanese origins. On a related note, 
 many of the messages Frank recieves are text only. In this, the 'Next Generation' of games, it 
 seemed like laziness on the developers part to omit voice acting throughout the game. Adding insult 
 to injury, SD TV owners have reported difficulty reading this minute text, thereby confusing an 
 already hectic situation. The story is paced well, and provides a compelling reason for players 
 to endure the unforgiving nature of Dead Risings game play. There are main objectives that must 
 be met in order to progress the narrative, which gradually explain the presence of zombies in Willamete. 
 The cutscenes are attractive, and offer a nice break from the standard action elements of the game. 
 The game offers numerous endings depending on how many objectives the player was able to complete, 
 providing yet another reason to play the game numerous times. Dead Rising is hard, almost artificially 
 so. Gamers looking to have a few laughs decapitating a mall full of zombies will most likely feel 
 buyers remorse upon spending a few hours with the game. If Dead Rising didnt use photography as 
 the primary means of leveling up your character, completely did away with the time limits for the 
 missions, and allowed unlimited saves, it would be far more accessible and would appeal to more 
 than just the hardcore population. As it stands, though, the game is simply too restrictive to 
 warrant a whole-hearted recommendation for anyone but the most obsessive of gamers. More casual 
 fans will enjoy the comical tone and satisfying combat mechanics to a point, but a rental is highly 
 recommended before spending $60 on what is ultimately a mixed bag. Dont be misled by the demo! 
 Dead Rising is soul crushingly demanding. Nevertheless, any game that makes you work this hard 
 has got to have something going for it to make it worth your time, and in Dead Risings case, that 
 something is the games personality. That, and the satisfying feeling one gets when truncating a 
 sea of the undead with a chainsaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: letacoleta
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  the gameis entertaining, but has something missing i cant explain, i personally dont like when 
 the characters are tlaking but theres no sound, sometimes there is, sometimes there isnt, to much 
 cinematics thruought the game, is a lil annoying, i think with this new console the could have 
 do something better
  and use the potential of the 360, if u just want to have fun and kill ppl then this is your game, 
 graphics on the game looks like if u were playing Super nintendo back in the days. so far this 
 is the worse game for xbox 360.
  good thing i got it used and didnt pay that ridiculous amount for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vetren_999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  If you have a 360, and you are a gamer who likes zombies and wants a challenge, this is the game 
 for you. You play Frank West, a free-lance photojournalist who is looking for a scoop in the zombie-infested 
 town of Willamete, Colorado. It is your job too survive 72 hours in a zombies-packed mall while 
 rescuing survivors and finding out the truth behind the incident.
  This is a difficult game, this is coming from someone who has played the GTA series (in case you 
 didnt know, GTA has VERY frustrating missions)
  there are 8 "cases" each with 2 or more parts, you have to complete all theese cases in 72, it 
 sounds easy, but it isnt.
  
  Now for the technical stuff, the graphics are pretty good, not quite what the 360 should be able 
 to make though, what's weird is that the graphics look better in-game rather than in cutscenes 
 ;-/
  
  The sound is awesome, the voice-acting is top-notch, the sound effects are realistic, and the game 
 has a soundtrack second only to GTA.
  
  The gameplay is somewhat repetitive, but very fun, but also very difficult, some cases will cause 
 the regular gamer pulling their hair out, and bosses, even some of the more simple ones, take multiple 
 tries before you finally defeat them. But the game is very rewarding, if you manage to get the 
 best ending in 72-hour mode, you unlock Overtime mode, which is a day 4, and after you beat that, 
 you unlock Infinity Mode, which is a very challenging mode where food supply is limited and your 
 health is slowly draining.
  
  The game also dosen't hand out achievments every 5 minutes, you have to earn them, from walking 
 over zombies for 33 feet, to surviving in Infinity Mode for 7 game days (thats 14 real hours for 
 you, playa) to rescuing all the survivors (agruebly the hardest to get achievment in the game) , 
 the game challenges you further to get some well-earned gamerscore.
  
  All in all, this is a fun, challenging, free-roam game with a great soundtrack and tons of replayability, 
 if you want a challenging, fun game, get this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venator117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising had a lot of things up it's sleeves, that in the end makes it a great game. Everybody 
 hated the save system but i don't see why i had no problem with it. It adds a bit more difficulty 
 to the game. People just complain too much. You can run around and have fun killing zombies, you 
 can save survivors scattered throughout the mall, or you can uncover the mystery behind the zombies. 
 Or you can do a bit of everything doesn't matter. With more modes to unlock this game will keep 
 you busy for quite a while. Weapons well its easier to say anything you will find in a mall and 
 more. Phsycopaths are incredibly annoying and can be really hard to beat sometimes. Dead Rising 
 is a great game with a few minor flaws. Download the demo and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdPizzaKid111
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Capcom's latest Zombie game puts you in control of Frank West, a photojournalist hellbent on discovering 
 the truth behind a mysterious government involved incident in the small Colorado town of Willamette. 
 I have been looking at Dead Rising ever since it came on the horizion. 1000 zombies on screen at 
 ONCE?! What! Anything is a weapon!? Then the icing on the cake- Made by the zombie kings Capcom?! 
 This game has gotta be awesome. Turns out I was right.
  
  Dead Rising doesn't try to win over the player the "cheap" way with near photorealism graphics. 
 While the graphics in Dead Rising don't match near games such as Gears Of War, this is a thing 
 that is good. The graphics are definitley great though, and have an almost fun feel to them. The 
 character models are great, though I do wish there were a few more zombie character models. One 
 thing that really looks nice is the blood- it has a certain look to it that just looks very, next 
 gen. The sound is one of the real strong points in Dead Rising, to the groans and moans of the 
 undead, or the dripping of the blood from a freshly killed zombie, everything is awesome. The game 
 really nails it in realism when it comes to the Malls soundtrack, it has that corny, classic department 
 store music that seems to fit so well with the Willamette Parkview Mall. Almost every boss has 
 his (or her) own song to go with them as you fight them.
  
  Gameplay is of course, the strongest point. Literally, anything is a weapon, and the game does 
 a good job of attatching you to the stranger weapons. You will be facing a horde of flesh eating 
 zombies, but because the option is there, you will choose to use a strange weapon instead of the 
 traditional zombie slaying gun. Why? Because the game makes it more fun to play with these weapons. 
 Zombie AI is great, however the Survivor AI lacks in some spots, but not enough to make you stop 
 playing the game. The storyline is great, and some of the boss fights will make you laugh out loud 
 with all the funny lines. The overall story (and even a few bosses) will make you feel for the 
 characters, and even begin to grow as the character. I felt as though when for instance, during 
 a cutscene where Frank was angry, I felt angry too. The story is really nice too, and gives us 
 a possible sequel.
  
  Overall, this outing at the mall should not be missed, and for the current price of 60 bucks, you 
 will be popping this game in for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptinBeefy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  a game that makes you want to keep playing, great graphics, great weapons and a hillarous mob of 
 sombies waiting to die via chainsaw (or anything elese you can think of) . its just plain fun to 
 play and i suggest you get it. the first time you get a chainsaw or sword its like its a brand 
 new game and the whole mall is yours for the killing, but then it runs out. im only a lvl 4 so 
 i cant hold on to stuff for long, but its still fun to mow down a hallway of people with a katana 
 to get a bathroom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Mixed reactions here. A totally great idea for a game however there are some things that could 
 of been done better or not at all. The good: graphics- solid with some amazing scenes, action- 
 nothing like chainsawing or mowing zombies in half, story - keeps you involved, sound - just right 
 for this type of game. Now the Bad - Save system - one save slot per system or memory card, this 
 sucks because if you save at a bad time or miss something, you have to start all over again, Case 
 files - I wish they were not timed, because if you miss one, you start all over again. Side quests 
 - although very nice, there are way to many of them at one time and they are all timed. It would 
 be nice if you could do this game at your own pace instead of capcoms anticipated pace. I hate 
 the save system and dont like the fact that if you screw up once you have to start from square 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabeyta442
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Over the top gore! Innovative weapons! Endless amounts of zombies! It all spells out a great game 
 to rent or own. The lack of some sort of multi player function hurts this game a bit but the different 
 endings up the replay value. The cut scene are a bit to frequent at times and the unfortunate lack 
 of a lock on system makes the ranged weapons some what difficult to use at some tense moments. 
 The PP system in place to level up your character is well done and ads some addictiveness to the 
 game making you want to complete the "Cases" to level up and earn more skills, life, inventory 
 space, and so on. All and all I think the hype that preceded the game was well deserved and Capcom 
 has got the survival-horror genre down tight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilyoda861
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, has a good story considering the Dawn of the Dead movie was a good movie.
 
  
  The good.
  Good graphics, though not geared for the best, since the shear scale of the number of items or 
 ways of killing the zombies is just the highest ever seen in a game. Lots and lots and lots of 
 gore! What zombie game is without gore? Sure not a zombie game thats for sure! It is basicaly a 
 free style game which I love, I dont like being forced to do something I dont want to, in this 
 game I am free to blow up or smash up zombies at my leisure. Haveing the ability to level up is 
 also an awesome trait in this game, you can heal just by eating something which is very handy as 
 you will often need to heal with the hundreds and thousands of zombies attacking you.'
  
  The bad.
  I dont care for the time thing having a certain amount of time then having to eventualy 
 move on or I will lose. I rather just kill zombies than go by the story really.
  The saves in this game sucks. Very few in between so you will have to just play for a long time 
 in order to finish it, which isn't too bad it is a great game, but you only want to play for so 
 long for any game, except for games like Halo thats an exception hehe.
  
  Well thats about it, this game is kick ass and if you dont get it then screw you, go play your 
 God damn Barbie games you queer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Solid graphics all around. Not ground breaking but solid. The cutscenes are VERY nice 
 looking and the zombies look great!
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is awesome! Only gripe I had was the fact that you couldn't continuosly hit 
 the "bosses." I would rip 20 rounds from my machine gun into the special force guys and only the 
 first one would register and the guy would go into a hit taking animation. It wasn't really an 
 issue at the starting of the game but when I got to the special force guys it was just annoying! 
 I mean, I get shot by them and I feel it everytime! It should be the same for our guy and the "bosses" 
 just to even out the playing field a bit. Otherwise, killing zombies has never been so sweet!
 
  
  Sound: Spot on! The sounds of each weapon are great! Voice acting is also good and the zombies 
 sound like pro zombies.
  
  Controls were very good. I just wish there was a sprint button or something because I felt like 
 my guy was jogging slowly most of the time and if I were surrounded by zombies, I would be sprinting 
 my a$$ off!
  
  Overall it's a very satisfying experience. There are a couple of minor issues (as all games have 
 no matter how great) but they don't hamper the gameplay enough to make it a big deal. Bottom line, 
 get this game or at least rent it. It's a ton of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is something that I would have never bought if it had stayed the course of a traditional 
 hack and slash game (i. e. Dynasty Warriors) . While in development, it appeared as though this game 
 would just be killing zombies left and right in a very boring fashion. Having played the game, 
 however, it is amazingly original, extremely addictive, and intriguingly creepy all the way. There 
 are so many differently ways to kill the zombies that it is almost impossible to see every kill 
 animation. The story is very cool and twisted in a way that makes it so much more than a hack/slash. 
 By far one of the best and most original games for the 360. You should own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siksanity
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is killer and adictive at the same time. Being able to kill the zombies with basically 
 anything you can get your hands on is awesome. I've been waiting on this game to come out and I 
 was not disappointed. It's mindless killing but also there is some strategy that comes with it 
 so you got to at times use your head when killing them. My favorite is running them over with the 
 car in the parking garages cause you rack up a ton of kills doing that!! Overall I gave this game 
 a 9 but it's easily one of my favorites for the 360!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is just a great action adventure game. There's so much to do in the game that you can 
 spend hours just doing whatever is fun to you. My favorite is killing zombies and trying on clothes 
 including dresses because the main character frank sounds funny when he dresses up in one. The 
 story isn't too bad either. It gives that classic dawn of the dead storyline making it great. The 
 only real upsetting thing about the game is that its timed. That gets annoying really quick and 
 sets up for disappointment if you didn't save and you have to do everything all over again. Anyone 
 who appreciates good action adventure horror games will love Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  this game rocks, you dont see everyday when a game comes out when all you do is kill a crap load 
 of zombies repeatedly in a mall. THe mall environment is a perfect touch for this games. A crap 
 load of different weapons you can use. The chainsaw is sweet. Plus you can even throw cd s at zombies. 
 Run em over with a lawn mower. This zombie game is the best ive ever played in and out. The graphics 
 are absolutely stunning and the audio sound is on touch. You really need to buy this game if you 
 love bashin in zombies head s all day . the story made is a little week , but it makes up for it 
 in gameplay. I would recommend this game to anyone / I have to rate this game pretty good, because 
 its a one of a kind zombie killin kind. GO OUT AND BUY IT NOW AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pileozombies
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Who doesn't like killing Zombies in a mall? Almost everything is a weapon, and the game is great. 
 It has a good story, with some funny side missions. Also, there are weird events and two other 
 modes. Infinity mode is the best mode if you like zombie killing, like I do. It'll get you about 
 20 more hours of playing the game. But you have to beat the 72 hour mode. I never really got to 
 the other modes, though. I just played 72 hour mode. You can beat the game in 20 hours and play 
 the other modes like Infinity for 20 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelJPL
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well been waiting for this not quite as long as some but when Game Informer ran a little spot for 
 this a few months back I went into high gear over this game . After the delays and pushbacks its 
 finally here. I have been meaning to write this for a while but ne ways... This game is sweet. 
 Graphics are nice, not incredible but definetly nice. The almost cartoony feel of the game is fun 
 and keeps you from taking it TOO seriously like a Resident Evil etc. The boss fights are fun but 
 not incredibly challenging if you know what to do. **Small Spoiler** Speaking of boss fights, for 
 those who dont already know, an early boss dies one of the BEST deaths ever shown in a video game!!!! 
 GREAT STUFF! Back to the game tho. The leveling system is not bad considering you get new moves. 
 The down side of that is that you dont use too many of the new moves once you get them except for 
 zombie walk, Double lariat and disembowel. I thought the others were cool and tried them but never 
 used them much personally. Story mode is.... different. Not your traditional unknown zombie plague 
 breaks out and nobody has ne idea what it is. Its a different approach than that. All in all very 
 fun to play thru. Dont quite know if each of the different endings are worth playing multiple times 
 to see. Cool achievements to unlock. I'm actually still working on the one where you roll a bowling 
 ball and hafta knock down like 10 zombies I think. Hehe... Overall fun game, really one you must 
 play. Rent it or but it, its for sure worth your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising from Capcom is truly a next generation game. Despite a few minor annoyances that if 
 implemented better would result in a perfect action game, Dead Rising offers a unique and innovative 
 experience of gameplay different from any other. The game is not a big stretch like inventing a 
 new genre or anything but simply mixes a few together in a nice memorable way, resulting in a revoulutionary 
 game. As many already know this game is about a mall infested with zombies in another capcom classic 
 involving you as Frank West, a photojournalist out to get a big story as he is dropped off at the 
 local mall to investigate and fight for his survival as he tries to uncover the truth behind the 
 outbreak in the 72 hours he has before pick up. In the game though, that 72 hours converts more 
 into maybe 15-20 hours depending how you play. One of the major complaints of this game would have 
 to be its real time system which does a good job of keeping you on track with the story, but leaving 
 you very little time to do anything additional that you may want to do, like simple exploring or 
 just plain fooling around in a GTA matter. Though this is annoying, the only other major problem 
 with this game is the save system, combining it with the real time system can equal a lot frustration. 
 You are only offered one save slot which you have to use wisely cause if you save in a bad spot 
 where you are too far to reach a part of the story that needs to be activated by getting there 
 in a given time limit, your screwed and will have to start the entire game over from the beginning, 
 though you will still have all of your stats and experience from before and honestly the game is 
 just so fun and rewarding in its own ways that while this is initially frustrating, it can prove 
 to be enjoyable. But it boils down to it being a stupid move on the developers part and degrades 
 the gameplay value. As for the gameplay its great. Its new, fun, engaging, challenging and addictive. 
 You basically use anything you see as weapon to, as you may guess, to demolish zombies. Anything 
 from a lead pipe, to guns, to barbells, plants, chainsaws, chairs, pop cans and even teddy bears 
 to kill the zombies. Also implemented in very well done way is a RPG like element where as if you 
 take good pictures, defeat enemies, rescue people and kill the many bosses or psychopaths, you 
 will gain experience that will level you up, alotting you new things like new skills, attack moves, 
 health slots, inventory slots, attack power, speed and throwing distance. This factor of the game 
 offers a good incentive to something that you will want to do any ways in the game since it is 
 so much fun. You will also use things like food to restore health and books to improve specific 
 skills like skateboarding. The graphics in this game are also superb, especially the in game graphics. 
 The environments look great as realistic like a real mall, offers a good ambience and the amount 
 of zombies on screen is probably the most impressive thing since the game never slows down or lags, 
 and everything and everyone are moving around and doing there own things. Even in boss fights its 
 nice that you have freedom to move around in the mall area rather than being confined to one room 
 for a fight and also the zombies are still there in the fights attacking you or even your opponents 
 sometimes too which helps to the experience being more realistic. The sound is absolutely terrific. 
 Awesome sound track fitting the right mood and each item in the game has there own and correct 
 sound when breaking and hitting the zombies, very impressive. The game is very lenghty with extra 
 modes and replayability, its capcom, if its one thing they deliver on for sure it is longetivity. 
 The story is great, the action is great the game truly feels next gen and should be owned by 360 
 owners or at least experienced. The whole real-time system takes some getting use to but it works 
 but the big downer is dying since most of the time you probably accomplished a lot in that time 
 and can be a big turn off to continue playing after dying in one sitting. I stopped playing almost 
 everytime I died for while because it can be really frustrating especially if you have to restart 
 the game but its not like its a chore to do or anything, as it very fun to go through the game 
 over and over again killing zombies with various weapons. Overall a great step forward in gaming 
 history and hopefully the minor flaws of this game will be heard and improved for a much better 
 experience but don't let that hold you back from the experience that this game offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theslayer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Dead Rising that has not already been said. What an excellent game! Very 
 few games can hold my interest long enough to play them all the way through and make me want to 
 go back and play it some more. I love killing the zombies, all kinds of different ways, I love 
 the missions with the psychopaths and I love the game play! Capcom never fails to deliver great 
 games. Although, it may not seem like fun to most, the changing the outfits is really amazing. 
 How often do you see the star of the game, a man, dressed up as a woman wielding a chain saw covered 
 in blood, or dressed in small childrens cloths. Capcom uses the herb method from the resident 
 evil series here again, but with a twist. Now items from various parts of the mall need to be collected 
 and mixed together to obtain concoctions that can aid you in the slaughter of the zombie horde. 
 The problem the plagued me the most while playing the game was. just what am I gonna kill that 
 zombie with! Capcom you have struck gold AGAIN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanmaster
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  We all expected nothing but greatness from our zombie hacking friend here but when I finally picked 
 up my reserved copy of dead rising it was all down hill from there. this game could have been so 
 much better than it is I figured having to unlock the other game modes was a good idea seeing that 
 there making you play the whole game but boy was I wrong. The story mode is the most boring thing 
 I have ever wasted my time on and I waste my time a lot so I should know. All your thinking of 
 is beating the game so you can get the zombie killing spree mode (infinity mode) but most of the 
 time your waiting for the next case to start which is most of the game waiting doing nothing. Now 
 as the zombies detailed fighting goes great fun this is fun if your trying to kill the zombies 
 and have a good time but in the missions youll find them to more of a nuisance than entertainment. 
 But when you finally beat the game its not what you expected so this game is not worth your time 
 or money I found myself returning it soon after I beat it which was about in a weeks time. So save 
 your money for another game and pass on dead rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarrettLight
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  That's all that need be said. ;} And for a hundred words, Buy The Guide. T H I S G A M E W A S 
 I N S P I R E D B Y T H E M O V I E H O M E A L O N E A N D N O P E R S O N S H O U L D E V E R 
 D R I N K C O F F E E C R E A M E R T O R E F I L L 4 O F T H E I R L I T T L E Y E L L O W H E 
 A L T H B O X E S. LMFAO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrozombie0707
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 27, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I found out this game was coming out, I was so excited. I pre-ordered it and everything. 
 I brought it popped it in and played for hours. I continued playing it every day until I it hit 
 me. The saving system sucks. That is the only thing that holds this game back. The boss fights 
 were mostly annoying and stupid, but that's not the reason why I bought this game to begin with 
 so It didn't bother me. The A. I. for survivors were a little below average, but I didn't care! 
 I killed them when I came across them becasue they were so annoying when you did save them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaffeinekills
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I always desired to indulge into my guility pleasure... and that's to ignore the story line, let 
 the survivors save themselves for once, and to finally slaughter as many zombies as possible. Thanks 
 to Dead Rising, I have been given a chance now to slay zombies in a variety of ways! Nothing is 
 more fun then beating a zombie to death with a stuffed bear or poping off zombie heads with an 
 amazing somersault kick.
  
  Not convienced yet?
  
  Want to slice up zombies with a katana or a butchers cleaver? How about driving over a gaggle of 
 zombies with a delivery truck or convertable? Maybe you prefer to deliver a fatal neck twist or 
 suplex to a zombie or 10? With Dead Rising, you are given a hundred different ways to lay waste 
 to zombies and all of which are surprisingly fun.
  
  Once your bloodlust is quenched, Capcom actually gives you a way to redeem yourself by giving you 
 a chance to save up to 53-54 surivors scattered across the mall. Vindicate pyshcos that wish to 
 stop you and to cause even more chaos, and a small hope to uncover the truth about the sudden zombie 
 invasion.
  
  It's time to choose... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGoldenShado
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was great! One of the best games I have seen in a long time. Although, once 
 you react the max level it gets pretty easy... But when you do reach that level you can try out 
 the Over-Time mode and try and get the best time which is pretty sweet. I did kind of laugh and 
 get frustrated at Frank. The guy can pick up a bench and swing it but cant carry someone on their 
 back and hold a gun? Come on, that seems a bit too lame for me... Plus that, you aren't able to 
 crouch in this game.. Beside those two things I thought this game was great. Good music, made you 
 feel like you where in the mall. Great game play, the controlling was so easy and it was awesome 
 to learn a new move! Very nice graphics, I thought the graphics where pretty good and you can change 
 your guys look whenever you want. All in all I would give this game a Either out of a Ten. Mainly 
 because of those two things I mentioned earlier and that it gets kinda boring when you reach level 
 Fifty..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goobyman
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising, is probably the first game for the Xbox360 that I feel is truly a game. Firstly, it's 
 fun, who doesn't enjoy sticking a shower head in a zombie or bash a crazy camera man (Kent) with 
 a lead pipe. The game is not as open ended as I would have hoped, as the quests have pre-reqs which 
 can at times become annoying when you are just simply having to much fun running from section to 
 section killing helpless zombies with your fists of fury. The graphics are fairly decent, I believe 
 they could have been better, but you will enjoy the blood and various environments. The sound is 
 fairly fantastic as everyone seems to mention, but I wouldn't say it's not as worthy of the attention 
 it has been receiving, splat splat glup glup... yeap... The story line is definitely a little on 
 the cheesy side, but that is the character and grandeur of this game. There are a few things I 
 would change, but nothing that would keep me from buying the game and spend hours playing. So, 
 if you have an Xbox360, you might as well buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  After playing through Dead Rising I thought what were they thinking. The game has one of the dumbest 
 story lines and boss fights although they are fun. They had a great idea for a game but didn't 
 let it live up to it's potential. You cannot start a mode where you can just go around killing 
 zombies and having fun you have to start in the survivor mode where you have to uncover the story 
 of how the zombies got to where they are. Yeah I have to admit it is a good idea but throughout 
 you find yourself running in circles escorting people to safty and doing some fun and some completly 
 idiotic boss fights along the way. The save system can get annoying sometimes. The fact that you 
 have a certain amount of time to do something in game and you need to go all the way to a save 
 room (trust me sometimes the are to far) gets really annoying and maybe the only reason you cannot 
 beat a mission. There are thousands upon thousands of zombies to kill in the game with many diffrent 
 ways to kill them so there is always something to do.
  The graphics on the game are decent i mean how can I complain they manage to look good even with 
 a thousand things on the screen.
  The sound on the game is great the music in the game is great in each situation it plays in and 
 the voice overs are done well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenlong
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  well dead rising is here and all i have to say is this game is awsome. first off the story is ve4ryu 
 cool but i wont right alot about the story because its hard to right about it without anyspoilers 
 so im gonna say its awsome and leave it at that.
  
  alright first thing i got to say is this game can be brutal at times. mostly because the gameplay 
 isnt as good as it could have been. when you pull out a gun the anolog sensitivity is very slugish 
 and cant be adjusted in anyway. you can croutch witch absolutly sucks since most boss fights you 
 need to find cover and since you cant croutch it becomes hard and anoying. bo9ss fights can be 
 sooo anoying and feel somewhat cheap. some of them are easy then the rest or most of them are hardconsidering 
 the game dosnt really give you firearms and the only way to get firearms is to find secret ones 
 or to go to the hunting store were you have to battle a boss who has a shotgun. overall that felt 
 in my pinion felt cheap and annoying. escort misions are also stupid hard considering the ai are 
 dumber then a bucket of nails. they try to walk through walls and they think it is a good idea 
 to hug and have a conversaton while hords of zombies are trying to kill them. but these flaws are 
 all seem small to the amazing game this is. there are litterally hundreds of weapons to find in 
 this game and all play and sound differently. the sound in this game is completly mind blowing 
 and you just have to hear for yourself to no what im talking about. the graphics are also very 
 well done. they may not be mind blowing but you also have to think there are hundreds of zombies 
 on the screen at a time whitch isnt easy to pull off. this game has a ton of replay value from 
 just going around killing zombies or playing thoses hard boss battles again it is awsome. overall 
 dead rising is an awsoem game. sure it has its problems but all these problems are just nit picking 
 things and if your just looking for and awsome xbox 360 game to own then dead rising is for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avatarJTC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  now, you thould stop complainig about this game I'm going to show you a good review and hope you 
 find this is the right game for you.
  
  graphics (u come for them) : pretty awsome some people say that this isn't next gen but they are 
 awsome (most people who say that don't like the game cause they cant beat it) this game can hold 
 thousands of enemies at a time which to say the least is awsome!!
  
  gameplay (u stay for it) : it's genious ok awsome just with a few bad things boss fights can be anying 
 cause you usally have to use fire arms (unless u have the SMALL chainsaws) and when we get this 
 game we dont want to use fire arms that often. the AI is stupid when u take survivores to safety 
 (the security room) they will sometimes not go where u tell them to and fight the undead think 
 they can walk through walls and will get depresed and won't move for a while but this stuff doesn't 
 happen to often. the save system is fine one save slot, and u can only save in the security room 
 and in public restrooms (don't worry there are alot of them) . here are the good things leveling 
 up isn't that hard, there are alot of goood weapons u can put on clothing in any clothing store, 
 there is a lot of food (health) in the game, there are alot of achievements and some of them unlock 
 items after u beat the game! the moves are hard to pull of without practice but worth it, and u 
 have a watch for a reason see the main storyline and scoops (the janetor will call u and tell u 
 about a survivor he saw on the monetor and tell u where he or she is activating that scoop) have 
 a time limit if u run out of time for a scoop u cant rescue those few who where involved in the 
 scoop. if u run out of time for a case (part of the storyline the faster u compleat a case the 
 longer of freetime before the next one starts just make sure u get to the destination before the 
 next one starts) that makes this games dificulty just right.
  
  story (it gets u interested) : i'm not going to spoil it for u but it's great)
  
  reaplay value (a 
 game needs some) exelent the story challeng and freedom will keep u coming back!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I have waited long to play this game and am very susprosed that I cannot stand the finished product. 
 I cannot help but think how great it could have been with another 10 to 12 months devlopment and 
 a few change to certain things that make gameplay very annoying. You have already heard about the 
 save problem. A lot of people just chalk it up to minor annoyance but it is a deal breaker I think. 
 When you combine it to the pseudo real time direction the game makers tried to take this game it 
 is a loose/loose situation. And when the strange and weird extra missions that are tossed at you 
 willy nilly and in time sensitive fashion you will find your self running around like a chicken 
 with its head cut off. You will find it very, very annoying to replay all of the openeing movies 
 over and over again after you have made one little mistake on into the game. If I ever have to 
 sit and watch that damn helicopter ride again I dont know what I will do but it will probably end 
 with Jack Thompson on the news blaming video games. I can appericate reviews and fans giving capcom 
 some slack because they were ambitious and tried to do something fresh but the problems and glitches 
 in this game are too numerous imho to just wink at. The game is crippled by the save function which 
 is almost worthless and doesnt seem to always work even as it is made and also because of the forced 
 "real time" unfolding of the story. In one mission I tried to save a couple of people who were 
 trapped in a store. One accidently got left behind God knows where and evently died because he 
 didnt walk to through a door. The girl was just as dumb that keep following me. When I got her 
 in the wearehouse she was too dumb to climb up after me to avoid the zombies on the elevator so 
 when i opened the elevator and started killing the zombies on it with a sledge hammer thinking 
 I finally saved her butt after a lot of hard work she jumps in between me and the zombies (tyring 
 ti kick one or something) and dies because I hit her with the damn hammer. This made me so mad 
 I finally just quit because I had tried to save her twice before and each time she only died because 
 of some messy glitch. I love the concept of the game and think it could have worked really well 
 with just a few changes and some fixes- but that would have taken extra time and longer devlopment 
 and I suspose Capcom thought they had wasted enough money on devlopment as it was. If only this 
 game was really totally free roaming and you unlocked the missions based on encounters instead 
 of the way you do it would have been redeemable. right now I could kick myself so wasting money 
 on this one and regret the day I bought it. So much potential flushed down the drain. Actually 
 makes me sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising had a lot of things up it's sleeves, that in the end makes it a great game. Everybody 
 hated the save system but i don't see why i had no problem with it. It adds a bit more difficulty 
 to the game. People just complain too much. You can run around and have fun killing zombies, you 
 can save survivors scattered throughout the mall, or you can uncover the mystery behind the zombies. 
 Or you can do a bit of everything doesn't matter. With more modes to unlock this game will keep 
 you busy for quite a while. Weapons well its easier to say anything you will find in a mall and 
 more. Phsycopaths are incredibly annoying and can be really hard to beat sometimes. Dead Rising 
 is a great game with a few minor flaws. Download the demo and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komptonboi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Good, choppy at times but all around very nice. Blood effects are excellent, theres no 
 denying that.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a little hard, it takes some time. There are hours and hours of side 
 missions to do after you beat the main game. The only complaint would be the saving issues, there 
 are like 5 places on the entire map to save. It really gets annoying, dont be angry when you have 
 to beat a boss 2-3 times.
  
  Sound: Very Good, gross sounds of hitting a zombie and smashing his face into the ground. It definitely 
 adds something to the game.
  
  Value: This game will take a very long time to play. Its wortth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun, but I don't like the time restrictions to follow the story line, I 
 just want to bash zombies while uncovering the story along the way as opposed to being forced to 
 complete certain missions in certain amounts of time and being at the right place. I may go through 
 this game again to follow the scoop leads more thoroughly, but for now, I let many of them pass 
 just to explore the mall way more. I like the underground parking lot, loads and loads of zombies 
 to run over and rack up points and kill counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  this game is alot of fun - but it is also very agro if you don't know what you are getting into. 
 there is a pretty good story, and tons of stuff to do - as in you will have to play it more then 
 once to do most of it. there are alot of very creative choices for weapons and seems pretty reasonable 
 for the location. it does however seem that the developers are active in working against the player 
 in many respects - and would be better served with some more gameplay modes. there is no multiplayer 
 - which sucks because there are plenty of zombies to go around, and there is only one player slot 
 to save in - so dont let little brother hop on your game if you dont want you stuff ruined. a solid 
 buy for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  The game is addictive and practical. Its also hilarious and weird, in a sense. But hey, this game 
 is really good if you have the urge to kill zombies. Yes, zombies a lot of them. To counter this 
 zombie population explosion, you are given the ability to take anything in the mall to be used 
 as a weapon. It can range from frying pans to golf clubs and of course your typical fire arms. 
 However, weapons have a breaking point, some weapons are sturdier than others while some run out 
 of ammo, like fire arms and nail guns. It does not mean that youre defenceless, you also have 
 some moves that can be unlock as you progress. As for the gameplay, its addictive as I said. There 
 are tons of stuff to play with and tons of ways to kill zombies. Imagine this, you take a convertible 
 (yes theres a car outside the leisure park) and go down the basement level and just kill anything 
 that moves ( in the basement, you can barely see the road) . I mean anybody heard of zombie road 
 kill? It feels satisfying to run them over and over again. The good thing about this is there are 
 no frame rate issues. As for the boss fights, there are a lot of them depending on the time that 
 you have. The boss fights for the most part is pretty straight forward. It can be easy or hard 
 depending on your level and equipment that you have. You can also say that its quite unique and 
 a good change of pace from other games. It gets weird too. I mean a clown for a boss? We all know 
 that everybody hates clowns and the good thing is that we can bash them now. Point in case, all 
 the bosses are deranged psychopaths. It seems like Capcom got this idea from Konamis MGS games. 
 Although not military related, you get your fair share of weirdness. The only flaw is in its save 
 feature. The game has a one save feature. It means that it keeps overwriting your saved games, 
 which is somewhat irritating but not as punishing. Also there are limited save points throughout 
 the game. The security room is one of them and various washrooms scattered all over the mall. The 
 problem is getting to these save points. Its either youre presented with hordes of zombies to 
 contend with or you just dont want to risk overwriting your previous save. Its not only that, 
 the game probably has the dumbest NPCs ever. Theyre just plain dumb. Theyre most likely going 
 to get killed. I admit that it gets frustrating to save them especially if they came from the other 
 side of the mall. The good thing about this that its optional. Over all the game is great. Theres 
 one more thing that keeps bugging me though. Youre in a mall and Ive never seen any videogame 
 stores at all. Correct me if Im wrong but I just havent notice it. Whats up with that? Also 
 how come theres no xbox 360 console that I can carry as a weapon? Oh well, I guess its just me. 
 Anyways, I will recommend this game because its unique and its a genre that has never been done 
 to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Zombies, who knew they could be so much fun. Killing them at least. Dead Rising is a sinlge player 
 Action/Adventure game for the XBoX360. Now, this game is definatly extreamly unique. The whole 
 feel of the game is not something of the typical game. The whole game feels like a cinematic zombie 
 movie. Very similar to George Romeros, "Dawn of the Dead." Very fun, very entertaining. The player 
 plays as Frank West, Photojournalist. Quite an interesting charictor in video game history. Slightly 
 big-headed but focused on getting his story out safely.
  The games mission disign are focused into three modes. 72 Hour mode, which is the primary "campaign" 
 mode for the game. Where the player must perform missions to unravel the truth behind the Willimette 
 incident in a period of 72 scale hours. During this time, the player can perform any action throughout 
 the mall. Such as rescuing survivors trapped around the mall, or facing off with physcopaths who 
 are turned crazy by the shock of this incident. Whatever the player does, affects the outcome of 
 the game. Weather Frank makes it out or not. Also in the game is the Overtime mode. A mode that 
 is what would have happened had Frank not made it out of the mall in 72 hours, and how he makes 
 it out safely.
  Then comes the Infinity mode. Where the player must survive in the mall as zombies grow in number, 
 and food and supplies grow thin. The player must survive as long as possable in this game without 
 dying or running out of resources. Also, during this mode, the camera cannot be used, and any other 
 person or thing in the mall in considered a threat. The player finds "Physcopaths" of a sort, who 
 all drop items once they are defeated by player or zombies. The longer the player survives, the 
 higher the rank in the XBoX Live leaderboards. The current high score at this time is 18 days. 
 Impossable this reviewer thinks. 'Cant even make it ten days.
  
  The game has very prestine graphics. Very well-oiled. Some graphical flaws, such as clipping. (items 
 passing through other items.) but that does not happen often. The player will notice that the high-importance 
 charictors in the game are of high detail, while as most of the zombies will be fairly lower detail. 
 Not bad, just lower then the rest of the charictors. Nothing to worry about, everything looks great 
 nonetheless.
  
  Hearing the sound of a knife as it slices through undead flesh is all the more rewarding in Dead 
 Rising. So is the sound of the sledgehammer. Bench. Orange. Toolbox. Shears. Pistol. Nail Gun. 
 Pipe. Trash Can. Katana. Bowling Ball. Pan. Sign. Staff. And Guitar. All weapons have thier own 
 very unique sound. The voice acting is excellent, and well felt. The physcopaths each sound like 
 actual physcopaths. Creepy, yet cool.
  
  Driving your car through a crowd of zombies is quite rewarding. This game carries a very unique 
 gameplay experiance. The controls are slightly choppy and a little hard to get used to. But once 
 the player figures it out, the controls flow smoothly. The player has the ability to execute special 
 moves the can kill zombies fairly quickly and effectivly. And the controls allow for these moves 
 to be executed smoothly.
  
  The dynamics of the game give a very good and entertaining feel. The greatest lure of the game 
 is the players ability to pick up anything they see and begin to kill zombies with it. And, in 
 some cases. Pick up zombies themselves and kill them with... themselves. Also, the player is given 
 a camera, which they can take and save pictures of funny, gory, and otherwise random moments that 
 they experiance while playing. And this is also fashoned into a rewards system. For the better 
 the pictures, the more reward.
  In Addition, the player can change costumes. From the practical, to the funny, to the absolute 
 bizzare, these are scattered throughout the mall for the player to discover and try on for size.
 
  
  In summary, this game delivers an excellant mix of stratagy, the FPS style, and a little cinematic 
 feel to create the great game that is Dead Rising. This game has plenty of spunk and story to cause 
 a sequal. And this reviewer hopes it does. Until then, The zombies dont kill themselves.... excuse 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KGB002
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly a MUST buy game for a 360 Owner. This game is X-treme to the max because it has 
 slashing, smashing, shooting action that will punch your ballz off. But seriously, this game has 
 a very strange little complex storyline that will have you saying WTF in the begginning of the 
 game. But wen you go deeper into the storyline you will understand everything much better. But 
 if you dont like going by the storyline and fighting all those bosses you can always go and chop 
 up some zombies. I had a lot of fun with this game and so would you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReyDel3127
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome, fun, entertaining, and sometimes surprising. Dead rising puts you in 
 the role as Frank West, photo journalist who's actually covered wars ya' know? Anyways, this game 
 has a vast variety of weapons at your disposal. The graphics and the sound in this game are awesome 
 and they sound and look like you would expect them to. This game will cover up a lot of your time, 
 especially trying to unlock the achievements. This game doesn't have bosses, but "psychopaths" 
 ranging from a crazed war veteran to a Chinese butcher. There are a few vehicles to drive, but 
 the don't handle that well and can break pretty easily. Within the mall there are some clothes 
 shops that you can use to change your appearance and make your character to your fitting. The health 
 resources in this game are food and liquids such as pie and milk. You can also mix these foods 
 and liquids to create mixed drinks such as zombie bait or "zombait". Another unique thing that 
 most games don't have is the multiple endings which you can view by doing certain things or not 
 by doing things, its all up to you on how you play. Well, thats it for this review. I think I might 
 go and play some more Dead Rising! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griff767
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Trapped in a mall filled with zombies, Dawn of the dead 72' anyone? well this was my first 360 
 game that i bought, ( i rented oblivion first) the graphics are pretty good for a standard tv ,awesome 
 on hd. The save system sometimes ticked me off when i wanted to do 72 hour mode and overtime mode 
 at same time. The story is pretty good, government corrupition at its best. Its not as free roamy 
 as you thought it was going to be in 72 hour mode you must do the cases in a specific amount of 
 time or else you must restart survivor AI sucks , Boss AI is pretty good for first runthrough. 
 THe achievements amde me want to try and try again, its probably a renter , then if u like you 
 can buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaVin32293
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising. Dead rising is a game that you can just do whatever you want and still do good. The 
 game play is pretty good. Although the story is a little short but the overtime and infinity mode 
 make up for it. Another thing is at the begining of the game the zombies are fun. But as the game 
 progresses the zombies get annoying. Just the fact that there everywhere makes them even more annoying. 
 Also the fact that you can put masks on zombies is just hilarious. Anyway just the fact that you 
 can brutally muder a zombie makes it worth playing one more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie44
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  This is what any Dawn of the Dead fan could only dream of. Zombies, so many zombies, almost everything 
 is a weapon, some guy that looks like Ash from Evil Dead, and the sweet, sweet visuals of pulling 
 out entrails. The story starts with Frank West, a photographer with serious determination to get 
 a story in a town called... Willamette. He arrives to find flesh eating zombies and survivors inside 
 one of the biggest malls I have ever seen. This makes for plenty of different ways to dismember 
 and mutilate zombies in almost everyway possible. I felt though that some things you still could'nt 
 pick up, like you can't use shirts, pants, basketballs, tennis rackets, and other things that are 
 hanging on the wall which you really can't use. Then again, everything else is. The game contains 
 a B-horror movie story, which I certainly don't mind at all, some very funny dialog (if you can 
 read it) and your good old partner that you want to kill so badly, Otis. This guy isn't as annoying 
 as I was led to believe but it's still enough to want to take a fire axe and chop his head off. 
 Gameplay is really good, I was led with the impression that you couldn't play this game without 
 doing missions, but in fact, you can ignore the missions entirely and spend the 72 hours in the 
 mall doing what you want. Frank levels himself up by PP, from taking pictures, decapitating zombies 
 in unique ways, or successfully getting survivors to a safe place. The upgrades are random, from 
 getting health, speed, or attack boosts, or learn new moves. These moves are usually pretty easy 
 to do, but some have some consequences, like the double lariat, because Frank has the knack for 
 not being able to hold on to his weapon when doing this. The max level is 50 and I enjoy what special 
 move you get from that, but I don't want to say what it is.
  Now with the problems. The survivor AI is pretty stupid, because usually there are a ton of zombies 
 to get through when trying to rescue someone. I personally kill them myself if they lose over half 
 of their health, because it isn't really worth it. Sometimes the framerate slows, but that usually 
 only happens when there's over 700 zombies on the screen. There are some gameplay issues, like 
 after jumping, your extremely, extremely susceptible to getting bitten by a zombie. I personally 
 hate that, but there is kind of a glitch to avoid it that I won't discuss.
  The bosses, or psychopaths are fantastic, each with a different style of attack, a ridiculous motivation, 
 some extremely powerful weapons, and some very memorable music for each of them. The replayabiltiy 
 is fantastic. There's so many ways to get achievements, different unlockables, such as costumes, 
 I haven't stopped yet. Multiple endings, two extra modes, one that is very satisfying with the 
 whole Otis situation, and another excuse to kill survivors.
  The save system, although everyone complains about it, I really don't see a problem. There's multiple 
 bathrooms all over the place, and it really isn't that hard to get there. Apparently people have 
 a problem with one save slot, but if you have a memory card, you can make as many saves as you 
 want, by creating new profiles. I have four right now, so there really isn't a problem. When completing 
 missions, there is a certain amount of time to do it in, or else the game ends with the story. 
 So you have three options from there, load your save, continue playing until time ends (and you 
 still can get multiple endings from there depending what you do) or restart with the current PP 
 level that you have now. Most of the time you really shouldn't have a problem with time, I find 
 it ridiculous that anyone complains about it. Finally, if your a Dawn of the Dead fan, this is 
 for you. Now if you love Resident Evil, which I love too, there really shouldn't be a problem because 
 Capcom made it. It isn't as dark as Resident Evil with its Gothic setting. It's almost like a joke, 
 especially some of the zombie actions, but that's what the old Dawn of the Dead was, a situation 
 with a sick joke. It's really campy, some of the clothes that you can change into really express 
 that idea. With me, there's nothing wrong with that, now if only they can take this idea and put 
 the setting into a city instead of a mall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogkamarky
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Ok i see some people comparing this to resident evil, but really honestly people you just cant, 
 because resident evil goes far beyond just zombies and they go off in their own little world of 
 t-virus in everything! but this right here sticks on what matters the most ZOMBIES and lots of 
 them.
  
  The first time i played it i was in awe to see the zombie filled mall reminisent of dawn of the 
 dead the original now, the classic because the zombies are all slow and can be managed not out 
 of control like the new movie had them. By doing that you are able to roam around without feeling 
 too much of a threat from them and i love it! they are at your mercy in this game with all the 
 excellent choices of weapons, i really only wished that you can level far more than 50 that would 
 of made replay value even higher and the excitement of playing as a god with these mindless freaks! 
 but all in all i have lots of fun with this game everything is perfect from the graphics, sound, 
 fun factor, storyline acting its all great 8) and the good thing is i know xbox live will have 
 extra content to come this way and i'll be here to download whatevers coming ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising lets you take control of Frank West - an ambitious photojournalist who heads to Willamette 
 on tip he recieved that there is a huge story in the area. After he sets down on the mall and tells 
 his helicopter pilot to pick him up in 3 days, Frank finds out that the area is infested with zombies. 
 It is up to him to not only uncover the truth, but rescue survivors inside the mall from a grisly 
 fate. Later, as it turns out, parasitic wasps are infecting humans and transforming them to zombies 
 
  
  The premise of the game is you run around as Frank using basically anything you can find as a weapon 
 - this includes parasols, katanas, shotguns, cooking oil - to take down the massive zombie hordes 
 that plauge the mall. Ontop of that you have to take pictures of really anything (though they are 
 sometimes catagorized into three different genres - horror, erotic, and drama) to earn "prestige 
 points" which are used to level your character up. When you go up a level you earn more health, 
 move faster, and you can carry more items. And ontop of THAT, you have to escort survivors back 
 to the security room from one part of the mall to the next which means sometimes you can equip 
 them with weapons from your stock, hold their hand, or give them a piggy back ride to safety.
 
  
  There are two different types of missions in this game - there is the "main quest" which tells 
 the story of Dead Rising and forces you be at certain places at a designated time & accomplish 
 certain tasks before the story moves on. Then there is the "Scoop Missions", which are just side 
 quests where you go and rescue a survivor or fight a psychopath.
  
  Lets talk about the psycopaths. These guys are suppose to be bosses, and are anything from a chainsaw 
 weilding clown, cult leader, machette carrying Vietnam Vet, to a shotgun blasting red neck or a 
 murderous food store owner. The first time around they are pretty difficult to beat, but once you 
 learn their rythm and find the right weapon then they shouldn't be too hard. However, these guys 
 act so far out of it that it is nearly impossible to try and connect with them on pretty much any 
 level... in otherwords, they are very unrealistic.
  
  Flaws.. every game has them, so why not Dead Rising? For beginners, the ally AI is terrible. You 
 can equip them with pretty much anything and they will just stand there and watch zombies encircle 
 and attack them. Hell, even if you tell them to follow you they will either ignore you all together 
 or run straight into zombies. Secondly, the save system is pretty much outdated & really feels 
 like it was based off the obsolete way of saving from the NES. You have to run from bathroom to 
 bathroom to save, thats right - there is no "on the fly" saving - so you could be playing for two 
 hours straight, forget to run to a bathroom, die, and have to start the game ALL over again. Finally, 
 and I dont know if this bothers other peeople, but your weapons can break - be it a lawnmower, 
 chainsaw, 2x4, step ladder, a car... after a few moments of abuse your weapons will literally break 
 into pieces which can REALLY leave you at a disadvantage when surrounded by millions of zombies... 
 oh yeah, and Otis calling you EVERY three seconds is the most annoying thing ever.
  
  Ontop of all that, Capcom tried to re-create some of the elements from Resident Evil 4. By this 
 I mean the "button sensitive" times. For instance, a zombie will grab you and all of a sudden a 
 big green "A" appears on the screen indicating for the player to press it in order to shake off 
 the zombie. If the wrong button is pressed, or the right button is pressed but not in the alotted 
 time then the zombies score some more health from you. This was done in RE4 much better.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, even though it doesn't push the X-Box 360 to the limits (besides 
 the fact that it has armies of zombies on screen at once) . Everything runs fluid, and has a sort 
 of "animated movie" look at times. The smooth transition between night and day looks fantastic, 
 and the actual amount of detail done on both the zombies & the mall is just exhilirating. However, 
 on the flip side of things, besides Frank & the DHS people the character models look kinda bad, 
 blocky, and last gen to say the least.
  
  The music and sound effects in this game are awesome. Throughout the Willamette Mall you will hear 
 (naturally) soothing mall music which adds a bit of goofiness to the overall feel of the game. 
 Then there is the heavy metal music while you are in battles with psycopaths which also help to 
 pump you up and feed your veins the adrenaline you need to accomplish the task to slaughtering 
 those fools. The voice acting is pretty solid, though sometimes a bit cheesy & tacked on. The SFX 
 are where Dead Rising stands out... the zombies moans, the "swoosh" of a blade swining, the blast 
 of a shotgun... all head on and really deliver a satisfying sound. However, it isn't a perfect 
 10 because most of the game is just dialouge boxes, which means that what a character is saying 
 is represented through text in a box.. so in otherwords, you'll only actually hear voice acting 
 a handful of times throughout the game which is sad 'cause in this day & age voice acting is really 
 a thing you need.
  
  To sum it up, Dead Rising is easily one of the funnest games next to Grand Theft Auto to just run 
 around and kill things for hours on end in a multitude of ways. However, since it has such a shallow 
 story, hard boss fights, horrendous AI, and an annoying save system you may find that Dead Rising 
 is only fun for a little bit. Maybe not exactly for you to buy, this game is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KPTruth117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game, i love killing slow moving and nearly crippled zombies! I also love the extremely 
 open world like that of the game GUN. missions that include saving people can sometimes be infuriating 
 though. The gun shop is my hangout any zombies aproach my domain must be smited by my shotgun, 
 ha ha take that! I hide in my gunshop at night when the zombies are stronger, its a good strategy. 
 This hasn't been a hundred words blah blah blah, how bout now? not yet, well in short Numa Numa... 
 i mean Dead Rising is a pretty good game.
  
  
  P. S. wrote this review while listening to NUMA NUMA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monny127
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome! There is so many ways to kill zombies. The controls are so easy. And all the 
 special moves are awsome and easy to! A must have for anybody who has a soul. Everything is perfect. 
 My personal favorite move is the jump kick. It knocks em down but dont kill em so you can rip theyre 
 heads off. Also the face-plant is a must try. You must try this game. SO MUCH UNLOCKABLES AND WEAPONS!!!!!!!!!! 
 You must play to put your mind at ease if you dont youll be the only one. Thanks for reading my 
 review. Also i suggest trying this game iin the hours of midnight to scare the silly out of you 
 when something you dont see bites you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i have in my gaming collection right now. This game has everything you (and 
 especially me) want in a video game. Like zombies, hot chicks, guns, and the mega man gun? just 
 kidding. but this game will keep you entertained for a long time. hopefully until this fall's game 
 releases. the x box live achievements they have you to earn are great and they make you want to 
 get them. the games difficulty is just right later on if you're not leveled up enough you might 
 have some truble but at lest are you skills and level will be with you through out the game. So 
 if you're a fan of just great fun games then buy this game now, but if not just rent it and say 
 that you played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the reasons why I bought an xbox 360. keep in mind i saw the videos for this 
 before the 360 even came out. With that said, dead rising is awesome. this game is endless hours 
 of entertainment. If i start rambling this review is going to be 39 pages so im just going to list 
 pros/cons.
  
  cons: 1. the save system is a little annoying. you can only have one save file at a time. 2. the 
 scoop system is a little frustrating also, however, it also adds a much needed tension to the game 
 and actually makes the story mode more enjoyable.
  3. graphics are good but not as good as the majority of 360 games, however (again) the amout of 
 detail makes this almost unnoticable.
  4. infiity mode has no save feature. i had to leave my xbox on for 3 days to be ranked #16. thats 
 probably dangerous. keep in mind infinity mode is a bonus feature.
  pros:
  1. craploads of zombies to kill. unlimited zombies.
  2. craploads of weapons to kill zombies 
 with.
  3. hilarous moments.
  4. amazing sound and gore.
  5. messages about america.
  6. infinity mode. 7. lesbian cop psychopath that rapes girls.
  8. megaman outfit and megabuster
 
  9. did i mention this game is fun?
  .............
  2,355. mixed drinks.
  
  buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, when first glanced upon back in 2005, Dead Rising proved not only to be a major addition 
 in Capcoms lineup, but a worthy addition to the Xbox 360s library. A game in which slaughtering 
 helpless victims is an admirable accolade, and taking picture of chaos, madness, and suffering 
 will gain you points. So how could a game with so much potential ultimately end up like the games 
 antagonists; a bunch of mindless zombies with no real purpose but repetitive wandering.
  
  Dead Rising follows the story of Frank West, a wartime photojournalist who got a tip that the story 
 of his life is occurring in a little town called Willamette, Colorado. When Frank arrives he soon 
 finds out that not everything is as it seems, and that all of the citizens of the quiet town have 
 been turned into flesh-eating zombies. Once Frank barricades himself inside the towns mall with 
 the other survivors, he soon realizes that something, or someone may be behind the recent zombie 
 breakout. This is how the game plays out, as Frank has 72 hours to uncover the truth or it is lost 
 forever. At the end of 72 hours, Franks ride returns to pick him up and sweep him away from town, 
 so Dead Rising is a standard race against the clock. Ultimately, this may seem like a very well 
 executed gameplay mechanic; ushering Frank through the story based on an in-game clock. However, 
 in retrospect, it becomes a major nuisance simply because Frank must get to the required location 
 in the allotted amount of time. If, for whatever reason you do not make it to any of the main story 
 mission in time, you fail the ENTIRE game. Never mind the previous missions, or all the time you 
 spent, if you do not make it to your destination, game over. If you can however find a way to manage 
 your time, you can than have the luxury of doing side missions all of which include escorting survivors 
 to safety, battling insane psychopaths, or simply go on a massive zombie-killing spree. Effortless, 
 Dead Rising basically offers no challenge whatsoever. Most zombies go down with one or two hits, 
 many of them wander around aimlessly walking into corners or falling off high ledges, and there 
 is literally an infinite supply of health lying around for you to consume if need be. The only 
 time when the zombies can truly become a major nuisance is when you escort survivors from one part 
 of the mall to the other. While the zombies have an excuse to be completely brain dead, there is 
 no excuse for human characters. Most survivors run around like chickens with their heads cut off, 
 and usually run straight into packs of zombies, which makes helping them survive insanely difficult. 
 It is a complete waste of time to try and save them since you are racing against the clock to begin 
 with.
  
  Another terrible problem with Dead Rising is the text for which you are constantly reading throughout 
 the game. During testing for Dead Rising, the developers played the game on HDTV, so naturally 
 everything looked fine for them. However, since most gamers are financially insecure, they cannot 
 afford the luxuries of high-ended televisions. So for them, and most of the gamers who will likely 
 pick up Dead Rising, the text is very small, and almost completely impossible to read unless you 
 are sitting very close to your TV. This, topped off with constant reminders darting across your 
 screen, make getting to your destined goal in time that much harder, since you do not know where 
 to go in the first place. To put matters worse, Dead Rising has one of the worst saving features 
 in any game. You can only save the game in the security room (which is located at the very south 
 end of the mall) or in any bathroom. What makes this horrible is that Dead Rising can only hold 
 one game file for each saving device. So, if you would want to start a new game or save more than 
 one file, you would need to buy a memory card. Plus, if you happen to play for hours on end, and 
 than suddenly die without saving, you will start from where you last savedwhether that be minutes 
 or hours from when you played, thus making the game feel incredibly repetitive.
  
  Dead Rising hardly looks like a next-gen game either. Although the cutscenes look very impressive 
 to the overall scope of the game, the other portions of the game lack in comparison. Every store 
 in the mall looks the same (just with a different clich name, such as Joes Diamonds, or Little 
 Tykes clothes) . Most of the zombies look similar and have the same basic movements, and many of 
 the weapons will be accustomed to you constantly throughout the game as you really never use anything 
 different till the very end. In conclusion, Dead Rising fails to deliver any of the hype it promised. 
 The game lacks depth, feels all too repetitive, and coupled with the horrible text and save systems, 
 make it barely worthy of a rental. Truly a major disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentE24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to just kill zombies in a whole bunch of messed up ways... in a shopping mall... filled 
 with hundreds of weapons? This is your chance. I mean it 100% when I say that Dead Rising is nothing 
 short of amazing. With and endless variety of weapons and a slew of shops to take your pick, the 
 action never lets up. Though the boss fights can be frustrating and somewhat pointless, it is truly 
 a great geam when you get to the center of it. If you don't already own an XBOX 360, Dead Rising 
 is the reason to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoratioE
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  My 13 year-old son had to convince me to get this game. I immediately thought of Resident Evil, 
 Silent Hill, and all the other zombie/undead games, but to my surprise the game was something like 
 I've never played. The ability to use nearly everything on the screen as a weapon is just plain 
 funny and cool. I found myself hitting zombies in the head with diamond rocks, mowing them over 
 with a lawnmower, running them over with a shopping cart, and beating them silly with steel pipes. 
 The graphics are great, the game AI is decent, the only downside is the numerous and tedious "escort" 
 missions. Those missions get old fast. I spent most of my time running around the mall beating 
 down zombies and trying on different gear, riding a skateboard and knocking down zombies with my 
 driver and golf ball.
  
  The blood is flowing in this game and is not for the faint of heart. Dead Rising is just a fun 
 game to kill time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLIM10480
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Let start by saying that when I first heard of this game I thought that it was going to be big 
 waste of time. So I did not think I was going to have any fun with this game. That said, I can 
 actually say that this is the most fun I've had playing a game in a while. Specially killing dumb 
 and slow zombies. I also loved taking pictures in the game. The thing is that this game could have 
 easily had been a terrible game if not for the game keeping time and making have to be in certain 
 places at certain times. Going from mission to mission while keeping time in mind never gets boring. 
 So if you want to have some great fun playing really cool a simple game pick this one up. I can 
 honestly say that this is the most fun you'll have playing a game this summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the best games to ever be played by man! Although it has its problems it 
 does not take away from the warm fuzzy feeling in your heart when you cut a zombie in half with 
 a chain saw.
  
  The story is you play Freelance Reporter Frank West, he got a tip that something "big is going 
 down" in a small Colorado town. He lands on the roof of a mall with instructions to the helicopter 
 pilot and come back and pick him up in 72 hours. You have 72 hours to take pictures, get the scoop, 
 save the helpless citizens, and survive.
  
  One of the features the game is known for is being able to use anything to beat down those nasty 
 undead. Anything of Teddy Bears and CD cases to guns and sledgehammers and everything in between 
 can be used. If it is not nailed down you can use it. There are hundreds of weapons, some are more 
 powerful than others. However the more powerful ones usually don't last very long.
  
  There is an RPG element to the game. Over the course of the game you build experience by doing 
 things like killing zombies, rescuing people, and completing cases and other ways. These improve 
 things like your health, attack, and inventory plus you can learn a wide range of melee attacks. 
 Another cool feature is the ability to transfer over your stats when you start a new game.
  
  Being a freelance reporter you the option to take pictures with your camera at any time. Although 
 you can only carry 30 photos at a time and have to recharge your batteries at one of the few camera 
 stores around the mall when they run out. Pictures can earn you PP to level you up. There are survivors 
 around too as well as psychos which act as bosses. Rescuing survivors is finding them and escorting 
 them back to a safe room.
  There are around 50 or so and some are harder than others. Rescuing people and defeating most psychos 
 is optional though. It can get frustrating sometimes.
  
  The controls are very simple. You can become a master of them within about thirty minutes. Although 
 you sometimes may think that Frank walks too slow or walks like he has a stick up his butt. The 
 character responds well to your commands most of the time. But I will warn you that using a sledgehammer 
 in close quarters is a bad idea fro example.
  
  Now here comes the bad part of the game. First is the save feature which is only one slot. Obviously 
 everyone knows how frustrating one save slot can be but it is extra frustrating in this game since 
 save points and save defaults are far and in-between. Then there is the poor AI. The survivors 
 are very stupid and often make stupid decisions that can get themselves and you killed.
  
  Also be warned that unless you have HDTV or a larger-than-average television the in-game text (around 
 70 % of the text in the game) will be next to impossible to read. Finally it is in my opinion that 
 the in-game clock is way to fast. Making you run from place to place to meet a timer and not be 
 able to just sit back and enjoy some zombie killing. Although there is an infinite mode you can 
 unlock which has no timer.
  
  So overall it is a fun experience and worth your money. There are some things that take away from 
 the enjoyment but you will have a great time none the less. It also has some funny moments too 
 and some cool references to other games and movies.
  
  The Good:
  
  Simple design, never gets old, great graphics
  
  The Bad: Poor AI, Bad saving features, Poor 
 non-HD resolution.
  
  9/10 stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfhdsbhf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising was announced a few years back and I've been excited even since but each month it looked 
 better and better well is it better?
  
  Story: Without giving any secrets or spoilers away the basic story is you are max payne I mean 
 frank west and you get a tip that theres something going on in a town so frank hires a helicopter 
 pilot and sets out but once he gets there he sees what looks to be a horrible riot untill another 
 helicopter decides that theres only room for one helicopter and it trys to get rid of you so you 
 land on the roof of the mall and tell you pilot buddy to come pick you up in exactly three days.
 
  
  Graphics: Well now that the next generation of consoles is here we have come to expect excellent 
 graphics and dead rising delivers on the most part. Now I say that because everything looks good 
 but not lost planet jaw dropping and the reason for that is because there can be up to 1000 zombies 
 on screen at one time and theres almost no graphical hitches or sloppy frame rates it's all so 
 very smooth. From the the peoples expressions to the mass amount of blood shooting out of each 
 zombie it's enough to make George A romero blush.
  
  Sound: Heres where dead rising hits right on the mark everything from the zombies groaning to you 
 eating pies everything sounds how it should and the most excellent part of the sound is the blood 
 nosies once you carve up a zombie with a plether of different weapons. And just because capcom 
 loves the fans so much we have custom soundtracks because everyone wants to kill zombies listening 
 to I just died in your arms tonight.
  
  Gameplay: Now this is where dead rising wins or loses and it mostly wins but not without its fallen 
 comrads. The main idea to the game play is your in a mall for three days which roughly translats 
 to 7 hours and you can do whatever you want but thats not really the case let me explain. The main 
 mode which is the seventy-two hour mode you have the three days to get your story which is accomplised 
 by doing all the case files which are like the games levels if you will. Cases take place at a 
 certain time at a certain place so if you at toys are us but need to get to payless youd better 
 hope you got enough time because heres the games major flaw is if you miss a case file than it's 
 goodbye so long thanks for coming because the story mode is now over and your options are to either 
 restart the game with your stats (I'll get into that later) or just keep playing doing nothing but 
 killing zombies. 
  But most people say well i"ll just restart at my save point but heres dead rising second major 
 flaw there's only a small handfull of places to save so if you save to far away from your case 
 and theres no time well than you craped out. So lets say you didn't lose a case well than dead 
 rising starts to pick where anything in the mall can be used as a weapon from chainsaws to stuffed 
 teddy bears the mall is your oyster. Anything you do in dead rising from killing zombies to saving 
 people gets you points which level up frank and teach him new moves and upgrade his stats like 
 attack, life, item stock etc. But since frank is a photo journalist you can take pictures which 
 not only get you points you can keep to see your best shots to. And for you point poeple it has 
 lots of achievements for you.
  
  Should you buy this. Well thats a odd one if you love violence, gore or zombies this is the game 
 for you but if you don't like that than stay away from this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Amazing amounts of weapons all with unique characteristics give hundreds of different 
 ways to kill zombies and other survivors. Scoop missions and story missions will surely keep you 
 busy, and other game modes such as Overtime Mode and Inifinite mode will keep you very busy. Graphics: 
 The mall looks amazingly real. The lighting effects during the day are amazing, and the darkness 
 during the nighttime adds a sense of fear when your not really sure whats up ahead. The amount 
 of zombies on screen is amazing (especially in the maintenence tunnel, my god) Sound: The sound 
 in the game is great. Everything sounds like you would expect it to sound. And the mall music you 
 hear while running through a crowd of zombies in any part of the mall is really funny and sounds 
 exactly like the kind of music you would hear in any other mall.
  
  Value: The replay value in this game is amazing. Whether it is to go back and complete an unfinished 
 scoop mission, or to try and get another achievement, or to try and hit level 50, you will gladly 
 go back and play the game over and over.
  
  I loved this game and I'm sure many zombie fans and gamers alike will too. To me it is the only 
 true zombie game. Unlike Resident Evil or others, zombies are not just the joke, the enemy that 
 you just try and figure out how to use the buttons until you move onto the larger enemies. l loved 
 this game, and I totally want to go play it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The time system and save system are CONSTANTLY at odds with each other. First of all they have 
 "designated" spots where you can save your game and it takes time to find these spots. I wouldn't 
 be so bad if the game just automatically saved when you entered a new area, but no, they had to 
 kill that option off at the start. Not to mention when you die, you have to start ALL the way back 
 to your last save, another reason they should've added checkpoints or auto saves. Because they 
 didn't ,you have to run all the way trough the mall, fighting countless zombies again, only to 
 possibly die on the way there because you're in a hurry so you try to skip every zombie you can 
 but they can grab you from every which way and you could be screwed after that.
  
  Then there is the time system, EVERY last mission on that game is based on the in game clock and 
 there is no way to stop it. But you have to stay fixated on the main mission or else. If time runs 
 out on the main mission you lose the game automatically and have to start off from the last save 
 or a new game all together. The side missions can give you hella xp it you can do a few, but the 
 odds getting to them are slim to none.
  
  One more complaint is the sound. The sound effects are great, the gooshing sounds, zombie sounds, 
 gun shots and all that jazz. Its all the in game subtitles going on. What the hell, they could 
 only afford the voice actors for the cut scenes alone?!? That's dumb, its like taking a step back 
 from next gen.
  
  The good are the graphics of course. Being able to render that many zombies on that screen at once 
 is quite impressive. On top of that it runs smooth. The character models are not bad either.
  
  Another good point, the COUNTLESS ways to kill a zombie, from personal attacks, to shotguns, 
 and everything in-between. Ohh and is it ever so bloody.*evil laugh* Lawn mowers, baseball bats, 
 chain saws, benches, pistols, skate boards, propane tanks, these are just a few things you'll be 
 able to us against your foes.
  
  This game could have been REALLY fun if they would have just worked on the in game clock and save 
 system a bit more. Mostly the save system, that alone could have knocked the game up into the high 
 8's for me. As is though, I couldn't find a reason to give it more then a 7.5 and I really wanted 
 to like this game a lot more too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevendabouncer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  it has got the best zombie game i have played this game is 10X better then Resident Evil you can 
 beat the live day lights out of the zombies and the great thing is you can use ANY thing a Weapon 
 and i do meen any thing bats, skatebords, Tv's whataver you get youer hands on you can get all that 
 great stuff but the bad thing of the game is littie places to save but if you beat the game and 
 get the true ending you get Infinity Mode!!!! so of you like to beat the piss out of zombies get 
 Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Calling all fans of Zombie games! Dead Rising - the most hyped zombie event of the year is here 
 and it turns to be a really great game.
  
  Unlike Capcom's Resident Evils (except for 4) which makes you want to take a bite out of yourself, 
 Dead Rising allows you to take out your frustration on thousands and thousands of zombies. You 
 are allowed to use pretty much everything in the mall as weapon, from guns to baseball bats to 
 giant teddy bears.
  
  However, the core gameplay is not just running around killing zombies for the whole time. You have 
 to manage to stay alive while discovering the true story of how this all happened. You play as 
 Frank West, a diehard photojournalist trying to get the scoop of a lifetime. He finds it in the 
 city of Willamette, Colorado. Initially, Frank thinks a riot is going on, but he is terribly wrong. 
 He gets dropped off in a mall via hellicopter. He is now trapped inside for 72 game hours.
  
  During your pleasant (?) stay, you must solve case files which are the objectives you must achieve, 
 or else Frank will never find out what happened.
  
  In order to solve the case files you are going to have to go through zombies. The zombies serve 
 more as a blockade than an enemy. A hungry blockade with a taste for 'franks' - not Oscar Meyer 
 but West
  
  Along the way you will fight Psychopaths, which are deranged survivors. You will also have to save 
 un-deranged survivors (Scoops) and guide them to safety. Some you can arm so they can defend themselves, 
 some you can't, and some you have to carry (which is really hard since you can't fight while carrying 
 some babe through the zombie hoard) .
  
  The gameplay is really good. If you had a bad day, you can unleash all your fury on the zombies, 
 hitting them with a variety of objects (soccer balls, guitars, lawn mowers) . However, that doesn't 
 mean that the game is a walk in the park with your dog (or zombie dog) . The vast number of zombies 
 (&gt;53,000) is overwhelming and makes traveling from one place to the other tough (bloody, arm 
 chopping, head slashing, deadmeat stabbing tough) .
  
  You must be careful with the Survivors. Some are paralyzed in fear, some have no survival instincts 
 and run right into zombies, and some think they are Rambo and cannot resist attacking one of the 
 undead. Aside from that the gameplay is really well done.
  
  The graphics are solid and the sound is really good.
  
  The game has 3 different game modes, 
 although 2 of them need to be unlocked.
  
  This game has a lot of value because of the gameplay, variety of game modes and the shear fun of 
 zombie mayhem.
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a game you can sink your teeth into. And finally Capcom has released a game 
 (other than Resident Evil 4) where you can control the camera angle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellymae
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you are Frank West., a freelance photojournalist that has spent his career covering 
 assorted atrocities. After being tipped off about the events unfolding In the town of Willamette, 
 Frank charters a helicopter and flies into town to get what he is hoping is the story of his life. 
 What he doesnt seem to realize it that it could very easily become the end of his life. Military 
 vehicles block off everything leading into town. After capturing several pictures of the madness 
 from the safety of the helicopter, Frank tells his pilot to put down on the roof of a local shopping 
 mall, and instructs the pilot to pick him up in three days. In the Game, Frank has 72 game hours 
 to get his story and get out. His story, it turns out is zombies, thousands upon thousands of zombies. 
 As luck would have it, the shopping mall that Frank has chosen as his starting point for his investigation 
 is home to every good and service under the sun. It would probably be a nice place if it wasnt 
 for the hordes of walking dead. The cool thing about the mall is that just about anything in it 
 can be used as a weapon of zombie destruction. The items you can use run from the obvious guns, 
 knives, bats and pipes to items such as frying pans, plates, pop cans, tasers, and lawn mowers. 
 All these weapons just make for a zombie stomping good time. There are also many weird and wonderful 
 ways to use these items. And Frank is the man. He gains moves throughout the game and some of them 
 are just hysterical. Hand to hand combat that is part Ultimate fighter, part World Wrestling Federation. 
 Skill and health items are scattered throughout the game. Health items are food and drink. Just 
 to make saving your ass that much more enjoyable, the developers have decided to give extra health 
 if you find a food item that is supposed to be warm and heat it up in the microwave. You can pick 
 up books throughout the game which allows you to acquire skills like my personal favorite, skateboarding. 
 While you could most likely make it through the game without the books, picking them up makes the 
 game that much more interesting and fun. The game gives you plenty of opportunities to earn prestige 
 points, and increase Frank's abilities. Points come in many shapes, from taking pictures (frank 
 is a photojournalist) , to saving survivors and just bashing lots of zombie brains in. Since Frank 
 is a photojournalist, photograph stuff. I got tonnes of prestige points just taking pictures. And 
 it is amusing to see what kind of shots you can actually get. I found myself trying for the perfect 
 shot every time. You get massive points for scoring good pictures. I snapped pictures the whole 
 way through the game and seriously, I wish I could frame some of them they are so hysterical. While 
 you could probably go most of the way with very few pictures, I am pretty sure you will find yourself 
 trying to score the perfect shot. The sound effects in the game are amazing. Everything sounds 
 exactly as it should and as we all know, that almost never happens. The voice acting is well done 
 although not by anyone of note. The soundtrack itself however leaves a little to be desired. It 
 is almost not there.
  
  While zombie killing never loses its charm, eventually, some of the aspects of Dead Rising do. 
 The realtime strategy gets old fast. You constantly feel that you have to move, move, move and 
 for that reason, just wantonly killing zombies because you can is really not feasible. The zombies 
 are not all that aggressive except at night, which to me is a double edged sword. Mostly they just 
 shuffle and lunge if you get to close which leaves a little to be desired, but with that many freaking 
 zombies it is really the only chance you have of getting through the game. Aggressive zombies numbering 
 in the hundreds would simply swarm you and that would be game over. The save system is quite frankly, 
 brutal. There are save points scattered in a very few locations. Due to the structure of the game, 
 it is entirely possible to save yourself into a spot you simply cannot get out of. The interesting 
 part of the way the saves were structured is that in the event that you are killed you can save 
 the game not at that point, but at Franks current level of ability, making it that much easier 
 to get back to where you were. Also the story missions are all connected so that if you miss one 
 you have to find it before you can get any of the others. It is an achievement unto itself to have 
 this many characters on screen but of course it is at theexpense of graphics. While the graphics 
 in the cut scenes are really nice, when there are thousands of zombies onscreen graphics suffer 
 a little.
  
  The OMG that was amazing: Literally hundreds of zombies on screen at the same time. More ways to 
 kill a zombie than planters has peanuts. The sound effects in this game are amazing. Everything 
 sounds just exactly as it should.
  
  The good. The quality of graphics with this many characters on screen at the same time is very 
 good. The zombies look good and they die well. Game play is amusing, and there are many side quests 
 that you can perform. Voice acting is very good.
  
  The meh, whatever. When the heat is on with hundreds of zombies and large weapons, frame rate issues 
 occur. Nothing major, but notable. Zombies are for the most part pretty non aggressive. Realtime 
 strategy will go from an interesting concept to annoying relatively quickly.
  
  The downright annoying. The save system. I am fairly certain that Satan himself designed this save 
 system. It is pure evil. To sum up: this is a fantastic, innovative and highly amusing game, with 
 a few very minor flaws. Literally tonnes of replay value. 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks butt, but at first its tough but once you hit level 16 it is a breeze. 8.4 this 
 game is better than that. now i will tell you about the game. the characters are the best. for 
 those who like the vehicles, i don't but its a good way to get points for running over zombies 
 and everything is a weapon (almost) . but i don't like the bosses because you have to have a gun 
 or something. so my favorite weapon is the chain saw. cutting zombies in half makes it so mutch 
 fun. the music is the good. it is the best in boss fights. i highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gagongpinoy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is plain fun..
  
  graphics: graphics are well done, though it could have been better with the cut scenes but no big 
 deal. Blood all over the place, check - blood looked good on zombies and especially on franks face.
 
  
  gameplay: is very addictive at times, and will be consumed by doing achievements (genocider or 
 7 day surv) . non-linear gameplay that lets you do things your way, let survivors get eaten by zombies, 
 check.. though i was disturbed when knowing shopping carts are sometimes stronger than trucks..
 
  
  sound: is really good, ou can hear zombies that are just on the other room and sets the ambience. 
 Voice acting is also well done, especially pycho adam =) .
  
  Overall, this game will make you love and at the same time hate zombies.. love when you can put 
 stuff on them , hate getting eaten by them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoe8me
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is very interesting in its storyline, gameplay mechanics and visuals
  
  The storyline (trying not to spoil anything) really drags you deep into a complex mystery. The 
 multiple scenarios also plays role that can decide whether you were successful.
  
  The gameplay is solid and not really repetative. My only complaint were some of the control and 
 saving aspects. The picture taking is fun, but does take some time to get used to if you want to 
 take perfect photos. The saving in the game is cool for it allows one to carry over their stats 
 and skills to later games. The one-save issue could be frustrating unless you know what to do before 
 each case starts. The AI in the game fluctuates from plain stupid to genius. The AI never remains 
 consistent and can make certain escort missions frustrating.
  
  Finally, the visuals do look next-gen. They may not be the greatest on the Xbox 360, but it is 
 a great improvement than what could have been on the previous Xbox. The fact that the game can 
 support excellent graphics with numerous enemies, interactive environments, and large settings 
 does show some potential of the Xbox 360. However, in my opinion the faces in the game is a bit 
 "unsettling" and seem to gritty than they should be. Nevertheless, this aspect was never bothersome 
 to other critics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrising360
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is way out of the question its that cool the gore and the blood and also the sound effects 
 way out there capcom has made the best game ever finally!!!! anyways this game is do what you want 
 pick up things over 250 things to pick up so whats first the mall your probably thinking how big 
 well lets just say that if you were to go in a circle it would take you as long as the missisipi 
 river im kiddin but its pretty big especially when your looking for things or getting a surviver 
 you also get some new moves fighting of course jump kick, tackle and lets just say spinning anyways 
 this is the game for you  thet means 
 you get it or you know okay you dont or the zombies willlllll!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devey_p
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Now heres a game that had the chance to become one of the defining titles for the 360, a truly 
 next gen title that held much more potential than just a game with pretty graphics. So what happened? 
 In my opinion a huge mistake was made by Capcom to release a game that no one seems to have yet 
 realized was UNFINISHED. Lets break it down:
  
  1: A broken save system that only allows 1 save slot, and to add insult, saves in inconvenient 
 locations. Tell me any other developers that believes this would truly be a good feature in a game.
 
  
  2: When I first played Dead Rising, I thought the sound was broken and started looking for a patch. 
 Then it truly occurred to me that Next Gen means stepping backwards as we now have to read character 
 interaction speech. Could they not be bothered to record any voice acting other than the ones used 
 in the cut scenes?
  
  3: Who on earth dreamed up their control system? If I was perhaps handicapped in some manner (no 
 offence intended) , I would still be able to move a camera and take a picture at the same time, 
 but no. In this game we have to stop aiming to take a picture, by which time the action has moved 
 out of the view finder!
  
  4: Imagine playing halo if you could not shoot and walk/run at the same time. I cant believe that 
 they though it would be a good idea to make you stop, aim and then shoot (whilst being shot at!) 
 5: As explained in another user review, the eat (health) button is the same as the attack button. 
 As you have to store both food and weapons in the same inventory, after your weapon breaks, you 
 will often find yourself snacking on a baguette while you should be attacking zombies. This can 
 get you killed.
  
  It would seem very simple to me to fix most of these problems by remapping a few functions to other 
 buttons and control sticks. Its almost as if the game was ported from a different system with 
 a weird controller configuration.
  
  6: The boss battles are overly difficult, further complicated by the awkward aiming system when 
 trying to shoot.
  
  7: Stupid Ally AI, do they ever do what theyre told? Sometimes, but babying your Allies is not 
 something I would consider Next Gen!
  
  8: Did anyone else notice weapons that can magically pass through the wall?
  
  So lets face 
 it, the games release date was already delayed once, for obvious reasons but was still released 
 incomplete in my opinion
  
  Is it fun to kill zombies? Sure! Is it fun to pick up any object that you can find and use it as 
 a weapon? Hell yeah! Does the game have something of a semi decent story line? I think so. Does 
 a crappy control system and poorly thought out concepts ruin the gaming experience? Subject to 
 opinion. Should publishers be praised for releasing substandard & incomplete projects? NO they 
 should not!
  
  This brings me to another sticking point. While I believe that it is every individual has the right 
 to express their own opinion (like I have) on what they believe to be a good or bad game. This 
 game has gotten a lot of great reviews and I wonder if the reviewers have been playing a different 
 version to the one I have. Like I said everyone should be allowed to express their own opinion 
 but reviewers are giving publishers a golden ticket to producing more incomplete projects like 
 this one. Before saying a game is the best thing you have ever played, truly analyze the games 
 full merit, not just because its fun to kill zombies! Ask yourself what didnt work in the game. 
 Let me explain it like this, If you had just paid $12,000,000 to live in a huge fancy looking mansion 
 backed on a 100 acre plot of land. Would you be happy is the house was falling apart inside and 
 the land was built on a disused and smelly trash site? This is how I would describe Dead Rising, 
 great to look at but once you open it up, its like a Miss World contestant, great looks, but very 
 little substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morales664
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Man Where can i begin. This game is really awesome. When you start the game you see tons of zomblies. 
 You see hundreds of zombies in your screen all over the mall and killing them is so awesome! There 
 so many weapons in the mall and theres so many stores to go to and so many things you can do its 
 so awesome!! The Goal here is to survive 72 hourzs so you can rescure survivers or do missions 
 that they have for you or plain ole survive 72 hours of killing zombies lmao. There are alot of 
 attires that you can change into and theres so many weapons in the game its just so fun and you 
 can ride a bike and skateboard over trhe zombies as well and the good thing is thaqt in this game 
 there is more then 1 endings. THis game also has amazing graphics and it has a very good replay 
 value because theres a good amount ofthings to do to get you to play this game more then one time 
 at least! I love thisgame and overall its so much fun to play!!!!!! IO highly recomend purchasing 
 this game its awesome! The only bad side here is that the saving system is alittle bad but not 
 enough to get you to dislike the game. This is truly an amazing game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aussie21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying: I though this game was the most retarded idea since that Barbie horse riding 
 game. But After playing for a couple of hours, i could not put it down. I dont no how to explain 
 it, but killing zombies just does not get boring. The story is pretty good and the graphics alright, 
 but not the best. One thing though: WHAT THE HELL IS WITH THE SAVE SYSTEM. It sucks, but u get used 
 to it. I just dont get it. Over all, everyone should own this game just based on its re-playability!!!! 
 I dont have enough words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll state the positives:
  1. Graphics are ok
  2. Lots of different weapons
  3. Story is really in depth, almost like a movie
  
  Now the negatives:
  1. Way to many load 
 times (ruins the story and gameplay, there are so many load times I was getting tired of listening 
 to the story)
  2. Because of the load times, the game is simply boring. yay! you run around killing zombies and 
 talk to people.
  3. When you get bit, how come you don't become a zombie?
  4. The game is confusing? What exactly are you supposed to do? Save people and unfold the mystery 
 of what is really going on. in the town? If so, Im not wasting my life away waiting for a game to 
 load everytime someone has "info".
  5. Everytime Im playing a mission and following the arrow, Im notified that random people are dying 
 IN BIG BOLD YELLOW LETTERS. Which again, adds to the confusion of what the **** is actually going 
 on?
  6. There is a time limit for everything, which again, adds even more to the confusion. You are 
 constantly worrying about time. 7. Killing zombies with different things gets boring really really 
 fast.
  8. You kill a hoard of zombies and clear a hallway. You run down the hallway and turn around. More 
 zombies magically appear = RETARDED. Where did they come from? 9. You have a camera and constantly 
 carry it, whats the goddamn point for taking pictures and collecting points? So you get my point. 
 I don't understand how you can enjoy this game? It's flat out boring, confusing, and a waste of 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising pits players agains lots and lots of zombies with whatever they can get their hands 
 on in a giant shopping mall. Knowing that was enough to make me want this game. For those who need 
 more information, the following review should help out.
  
  Dead Rising is a game that can be enjoyed for a long time. The story mode (72 hour mode) is intriguing 
 and interesting enough to be seen all the way to the end, no matter how hard the game might be. 
 The game is hard for many reasons. It can be said that the save system hurts the game, but I think 
 it just adds a little strategy to the game. Since there are no auto-saves or checkpoint saves, 
 if the player doesn't save often, they might find themselves loading a game that was saved some 
 time back. It's not a problem with the game, it is just a way to add strategy.
  
  The weapons make the game. Everything from the standard pistol to toys from a toy store to even 
 a giant plastic decorative cactus, almost everything in the mall can be turned into a weapon. There 
 can be some strategy used in picking out weapons, but since they all eventually break, sometimes 
 I found myself grabbing just about anything to move aside the zombies.
  
  In my opinion, Dead Rising is the first real next-gen game on the 360 and should not be missed 
 by anyone.
  
  Gameplay- I think putting a traffic cone on a zombie's head and then cutting off their arm with 
 some hedge clippers covers the diversity of things that can be done in this game. The story is 
 interesting and keeps the game from getting boring. The thousands upon thousands of zombies keep 
 players on their toes as they basically flail through them.
  
  Graphics- Some of the best I've ever seen in a game before, especially with the amount thats going 
 on the screen at one time. The frame-rate only bogs down when attacking about 10 zombies at the 
 same time, but never becomes a problem. Character models are fantastic, and from a distance, it 
 looks as if most of the zombies are different.
  
  Sound- Every weapon makes a different sound. Whether it be a thud from a baseball bat to the splatter 
 of zombies after being hit by a car, the player should be pleased by what they hear. The muzak 
 also adds to atmosphere.
  
  Value- The story is a little short and there isn't any multiplayer, but there is still plenty to 
 do with this game and should keep players happy for a long time.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I love this game and still haven't found it boring just to run around and kill 
 everything in sight and watch the blood flow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyrazzle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is so fun you will want to keep playing it for countless hours , just exploring the 
 mall in search of weapons , clothes , food , and other items will get you lost in this game. Dead 
 Rising offers extremely fun game play along with a great story line. You can level up your character 
 to gain higher stats and learn tons of violent , yet convenient moves. If you"ve played the available 
 demo you should have experienced most of what im talking about. The only things I didnt like (although 
 minor) were the save system which can be frustrating , ( but thats why I suggest playing the game 
 through once) , your walkie talkie which rings alot, (you can choose whether or not to take the 
 call) , and last the fact that you have 72 hours in story mode, but once you beat the game you 
 unlock infinity mode so pretty much all problems are justified. well thats my breakdown of the 
 game i would say more but I just dont feel like writing a book here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieSlayer55
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Great game!!!!!! There's a few save points, but not a lot. Highly addictive and you will play this 
 game over and over again. Tons of weapons in this game for example... Katana, Lawn Mowers, Baseball, 
 and a a lot more where that came from. It good gameplay and a lot of different costumes to unlock 
 and everything.... I think the game is a lot of fun. Don't listen to the other people when they 
 say annoying and other crap like that because they probably haven't even tried to play the game. 
 This game also has tons of gore... and a lot of zombies too.... so if you like tons of gore and 
 a lot of zombies too and also people getting eaten... this game is for you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgeorge36
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is the type of game that zombie killing is all about. For those of us who grew up watching 
 Night of the Living Dead, Return of the Living Dead (various parts) and who enjoyed the recent 
 remake of Dawn of the Dead, then you should enjoy the game. Pretty simple, it's all about killing 
 zombies. Yes there is a story involved about how the town turned that way, and it is an interesting 
 story at that, but you start to find so many different ways to kill zombies that you start to try 
 new things. For instance, you have a baseball bat, a sub-machine gun, and a pistol in your arsenal. 
 But then you see the soccer ball, and curiosity gets the best of you. 
  If you pay attention enough, you might start to think that maybe you are in any mall in the country. 
 From the crappy muzak thats playing inside the mall (that we all know and hate) to the ridiculously 
 themed food courts to the bathroom setups and everything else, its pretty realistic. The amount 
 of weapons at your disposal is awesome as well. From the above mentioned, to clothes hangers, and 
 anything in your right mind that you can pick up, you can use in this game. It also lets you in 
 a small way, just wander around, as if you were actually trapped in a mall after it closes. How 
 many of us would just start trying on various clothing and who knows what else if given the chance. 
 
  Overall, the game is very entertaining and fun. The only bad thing that I have found so far is 
 the crappy save feature, which everyone else has probably already mentioned, as well as the editors 
 from here have mentioned as well. It sucks, but just something that you have to deal with. Also, 
 the fact that if you do not save it properly, then you may have to start the entire story all over 
 again can get very aggravating. Yes, you already know what to do, but if you have invested hours 
 into the game to get to a certain point, and have to re-start, then it can get very frustrating. 
 Overall, definitely a game worth buying for the fun value, as well as for originality
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scott911
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Dead rising is a great survival game for everone old enough to play it. the graphics are pretty 
 good, not to mention the hundreds of zombies that can be on your screen at one time. One of my 
 only complaints, and this goes with gameplay, is that the text in Dead rising is hard to read unless 
 you have a large HDTV. That is O. K. though becasue usually the missions, tips and controls are 
 pretty easy to figure out, yet have enough depth to be interesting through the game. that doesn't 
 mean that the game is easy though. Yea, killing zombies by yourself is easy, but escorting someone 
 else through an entire mall full of zombies while keeping your defensless escort alive is no easy 
 task. The boss battles are no pushover too. When these show up, you better be ready with some powerful 
 weapons or you are screwed. Another complaint I have is that there is only one save slot in the 
 game, so one profile can have only one game save slot- kind of annoying, but not too bad.
  the storyline is great, and kind of a spoof on dawn of the Dead. Some of the characters in the 
 game act a little wierd, but nothing to ruin the game. as for replay value, I beleive that it is 
 very high. why? whenever you feel like it, just get on dead rising and vwala, you can kill zombies 
 in copious ways , and most of the time I think it is funny (I know, I'm morbid) . All in all, if 
 you are looking for a challenging, fun survival game, this is the game for you. (plus you can try 
 it with the demo first to see if you like it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LITEMYFIRE
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I mean, I am still in shock about how Capcom made such a great game like 
 this. 
  
  Here are some great things about the game. First, the gameplay. Its great. 
  You can spend hours and hours just bashing zombies heads in. 
  Thereis a huge amount of weapons 
 you can use, there are also tons of stores in the mall to go into. The mall is great. It is highly 
 detailed, and has alot of stores that you would expect a mall to have. It is very realistic.
  The storyline proggresses very well through out the game. There are some things that could possibly 
 shock you, which should be in every story you hear. 
  
  Now the bad things. The really bad things.
  
  The save system is awful, it is not an autosave, 
 it is a manual save. You cannot save from the pause menu. There are certain spots in this game 
 that you can save in. Thats all!
  
  Saving people gets boring, and hard because they will just walk into walls and be retarded. Its 
 like trying to make a waffell eat glass. It just doesn't work!
  
  You have to be at a certain place at a certain time to continue the story. If you do not succeed 
 to get there, your screwed.
  
  The game is fustrating as hell. One of the reasons it is fustrating is because if you die, you 
 have a choice. You can continue through the story losing everything you have got (You level up 
 in this game like an RPG.) You level up. So if you are a level 40 out of 50 and you die, you have 
 to restart the game with your stats, or continue without them.
  
  So thats it.
  
  I would reccomend buying it. Even though there are somethings that just will ruin your fun. I would 
 also reccomend restarting the game with your stats so you can earn the stats again, and it will 
 be easier.
  
  Its great, buy it.
  
  -Jon R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscontrol489
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is worth the $60. Can't be said for all 360 games, so I figured that's a good start. 
 You'll find so much in replay-ability. It's fun to play for 20 min's or a couple hours on end. 
 Even my friends just like watching me play it. 
  
  If you read about the graphics not being the greatest, understand that based on the fact you can 
 have what looks like thousands of zombies all around you, It's so friggin cool. 
  Don't like the soundtrack, play your own. bonus of the 360. 
  
  As for the replay value. I 
 played it first, to see what happens after "72 hours". Second, to level up my character, now "third 
 time" to get the story-line completed, and next time to earn some of the achivements (a bunch of 
 which, you'll unlock without even trying for it) .
  
  It a fun game. It'll have you laughing and enjoying yourself more times than not. Dead Rising was 
 worth the wait, and am glad that they didn't rush the release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eddiehead
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard about this game, but I couldn't rent it anywhere. So I bought it. I 
 hated the S-- t out of it when I first started playing it. There is a lot to gripe about, like you 
 know the save system and all. It's the single most garbage save system I've ever heard of. What's 
 worse than that, is the way the cases are set up by "time". Hate video games with time limits? 
 This is one of them. Hate escort missions with dopey survivors that can't defend themselves? Oh, 
 you're gonna LOVE this. 
  Another gripe, is the "live" inventory. You can pick your stuff in real time. Yeah, real nice stuff 
 when you're in a swarm of the undead, and your katana breaks, and the next item in the slot is 
 a gallon of orange juice, and you start chugging it right then and there, like it was Sunday morning. 
 
  And, respawning convicts. It would make sense if they turned into zombies... but... They're hard 
 to kill as it is.
  Blah. The game pretty much sucks in the beginning.
  But...
  If you actually work at playing through the storyline, and getting points to level up, the game 
 gets awesome. Your health bar triples in size, you can carry more stuff, you get more attack moves, 
 and you can be the ultimate slaughterhouse. You can keep porting over your save file, and you never 
 really lose your status. And the game literally gives you three in-game-days to be at a heliport. 
 You don't have to save the day, hell, you can sit in the office for three days and wait for your 
 ride.
  The storyline, well, it's typical Capcom fare. I was surprised, that there were no gigantic mutations 
 or underground labs. You really had me fooled, Capcom. But I believe the story might have something 
 to do with RE4. I'll have to research. There was speak of a "village". 
  You can also explore the mall, and experiment with all the weapons the game has to offer. Try stabbing 
 a zombie with an pole anchor excavator, and piloting his spinning corpse through a pack of zombies. 
 And just like you wished they would've done in those 80's zombie flicks, you can actually get behind 
 the wheel of a car, Hummer, van or motorcycle and plow through the packs of yuppies... er... zombies. 
 
  The zombies are cheap f---kers, too. They can lunge at ten feet and grab you. Very glitchy. Some 
 of the zombie females gnaw at you "suggestively", by way of fellatio or 69. 
  I ain't kidding.
  But YOU can be cheap too. There are some survivors who are attractive females 
 who dress skimpy. Take some "underskirt", thong or cleavage photos, and rack up the points to level 
 up quicker. Same thing with large crowds. (The camera is a cool addition. You can take pictures 
 anytime during the game. Catch an unusual moment, you get massive points) . Get to level 30-35 with 
 all of those points, and make those inbred n' undead meatheads PAY!
  Sniper rifles, toy light sabres, Katana swords, stuffed animals, plates, frying pans, CDs, golf 
 clubs, Shotguns, lawn mowers, chainsaws, bowling balls, and a hundred more, are at your disposal. 
 Try sticking a shower head into a zombie's skull, and watching blood spray out like your morning 
 pick-me-up.
  
  Suffer through the crap, and the game gets way better. Trust me. Rent it from blockbuster so you 
 have a week to mess with it. It really is worth a TRY at least. Be patient, because the novelty 
 does wear off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolioMan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Ok, the game is great. It is basically just like Dawn of the Dead. Your photojournalist, Frank 
 West. You go over this little town of a population of about 53,000 people. You travel in a helicopter. 
 Suddenly, the military has the road blocked. It looks suspicious, because you see zombies pushing 
 over cars and buses, and a gas station blows up. So then the pilot drops you off at the mall, and 
 thats where the game starts. Ok, now time for the gameplay. As you probably know, you can use virtually 
 any item in the mall. And by the way, the mall is HUGE! You will not get bored, trust me. And so 
 anyway, the items range from teddy bears to katanas to frying pans. You can also drive motorcycles, 
 cars, and bikes. There is just a plethora of items you can use. My only problem with the items 
 is the weapons. There is only one gun shop in the entire mall, but to make it worse, you have to 
 kill the boss who carries a shotgun to be able to use the guns. Trust me, killing this boss is 
 no day in the park. I have not even beaten him yet. But if you do have a desire for a firearm. 
 You can kill the security guards that have been "zombified" and they frequently have firearms. 
 My favorite weapon is the excavator. Basically you can drive it into zombies, and they spin on 
 it like a windmill. Its pretty sweet. Ok, now moving on to difficulty. Ok, like i said in the beginning, 
 the town has a population of about 53,000 peoples. That means there are 53,000 ZOMBIES to mutilate. 
 Yeah, it will take some time to kill them all. I have only killed 1,250 or so. The bosses are pretty 
 hard. I'm sure other people might think it to be easy, but to me its pretty hard. the zombies are 
 not hard to kill, but if you have a lot of them grouped together by you, it could get a little 
 complicated. The graphics are great. Considering how many zombies there are at one time, the graphics 
 and the framerate are solid. I highly recommend this game to any one who just wants to slaughter 
 some zombies in a mall full of items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenny_2469
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  I bought a 360 after seeing the preview for this game on the TV, looked like the best game. Not 
 aware of one big problem however, upon the first time playing Dead Rising I realized that the text 
 was extremely small... making it almost IMPOSSIBLE to play... how can this be??? After discovering 
 this problem, I did not touch this game because I could not even play it. I later found out that 
 while Capcom did their product testing on Dead Rising, they only tested on HDTV not SDTV. Not a 
 smart decision. I now own a 26" HDTV Widescreen, game looks great and I can finally play it. For 
 those of you who have this game but only have an SDTV I know exactly how you feel. 
  
  All that aside, the story for Dead Rising is easy to follow. The graphics in this game are also 
 pretty well done. This game has it comedic areas where it can be pretty funny. The weapons in the 
 game.... there are so many weapons, GREAT VARIETY!!!! More than you can imagine. The sound in this 
 game is nothing great, it is probably what you would expect however, hear the sound of whichever 
 weapon you are using and the sound of.... zombies... of course. I would recommend this game, but 
 only if you have an HDTV.... or else, if you have an SDTV, I would wait and see if Capcom is going 
 to release a patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy_rocker29
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the New zombie francise (?) from capcom which is the king of zombie games ala, Resident 
 Evil. Anyway you're Frank West who finds out about this town in Colarado thats been cut off by 
 the millitary. So you get a helicopter to fly into town and soon you end up at the town mall, which 
 has thousands of Zombies banging at the front door. I wont tell how but all the zombies poor into 
 the mall... But your helicopter wont come back for 72 hours.
  
  Gameplay: This game is so fun to play you'll want to spend hours killing Zombies with everything 
 find but saddly your clocked for each mission your given in the game so you cant really stop to 
 kill zombies. and the save system sucks.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding this game is one of the best looking games on the 360 if only the draw disstance 
 was longer.
  
  Sound: see gamespots review for my opinion as well.
  
  Value: Great espically with multiple endings and modes.
  
  Tilt: no other games gives you so 
 many weapons to kill so many zombies with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinz1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Extremly fun after realizing that once you missed a case file you had to restart. If you miss a 
 case file load your last save. The convicts in the jeep are very difficult when you are not leveled 
 up. If you resart your game your keep all the level points. So if you have trouble level up and 
 restart. The telephone can be quite annoying at times and seems to only ring when you are around 
 a bunch of zombies.
  
  Extremly fun after realizing that once you missed a case file you had to restart. If you miss a 
 case file load your last save. The convicts in the jeep are very difficult when you are not leveled 
 up. If you resart your game your keep all the level points. So if you have trouble level up and 
 restart. The telephone can be quite annoying at times and seems to only ring when you are around 
 a bunch of zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracosoul
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Great game, but does have it's flaws. The whole save system is dumb, and the numerous escort missions 
 are good, but suck due to the computer acting like idiots and not running around the zombies like 
 you do but right into them. As that is the one of the main features of the game, it's gets annoying 
 and get used to your survivors dying because of bad sense of direction. I don't know if it's just 
 me, but the controls are a little confusing at times, I actually died because my guy wouldn't stop 
 reading the magazine he was holding when there was nothing else in my inventory and I was surrounded 
 by zombies. I kept trying to unequip it, but for some reason he kept wanting to read it. Oh well, 
 definitely no less then a 8 out of 10 in my books though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorBravo-2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The demo made me not want it, but it was on my list for a while. I decided, why not, Ill buy it. Ive 
 fallen in love with it! Some say its too hard or frustrating. I thing its a nice challenge at first, and 
 after a few levels it gets to a level of just pure fun. Disemboweling zombies, saving people and 
 killing anything that moves! One thing that bugged me was the AI for survivors. They sometimes run 
 into swarms of zombies and cry... Also they seem to take long routes and never quite follow you. Another 
 thing is the text. I have good sight but WOW! Its nearly impossible to read without HD, which is sad 
 as most dont have expensive TVs and that can take enjoyment away. Some complain about the save system 
 and how theres only one slot and you have save points ect. Well, I think its fun and challenging. Its 
 SURVIVAL horror, not save every two feet which thousands of extra save makings for just plain action (Which 
 this game has lots of) I recomend this to zombie fans and anyone looking for a good game. Some say 
 rent, I would say buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game SUCKS! 
  
  Played the demo and liked it, but could tell it wasn't some thing I'd want to buy. Well I rented 
 it and well I'm dissapointed!
  
  First off the gameplay... The one thing and only good thing really about it is that there is multiple 
 weapons you can use. They kinda get old quickly though and well really don't feel that different 
 when all you do is mash on the X button. You don't even gotta aim, except with guns, cuz every 
 thing else just auto locks on. And as far as saveing goes well it is rather a pain. Oh and don't 
 forget NOT to "save and quit" after you die, cuz if ya do, then you gotta start a new game..... 
 Very broken save system.
  
  Visually this game isn't that great looking. Decent next gen graphics, but the annoying small very 
 hard to read text brings down the grade of the visuals. Besides that just not any thing really 
 great looking about this game. 
  
  The audio of this game is the best, and in my opinion the only good thing about this game really. 
 Good voice overs and great sound effects.
  
  Overall the gameplay with the messed up save system and mindless pressing of a single button to 
 attack, and visually not looking really better than "xbox 1.5 graphics", I give this game a bad 
 score. Usually I agree with Gamespot and their scores pretty much, but not in this case. 
  
  6.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDGRUNTY11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game set for hours and hours of play it may sometimes get a little annoying with 
 the on-time stuff but it really isn't that strict. There are hundres of weapons and thousands of 
 thousands of zombies, the storylne is interesting and captivating. The graphics are great and the 
 slow-down is practicaly non existant. There are so many things to do in this game it is just fantastic, 
 the one thing that made me very mad is that there is no free mode were you are placed in the mall 
 and go around how you want were you want for however long you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machi712
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  If Dead Rising had turned out to be a lemon, I would say that it's about time for Capcom to get 
 out of their zombie rut. Fortunately, Dead Rising is a great game, so I'd say Capcom has really 
 carved out a niche for itself in the gaming world.
  
  I'll skip the overview of what the game it about, because if you're reading player reviews then 
 you should have already read Gamespot's. So let's get straight to the gameplay. For most of the 
 game you will be running through a giant mall in the middle of nowhere, trying to get somewhere 
 pretty far away, and smashing through a horde of zombies to get there. That's the foundation that 
 Dead Rising is built upon, and it's a pretty darn good one. In fact, in my first play-through of 
 Dead Rising I killed more than 3000 zombies. I know this because the game keeps a handy counter 
 in the corner the screen. Unless you have a tender stomach, you'll have hours of delightful fun 
 slicing, crushing, running over, kicking, punching, smashing, impaling, beheading, disemboweling, 
 shooting, and blowing up zombies with a wide variety of weapons and household items.
  
  The Dead Rising story really shines, with plenty of plot twists, great cut scenes, and, and length. 
 The main story is fairly linear, but if you wish you may simply opt to skip it and go GTA on those 
 zombies. And if you get stuck, then at any time you may restart the game with all of the PP (experience) 
 and skills you have now, without your items. Don't let Gamespot tell you that the save system is 
 crap; it's wonderful. You may only have one save, and you may only save in the Security Room, bathrooms, 
 and at certain points throughout the main story. If you get yourself caught in a situation that 
 you cannot progress in the main story, then it's over for you. If you still want to complete the 
 story, then the option detailed above is open to you. Rather than frustrating me, this just adds 
 a certain tenseness and urgency that a zombie game needs.
  
  Apart from the main story, you will encounter plenty of survivors that you may escort back to the 
 Security Room and "save," and you will encounter several people that have been driven insane and 
 will want to kill you. These "Psychopaths" add some spice to the game, and you get big bonuses 
 for beating them, but most are pretty stupid and repeat the same attacks again and again. As for 
 the survivor AI, it's not good. Come to this game prepared for babysitting, and be prepared for 
 a pile of frustration when a group of 3+ survivors keep running into each other as they all try 
 to jump over the concrete block that you need to cross to get to the Security Room. At this point 
 I find myself throwing baseball bats at them in anger. Fortunately, zombie AI is always solid and 
 fun.
  
  The graphics are gory-great. zombies are vary in appearance and blood always spurts from their 
 wounds in realistic yet over-the-top ways. All of the main characters, especially Frank, look very 
 good and cut scenes are always top-notch. The mall presents a bright and carefree atmosphere to 
 a horror game, and it works very well. Animations are generally good, but when shooting someone 
 with a machine gun you see the flaws. Pretty solid overall, but nothing really dazzles you.
  
  The sound is a great aspect of the game. weapons, when compacting with flesh, make just the 
 sound you'd expect them to. music pipes up in the right parts, and it's all well composed. Zombies 
 are groaning constantly, and guns sound booming and authentic. The voice acting is good for most 
 characters, but when talking to a survivor outside of a cut scene, it's just text, no voice. Also, 
 I am not fond of Frank's actor. He sounds more like a inexperienced kid than a grizzled photojounalist.
 
  
  If this is your type of game, then expect to play it for more than 20 hours. I'll probably go past 
 50 hours. With multiple endings and plenty of psychopaths and survivors, you'll want to play through 
 it more than once. Worth the $60. If a well-deserved "M" rating doesn't deter you, buy Dead Rising. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalisfx
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  If theres any review to read its this one. I will tell you why Dead Rising is NOT a good game and 
 made me waste 60 dollars that I could have used for a better game like resident evil 4.
  
  Dead Risings (many) Flaws:
  
  1) You've heard this everywhere, and its true, SAVING SUCKS! 
 lets just leave it at that. There's 4 save spots in the entire mall...
  2) The game is REALLY hard, the tasks are really difficult to beat, and to make things worse, you're 
 timed
  3) Every task is the game is timed. How are you supposed to have fun hacking at zombies (the funnest 
 part in the game) if you have to keep an eye on your watch every 2 min.
  4) This Idiot, oscar i think his name was, calls you every 60 seconds and tells you about another 
 person to save. IN THE MIDDLE OF A ZOMBIE PIT!! You cant even fight while you're on the phone.
 
  5) Saving people is REALLY annoying in the game, its impossible for them to survive.
  
  How in the world this game got an 8.4 and 8.5 (at ign) boggles the mind. I think all of its flaws 
 are overshadowed by the fact that you can kill zombies in multiple ways, which is why this game 
 doesnt get a 0. If you played the demo like me, u probably initially thought it was a good game. 
 But take into consideration, its the only fun aspect of the game, killing the zombies. everything 
 else in the game is an annoyence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The beginning of this review isn't that important and does not need to be read.
  
  Back in May/June of 2005, I found myself watching a montage of games that would be on the newly 
 announced system the Xbox 360. Out of All of these games, only 2 of them really caught my attention; 
 Saints Row and Dead Rising. Now, over a year later, Dead Rising finally comes out, and I was blown 
 away. After struggling to get my hands on a copy, (the Gamestop I reserved it at didn't get it 
 on the launch date) I ran to my game room, popped in my copy of Dead Rising and watched the first 
 cutscene. The game starts off introducing the main character (Frank West) and the beginning of 
 the story. Frank is a photojournalist who heard that something big was happening at a town in Colorado 
 called Willamette. Frank goes by helicopter, and the very first part of the game consists of taking 
 pictures of unlucky people fighting off zombie hordes. From then on, you're stuck in a mall fending 
 for your life and doing various missions (called cases) and side quests (called scoops) . I found 
 the game very fun and I had very few problems with it.
  
  This part below is the MOST important stuff, so don't worry if you didn't read the top part.
 
  
  Pros:
  .Voice acting I found overall good and often funny
  .Gameplay is smooth and fast paced
  .Zombies and gore look amazing
  .Hundreds of weapons to 
 use (awsome)
  .So many zombies on the screen at once without frame rate issuses
  .Never actually gets boring
  .Offers a few different modes to make the game even more fun
  
 .Storyline is, well, different and pretty good (and very funny)
  .Achivements are medium hard to get
  
  Cons:
  .Ally AI ABSOLUTLY SUCKS
  .TIme system gets 
 tedious and frusterating
  .Achivements can be a B*&%$
  
  Overall, I loved this game. It was fun, a little scary, gross, and just great. If you like horror 
 games, zombies, hack and slash games, or any of Geroge A Romero's movies, you want to pick up this 
 keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan874
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is an excellent game if youre really into the survival genre. it has the most amazing 
 sound to go with each different weapon and when it comes in contact with a zombie. the story line 
 is quite compelling and the bosses are all very different and all VERY hard. this game requires 
 a bit of skill if youre planning on beating everything. the achievements are pretty tough to get 
 but thats very minor. its amazing how many different weapons, clothes, foods, etc. there arer in 
 this game. it huge! it would have been much MUCH better if they let you out into the town of Willamette. 
 oh well... i think they might do that for a sequal (not even announced yet so dont go crazy) . rent 
 it before you buy and if you like, i would wait to get it used. the first few days were amazing 
 for me but i havent played for about a week. that might just be me, i dont know. bottom line is 
 that capcom is the master of zombie games and ONCE AGAIN they made a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert992002
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  You're a freelance photographer named Frank West who has heard that something big is going on in 
 Willamette, Colorado. He gets a helicopter to send him out there and when he gets there, he sees 
 that the town has been infested with zombies. When he gets dropped off on the rooftop of Willamette's 
 mall, it's a start of a new adventure.
  
  Dead Rising is a game from the makers of the famous Resident Evil series, Capcom and they have 
 really made a great game. It is such a simple concept, but it works so well. The re playability 
 in this game is amazing because since they are so many weapons, you can do so many different things 
 in this game. My favourite weapon in this game would have to be the Lawnmower because it is great 
 for when they are a bunch of zombies covering doors to get into the mall, it's also good for PP. 
 PP are basically experience points to level up, when you level up, you sometimes get a new skill, 
 more stock to hold weapons and food and drinks or more life. I believe the highest level is Level 
 50 and at Level 50, you get the ability to walk like a zombie which is pretty cool because then 
 the zombies think they are you, so they don't hurt you. The graphics in this game are pretty amazing, 
 I haven't seen zombies look this good in a long time. Also, the models for the survivors are really 
 good too. The animations too are very good, for example, if you're on 1 life, you will start limping. 
 Also, Capcom got the animations perfect for the zombies because they really walk like zombies. 
 The most amazing thing about the game's engine would have to be the frame rate. There is basically 
 no lag in this game, the only lag I have seen is when you go through a bunch of zombies with the 
 lawnmower and the lag is very little. I almost forgot, the sounds in this game make the game very 
 immersing and also kind of make the game funny. For example, When you go into a restroom you will 
 hear mall music and I found that pretty funny. Also, the sounds of the zombies sound very realistic 
 and give the game a creepy feeling especially when it's night and the lights go off. I did find 
 somethings annoying though, for one, the save system is pretty annoying. You can only save in restrooms 
 or when you find a sofa to sleep on. Also, the stupid ESCORT MISSIONS! The one I hated the most 
 would have to be when you find Burt and Aaron, Burt is fine, but Aaron must be mentally retarded 
 or something because he has a handgun but does not use it at all. He just stands there and lets 
 the zombies eat him. Good thing that you don't have to do the escort missions.
  
  Dead Rising is definitely a must-buy for all Xbox 360 owners. Dead Rising is currently my favourite 
 game for the 360 right now because of the re playability. If you liked the movie Dawn of the Dead 
 and you have a 360, this is definitely a must-buy and even you haven't never liked Dawn of the 
 Dead, you will still probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FR1TCH117
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  If you love zombies and have seen Dawn of the Dead and love that move you will love this game, 
 72 hours+mall+zombies=great fun. The game has is one of those games where having dumb A. I is ok. 
 i mean they are zombies what more do you need? The sounds in the game are just amazing, from the 
 smash on a zombies skull from a sledgehammer, to the roar of a chainsaw, the sounds for each weapon 
 are just perfect! The replay value also is great because of the many achievements and different 
 possible endings leave the games possibility's almost endless. But there is some small issues to 
 it such as the horrid save system, and the absence of a save system in survival mode which makes 
 players play up to almost fourteen hours in one sitting to get some achievements. One other flaw 
 would be the little hiccups when hitting a large group of enemies with a weapon at once. But these 
 flaws are easily overlooked as the games fun factor totally makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceInfernoX3
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Zombies! Who doesn't like killing Zombies? For the last ten or so years, all we've had is Resident 
 Evil to feed our hunger for Zombie killing... but this all has change. Capcom has released 'Dead 
 Rising', a new zombie game focus on killing as many zombies as possible with hundreds of different 
 weapons. While this idea may sound fun in theory, the execution of the idea makes it a frustation 
 experience soley due to poor design choice.
  
  In this game you play as photojournalist, Frank West. You get a tip that something is going down 
 in this small town of Willamette, Colorado. When he arrives there he sees the entire town is full 
 of zombies. His helicopter is evenually forced to land on the nearby mall. Frank now has 72 game 
 hours to find out the truth behind the zombie invasion and survive.
  
  The plot does a decent job of giving you just enough of the plot to keep you going throughout the 
 story mode. The story missions are fairly interesting however they aren't as varied as I would 
 have liked. The boss battles are the highlight of the gameplay in Dead Rising. The only bad thing 
 about the bosses are that they are insanely easy. In fact, Dead Rising is an extremley easy game 
 aside from a few rare instances. The only time you'll die is when you get careless or if you don't 
 make it in time for the next story mission which will cause you to fail the story mode.
  
  Yes you heard that right. If your late to a story mission, say goodbye to the entire game; You'll 
 have to reload your game. Doesn't sound too bad? Well now lets move onto the save system. This 
 is by far the worst save system I've ever seen! You can only have one save for the entire game. 
 So assuming you find yourself in a bad spot you may have to start the entire game over a save you 
 have, makes it impossible for you to make it to the next story mission.
  
  It's not as bad as it sounds though. The game is very short and will take most gamers six hours 
 to get through. In fact, I beat it on the day I got it so restarting isn't too bad and increasing 
 the replay value of the game. It's just a shame capcom had to force replayability into their game.
 
  
  The voice acting is very well done as are the sound effects. The sounds for the weapons are amazing 
 and the boss music is pretty cool, but forgettable. If you don't want to play the story, you can 
 do things called scoop missions... and this is where the game tanks.
  
  The AI in the game is horrible! All your npc allies in the story missions are dumb as bricks but 
 it doesn't affect much as long as your competant in the missions. However, in the scoop missions 
 the AI reaches a new low. Scoop missions involve finding a person and having a 10 minute conversation 
 with them, then finally joining you, and afterwards you having to return to the safety of the security 
 room. Easier said then done! Your survivers will almost always stand still and wait to be killed 
 or will run into a group of zombies and wait to die. Summed up; the npcs are as brainless as the 
 zombies.
  
  Another big gripe I have with the game is the attacks of the zombies. More often then not, a zombie 
 will grab onto you... Doesn't sound bad right? Well have it happen 10 times in a 5 minute person. 
 It is incredibly annoying! In order to escape a zombie's grasp all you do is button mash and jerk 
 around the control stick; this is an easy way to destroy your controller and annoying as heck; 
 thanks capcom. In most instances no matter how hard you button mash, the zombies always do a set 
 amount of damage. So resist all you want, you will always alternate between 3 different outcomes 
 when being grapped; one square of damage, two squares of damage ( 2 bites) or falling onto of you 
 and you having to press a random button to escape 5 squares of damage. I wish the zombies had more 
 attacks; it gets repetitive.
  
  The most annoying thing is how the game is advertising the fact that "everything is a weapon" Not 
 true! On average, most stores have 2-3 weapons. But the weapons are fun to use but break way too 
 easy... but it does make the game somewhat challenging. 
  
  There is one interesting thing Dead Rising does; it adds an rpg element. Frank has a camera which 
 you can use whenever you want. You can take funny pictures, violent pictures or sexy pictures. 
 You get points for these pictures wich you use to level up... however the level ups are random so 
 it doesn't add much depth to the game. The skills are useful; upgrades are even more so however 
 the RPG and camera elements of the game could have been better fleshed out.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising could have been a AAA title. But the dumb AI, repetitve attacks and gameplay, 
 short story mode and crappy save system make the game too short, too frustrating. Even after you 
 look past all Dead Rising's faults, you see a simple concept stretched across too much game. Give 
 this game a rent and Capcom; Resident Evil 5 had better be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon-RE4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Well ,well, well. So what do we have here today. Nothing else but the well known CAPCOM company"s 
 new creation," Dead Rising". Well lemme remind that CAPCOM are the same community who are the makers 
 of the great Resident Evil series which has earned quite a big name till date. So now as the next 
 gen consoles unleashed, CAPCOM thought over this new game and this is the outcome now of what they 
 thought. The Dead Rising is a whole new horror game but not only horror this time, it adds lot more 
 fun to the game when players take on their character Frank West trapped in a mall with swarming 
 zombies but the real fun starts when we start to smash zombies with things scattered all around. SO 
 this mean chopt till u Drop it. So this new feature allows gamers to have the taste of horror with 
 the zombie smashing. The graphics are innovative, realistic, all the weapons, the sounds perfect and 
 perfect is the gameplay so I"d really recommend the game to action horror lovers.
  Therefore, get your hands on Dead Rising soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplayhousex
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ahhhh!! That is the sound I make after thrusting a shower rod down into a zombies spine! The sweet 
 sound of relief after **** some zombified douche bag with the unfriendly end of a one-handed chainsaw! 
 Ahhhh I say again!
  This game rules on so many levels! First off, it's hard! I love hard games, I hate games that I 
 can play through and beat on the first day I get it (i. e: Prey, but I still loved it) . The story 
 is awesome, except the ending really pissed me off! I really like how they made the main story 
 line take priority of the side-quests, so much that you had to skip the majority of them, just 
 so you could complete the main quests in time. The locale is awesome too! Even though it is in 
 a mall which totally copies Dawn of the Dead, this mall is huge! I would dig a mall that big by 
 me, even though malls are the devil. I also totally dig the way you can start over at the beginning 
 and still keep your experience and rank!! That rules. I just beat the game over the weekend, both 
 72 hour and Overtime mode, and have just restarted 72 hour mode so I can go back and save all the 
 survivors and kill all the psychopaths. The variety in weapons and food and just general stuff 
 you can do is awesome. I figured out how to dye my hair the otherday and that is just nifty. Red 
 hair like fire! There is some replay value to this game, but not alot. But if you like gore and 
 blood and ultra-violence, this game is for you! Worth the $60, IMO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The Graphics in this game are good, the isnt nothing special in the graphicd but looks 
 really clear, the animations are great and the are a lot of things going on screen and there is 
 not one bit of slowdown.
  
  Sound: The sounds are also ok, voice acting is good and there a lot of different noises with each 
 weapon you use but the music isnt that great and there isnt a lot of voice acting while playing 
 the game, most of the voiceacting is durung cutscene.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome, there is a lot of things to do, you could look for some new clothes, try 
 to find survivors, run over zombies with a car, or just stand there to get killed
  
  Overall: Great game, there is some AI issues and the text in the game are REALLY SMALL and it is 
 hard to read it, but awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicious-monkey
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  For me, this game was really fun, but apparently some people hate it. I seemed to like it because 
 I love zombies, I love malls, and I love Dawn of the Dead. So I guess this game is the closest 
 game to dawn of the dead we'll ever get to. The only problems I saw with the gam were:
  
  1. The AI were dumb, but the zombie AI shouldn't be smart, since there were so many, but the survivors 
 you were supposed to save had me pulling the hair out of my head.
  
  2. The game was a bit short, and parts of it had you starting over, but since you were allowed 
 to keep all of your upgrades and your level, I didn't mind it, since it was still really fun.
 
  
  3. It was also pretty repetitive, but someone like me can get over that, since I like zombies. 
 But its the amount of things to do that will keep you going back for more.
  
  I loved this game, but I can see how someone else couldn't like it, and I respect their opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  When I first got my 360, one of the first things I did was download the Dead Rising Demo from the 
 Marketplace, and I have been in love with the game since. The consept of Dead Rising is simple: 
 you are Frank, a photojournalist working on getting the story of a lifetime by covering a story 
 about a town infested by tons of zombies. You land on top of a mall in the middle of town, and 
 you have 72 hours to survive, take pictures and rescue as many survivors as you can. The best and 
 most unique part of the game is that you can use almost any object you can think of to kill the 
 zombies. Coathangers, soccer balls, battle axes, purses, lawnmowers, chainsaws, 2 X 4s, you name 
 it, you can probably use it. You can also change your look by going into stores and changing clothes. 
 You'll look really stupid most of the time, but it's ok, zombies aren't fashion experts... The 
 combat is very simple, pick up items and use them to attack. You also need to stock up on Orange 
 Juice and other foods because save points are very scarse, and are a royal pain to get to. You 
 may have to plow through hundreds of zombies to get to a save point, so make sure you keep your 
 health up, or your back to where you were the last time you saved. The items break a little to 
 easily, but there are tons of different ones and tons of silly ways to kill zombies. Put a novelty 
 mask on it's head, then hit it with a lead pipe or baseball bat. Kick a soccer ball and knock over 
 20 zombies with it bouncing off things or just bowl them all down with a bowling ball, the choice 
 is yours. The RPG like leveling up system works well and there are tons and tons of side quests 
 to do, so you will not get bored. My only real complaints are that the save system can really tick 
 you off when you got really far, then you die and have to go back a very long ways to your last 
 save point and the fact that there is no online co-op. Other than that, Dead Rising is a must buy 
 for 360 owners looking to chop 'till they drop!
  
  Gameplay: Killing tons of zombies has never been more fun!
  
  Graphics: Truely next gen, the 
 mall really does look like a real mall.
  
  Sound: Everything sounds like their suppose to when you smash it over a zombie's head.
  
  Value: 
 It is $60, but for this much enjoyment and stuff to do, it's $60 well spent.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like lots of violence and being creative with killing, do yourself a favor 
 and buy Dead Rising!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burbidge87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  This games has so much going for it, with all the stuff you can use to kill zombies, all the missions 
 and photos you can take, different items to find in the mall, and different ways you can beat the 
 game, its not just a hack-in-slash, its actually pretty darn good. some may say its a rip off, 
 of what i may ask, the movie? maybe so, but the creators never said it wasnt and it isnt a reason 
 to rate this game low becuase it has nothing to do with the movies story and if anything its better. 
 tons of humor, and horror, just the way i like a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cho0210
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game makes itself different from other games I've played on any consoles so far, it stands 
 out as a totally different type of game as the gameplay could be very free depending on what you 
 do during the time. Unique should be the word to describe this amazing game, though some criticize 
 this game as unrealistic or unoriginal. It is all depending on one's likes and dislikes, and I 
 believe lots of people like this game as much as I do. As far as for its value, the replay value 
 makes it even more outstanding. Comparing to the games coming out since X360's lauch last year, 
 this game is definitely underrated and this game should not be given low scores by the players 
 who seem to have problems with the "SAVE" system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acerbicgeoff
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  One of the things that has happened to me lately is that I have high expectations for a game and 
 then become disappointed when it is finally released. Such is my dilemma with Dead Rising.
  
  I played the demo of the game and enjoyed it immensely and could not wait for its release. 
 I thought the graphics were amazing and the variety of weapons and ways to kill the zombies was 
 a blast, so, I bought it when I had the chance. Overall the game is fun and the graphics are pretty 
 spot on, however, the few negative sides of the game thoroughly ruin it for me.
  
  (First) : the save function on the game is the worst since resident evil and I think Capcom SERIOUSLY 
 needs to update their view on that aspect of gameplay. When I fight a boss and die and then have 
 to start ALL over from halfway across the mall, fight my way through zombies again to get to where 
 I was to fight the boss again and then DIE again ... it makes me just want to throw the controller 
 and turn the game off. 
  
  (Second) : the handheld transceiver drives ... me ... crazy! Every five seconds that thing is going 
 off and I can't rightly answer it when in a throng of zombies, can I? Or if I do answer it and 
 have to fight, poor little Otis gets angry and says I am rude. It's the same info all over again. 
 Gee, thanks for the scoop information, but seriously ... can you not be so neurotic and call every 
 minute? You're like my last boyfriend leaving me messages all day ... "Leave your scoop information 
 after the beep. thank you." *BEEP*
  
  Perhaps to some these might be trivial, but for me they can either make or break a game. You can 
 have a game with a lot of flash and no substance and still not have a great game. The storyline 
 seems to be an ok one, but it's hard to concentrate on the story when I am reloading so often or 
 answering that radio. I won't lie, tho ... the game is a bit addicting and sometimes it's fun to 
 deviate from the storyline and just rampage against the zombies and kill as many as you can or 
 just snap shots and earn PP points. I was just hoping for more.
  
  -G 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BB72691
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  (problem 1)
  The game starts you out in a helicopter taking photos. At the end of the photo shoot helicopters 
 stop your friend and you jump out and land on the malls roof. If the government wanted to cover 
 the zombie invasion wouldnt they have shot down the helicopter , or taking your friend in for questions. 
 Instead at the end your friend comes to save you but he gets bitten by a zombie which got in his 
 helicopter but where he landed there wasnt a way to get to the roof to get in the the helicopter. End 
 of problem one.
  
  (problem 2) Please dont read this its spoils the surprise
  Near the end of the game when you complete the last mission and have to get to the helipad. The 
 special forces come in to clear the site. If you take the door to the left and dont use the elevator 
 you can get on top of these shelves. the special forces can see you but they dont have a AI to 
 aim up and shot at you. Instead they run around franticly run around saying i see him. Clue to not 
 being a good game designer when you make the special force troopers not as smart as the zombies. Light 
 Bulb!!!!!!!!!!!! When this happens get a new job!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! for all you ppl who think I'm being 
 to harsh go **** yourself !!!!!!! Sorry i have terets (Not really) . Please understand. End of problem 
 2. Here comes the good stuff
  
  (Good things about deadrising)
  The collinsion detection is awesome. Pretty damn good story line. Multiply endings a plus to its 
 success . George Remeros zombies awesome. Each zombie is different it some way. Its pretty cool 
 that you can use almost everything in the mall. Uhm. the graphics are pretty good could be better.
 
  
  (almost done more bad things)
  Could have been called Resident Evil in a mall, **** there is a zombie in my ass, the mexicans 
 revenge on america, and ****can, USA.
  thats it folks its 1:20 am i would write more but im tired. any questions send me a message and 
 i will send you a smart ass comment back about this game.
  
  For all that read this please send me a message to tell me it helped you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SafePit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Killing Zombies! Killing Zombies! Killing Zombies!
  
  Cons: AI is week, save system is frustrating, text too small.
  
  Okay, I'm not really a big 
 horror flick fan, so zombie killing wasn't at the top of my list. But after watching the OXM "60 
 Ways to Kill a Zombie" on their DVD, I couldn't resist. After reading some reviews, I was on the 
 fence with this game. I overcame my uncertainty, and decided to give this game a try! I'm so glad 
 I did!
  
  Yes, the save system is a pain. But it sure seems like it was meant to work the way it does. Yes, 
 you will play the game over and over again, but again it appears to be designed that way. In fact, 
 if you die you can start over -- but with your existing stats. I was a bit hesitant at first, but 
 found that by doing so the game becomes more fun as you level up and you add more abilities. Ultimately, 
 leveling up means killing more zombies!
  
  And killing Zombies is where this game is the most fun. The 72 hour mode is okay and the story 
 and missions it offers are very much fun. But I would be just as happy with the mall, the huge 
 assortment of weapons, and an endless supply of zombies to combat. There is such a rich assortment 
 of things to do, places to explore, that I was very much surprised that they didn't have some sort 
 of free range mode. You can, of course, skip all the missions and just kill zombies -- but since 
 there is only one save per device, it may not be the best way to use it.
  
  It is a pretty game. With up to a 1000 zombies on screen, you'll be impressed at what the 360 can 
 do. There are some clipping issues with the game engine movies, but the mall does, well, look like 
 a mall. And zombies look, well, like zombies. The sound is awesome and really adds to the atmosphere.
 
  
  One minor niggle for me was that the text is way too small. I have a 34" SDTV and the text is almost 
 unreadable. I'm hoping an update fixes this problem. It does detract from the missions, but for 
 the most part, not from the game play.
  
  Needless to say, I was very surprised how much fun I've had playing this game. It wasn't quite 
 what I expected, but at the same time, it is so much more. Worth a rent if you aren't sure. Worth 
 a buy if you just love to kill Zombies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggum2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  As you should know, in Dead rising, you are Frank West, Wartime photojournalist. You get a tip 
 about a big story occurring in the small city of Willamette, Colorado. You hire a pilot to fly 
 you in, only to discover that ofcourse, the city is flooding with zombies. Now, your job is to 
 uncover the truth about how this outbreak occured. 
  
  Starting with the story. The story, considering what kind of game this is, was actually really 
 intresting and original. It makes you want to discover what happened and progress through the game. 
 It also has a few surprising plot twists towards the end
  
  Now the graphics. Overall, I think the graphics are as good as they could get without sacrificing 
 the overwhelming amount of zombies that can be on screen or the framerate. The weapon models look 
 the best, except for the machinegun, which literally looks as bad as a world model from Half-Life 
 1.
  
  The sound is outstanding in the game. Every single weapon has a unique sound. From the blast of 
 a shotgun to the explosion of a propane tank to the riping slice of the katana or sword, the sounds 
 seem perfect. The only suffering factor is the soundtrack. Only a couple of the songs are desirable 
 to listen to. But since you can use your own playlist like on any 360 game, it over shadows this 
 problem.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Rising isnt quite as repetitive as you may think, since there are so many 
 ways to mutilate a zombie. Besides cuting or smashing off limbs and heads, there are almost an 
 infinite amount of ways to slice a zombie in two. The cases have you doing various objectives, 
 while the scoop missions, or side missions, you are always rescuing survivors, or defeating a psychopath 
 and then rescuing survivors. Doing so nets you massive PP points which level up your character, 
 gaining new abilities or improving various attributes. you can also get PP from taking photos, 
 and doing special actions, like puting a frying pan on a oven.
  
  Now for some of the problems and quirks of the game. The main problem is the AI of the survivors 
 you escort. Their I. Q. is approximately 1.76 points higher than the zombie's. Sometimes you'll 
 get so frustrated at them that you might wind up yelling "WHAT THE @#$% ARE YOU STUPID #$^@ DUMB#$% 
 #$%^& DOING YOU $%^ #$@% IDIOTS!!!". Or, if you're not of the swearing type "Why are you silly 
 people trying to play with the zombies?"
  
  A few other little things. When the skinny zombie chicks with skimpy clothes on latch on to you 
 from the front, they get on their knees and start biting on your........... uh......... you know. 
 And one other annoying thing is how if a zombie lunges at you and misses or falls short, you can 
 be stunned for a second and if you have a 2 handed weapon you will drop it. This usually happens 
 when you are swinging a bench into a crowd of zombies, and can be pretty agitating
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Himanachi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Rising you play as Frank West, a freelance journalist who is taking a tip on a story in 
 Willamette, Colorado. After a ride over the town in a chopper Frank finds that this is one heck 
 of a story to cover and finds himselve trapped in a giant zombie infested mall for 72 hours. 
 
  
  As the story progresses along with Franks @$%kicking abilities you will come to realize how gfruesome 
 this game will get. One of my favorites are a move in which Frank rips out a zombies stomach. You 
 will also come to realize that survivors are idiots, example, you have to escort a scared survivor 
 who will get stuck in a horde of zombies and begin crawling. Although you can easily sve them it 
 is very easy to want to pull out a shotgun and blast their head off. But this is mostly the only 
 flaw this game has. One great thing is that anything that is not nailed down can be used to attack 
 zombies, such as a teddy bear, cd, even a suprisingly useful parasol. Another awesome thing is 
 that you can eat to instantly regain health. 
  
  Everything also respawns as well (Except survivors and bosses) So if you ran out of ammo you can 
 run right back and get some more as long as you refresh the area. Bosses are especially to mention 
 a notable difference from regular zombie games because they are not zombies but crazed survivors 
 who snapped during the zombie infestation. The storyline is basicly the same as capcoms Resident 
 Evil except that the infestation happened in a different way.
  
  To sum it all up Dead Rising is a widely romable, widely interactable, highly fun, non-linear, 
 and almost as gorey as god of war. If you like zombies you will love this game and even if you 
 don't you will simply love it or at the very least one thing in it. I almost considered buying 
 a 360 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klokked
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising for the Xbox 360 is a spectacular game. Graphics and details are amazing, controls 
 are simple, and the game is overall challenging. This game is extremely fun, but not for the faint 
 of heart. Gory, bloody, but very addictive when it comes down to it. Dead Rising has no multiplayer 
 (very depressing) . Very silly due to the things you can do to zombies, such as jam severed hands, 
 along with many other items, into the zombies' faces, put hats on the zombies, put hats on yourself, 
 and disembowel zombies. Dead Rising is a just right kind of game and I very highly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  What's better than zombies in a mall!? thats right you guessed it nothing, because ladies and gentlemen 
 Dead Rising is here! This game rocks my socks off with its OUTSTANDING gameplay. It has sweet graphics, 
 but this game is is really gorety and OH SO challenging. It took about 2 days to beat this fat 
 mexican chick on a motorcylce, so if your an easy-go low gamer this game is not for you. Though 
 I have to say some stages get reptive and most zombies look the same. But what can I say? Thery're 
 zombies, they SHOULD look the same. Capcom took lots of time and effort and probally worked their 
 hearts out in this supringsly good game. And its' not even a sequal how oringal! Cheers capcom! 
 It seems like you would need to think up a lot of sense to make this game. Wait. Did I say original? 
 I meant Dawn of the Dead video game.
  
  kthnx bai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has seen and appreciated Snakes on a Plane knows how you can have a good time with something 
 even if it is not all that sophisticated. To me, Dead Rising is the video game equivalent to the 
 movie Snakes on a Plane. It's simple, a little stupid, doesn't take itself seriously at all, and 
 is that much better for it. 
  
  You would think that a game with little level variety, almost no enemy variety, and shallow gameplay 
 would be a giant turd of a game right? Well Dead Rising proves such a theory wrong hands down. 
 
  
  The game is not for everyone but the pure fun of experimenting w/ different weapons to dispose 
 of zombies in so many different ways is a ton of fun. On top of that, you have really good characters 
 to interact with as well as tons of subtle references to the genre that made the game possible. 
 
  
  My only major gripe is the save system and the time system. They are both deeply flawed, but the 
 originality and warm heart this game has makes up for these two annoying flaws. Dead Rising has 
 way more personality than most games today and I just want to thank the devs for taking a chance 
 with something new and risky. It paid off in spades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a whole new genre in gaming, a game like that hasn't been done and anything near 
 this hasn't been done in a while. Dead Rising is a nice breeze in a game market which has been 
 producing a bulk amount of the same genre of games.
  
  You are a freelance news journalist who finds out about the zombie infestation. After taking a 
 helicopter ride to the mall and arranging that you will be picked up in 3 days with the pilot you 
 have 72 hours (it 's not real time it's sped up) to get your story and find out who was behind 
 this zombie invasion, why, and if they are friend or foe.
  
  There are major case missions which you have to finish in the game but in between the time's in 
 which those take place you have time to do "scoop" missions which are sent to you via walkie talkie 
 by otis the janitor. Although most of these scoop missions are simple "Two people are stuck in 
 bookstore escort them back to the security room etc...) They're are a couple in which you have 
 a fight scene.
  
  Talking about fighting in dead rising there is a mass amount of zombies and basically anything 
 is at your disposal, from a baseball bat to a potted plant, if you can find it you can pick it 
 up. Each item effects the zombies in certain ways some will gain you experince (pp) while others 
 are just plain fun to do.
  
  Dead Rising is tons of fun and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys gaming and owns an xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb2009
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game for one- is broken. This game is amusing at first, but gets really repitive after the 
 first hour or two. All you really do is run around a mall killing zombies, kill, kill, kill. No 
 point to it- AT ALL. I was dissapointed at how the game plays. So your in a mall and you have to 
 kill all the zombies you can within 72 hours. I didn't even really bother to listen to the story 
 line. It got amusing at the beginning, but got so boring. The only thing I can say to you first, 
 is rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Killal0t2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow, from the moment i popped this in and saw the beginning, to the end of the game, i was hooked. 
 Mostly because I love zombies, but this game put my love for them over the edge. An amazing story, 
 Awesome Visuals, great voice over, this game has it all. Capcom used there license to Megaman to 
 the fullest as well. Everything was put in a well place, all the bosses had some kind of story 
 to them, its amazinlgy crazy fun. 
  
  The game play was great as well, just as it should be. there where no parts in the game where i 
 felt that something should have been done in order to improve the way you played. 
  
  If i had one bad thing to say about this game is that it froze on me a couple of times. also, the 
 escort missions get a little annoying. Your followers do there best trying to survive around zombies, 
 but they are really bad in doing so. 
  
  other than that, this game rocked so many socks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slpknt906
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  This game was cool... for the first hour or two. I knew right away though that the story was going 
 to be crap, and it was the type of game that would not last/stay in my collection. As far as gameplay 
 is concerned it's unique and a bit iffy. I like that there are MANY options as far as weapons is 
 concerned, but that doesn't make up for everything. The controls handled very well, without a doubt. 
 The bosses are stupid, and somehow either insanely easy or insanely hard. The leveling up system 
 is also a bit flawed and the whole escorting people/scoop missions are plain stupid. Actually... 
 All of the missions are stupid.
  
  Graphics: 7
  I would rate the graphics much lower, but I take into consideration the scale of the mall, the 
 number of weapons, outfits, etc. involved, and the number of zombies that are on screen at once. 
 I felt that a 7 is fair.
  
  Sound: 10
  Whoever did the sound effects for this game should be given a raise. Every gun shot, chainsaw buzz, 
 slice, hit, moan, etc. was perfect. The sound in this game really is perfect.
  
  Value: 2 (And I Feel That's Being Nice)
  I found this game to get old fast, to be somewhat childish, 
 and to be just plain outright stupid. Personally, I hated it. I can understand where some people 
 could find it cool, but I honestly feel this game was not built to last at all. 
  
  P. S. The save system was attacked so much i decided to be nice and not mention it, however flawed 
 it is.
  
  My Tilt: 4
  I just didn't like it. It was fun at first, but wore of very quickly. Sorry to all the fans, but 
 this one didn't do it for me. I can see how some would love it though. 
  
  All In All: To Each His Own... Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  So its been quite a delay since I updated last. But anyways I'm back already and I feel like updating. 
 Although I was supposed to get the game on tuesday it wasn't until friday when I got my hands on 
 my copy of Dead Rising. So was it worth the hype, money, and the wait?
  
  Dead Rising is an action packed zombie game made from the guys at Capcom. Capcom being well known 
 for work on great titles of the undead such as The Resident Evil franchise. So you already know 
 Capcom has enough experience with the undead in the video game world. How was there work on the 
 latest undead game exclusively on the 360? Well the game turned out great for the most part and 
 is probably close enough to be called a killer ap title in my honest opinion. The basic story of 
 the game goes like this, you're Frank West a freelance photo journalist who is looking for the 
 story of a life time. Once you start the game off you begin to see disturbing scenes of the populated 
 town being overrun by zombies. Once there you are dropped off on a mall and thats where the adventure 
 begins.
  
  The game is more of a mission based objective game, Frank West being the main protaganists and 
 the games boss battles or "pyschopaths" and zombies being your main antagonists. The game starts 
 out with a 72 hour mode, in which you have 72 in game hours to get your story until you are picked 
 up. What you choose to do in those 72 in game hours is up to you. The game runs at specific file 
 cases, the games main story... where these cases turn up depend on the time and place. You are given 
 mission objectives to complete though so theres always something to do. These objective either 
 have to do with a boss battle or saving civilians still alive in the game. The civilian saving 
 is basically most of the mission objectives, getting a survivor from point a to point b. Different 
 twist and turns in the game will catch you off guard at times, changing your objectives up a bit. 
 The game even introduces some RPG elements, by gaining PP points you can level up, this can effect 
 your life gauge, how many items you can hold, running speed, throwing distance, or even Frank learning 
 some new offensive or defensive manuevars. Of course you can get these points by completeing mission 
 objectives or by taking photos. Photos are effected by the number of zombies or survivors in the 
 photo and what they do. There are different categories for this... violent, outtakes, erotica, drama, 
 horror and another I keep forgetting. For example take a picture of a low cut dressed female zombie 
 will affet your erotica rating while taking a pic of a zombie feasting on something will add to 
 the violent. Its a nice feature that doesn't really needs to be messed with but taking photos is 
 fun.
  
  One problem people seem to be complaining about are the one save per game. Let me be the one to 
 tell ya there isn't one save point throughout the whole game, people seem to get confused here. 
 There is a handful of save points throughout the game whether it be in a public restroom or a gym. 
 You only get one save slot per storage device, but you can save as often as you want though. This 
 can get frustrating if you've just completed a few objectives, and leveled up a bit, and just died 
 on your way to the save point. You'll eventually figure out how to use the save points cause its 
 nowhere near rocket science. I know for a fact though that I will have to play the game over again 
 after I beat it already, I've missed so many objective and case files for my own good. Whether 
 its because I couldn't make it in time or because I was just too busy killing hordes of the undead. 
 One good thing is if you ever play the game over all your stats, levels and abilities transfer 
 over so you don't have to start over with them again. Gameplay really never gets old as there is 
 so much to do, so many weapons ranging from vehicles, lawn mowers, chainsaws, dumbells, guns, swords, 
 to the kitchen sink... literally, but those are just the tip of the iceberg on the many weapons 
 in the game. There are also healing items which are basically foods or drinks so yeah, thats a 
 nice little helper.
  
  The AI in the game goes both ways. For the most part the zombies are handled great, theres just 
 so many zombies on the screen at one time you'll be amazed the first time you take a vehicle underground, 
 or walk outside, or even in the mall. Zombie AI is pretty aggressive if not more brutal at night. 
 You'll see zombie act the way you'd probably think you would of they were real, some will chase 
 after you, some will take there time and forget you if you're too far, most will lunge at you when 
 you get too close, and you'll see that they aren't the smartest things to ever walk the earth. 
 You'll be seeing zombies fall on their face as they try to walk up the stairs or down. Human AI 
 can be more problematic, if you're not careful you can be walking further away from the person 
 you're helping while they are getting attacked by massive numbers of zombies. Atleast you can either 
 give them a weapon or hold their hands throughout the way. One problem I have with the game is 
 that when communicating with such NPCs if not a cutscene is told through text... problem with the 
 text is that its pretty small and moves to quickly for you to read it all if you are already having 
 a hard time just squinting. Its not unreadable but it can come close to it pending on your t. v.
 
  
  The graphics for Dead Rising although not necessarily pushing the 360 to its limits are great, 
 if not close to photo realistic. The mall is great and the materials look life-like. Human character 
 models look absolutely gorgoeous in detail and look as if they were real. Hair is done well and 
 textures, seeing almost every pore in the characters faces are great. The blood although exaggerated 
 looks well as it splatters on the floor. Sound on the other hand is another great part of the game, 
 every weapon sounds unique and the voice acting doesn't sound too campy or cheesy, music although 
 hardly found in the game is also well done.
  
  One feature that seems to be missing from the game however is multiplayer, it sure would've been 
 great to play with a buddy trying to survive in a zombie infested mall, but sadly the game doesn't 
 present such a feature. Although there is already downloadable outfits up for grabs on the Xbox 
 Live marketplace and a Live ranking feature, sadly there is no multiplayer which is kind of a letdown... 
 somewhat.
  
  Capcom acheived there goal in fitting as many zombies on screen at one time without any graphical 
 slowdown. Although the game isn't particulary suppose to give you any scary or jump out of the 
 edge of your seat moments, it does a great job of sucking you in for hours at a time. Its definetly 
 a gory game, but it does it in a way where its fun, and action packed rather than scary, and horror 
 filled. Dead Rising was indeed worth my well earned 60 bucks... plus tax, and I suggest it to anyone 
 whos looking for a good time with their 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  ive been waitng for a game like this since i initially played resident evil 1... i always thought 
 to myself.. there has been so many hack and slash games why not a h&s with zombies... i mean people 
 have dabbled but never really touched base with it like (nightmare creatures / hunter the reckoning) 
 but i had been waiting since the first screen shots i seen of it... and it was one of the selling 
 points of the 360 for me.
  
  if youve heard anything on this game than you know what youre in for, hell even the cover doesnt 
 lie about what youre gonna be doin. but with all the creative ways there are to kill zombies in 
 this game how can you not think its a blast? its not like resident evil where you have the standard 
 handgun/shotgun/knife (though they are in there) you can use pretty much anything you want, say 
 for instance you find youre empty handed you can run over to the cd store and start chuckin cds 
 at em... or even a restaurant and snag up a chair to bash their lil undead heads in... im not even 
 done with this game and im writing a review because i like it that much.
  
  humor, death, violence, good zombie slashin action is more than enough for me to recomend this 
 to you, the missions are challenging but not over the top so playing through more than once in 
 the extra modes are well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I played my friends copy of this game on my other friends 360 when i was there and i thought it 
 was good. The graphics are nice and the sound effects are perfect. The controls are also excellent 
 and easy to use. There IS lots of variety like you might have heard. There are not enough guns 
 though. Story is alright and the game can be sort of creepy sometimes but is mostly funny and there 
 is plenty to do. The game lasts awhile but the fact that there is a timelimit to play the game 
 on is really gay. The save system is the worst i have ever experienced and is really punishing. 
 The game is repetative and grows old. But overall any zombie fan or action fan will like it and 
 its worth renting at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankees17556
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is hardly origional, its unique gameplay and killer graphics make this game 
 a "MUST GET" for anyone who wants to smack a frying pan over a zombies head.
  This game may seem to be fairly easy once you just start up the game, but slicing up zombies is 
 just the tip of the iceberg. And don't get me wrong here folks this game does have a few flaws 
 to its gameplay. Its save sysem is a little messy and you will understand that especially in the 
 later missions. The other letdown is the AI for the survivors you can save. It can get very fustrating 
 and it almost seems the survivors are as dumb as the zombies.
  But the special reason this game is so good is that those flaws can almost go unnoticed with the 
 size and detail in the mall. You might get fustrated but when you do there is always somthing near 
 by to smash over a zombied head to make things all better.
  And now I will end this on a personal note... at the end of the 72 hour mode stay with Isabella 
 and don't go to the Helipad untill there is about 20 mins (in game minutes) left. I had to resart 
 that mode 3 times untill i figured it out and was able to move on to overtime mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  All I can say is everything that I wanted is in this game ,and now that the infinite mode is unlocked.... God 
 help the poor foolish undead. I had high hopes for this game, and it kicks major a@@. The only 
 thing I hate is Kent the photo psycho, but utilizing the great and powerful boomstick he was no 
 longer a problem. All around awsome game. I only hope the release seasonal packs for the mall. 
 Thats right i'll kill santa.... And sacrifice him to the almighty power of the khan. everything 
 in this game says GOTY and if you don't agree well I hate that you don't understand that after 
 you get the true ending that the mall is all yours for the raping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boonyaw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Going into a mall finding out what the heck is going on while killing insane people terrorists 
 and lots of zombies so much to do over 250 weapons to smack a zombie with. Ever wanna put a mask 
 on a zombie and blast it in the head with a shotgun its there, ever wanna push someone down rip 
 there head off and take a picture of it its all there. So much you can do. It'll be fun for a long 
 time. There are flaws like the save system, its not as bad as some people say, the storyline could 
 be better, but all and all its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrowes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  This game is everything I had hoped it would be. Gameplay is fairly smooth and controls are accurate. 
 The aiming system could have used some work, it is difficult to manipulate, and the controls are 
 different for the camera and the gun (or any other projectile objects) . A similarity of control 
 for these two major facets of the game would dramatically improve gameplay. The usable weapons 
 in the game (of which there are hundreds, nay, thousands) all have a unique feel and timing to 
 master which keeps plowing through the thousands of enemies interesting and entertaining. 
  
  The graphics are excellent, especially considering the quantity of objects and enemies on the 
 screen. The draw distance is a little short for some of the environments, making some characters 
 pop out of nothing as you approach them, but this is such a minor quirk for this title that it 
 shouldn't hinder gameplay. 
  
  Sounds.. .well they're there. Voiceovers are unique and well done, but not nearly used enough. 
 The game's mission assignment system, which utilizes the cell phone to call in orders (ala GTA 
 San Andreas) uses nothing but subtitles, which can be difficult to read when you are trying to 
 keep track of the zombie hordes that are quickly closing in. Voiceovers on the cell phone calls 
 in addition to the subtitling would add a lot of quality to these mission assignments.
  
  Overall this game is a great value. It can be replayed with various modes and your previous characters 
 transferred back into your new games. There are enough side missions and easter eggs to warrant 
 at least a couple of playthroughs. As always, Xbox 360 games are overpriced, and at 60.00 this 
 makes a pricey (but very worthwhile) addition to any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josephianpsf
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Just picked up this game over the weekend.
  
  It certainly lived up to my expectations of a compelling storyline, ridiculous gore and entertaining 
 zombie slaying. Have you ever wondered what would happen if you snipped off a zombie's legs with 
 garden shears? Or what would happen if you threw a tv into a horde of zombies? Practically anything 
 is possible in this GTA-sandbox Zombie Game for the xbox360.
  
  The only complaint I have with this game that it requires a HDTV. Playing this on a SDTV results 
 in tiny and blurred words, making it virtually impossible to read what characters are saying, or 
 to read mission updates.
  
  However, this game more than makes up for its poor graphic depiction on SDTV with excellent gameplay, 
 music and the sheer terror one will feel after being forced down by zombies (with them munching 
 on your innards!)
  
  I'll give this:
  5/5 for gameplay.
  
  BUT
  
  4/5 for graphics
  (poor depiction of words on SDTV. shame on you, Capcom for lousy testing!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filosophic1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a laugh riot! I remember growing up, seeing the original Dawn of the Dead, and Day 
 of the Dead movies. And every Halloween, staying up to watch the zombie film fests on T. V. Dead 
 Rising brings back those memories, and then makes some new memories to go with them. To make this 
 review short and sweet, this game us just plain fun to play. I think the graphics could have been 
 a little bit better, but I don't have an HDTV yet, so when I do purchase one, maybe my opinion 
 on the graphics will change for the better. All in all, a refreshing game to play, with lots of 
 laughs at the antics of the zombies, and the many creative ways you can dispatch them. I would 
 recommend a rental first to those who didn't grow up on zombie movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddosen
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the strength of the review, and I have to say, while killing zombies is OK, 
 but the game is very repetitive, too frustrating, and you can put yourself in a position to never 
 solve the game if you take too long and explore - for even the briefest amount of time.
  
  The battles with the humans is way too difficult and not the least bit entertaining. Since when 
 should it take 30 shots to bring down a living human. 
  
  The game play could have been a lot better. Killing zombies is cool, but the rest of the game is 
 pathetic. I'll be selling this soon. 
  
  I wish Rockstar had developed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  You would imagine killing thousands of zombies would be fun. After a while it gets repetitive. 
 Also the save points are terrible and almost unbearable. This game is definitely a rental. Since 
 it lacks multiplayer, once you beat the game you lose complete interest. Graphics are terrible, 
 except for the cut scenes and they aren't even very impressive. Cool blood shots and kills cam 
 be fun at times, but once again it gets boring after a while because you have been there, done 
 that. Steer clear for now and wait a couple of months to get the discount rental.
  
  -Dynamic Games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 3. Frustrating save points, bad camera control, no autosaves, no checkpoints, time rush 
 problems to complete critical missions and boss fights are ridiculous. 
  
  Graphics - 10. Some of the best for the 360 yet. Not a choppy moment. Huge enviornment, great detail, 
 so much small detail in the game it's incredible. A step in the right direction.
  
  Sound - 9. Creepy sounds in the game. Very creepy. Turn the lights off and the sound up - it's 
 fun. And with the graphics together it's quite the show. But music in game? Other than ambient 
 music such as when in an elevator, is overkill.
  
  Value - 2. Kindof looses it's replayability when you repeat every single boss fight 5 times to 
 complete it correctly. Especially when you have to travel across the entire map (huge) to get to 
 a boss that has no food nearby, only to be kicked across the screen into a different zone by the 
 boss. When this happens, a cutscene comes up showing that the boss gets away, and you have to attempt 
 this bossfight for the sixth time. Quite frustrating. Escort missions are more fun, however, they 
 lose their fun after about five in a row. Especially when the idiot AI escort can't seem to get 
 past two zombies in an open area. Was the ally AI written to run into zombies, instead of around 
 them? Why, oh why Capcom, did you decide that checkpoints and autosaves are beneath you? Why, oh 
 why Capcom, did you decide to allow the main character to be stunned during every hit allowing 
 concurant damage to occur taking away any chance of fighting? Capcom, there are these things called 
 difficulty settings and checkpoints. We all know that AI is hard to create, but friendly AI? And 
 for gods sake, telling a friggin' story doesn't have to include mile long runs without some kind 
 of checkpoint before boss engagements!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 7. This game is one of the first on the 360 to utilize the 360's great graphics 
 and sound. It's a fun game to play as a group or by yourself - and the ability to save your character 
 status and restart the game with that status is good, although it is a last minute quick-fix for 
 bad gameplay. Sounds like damage control had to come in to meet the deadline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robinhoodlum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  When i have played the demo a was in love with the game. I know how the saving works in the full 
 game from others, but that is no reason to rate this game from a 9.0 to a 2.0. The graphice stay 
 the same and the fun of killing hordes of zombies will stay. I know i am not going to be wrong 
 about this game. If you learn to deal with the poor save possibilities, you will love the game, 
 trust me. I am convinced if you like the RE seriies, you will love this game..... Buy it!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Pomo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the first game on Xbox 360 that I just love to play, man! When other games get boring 
 after a few hours of playing them (like Oblivion, or GRAW) , Dead Rising is something you can just 
 turn on and waste hours with without it losing its value. The biggest reason for this is the large 
 array of un-lockable costumes, weapons, modes and of course achievements. you are also constantly 
 upgrading your character, Frank West, with more power, speed, and moves. Last of all, there are 
 around 250 weapons in the game, from soccer balls to light sabers to Mega-Man's Arm cannon. I have 
 nothing else to say, except play this friggin' game TODAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprodigy91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of those games that will make you come back for more. 
  Playing through the first time in 72-hour mode takes roughly 7 hours, but you will definitely want 
 to go back to the game in an attempt to unlock everything or just to have fun. The mechanics of 
 controlling each weapon is simple enough for someone to just jump in and immediately start killing 
 zombies. That being said, the only amount of difficulty comes from the sheer number of zombies 
 that come at you and a few of the boss fights. However, some will insist that the save system is 
 the most difficult and frustrating part of the game. I personally never had any problems with it, 
 just remember to save after each escort mission and make sure you have enough time to get to the 
 next case/scoop mission before doing so. I only have one problem with the gameplay and it is that 
 the AI of your followers can at times be extremely unpredictable. Some people will charge into 
 a wall in an attempt to get to you while a few will actually walk right in front of your attack. 
 However, perhaps the best and worst experiences are with survivors carrying weapons. They have 
 the potential to be extremely helpful but will occasionally end up killing you to get to a zombie. 
 Not all escorts are as tedious as this as you can occasionally carry a survivor and eliminate all 
 of the above problems. Thats about it for gameplay, now on to the graphics. The amount of zombies 
 that the game manages to throw at you is nothing short of amazing. If you add this to the already 
 pretty great graphics, you have an awesome looking game. This all leads up to some pretty amazing 
 looking zombie deaths, the blood spatter from each zombie is something to behold. Time to discuss 
 the audio. Each weapon produces its own unique sound that may lead some dedicated gamers to create 
 a song as they hit zombies over the head with the different guitars. The sound definitely adds 
 to the feeling of satisfaction from killing a zombie when you hear the slice of your blade as it 
 cuts through a zombie's flesh. The soundtrack mainly consists of ambient mall music, but the boss 
 fights do offer some more action packed music to add to the feeling of the moment. The voice acting 
 in the game is good for the most part and the only draw back is that you only hear it in cut scenes, 
 aside from the grunts of the zombies and the screams of their victims. The game definitely has 
 great replay value for the reasons listed earlier in the review but the main reason you will return 
 to it is to get all of the achievements or if you are like me, to look like mega man. I have to 
 say that this game is one of the most fun experiences I have had in a while and the large amount 
 of zombie killing you do is almost therapeutic. I also liked the awesome pictures you are able 
 to take and save (if only you could share them over Xbox live) . I would recommend that anyone with 
 the money and a thirst for zombie killing that must be quenched to buy it. If you do not have that 
 money you owe it to yourself to at least rent one the greatest games ever conceived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja929
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than I had originally thought. I was skeptical of getting it at first, but 
 is a worthy game for your 360 collection. The graphics may not be the best, but the game play all 
 makes up for it. Killing zombies in a variety of ways is fun and satisfying. The game does not 
 getting repetitive due to the fact that you get many ways of exposing off the zombies. The replay 
 value is high. There are many items to unlock, one of which is the mega-man costume. Anyone out 
 there debating about getting it shouldn't think twice, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game where you are trapped in a mall surrounded by zombies trying to survive until 
 your helicopter arrives in 72 hours. A basic premise thats sounds simple in the beginning, but 
 it is far from that. As a journalist you have to cover this story. While covering the story it 
 has many twists and turns. Also you will run into psychopaths occasionally give this game difficulty.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Almost everything in the game is useable as a weapon, free roam enviroment, good story, lots 
 of different endings to the story, plenty of "boss fights", brain dead opponents.....
  Bad: Brain dead allys make escort missions difficult and some story missions frustrating
  
 
  Graphics
  Good: Awesome blood animations, spectacular enviroments.
  Bad: Sub-par charecter animations, impossible to read text.
  
  Sound
  Good: Great sound effects, 
 the music during psychopath songs fits well.
  Bad: Dialogue is a bit tacky.
  
  Replay Value
  The 72 hour mode lasts about 8-10 hours after you beat the story you unlock overtime 
 mode which lasts another 2-4 hours, and finally after you beat overtime mode you unlock infinite 
 mode which lasts forever. So there are a handful of things to do in this game.
  
  Overall
  If you like zombie game where the zombies cease to be fun to kill, an intriguing plot, 
 and a free-roam enviroment this game is the game for you. Even if your only in it for zombie killing 
 it still should deserve a buy, but if you dont like zombie games that much this game isn't for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnnylongnose
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a awsome game, If you are looking for an all out action game then here is the game 
 to get! The zombies are easy to kill but they come in hundreds per group so be prepared to battle 
 your way out of the game. The story line is cool and you get to fight with all types of weapons, 
 whatever you can pick up you can fight with. The game is not long but it still a great action game, 
 so if your looking for a blood thirsty action game you lookin for Dead Rising on xbox360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, simply put...... very few games have the type of raw, zombie-killing action 
 this game has. the sound of the weapons along with the amazingly many ways to kill zombies is sickening. 
 killing a zombie with a stuffed bear or a water gun is halarious and this game is reccomended to 
 anyone who loves zombie-killing action at its best. the only flaws in this game is the screwed-up 
 save system that only gives you one save in the entire game. that really makes it hard for younger, 
 inexperienced players to finish the game orderly without a lot of repition of the same level. the 
 being on time system is also sort of an odd gameplay concept thats not implented very well in this 
 game. overall, its an awesome game that shouldnt be missed, get it within 72 hours....... or youre 
 dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TP500
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game. That much is true. Im at level 50 now (max) , and the game is still fun. There 
 are a few reviews that are completely unfair and some issues that are easily fixed. People complain 
 about the save system. There are saves everywhere. Al Fresca theres the save in the gym, Paradise 
 the bathroom, theres a save in every part of the mall (except Maintenance Tunnel but who the hell 
 builds a restroom down there) . They may not be in convenient places but go to a mall, is there ever 
 a restroom when you need one? The bosses are easy to beat mostly. The only one I had trouble with 
 was the machete guy. I saw a review that said Cleatus was almost invinvible. Thats ridiculous. Be 
 creative or just use your brain and use a door for cover like most ppl. Others say Dead Rising is 
 just a RE ripoff. Well it is made by a company who has been doing zombies for almost 10 years so 
 dont blame them for Dead Rising's small influence from that up and down franchise. Anyway, Dead Rising 
 is probably the best game so far on the 360 with the exception of Oblivion. The graphics do their 
 job, the sound is just fantastic, the gameplay is awesome despite limited time (I just played it once 
 for the story and then another for whatever I wanted to do) , and now im at level 50 and trust me, with 
 every move unlocked, beating down zombies to death... again, has never been more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak47lover
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Zombies, the undead, brain eaters, walking corpses etc. Choose whatever term you want, but they're 
 fun as hell to kill no matter what you call them. And no game, in my opinion, has mastered the 
 time-tested art of zombie killing as well as Dead Rising. You can kill these buggers in almost 
 any way you can imagine. You can go the old fashioned route and put a bullet into their head, or... use 
 a lawnmower and watch as limbs and blood go flying as you run over a vast horde of undead. Speaking 
 of blood... it's absolutely fantastic in this game. When you slice a zombi in two with a katana 
 (diagonally) it flies EVERYWHERE., and in a realistic fashion. The vast showers that spew out of 
 the nech after you've popped a zombie's head (literally) with a sniper round is also satisfying. 
 Another nice effect is the motion blur. This is the first game I've ever played the uses it so 
 well. Hell, I spent minutes making the camera zoom around just to gape at it. Now, on to gameplay. 
 The analog setup is a bet confusing at first. You will look around as you roam the vast mall with 
 the upper left analog stick. But, when you pull out a gun or throwable object, you use the right 
 analog stick to aim, and you are completely immobile. But, if you've played Resident Evil 4, this 
 shouldn't be a problem. This game is not without its fair share of glitches however. The most annoying 
 one, would have to be the respawning convicts in the central park. You made those bastards eat 
 lead the first time around, but get ready to look on in horror as you lead the pair of survivors 
 you just found through said park and get run over and shot by those damned prisoners in their jeep. 
 Other than this though, the game's flawless. I know, I know, some of you people may be frustrated 
 with the save system (you can only have one save slot per profile) , but I think this help add to 
 the fun-factor. For too long, we've been pampered with the quicksave feature. What's so hard about 
 a game where you die and respawn at a point thirty seconds before? That's right, it isn't hard. 
 Anywho, Dead Rising is one of teh best games out on the 360 now, and I highly recommend it to anyone 
 over 17 (there's alot of gore in this game kiddies, I'm not joking) . So, get it, pop in the disk, 
 and get ready to fulfill any fantasies you've had about beating a zombie to death with a plastic 
 toy sword or mannequin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madnesscombat
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the more "unique" games to come out of the usual genre of games we have seen 
 over and over again and this is why Dead Rising stands out amongst the crowd.
  
  Gameplay is solid. 
  
  Nothing "amazing" about it but nothing bad either. Most of the weapons/items 
 you can get your hands on has either one or two different attacks. However, they aren't terribly 
 diverse enough to effect the gameplay. There are tons of weapons/items to use but when it comes 
 down to the bottom of it, it just depends on your tastes if you like using different weapons/items 
 to bash/shoot/blunt zombies with. Also, there are a few gameplay mechanics you might need to get 
 used to first. Like saving and using your watch and keeping an eye on the time. Another "bad" thing 
 for me was there aren't a huge variety of guns in this game. Oh yeah, bosses battles are very fun. 
 =P
  
  Graphics are great.
  
  There are TONS and TONS of zombies onscreen and the game won't suffer one bit. You can plow down 
 hundreds and hundreds of zombies at high speed in a sports car and the game won't slow down at 
 all. The textures aren't super detailed but they flush out the feel of the game very well. There 
 are some framerate drops during some boss fights and as well with using different weapons. One 
 example would be the sludgehammer. It just "freezes" for a split second when you bash a zombie's 
 skull open with it. I don't know why this is considering you can plow through a hundred zombies 
 with a car and not have any framerate problems. Another minor problem is sometimes the objects 
 in the stores just load right in front of you and it just makes it seems "ugly." = (
  
  Sound is even better than the graphics.
  
  From the various zombie "grunts" and "groans" to 
 the sounds of a chainsaw slicing through a defenseless zombie and hearing the blood and guts gushing 
 out from the impact is just AWSOME. Nothing bad can be said but with the exception of the "mall 
 muzak." (Yes I spelt it wrong on purpose) . The mall music is just sometimes too quiet to hear which 
 is a disappointment because of its nice fancy tune. And also there are custom soundtracks but they 
 "mute" voiceovers in the cutscenes. Again, I am puzzled on why this is.
  
  Replay value is.... here and there... (Read On)
  
  You can play it over and over but it does 
 get a little repetitive after a few run throughs. You canblow off the main story and just play 
 however you want but if you're a "Achievement Freak" like me, you'll find yourself playing this 
 game for a while. (GT is KILL3R AZN btw to see achievements) .
  
  Overall this game is quite a "unique" game of the bunch and it is worth your time. (At least it 
 was for me and still is) . =)
  
  Thank you for your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franky111
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  dead rising is a perfect game all around. gameplay, grapics, and the sound are awsome. Sure, it 
 may be a bit.... pricy, but in the end its all worth it. It only has about four hours of gameplay 
 but its meant to be played over and over and over again! Exactly what its cut up to be! I play 
 right now as I type this, lol. The story is pretty good and will keep the player wanting more as 
 they get furtur in to it. The game itself is incredibly easy to pick up, it guides you with the 
 controls along the way. It sometimes can be quite terrifying too, when theat clock reaches 7:00 
 PM, you got howling zombies with glowing red eyes! Did I mention they are also twice as vicious 
 at night too?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobtheJedi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This being the first X360 game I bought (G. R. A. W. can only last so long, folks) I can quite honestly 
 say that this is hilarious stupid fun. This will easily last me until Christmas, and if your like 
 me, it will last for you too.
  
  Journalist Frank West will go anywhere for a story. Male strip bar? You got it. Middle school football 
 game? No problem. A mall swarming with zombies? Well, he may have some second thoughts on that, 
 but at the moment he dosent have much choice: following a tip from someone (who obviously wants 
 him to die) , he gets a chopper to drop him off in Whillamete, Colorado, which is, you guessed it, 
 swarming with the undead. Stuck in a mall until your chopper returns (a **** 72 hours) , your job 
 now is to survive while, at the same time, find out the reason for this outbreak of zombie-itus.
 
  
  One important feature of the game is photo opportunities. The better the photo, the more PP (XP) 
 you get. Craploads of zombies eating a guy? Get a snap of that and you get bonus points for horror. 
 And elderly couple hugging each other? Get the shot and you get more bonus points. A half-naked 
 female zombie? That will net you erotic points, which is kinda weird, but whatever.
  
  Of course, do you really care about taking snapshots of bloodbaths? Hell no, you want to be the 
 *cause* of the bloodbaths. Capcom boasts that Dead Rising sports 250+ weapons, and they ain't all 
 guns. Purses. TVs. Golf clubs. Plastic Lightsabres. The sheer ammount of killing potential in this 
 is astounding, which also leads to limitless ammounts of stupid jokes. (More than once, I have been 
 noted running around with a guitar yelling "El Kabong!" *WHACK*)
  
  However, don't believe that zombies will be your only enemy in this game. You will encounter plenty 
 of humans in the game, some of which have gone "Kukoo for Cocoo Puffs". They will try to shoot 
 you, run you over, attempt to hack you up with chainsaws, and even one guy who wants to "punish" 
 you. Creepy? You bet.
  
  Fortunatly, not everyone will be off the deep end. The escort system will either impress you or 
 irritate you. Most survivors will be able to use guns, some will stop and have you hold their hand 
 (literally) and the most irritating you will have to carry on your back. *NOTE* I have yet to test 
 if you can cap them yourself. Have to check that.
  
  The music is the same crap you expect from a mall, but that makes it funny in some spots. The zombies 
 sound really convincing, and the sound of a shooping cart ramming into a crowd of the living dead 
 is as awesome as they come.
  
  Dead Rising is a killer ap for the 360, and even if you only vauegly liked the Resident Evil series 
 from Capcom, you must play this. I guarentee a smile and blood stained clothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I have NEVER traded a game as early as this . Don't get me wrong, i enjoyed the demo so much that 
 i couldn't wait till it came out. The game starts out excellent with a great presentation. While 
 flying into town, you really feel like you are about to embark on a real adventure. 
  
  The game starts to deterioate about 30 minutes in. I enjoyed killing the zombies but it got REAL- 
 old- real- soon. I basically just started running "past" the zombies to try to get to the next 
 level to see how the story unfolds. What kind of fun is there in the fact that there are basically 
 no saves or checkpoints. I played for about an hour only to find that when i died i had to replay 
 the whole game ALL OVER AGAIN... ARRGH!!
  
  I felt like using the disc as a frisbee. I tried to like this game, but i feel like the missions 
 are set up like a broker record..... you make all this progress in the game, get killed and you 
 start all over again.... flying into town in that helicopter.
  
  Other than these major annoyances, the game has decent graphics and pretty good voice acting. 
 
  
  I don't understand why this game is garnering such high praise. 
  Wait to buy it in the discount bin... really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genfuyung
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is god awful. I played the demo and it put me under the impression that the actual game 
 would be fun... I was wrong. There are impossible missions in this game. The key people you are 
 supposed to follow or lead are idiots. There is no difficulty setting to make it easier or anything. 
 The characters that follow/lead you will literally just stop and watch the zombies come to kill 
 them and then let themselves die. Making the mission impossible to finish. No game has pissed me 
 off so much. Dont waste sixty bucks like I did. Save it and buy a good game or rent a ton of bad 
 ones instead of owning one terrible one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treswrld
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game with an innovative twist on the survival horror genre. The ability 
 to create weapons and power ups (food) by combining certain items and actions is ingenious. I did 
 notice a slight anomaly, however. In game video turns very dark after certain cut scenes. Anyone 
 else notice this? Also, I think the save system is idiotic. It takes you out of the game way too 
 much by asking if you really want to save and asking where you want to save to even if you're only 
 using one save source (a hard drive in my case) . Plus the save points are way too infrequent. It 
 almost seems as if the developers were trying to extend the length of the game by making the save 
 system clumsy and infrequent. That's inexcusable in next game development. The bottom line is I 
 can overlook the problems with the save system because the game play is just so much fun. A definite 
 purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainApollo75
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game that will gobble up hours, days, possibly weeks of your life, Dead 
 Rising is certainly the game to do it with.
  
  You find yourself as a photojournalist, Frank West, stuck in an apoclyptic, George A. Ramero inspired, 
 zombie infested mall, and you have to survive 72 hours until a helicopter comes to save you. Yeah. 
 It sounds awesome, doesn't it?
  
  Unfortunately, Capcom made it a little more than frustrating to fulfill your zombie hunting desires.
 
  
  The story missions can get downright absurd in the difficulty department, as the game's save file 
 system is crap. You only get one save slot, and there are no autosaves. So if you die in a boss 
 battle, you're forced to get thrown all the way back to the other end of the mall and try again.
 
  
  Also, the AI teeters on the brink of being dumb as hell or _too_ smart. The survivors you have 
 to escort to safety will usually go out of their way to fight a large crowd of zombies and then 
 get eaten, and the enemy AI can be downright unfair. Kicking you while you're down is the term, 
 I believe.
  
  So, in conclusion, the game is pretty fun. You just have to endure some annoying glitches and poor 
 design in places, but when you finally get that chainsaw, you'll be more than happy that Dead Rising 
 is in your game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacock1089
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and you will play it for a while. Basically there is a guy in a mall and anything 
 and everything is a weapon. The story is fun but it is kinda stupid how it starts out. There is 
 this old woman that lost her dog and she opens the doors of the mall and let's all the zombies 
 in the mall. There are bosses in the mall but there not zombies they are phycotic people. You will 
 play this over and over again just killing zombies so the value of your buck is fine. So if you 
 have a xbox360 this is a must buy and you should love it. Although there is only one save spot 
 that shouldn't bother you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  At the beginning play DR is confusing. What i do?... Case files?...., Scort missions?... Scoop 
 missions?.... And soon you realize that you have a big problem: time. Case files need to be achieve 
 at time. You gey confuse t. oo because the mall is too big, and where are the weapons, the good 
 ones?...
  And you have just one slot to save!!. So if you save at the wrong moment you must to restart your 
 game. 
  But after a couple of day you begi to understand the game play. And is FUN!!!.
  Dont worry, you wont do everything, just concentrate in the case files, to learn where are the 
 good weapons, to kill a physico, to know the mall. 
  This is a game to be played two or three times, for reveal all the missions. The first time is 
 the rookie time. DR have some of the GTA series but with the clock hunting you. 
  Nice graphics. Good sound. Excellent value. And go to the tunnels under the mall. You never have 
 seen this before at any game: millions of zombies , strolling around, and damn!, is a great pleasure 
 to kill them riding a car.
  The sense of humor is excellent too. 
  Is a hard game to master, but deserves the hours playing it.
  And remember, save ever at the 
 beginning of a new case file. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svenice
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game has to be played for at least three or four hours to really get the hang of it and to 
 level up a bit but the rewards are well worth it. Great story, amazing sandbox mechanics.
  
  Frank's animations for all of the items that are usable are amazing. The sheer breadth and 
 depth of the items that are usable in the game is absolutely amazing. 
  
  The save system, while somewhat maligned, really raises the sense of urgency of the title and I 
 understand why the designers chose this route.
  
  About the only things missing were online play and a true open sandbox mode (the Unlimited mode 
 wasn't quite what I'd hoped with health count downs) . Here's hoping for some downloadable content 
 to extend the play here.
  
  All in all, the game is simply a fantastic execution. I can't wait for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobocide
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I bought a 360 for this game. This was going to be my "end all" of video games. But the game isn't 
 without it's problems. Boss AI is easy to glitch and loop. Survivor AI is helpless, and often times 
 requires literal hand-holding. And the lack of a traditional freeplay mode ruins what could have 
 been a solid 10 expirience.
  But there are positives that can outshine the downsides. The game itself does what all zombie fans 
 wanted, a new game that allows you to destroy thousands of zombies with whatever you can get your 
 hands on. The story is good, character designs are fantastic, and the characters themselves are 
 well developed and often times surprising. If this game was $50, it would be a steal, and if they 
 waited a month to fix the problems, it would be worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1Canuck
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I was really let down by this game. Everyone is praising it by overlooking the horrible game design. 
 The save system is unbelievably annoying. The sound and graphics are good. The "set" scripted events 
 that HAVE to happen really take the fun out of it. Playing boring missions over and over and over 
 is not for me. How about the unreadable text, what's going on? I have no idea.
  
  The next gen era has yet to begin, it's not just pretty graphics.... GAMEPLAY improvements?. What's 
 with the loading and trying to "use" items,.... trying to hi-light them as you are attacked.
  
  Some of us just wanted to run around FREELY and kill Zombies. Yea, we know that you can unlock 
 some time free mode. Problem is, you have to finish a garbage game to get there.
  
  I am glad that some can put all that aside and have fun, for me it's just another Xbox game with 
 better graphics.
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottybme
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent. I love the characters, the graphics, the sound is awesome and I love the 
 gameplay. The weapons put this game over the top. The achievments are fun and the story is interesting. 
 I would highly recomend this game to any gamer. Don't miss out on this one. The main character, 
 Frank, is one that the gamer can relate to. Frank is a down to earth, yet adventure seeking hero. 
 The supporting cast has their own quirks and stories, as well. The save system can be tricky, but 
 if you do it right, it is more challenging and fun. I love the photographer aspect of the game 
 as well, it reminded me of the good ol days of playing Pokemon Snap, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panic15130
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  This game just makes it fun to throw cash registers at zombies and do other funny/kick ass things. 
 if you are a person who is only interested with story u may not like this game but if u are like 
 me and just like to own stuff this is the next gen game for u! I am very impressed with all the 
 different things u can do and use on your brain dead foes. Also to keep it interesting there are 
 many little hidden bonuses and cool unlockables like new costumes, weapons, etc. To me the game 
 difficulty is just right for the amount of people you are up against just find a hiding spot at 
 night!!! Also has some rpg like elements like new attacks and so on. The only trouble i have with 
 the game so far is after a while the escort missions start to get annoying and sometimes i just 
 say to my tv..... just run around and find a place to hide u AI retard :P. Overall this is a game 
 you would play just to fool around and midlessly hit stuff with a shovel or traffic cone or whatever 
 else is laying on the ground. Hope my reveiw helped you now go kill some zombies!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cn31672
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  First, let me say... THIS GAME ROCKS!!! 
  Now, I have to admit that I completly understand Alex's frustration with the save system. I dont 
 know if I would call it "broken", though. In some ways, I applaud Capcom for making the game more 
 "real". You can't save every 30 minutes and when you die.. it's over. 
  The problem that I have with the save system is that it isn't exactly clear what you're doing with 
 the saves. I have restarted my game from the beginning instead of just going to my last save because 
 the menu options suck.
  But save problems aside, this game is so much fun... and so challenging.. and so clever, you gotta 
 love it.
  This game makes me glad to be a 360 owner. I almost waited until the PS3 came out to decide on 
 a consle. I'm glad I didn't wait.. 
  This game alone makes the 360 purchase worth it. And the Sony fanboys can keep waiting for a decent 
 game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_bandit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Capcom. Yes that company that is known best for the zombie/Horror/ Do you want to pickup the Handgun 
 ammo? games Resident Evil. But now for the next gen 360 they have released Dead Rising an Horror/action/adventure 
 game in which your are Frank West a reporter/photo journalist always looking for the big scoop. In 
 Dead Rising you have 2 choices you can actually follow the storyline and save people or you can 
 kill zombies .Yes zombies lots and lots of zombies. And if you chose to mass murder the Zombies 
 you have a disturbing amount of ways to kill them. There's the usual array of firearms but there 
 also a lot of different kind of weapons. For example. In real life shower heads are used for directing 
 amounts of water to your body in a shower. In Dead Rising you can stick the shower head in a zombies 
 skull and it will spray blood out the shower head. That is just one of the many weapons of this 
 game. Think of everything in a mall then think of what you could to a zombies with it. I mean there 
 is everything from a lawnmower to a guitar to a pile of CDs there is a tonne of variety and wit 
 all those items comes the symphony of sounds of the zombies being whacked, sliced, decapitated you 
 name it they have a sound for it, and for the whole game your basically going to hear ohhhhhh uuuuuhhhhhhhh. And 
 in the storyline the Zombies aren't really the main thing it's more about finding out why there 
 are zombies in the mall. And also most of the side missions are escorting confused survivors back 
 to the security room. These can be quite annoying at times because of the lack of intelligence in 
 the AI. What I mean is you basically have keep pressing the Y button to keep saying Follow Me or 
 Come On or the survivor might just stand there or try to take on a pack of zombies and in the end 
 call for your assistance and you have to run back and save them or they might die in a matter of 
 seconds. I also had a problem with the saving in this game. You only get to save once which is a 
 total problem. Another Problem is all the missions (Scoops) as their called are on a time limit 
 so if your not back at the security room by 6:00AM ready for the next mission all the next missions 
 in that series will expire and will not be able to be played till you finish the game and play 
 it over again. And an example of the save problem is if you saved at one side of the mall And found 
 out that your next mission is in an hour and is at the otherside of the mall your basically out 
 of luck and you will not be able to play that series of missions like I said till you start a new 
 game.
  
  All together with a few minor tweaks Dead Rising could have been a slightly more enjoyable game, but 
 aside from that it is still a whole lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullrog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  With Dead Rising, Capcom has finally given zombies their due. If you're a fan Dawn of the Dead 
 or any George Romero movies, this is the game for you. It's a gory, violent, and sometimes funny 
 game that is loaded with gratuitously violent zombie killing action, and its what you've been waiting 
 for.
  
  In the game, you play Frank West, a freelance photojournalist, who comes to the small town of Willamette, 
 Colorado to investigate some strange happenings and finds out the town has been overrun with zombies. 
 oh no. and you are then stranded in the mall for 72 hours to figure out what happened and escape. 
 The story is your standard B-movie plot, but it gets the job done.
  
  But What really matters is the gameplay. As you play, there's a constant tension between free-form 
 zombie killing and timed missions. You earn prestige points (experience) by rescuing survivors, 
 lining up gory zombie slaughters, and taking pictures. Yes, taking pictures. You are, after all, 
 a journalist in pursuit of a story. The photography is an amusing diversion that fits in nicely 
 with the sometimes juvenile tone. Include some hot undead chick's cleavage in your photo and you 
 get a bonus for some hot zombie erotica. When you earn enough prestige points, you'll level up. 
 This improves your character with new stats and new combat moves, such as being able to walk over 
 zombie crowds, flying jump kicks, and being able to rip out a zombie's guts with your bare hands. 
 Improved stats let you do things like carry more items, survive more damage, and run faster. Most 
 of the side missions involve you rescuing survivors or killing boss type characters called psychopaths, 
 such as a chainsaw juggling clown, and a machete weilding madman who thinks your the vietcong. 
 Escorting the survivors wouldnt be so bad, if they werent dumber than the zombies.
  
  Dead Rising takes place almost entirely in the mall. The mall setting encourages a lot of exploration 
 and experimentation. You can use anything and I mean ANYTHING in the mall to kill a zombie. Mere 
 guns are passe. This is a game of chainsaws, battle axes, and bowling balls. This is a game about 
 the meeting of familiar objects with undead flesh. This is a game about using whatever's at hand. 
 Nearly everything degrades after a certain amount of use, a contrivance Dead Rising uses to encourage 
 you to try more and different things. But of course, there are guns in the game like shotguns and 
 pistols and machine guns and what not. Dead Rising is all about enjoying a hundred different violent 
 and/or goofy ways to destroy a zombie.
  
  At first, it might seem like the missions interfere with the free roming gameplay. Some of which 
 can trip fail states when it comes to the storyline, which really isnt all bad cause then you have 
 72 hours to just do whatever the hell you want. But it's important to note that Dead Rising is 
 built to be played over and over. As there are six differemt endings. When you die, you can restart 
 the game, keeping any levels and abilities you've earned through experience points. And it's also 
 important to note that once you've reached the end of the game with the REAL ending, you can play 
 without the timer. 
  
  The game's save system is also going to frustrate some people. You can only keep a single save 
 for each game. And you can only save the game at predetermined save points, bathrooms and the security 
 room which is like you safe house. Save points are few and far between, and there are times when 
 you'll lose a lot of progress when you die, which sucks. But these spaced out save points create 
 and sense of dread. You'll want to stock up on inventory and weapons before attempting a particularly 
 difficult passage. And you're not always secure whether you're going to make it. You actually have 
 to sometimes plan out what you're gonna do before do it. Do you plow through zombies with a beach 
 umbrella? Do you arrange propane tanks to blow them up? Do you just try to hack your way through 
 again? Or do you make a run for it? This is survival horror where the word survival is actually 
 meaningful. 
  
  But its the way it all comes together, the gratuitous violence, the graphics, the setting, the 
 save system, makes Dead Rising something far more special than any specific complaints you might 
 have about it. If for no other reason, this is a game you should play for how well it appreciates, 
 honors, and finally does justice to its subject material. This is the game that finally gets the 
 zombie stuff right. This is a definite buy for any 360 owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about this game after playing the demo version. But after playing it for awhile, 
 I'm finding this to be a very solid title. From the developers that brought us Resident Evil, I 
 expected this to be a very plot oriented game, but that's not the case.
  
  Good:
  Graphics: Considering all of the enemies on-screen, this is a beautiful game. While I was disappointed 
 that there were no rag-doll physics, it still managed to hold my attention. The gore in this game 
 is generic, but is still able to keep the player interested.
  
  Sound: I didn't really expect much here, and I was right for thinking that. The soundtrack is generic 
 metal, but still fits the game very nicely. Each weapon has it's own unique sound effects, but 
 they can still feel a bit cheesy at times.
  
  Gameplay: The idea of this game is simple. Get from point A to point B in a set amount of time, 
 and kill as many zombies as you can along the way. I rarely utilized the game's photography mode, 
 but it's nice to know the game has such a diversity.
  
  Overall, I think this is a pretty solid title that will draw just about any type of gamer in. I 
 highly recommend this title as a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth playing, even though its a huge rip-off of the movie Dawn of the Dead (For 
 those who never watched the movie (and I dont recommend it) the main character and a couple of 
 survivors find shelter in a mall as hungry zombies linger around the doors) . The game play is great, 
 animation is good, but the one thing they should have worked on is the subtitles during game play. 
 The text is so small that is almost impossible to read. Also, the idea of killing zombies is getting 
 old. But I still like the game even though its running on a reused idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 343_The-Monitor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Having played the demo and the full game , i would have to say the 360 has its first TRUE killer 
 app.......
  
  In this game you take the role of a photojournalist named Frank West. You get a tip from the media 
 that there is something very strange going on in a small mountian town....... i think you know 
 the rest 
  
  The story is very good , many twists , many turns . (kept short for spoilers)
  
  The gameplay 
 in this game is what sets it apart from any other , If you can think of any way to kill a zombie 
 , in a mall setting , this game has it! From lawn mowers , to chainsaws , to machine guns , to 
 squirt guns . 
  
  The boss feature in this game is my favorite! 
  instead of bosses , they are called psycopaths , and they are NOT very happy people to be around 
 ..... Such as the super market manager , HE IS SPOOKY ! 
  
  The photagraphy plays a big roll in this game aswell , as you are a photo journalist investaging 
 this place , and your character wants all the info he can get ! 
  
  The key to leveling up in this game is very unique , instead of the normal ( kill and level ) , 
 you have to get something called prestiege points , or in the game "PP" .
  the better pictures you take give you better PP , such as getting a photo of a couple that have 
 be seperated form eachother finally reuniting in a big hug! 
  
  If thats to "ghey" for you , you can take pictures of the zombie girls scantally clad with their 
 zomboobs hanging out , and yes , you do get extra points for that!
  
  The graphics in this game are very nice , the work done on the mall is AMAZING! The character models 
 are very nice aswell , and there are many types of different zombie models for variety. The gore 
 was done top notch aswell ! 
  
  i only found 3 problems with this game so far , first is WTF NO ONLINE?!?!?!? this would be the 
 best co-op experiance in any game....... ever ! 
  
  second thing that really pissed me off was the save feature , you have to go to specific areas 
 to save , and its more tricky than you think when 2000 zombies are in you way , and the fact that 
 you can only have one game profile on the hard drive , but you CAN HAVE MORE THAN THAT , you just 
 need a memory card........ 
  
  the third is just me nitpicking , but whenever you attack more than 3 -4 zombies at once , there 
 is a slight frame rate drop........ but thats the only time it will happen in the game suprisingly 
 ! 
  
  but outweighing the bad , is of course the good , 
  pick this game up people , its amazing....... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilBuny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer when you first start the game in 2 hour mode your a little forced 
 to do the cases, but in a way that is good because if you do the cases you will unlock overtime 
 mode and if you continue you get infinite mode. The achievments were the ones that really won me 
 over. Not only are the achievments fun, but they unlock you things. Such as zombie genocide, annoying 
 achievment great reward. There is so much you can do in Dead Rising i could go on a lot more but 
 to end this is a great buy with great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JP0202
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I think Dead Rising has to be one of the best games ever to have been created. It has a good quality 
 that everyone will enjoy. That quality is all the weapons. Just the fact that you can use anything 
 in the mall as a weapon makes it a great game by itself. I mean if u wanna know how smacking someone 
 in the face with a guitar, slicing someone with a katana, or throwing pies at a persons face feels 
 you should get this game. The only feature about this game that stinks is the save feautures and 
 the fact that you are on a time limit while playing. But there are even more good features about 
 the game that over shadow that fact. One in particular is all of the extras that you can unlock 
 like the megaman suit with a real working megabuster. I mean think about it from waterguns to a 
 shopping cart with axes, spears, and swoards sticking out of it, this game has it all. This is a 
 must have game for every serious XBOX 360 gamer. So i finish this review saying that Dead Rising 
 is a game that everyone should buy if not at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headbanger88
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about Dead Rising? It's full of mindless zombie slaying violence. There are hundreds 
 of zombies on the screen at once, and hundreds of ways to kill them. Be warned though, this game 
 is probably not for the casual gamer due to a steep saving system and at times, very hard battles. 
 
  
  The graphics in this game are great considering the massive amounts of Zombies on your screen. 
 There are absolutely no framerate issues present! There's also enough blood here to cease the need 
 of blood donors. My only gripe display wise is the small text that is unreadable for those of us 
 without an HDTV. Hopefully Capcom will patch this in the coming weeks. 
  
  The gameplay is just awesome! You kill thousands of zombies and it never gets repetitive. Just 
 about everything in the mall can be used as a weapon and all the weapons kill zombies in different 
 ways. At the beginning, all you can really do is mash x, but as you level you can unlock things 
 like throws, flying kicks, and a disembowelment! My only gripe is the save system, which is not 
 at all casual friendly. You can have 1 save per Xbox and the save points are pretty spread out. 
 Another thing is escort missions galore. This game is full of them, but it at least does it well 
 enough so you don't have to stab your kitten. 
  
  The sound in this game is good. The groans and moans of zombies, good voice acting, and a sweet 
 song that the convicts play in their jeep will keep you happy. 
  
  This game has major replay value due to it's challenging achievments. Killing over 50,000 zombies 
 is no small task, and I guarantee you will be coming back to the shopping mall to conquer these 
 deserving achievments. 
  
  All in all, this is a great game, especially coming from the summer draught. I reccomend this to 
 anyone looking for a zombie killing fragfest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crunchb3rry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is not exactly the "sandbox game" Capcom originally hinted at. Most players will start 
 over a few times before finally learning that the hard way. You simply can't fire this game up 
 for the first time and do everything in one playthrough. The first time through, you're going to 
 just focus on doing the main missions. Fellow suvivors will die, so prepare for that. Even right 
 when you start the game, a big chunk of the survivors immediately become zombie chow. Basically 
 you want to spend your second and third playthroughs either focusing on saving people or fighting 
 psychopaths (who are essentially the bosses of the game) . All three tasks: story, rescue, and boss 
 fighting can't really be accomplished in one playthrough because the clock is always ticking and 
 some missions start up immediately following the completion of others. So if you took too long 
 to do one mission, you basically consumed a lot of the time that was reserved for you to complete 
 the next mission. It's better to do main missions immediately and scramble to rescue others or 
 fight bosses when you have a big chunk of time to do the next story mission. Be ready to fail and 
 start over from zero.
  
  The only real pain of the game is the goofy save system. You get one save per profile per device 
 (HDD or Memory Card) . It's probably a good idea to do a dry run of the game first, learning the 
 time system. Then you can get into the habit of saving the game at perfect moments, such as when 
 all your active missions have a very long blue or purple bar in the corner to indicate the time 
 you have to finish that mission. Keep this reminder in mind: "Save in the red, you're soon gonna 
 be dead." Or even "Save in the yellow, zombies eat your brain like Jell-O."
  
  Still, despite the flaws, the game is fun as hell. There's just so much stuff to do and normally 
 boring escort missions can be quite fun, especially when you have to manage your group by giving 
 weapons to survivors, finding food for ones about to die, and even having to carry some of them 
 or hold their hand and drag them to safety. The plot in the game is typical hokey Capcom style. 
 It starts off very good but sorta loses steam as it goes on. But the voice acting is superb, some 
 of the best in recent years.
  
  Later the main mode gets a bit bland as the zombies take a back seat and you wind up dealing with 
 the Special Forces that show up to put a lid on the outbreak. And the "Overtime" mode, which is 
 basically another day worth of plot, is pretty boring. Almost like a movie that was great 3/4 of 
 the way through and had a crappy (even confusing) ending that taints the whole movie. Overtime 
 mode is boring and should only be bulled through to unlock Infinity Mode, which is the one portion 
 of the game that is truly comparable to the movie this game resembles most: Dawn Of The Dead. Infinity 
 mode is basically you finding all the supplies you can, boarding yourself up somewhere safe, waiting 
 as long as you can, and taking a few trips back out in to harm's way to find more food to restore 
 your constantly depleting health bar.
  
  Dead Rising has a lot of value. It's one of those games people like myself will undoubtedly dust 
 off and play again every Halloween along with other seasonal titles like Maximo, MediEvil, etc. 
 Dead Rising manages to capture its subject matter perfectly and every 360 owner should think about 
 adding this to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyTwoTime827
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is an amazing game all around, the sheer content alone warrants at least a rental of 
 the game. The amount of characters on screen is great and the fact that they are detailed is amazing 
 and truly shows some of the power of the Xbox 360. A game that combines 250+ weapons with zombie, 
 costumes, and a psychotic clown named Adam deserves at least a look, but this game was pulled off 
 almost perfectly. Everything about the game is seen to affect something else so you cant do one 
 thing without it helping or hurting you i. e. cant decide to take a weapon, food, or a magazine 
 may result in you not being able to defend yourself and ultimately dying. This game is not easy 
 because of the save system, zombies, and psychos, but many people will say its bad because of 
 that and I say theyre wrong. I think the save system adds a challenge to this game that hasnt 
 been seen in a while. The only gripe I have with the game comes from the publicity. This game boasted 
 that you could use anything as a weapon, if thats so how come I can see a tennis racket right 
 in front of me, but cant pick it up? There are a lot of items in the game that you can use, but 
 there are almost just as many that are just there apparently for decoration. Why cant I put that 
 armor on or use that shield I found myself asking, but overall this game does what it sets out 
 to do, deliver a free roam zombie experience through the guise of Frank West and it does it well. 
 We may be looking at the first exclusive franchise that started on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising appeals to many different gamers. Whether you are a classic zombie hunter, someone 
 who finds every nook and cranny, being the first person to reach level 50, or if you just like 
 to mess around. This is the game for you! 
  But many people complain about this game. The Number 1 thing that players hate is the save system! 
 They always talk about how far they get, only to die and have to replay many missions over again. 
 Capcom provided a save in every bathroom. And to top that off they let you carry your level and 
 skills over when you start a new game!
  Dead Rising is an excellent game for all gamers. You can dress up your character in many different 
 outfits. There are tons of weapons, from lawnmowers, to squirt guns, to battle axes, It goes on 
 and on. Dead Rising is one of the 360's finest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_catalano
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game has a very unique aproch to the zombie genre insted of playing as a stupid guy who can't 
 move when he fires at an enemy or pulls out a half inch knife (yes i am talking to you resident 
 evil fans) .You go around and get in the zombies face and beat the living **** out of them. I think 
 Capcom finaly got it right. i am looking foreward for a part 2. Also the sound and graphics are 
 amazing the sound is in perfect DD 5.1 and there are so many zombies on th screen at once and they 
 not badly detailed ether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalaspect
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Best undead killin' since the Evil Dead. (The movies, not the games) . 
  Gameplay-
  Superior flexibility and awesome variety make this the first great title in my 360 collection. 
 There are so many things to do and so many ways to do them it's like opening a crackerjack box 
 and finding a thousand toys. Initial frustration at the sloth and clumsiness of the protagonist 
 diminish as he levels up and gets skills. Character models are a smidge low poly sometimes, but 
 when they are onscreen in hordes and droves, the effect is magnificent. There is a great understated 
 sense of humor. While the situation is entirely grisly and horrible, the sublime and ridiculous 
 somehow gleefully shine through.
  The story is well delivered and the voice acting is spot on throughout. This is one that people 
 will be waxing nostalgic about a decade from now.
  
  Some frustration will occur as you are forced to repeat missions until your character has levelled 
 up enough and you have memorized key aspects of the maps. Not quite as open ended as GTA SA, but 
 it has the same sandbox quality. This title justified the X360's sticker price for me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikwutaguy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the preview for this game i figured it would be a pointless or no plot and the 
 entire game would consist of running around and chopping up zombies with Next-Gen graphics. 
  
  God was i wrong.... this game has an interesting storyline that really convinces you to keep 
 playing to figure out just why the hell is this town infested with zombies? The combat is fun and 
 solid and the graphics are very nice. I was a bit dissapointed with the aiming system when it comes 
 to weilding guns but the sheer enjoyment or taking a shopping cart and plowing trough hordes of 
 zombires makes up for the few flaws. 
  
  Now this game is not for everyone, considering the extreme gore but it's neccessary with a plot 
 like this. The concept of taking pictures and trying to figure out why the town is infected is 
 fun and trying to rack up PP by taking pictures of as many zombies as possible or even some hot 
 NPC's cleveage is also a nice touch. 
  
  In conclusion this is a sold and addictive game that most people can enjoy but i would honestly 
 reccomend renting it instead of buying. If it had multiplayer is would be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashmypumpkin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  Since the good in this game so heavily outweighs the bad, I'll start with the bad and get it out 
 of the way. Very few times have I had so much fun right out of the box with a game. Often there's 
 a story to build up, a condescending tutorial I can't skip through, or a learning curve to... learn. 
 But this game threw a couple movies you could skip at you, made you run about 10 then threw you 
 in the mix. The game totally let you start at your own pace, which gave it some awesome pick up 
 and play points. However, I was really disappointed with the lack of stuff to pick up and do. This 
 ties in with the fact that I don't always have the time to pick up my 72 hour mode game where I 
 left off, and I just want to kill some zombies. Sadly, my only alternative would be the infinity 
 mode, which has to be unlocked (though that's not hard at all) , and while it's still fun, sometimes 
 rather than seeing how long I can last, I'm more interested in grabbing a chainsaw and hacking 
 the crap out of the living dead. Even the crappy save system (which has gotten a far worse reputation 
 that it deserves) didn't bother me as much except that I can only have 1 file at a time which sucks 
 because my brother wants to play too, but he has to jump through flaming hoops prior to starting 
 the game just to have his own save. However, since that's going to be more on a personal basis, 
 not really a design flaw, I didn't factor that into my rating. Also, if you don't have an HDTV 
 or a decent size screen (36' should be good, but the bigger the better, and obviously it'll depend 
 on the person) , the text you're going to have to read will be.... difficult to say the least. I'm 
 pretty sure there were a couple points when my eyes almost imploded due to the massive squinting 
 involved (I'm legally blind as it is, and I'm sure this didn't help any) , but I understand this 
 to be because I don't have the proper TV, which works for me cause now I have an excuse to give 
 the wife about buying a new one. However, beware if you'd be in the same boat I was in. Also, something 
 I took note of was the lack of tension of being stranded in a mall with zombies. I know I'd probably 
 (literally) get the crap scared out of me if I was really in Frank's situation, but the game didn't 
 even convey any tension at all unless I had one block of life left and needed to find some health. 
 Even that wasn't too suspenseful cause the zombies tend to stay out of my way. I mean, I'm not 
 expecting a horror masterpiece, but the concept was so promising in that department, I guess the 
 lack of tension let me down. Also, the game got really easy after getting into the higher levels, 
 almost to the point where it felt a little unbalanced, but that's more personal than objective, 
 so I'll leave it at that.
  
  Now on to the good. The 72 hour mode was great. I loved being able to choose which missions to 
 partake in, which people to save, and the amount of freedom in achieving the goal. Every boss can 
 be killed using a bunch of different strategies, and a multitude of weapons, which is great. The 
 lack of true free roam is noticeably present, but I don't feel it holds the game back, but rather 
 adds more structure to it, which I like, my personal opinion. The loads of weapons are awesome. 
 I've clocked in at least 50 hours and I'm still discovering new stuff, and that shows how well-crafted 
 it is. Also, the mall environment actually feels like a true mall. As hard as it is to describe, 
 it captures that same feeling I get when I go in real life (only the real life mall has less zombies.... usually) , 
 which is a testament to the hard work these guys put in. The long list of achievements will also 
 keep you coming back, because there's no doubt, if you enjoy this game, you'll take any excuse 
 you can get to see every inch of it. Even the infinity mode is great. I love the concept of seeing 
 how long I can stay alive. Although I'm not too crazy about having to dedicate 14 straight hours 
 of play time in order to last 7 days (or a week in normal people language) , I'll just have to take 
 the hit for the greater good.
  
  Overall this game is great. If you've got a 360, I'd totally recommend this game. The amount to 
 do is great, and I feel pleased with my purchase. I don't think it's worth the $60 price tag due 
 to the fact that sometimes, I just wanna kill some zombies, I don't want fricking Otis calling 
 me every .05 seconds and I don't want my health to continuously drop, I just want to run around 
 and slice some stuff up. If that's not gonna bother you, shell out the clams and you won't be disappointed 
 (with that aspect, I make no guarantees for the rest of the game) , otherwise I'd wait for a used 
 copy or price drop. This is definitely a game I'll keep coming back to for a good long time, and 
 I know that when I do, I'll always find something new. It's getting to be about that time, so I 
 will end this review in rhyme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - It isn't as freeform as you would think it would be , the missions are mostly very linear 
 , and extremly hard to complete , and killing zombies is only fun for a few hours . The missions 
 take about 10 minutes to 1 hour to complete and you spend tons of time re-doing the missions over 
 and over , but this is the thing - there is no quick save , so when your about to finish a mission 
 and you mess up once , not only do you have to go all the way back to the begining but to your 
 last save point which may be tons behind that part. Also , loading from one area to another gets 
 extremely annoying espiciially when you have to keep walking there to get to a mission. The boss's 
 also are very challenging , they don't take normal damage , they take hundreds of bullets to take 
 down - and most of them aren't even affected by most of your bullets untill they are recovered 
 from a shot. 
  
  Graphics - These are probably the best or running up for the best graphics to date for the 360 
 , but the game only supports widescreen so it's hard to view on full screen tv's.
  
  Sound - The sounds get repetetive when your using a weapon over and over again , and the crying 
 of the other computer players will annoy you to death. Also , the text in the game is for the most 
 part unreadable - and when your playing the game there isn't voice acting - but instead text boxes.
 
  
  Value - There are multiple endings to the game , but it's single player so you will only beat it 
 a couple times and then you'll be done with it. You can't really just go around killing a ton of 
 zombies without running into the bosses. 
  
  Good Tilt - You can use some very funny weapons in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldbloodedking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I hear about all the gripes with the save system. Later in the game it autosaves after Cases. You 
 can save in the security room and rest rooms found in the mall. If the game was made to save anywhere 
 it would be far to easy to rescue survivors if you could save at any point. People need to use 
 common sense. Anyway, on with the review. The game has a unbelievable use of the HAVOC engine even 
 more-so than the Elder Scrolls Oblivion. Objects react how they would in reality. For instance 
 you can pick up buckets of paint and toss them at zombies anything else you see lying around can 
 also be used. My only gripe is the game can be frustrating at times due to the number of zombies 
 you have to deal with.... but i'm not going to give it a bad score due to that alone. The game 
 has enough stuff to do without it getting boring. 
  
  Capcom has been known for their beat-um-ups, hack-in-slash games for years if anyone gave this a 
 low score then they should have known what to expect when they went to buy the game. Capcom did 
 an amazing job the story might be a little weird but everything else is done well. With all that 
 said.... I can't wait until Resident Evil 5 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_10001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that achieves what it was trying to; trap you in a mall full of hundreds 
 upon hundreds of zombies. You play as Frank, a freelance photojournalist. How you dispose of them 
 is up to you, for you can use almost every conceivable weapon (or non-weapon) in the mall. I say 
 almost because some things that look like weapons may not be able to be used. Gameplay: Dead Rising 
 allows you to use anything as a weapon, from squirt guns to machine guns; stuffed bears to katanas; 
 and of course, chain saws. Killing zombies can be excessively bloody, gory, violent while maintaining 
 a very light almost comical feel. Frank can take a picture of anything at anytime to earn PP (prestige 
 points) . Earning PP allows you to level up Frank so he can carry more items, run faster, and learn 
 new skills; all of which you will find nice considering how weak and slow you start out. You can 
 also earn PP for killing zombies and escorting survivors to safety. The action can be broken up 
 with side quest, or scoops. Basically all scoops will force you to escort one or more survivors 
 through zombie hoards to safety, so they do get old and somewhat repetitive. Another detriment 
 about scoops it that you receive them via radio. Why is this bad, because it is not voice acted 
 and you have to read it. Why is reading bad, because Dead Risings text is unbearably small and 
 nigh impossible to read. Also when you answer the radio you cant attack or do much of anything, 
 and before you answer the radio you are greeted by an annoying beeping sound. If the message is 
 interrupted you will continue to receive the same message from the beginning until it is complete. 
 Now, dont let these negative things detour you from buying this game, as all scoops are optional. 
 A lot of people have complained about the save system. Well, this can be solved by thinking before 
 saving (ie: if you have one game hour to complete an entire mission, dont save (problem solved) . 
 There are also several boss battles, some of which can be quite challenging.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of Dead Rising arent going to win any awards, but that doesnt mean they 
 are bad. Graphical sacrifices had to be made to allow you to be in a large room with hundreds of 
 zombies and a couple survivors with absolutely no frame rate issues. Thats right, I said there 
 are no frame rate issues in Dead Rising. The zombie models are obviously limited to only a few, 
 but that doesnt really matter when youre delivering mass zombie death.
  
  Sound: Zombies moan, voice acting is good, and weapons make the sound that they should, so the 
 sound is superb.
  
  Value: The main story of Dead Rising will take 10-15 hours to complete, but you can easily continue 
 just killing zombies for hours on end because its just that fun.
  
  Dead Rising is a solid game with hours of zombie killing fun for all the zombie lovers out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarth0605
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a good game that has its fair share of faults but the vast amount of weapons to 
 choose from and the intense amount of satisfaction that you get from using every one of them on 
 a zombie makes up for it. The story is pretty basic: you are a photographer who received information 
 about a big story in Willamette Colorado and once you get there you must find out what happened. 
 In terms of gameplay, graphics, and sound heres how it did:
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is solid and really easy to learn. Some of the more advanced moves are a 
 bit harder to do such as the judo throw but for the most part it wont take that long to just pick 
 up the controller and get right into it. Each weapon has its own unique style and the gameplay 
 reflects that. For example a weapon such as the baseball bat can be either used with a regular 
 attack or a charged home run attack. Other weapons such as the chainsaw is a weapon that is great 
 for clearing a path and you will most likely just be rapidly pressing X rather than charging it 
 up
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics in the game are some of the best that I have seen. The only problem 
 with the game is that the text is very hard to read for those with a standard TV. Other than that 
 the zombies look great, move like zombies, and the mall is probably one of the best environment 
 designs that I have ever seen. The sound is well done. The voices for the characters fit very well 
 and some of the cut scenes will be remembered for a long time not only because of their graphical 
 taste but also because of the amazing dialogue
  
  Overall: Overall the game is a real treat. The ability to only have one save is a problem especially 
 since many of the boss battles are difficult. However, this game has an enormous amount of replayability 
 and will keep you happy for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Finally the long awaited Dead Rising has launched and 360 owners everywhere are enjoying it's great 
 gameplay and storyline. Zombie fans have been waiting for a good next-gen zombie game and it looks 
 like it's arrived sooner than later.
  
  Gameplay:
  The overall gameplay is very fun. A lot of things seem to get in the way, but if you don't care 
 about the story, then they can't stop you from having fun. The whole mall is freeroam, however 
 going into certain areas will start a loading screen or cue a cutscene leading to a boss battle 
 (aka Psychopath Battle) . The worst part about the game is that everything is timed. The save system 
 isn't bad until you save in a bad spot... causing you to restart the whole game. You can stick to 
 the main storyling to beat it and unlock infinite mode, but if all you want to do is hack and slash 
 zombies than go right ahead, but expect to get the "true ending" and unlock the infinite mode.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are excellent. Consider this: everything a weapon, all windows break, 
 hundreds to thousands of zombies onscreen, etc. Now, granted, swinging a sledghammer and killing 
 5 at a time will drop the frame-rate a bit... but nothing to criple the fabulous results of decapitated/slaughtered 
 zombie carcasses. Textures are great... and so far the only noticeable graphics problem would be 
 the zombies. Don't get me wrond, they still look great -- but they all look the same after a while 
 and none of them seem to change. All the cops look the same, there's only about 2 different types 
 of women zombies, etc.
  
  Sound:
  The mall music is very amusing and really makes you feel like you're there. The zombie noises are 
 definately the best part of the game as far as sound goes, sounding almost identical to the zombies 
 in the recent "Dawn of the Dead" remake. Every weapon make it's own distinct sound, from sledghammers, 
 guns, chainsaws, and even gumball machines... these game developers put a lot of effort in the varying 
 the sound of everything.
  
  The Bad things:
  Little things such as; can't jump/fight when talking on the walkie talkie, which rings all the 
 time, usually when your surrounded my a massive horde of zombies. Now you can ignore it, but it 
 keeps ringing and ringing and ringing until you just want to... die. Missions can be sometimes near 
 impossible and down right frustrating until you get the hang of it. If you don't learn how the 
 saving system works early in the game, you're going to hate the game. Nighttime is impossible to 
 see zombie in.... stuff like that. 
  
  The Biggest Mistake... worth getting it's own category in this review:
  No Multiplayer!! Sure 
 a leaderboard... but who cares. It would be cool to be able to have some friend join you in the 
 mall, get a bunch of weapons, and then going on a kill crazy zombie hunt throughout the mall. Maybe 
 even an online defend mode where you have to defend a certain area (i. e. GRAW Co-op Territory) . 
 It would be really great if you had the options to make the zombies fast or slow to make a greater 
 challenge. But... none of this, so big bummer.
  
  Overall:
  If you own a 360 you have to at least rent this game. However, if you've been a zombie movie/book 
 fan than this a definate must buy. It's a great example of what the 360 is capable of... I guarantee 
 you will love something about this enough to want to buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, i have to say, this is one of my favorite games of all times. Reminds me of 
 those George Romero films (even though they denounce any tie in between this game and his film 
 Dawn of the Dead) . Graphically, the game looks great. Textures are good, character models look 
 great, and the blood effects are so satisfyingly gruesome. As Gamespots review said, sound effects 
 are great, spot on. Music, well, eh, i really dont care. You never really hear much music at all, 
 maybe some mall music in the background. Its the groans of the zombie hordes that builds some good 
 tension as you traverse the different mall wings. The boss music is kind of cheesy but, I really 
 can't complain. Gameplay is great, the controls feel very natural. Its easy go to town on the zombies 
 or completely avoid them. And I like the RPGish level system. The weapons are good, but its a pain 
 not beign able to move while you aim... but the focus is put more on melee. Melee is a joy, with 
 so many different items you can use... my personal favorite and seemingly the more powerful of what 
 you have at your disposal is the gumball machine. Now, onto what many people have issues with, 
 the save system. I like it... you already have time limits and deadlines in the game, and i like 
 that... gives me reason to play it again, to make different choices on who to save or to save more 
 survivors. The saves are simple enough, have one pretty much in each area, and as long as you dont 
 use them when you have like 10 minutes left to finish a 20 minute Case, you're cool... so as long 
 as you're not gonna do something dumb and save when time is about to expire, i dont see why you 
 should have any problems. One bonusi dont remember reading about in the editor review is the multiple 
 endings. If you fulfil certain conditions you can get multiple endings and who doesn't love multiple 
 endings? Anyways, this game is fun, and pretty different... it approaches the zombie genre in a 
 way no one else has tried and you have to appreciate that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallagher06
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is tons of fun, especially for a game that consists mostly of killing zombies and rescuing 
 survivors
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is overall great. The freeroaming through the mall is quite an expierence, add zombies, 
 an occasional psychopath and u got yourself a game to b reckoned with. The main storyline is good, 
 the rescue missions get kind of annoying sometimes, but it doesnt ruin the game. Overall gameplay 
 is great.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are superb, considering the amazing amount of zombies on the screen at once. The items 
 are a big plus almost every item u see u can use which is awsome, and when u hit a zombie with 
 the prefered weapon nothings better than seeing that blood fly. The character models are also surprisingly 
 good, when i first saw the videos for this game i was a little upset at how catoony they looked, 
 but once your actually playing the game they look realisic. Final thoughts on graphics, superb.
 
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is probably the best part about this game. When i first hit a zombie with the guitar 
 i was expecting a kind of stupid noise, but it actually sounds like a guitar getting smashed into 
 a humans (well zombies) cranium. Every item has its own interesting noise that makes its own unique 
 sound, when i pull off a zombies head with a sickle it sounds like blood dripping to the ground. 
 Sound, awsome.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Overall great game well worth the money, thousands and thousands of zombies in a mall, u can use 
 anything as your weapon what can b more fun than that.
  
  THE BAD: The mall could have been a little larger and the phsychopaths didnt have to be so hard, 
 doesnt ruin th game however. The worst thing in my opinion is there are no multiple saves per profile 
 so if u save at a bad point u have to start over, and there are also no quick save, however there 
 are strategically placed save points all over the mall so it isnt so bad.
  
  Final Thoughts: Fun game, imo one of the best zombie games ever, and on the top of my list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the best 360 game that came out during summer '06. It is very fun and addicting. Not much 
 compares to ripping, cutting, slashing, flailing, running, charging, bashing, and lawn mowing through 
 endless hordes of flesh eating undead. You are Frank West, freelancing Photojournalist. Your job? 
 Well... that's really upto you. Follow the story or don't, the mall is yours to do what you want. 
 Save survivors, let them die, doesn't matter. However, you do need to do certain things to unlock 
 some special game modes. The mall you are in is overrun by zombies. Along with an endless amount 
 of zombies comes an endless amount of weapons! You can use almost anything from frying pans to 
 lawn mowers to sniper rifles! My prefered weapon of choice is the chainsaw :D. There are also several 
 different costumes you can change into while in the mall. There are boss battles in this game, 
 and they can get pretty hard. One of the key elements is to level up Frank. You get PP for taking 
 good pictures, saving survivors, killing zombies, etc. When you get a certain amount, you level 
 up, which gives you a new skill, higher health, or stronger attribute. This game is very fun and 
 should be a must buy for anyone who's not afraid of blood and gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weber182
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the biggest release to date since the 360 launch. The game came out with high expectations, 
 and for the most part, the game lives up to them.
  
  This is a great game that you can easily pick up and play and have a great time killing hundreds 
 of zombies. The storyline manages to stay out of your way, but you can get into it if you feel 
 like delving deeper than the surface. Replay value is a great plus, as you can keep playing this 
 game over and over. There are thousands of things to see and do inside the mall, and you'll always 
 have something to do.
  
  My one drawback in this game are the graphics. While others may argue they're great, I say they're 
 not up to the standards of the Xbox 360. This is truly one of the worst-looking games I've played 
 for the 360, which isn't exactly such a bad thing, as they all look great. This game is just, the 
 worst of the best, if you follow me.
  
  Overall, a great game, and just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chalker
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  In dead rising you play as a freelance reporter/photo journalist, who travels to a small town by 
 helicopter after hearing some strange happenings there. And when he gets there it happens to be 
 a zombie outbreak and the military is cutting of the town from the rest of the world. As he goes 
 to the local mall he realizes it is horded with zombies and he is trapped in there. And he has to 
 survive and find out the truth behind this.
  Welcome to the world of Dead Rising, zombie killing at it's finest. Where you can use anything and 
 everything as a weapon, wether it's meele weapons or firearms. And you can do about anything, for 
 instance in the food court you may go to a resturant and use a pan as a weapon, but to give it a 
 little more damage power you can put it on a stove top and heat it up. And you can go around anywhere 
 in the mall go into any shops and pick up anything inside them to use. There are also some vehicles 
 that you can drive and if you feel like skating you can pick up a skateboard from the sports shop. But 
 there are some realism issues, like you dont have to shoot a zombe in the head to kill it and if 
 one bites you you wont be ind\fected, but maybe thats for the best. But the number of zombies is 
 unbelievable, sometimes hundreds on screen at once. You can also level up which will do things like 
 increase your running speed, your inventory and will sometimes give you new moves to try out, there 
 are a ton of wrestling and counter moves to pull. The graphics are pretty and the gore and blood 
 are really good looking. There are some cutscenes where you will meet some characters that you will 
 be with throughout the game and that sometimes have pretty bad voice acting.
  Now the games bad parts, which are about enough to turn you away. For one this game has got to have 
 the worst save system EVER in the history of video games, sometimes when you die it will start the 
 game back at the beginning but you will still have your same level and stuff. And there are other 
 bad bugs, not too mention the savepoints which are bathrooms or places of rest which you will barely 
 find anywhere and thats the only way, no autosaving or anything you think there would be in a next 
 gen title.
  Then the text for the lettering for tutorials and mission info are so tiny you cant even read it, I 
 seriously needed a magnifying glass to be able to read it and that still didn't even help much. You 
 will have a phone to keep you updated and give info but it constantly rings and is very annoying 
 and you never want to answer it cuz you won't be able to read the info anyway.
  And the missions and times are gay. Sometimes you will have a time limit that doesn't show, others 
 there will be no direction indicater and this place is big (mall and the park in the middle) . And 
 the missions have certain times they need to be at so you need to check your watch. And there's 
 a mission whereits like at 12:00 a. m. and then there is one right after it at like 3:00 a. m. and 
 if you don't make it in time you fail. So yopu complete the 12 a clock mission and right then its 
 3! So you fail, so you have to start way back possibly all the way back. So this game could have 
 been a lot better just if the makers weren't so stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn-CeNa346
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising caught me by suprise. I didnt want to get it because the demo sucked. It sucked because 
 you didnt get to build up your guy. But the actually game is good. The plot of the story is that 
 you are stuck in a mall for 72 hours. The catch is, there is a bunch of sworming zombies wanting 
 to eat your guts. You can use almost anything in the mall to kill the zombies with. Now, lets get 
 into the actual review. The graphics are great. Really good. The gameplay is an A+ because you 
 can use anything that you wanna use. Wanna use a knife? Go Ahead! How about a chair? Sure why not! 
 The problems are that you cant use EVERYTHING in the mall. Also, its a little bit hard and you 
 need a lot of time to play it because there arent that many save points. Overall, Dead Rising gets 
 an A-. Its a very good game but I would rent it first just to make sure it is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronos
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  If youre a big fan of violence than youll likely be a big fan of Dead Rising. The game has good 
 controls and just an insane amount of weapons (although half are basically for humor) that can 
 lead to probably hundreds of different ways to kill zombies. Since Dead Rising essentially follows 
 in the lead of games like GTA and other sandbox games; a lot of the fun you get from it is what 
 you put into it. I should correct that and say the long-term fun you get from the game. The missions 
 are generally not as fun as the GTA games- Dead Rising has a lot more escort missions, which can 
 be a pain since the companion A. I. isnt as great as it can be- and you can imagine it can be hard 
 to keep them alive when there are a thousand zombies around. Added to this are timed missions (or 
 cases as they call it) that are generally pretty fair in regards to how much time your allocated 
 but can makes things unnecessarily more annoying than they have to be. 
  
  But there are a lot of cool things you can do in the game. You can dress up the main character 
 any way you like basically, take tons of photos (which can be more fun than it sounds) , and explore 
 a ridiculously well realized American mall. Not to mention the visceral joy from just slicing and 
 dicing zombies left and right. Sure there are problems with the save system and the story is kinda 
 dodgy, but overall the package is very good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainkirk001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game, there is nothing better than killing endless zombies. It actually helps 
 relieve stress believe it or not. But anyway the graphics the sound are very good. The mall looks 
 phenomenal and is very large. The game can actually be difficult at the early stages when you are 
 still weak. The bosses also provide a bit of a challenge as well. Definately a fun game. Not to 
 mention there are multiple different endings and different game modes after you unlock the true 
 ending. A multiplayer caused this game to not be a 9 or above. But still a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathKurse
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a one of a kind game... You are emerged into this world with zombies, psychopaths, 
 hostages, terrorists, and you can go about it whichever way you choose. You can do nothing but 
 kill zombies with the amazingly diverse arsenal of weapons at your disposal (around 250) , you could 
 kill the psychopaths ravaging around casuing terror, you can do nothing but save helpless victims 
 of the zombie raid... or you can do everything at once... the decision is yours to make! With multiple 
 endings for however you choose to play, it is a game that can be played over, over, and over again... 
 expanding its re-play value. The story of the game is rather short, and won't take most long to 
 run through the adventure however, you can keep running through it different ways to try to unlock 
 new things. There are many achievements to unlock, so even for those achievement gamers... this 
 is a game you can play a lot due to there being a whopping 50 achievements! Capcom has landed on 
 the 360 with a bang! This is a must own if you have an Xbox 360... a game to be proud of owning 
 and playing... Thank you Capcom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Throne_of_Blood
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is Capcoms newest survival horror game based around the undead. In Dead Rising you 
 play as Frank West, a veteran photojournalist who has been tipped off on the scoop of a lifetime. 
 There seem to be some very strange things happening in the small town of Willamette Colorado. 
 
  
  Frank sets out to Willamette via helicopter, and discovers that this may be the only route to take. 
 As Franks flies over a road leading into the town he sees that the military has taken up post, 
 and doubts how eagerly they would have let him pass otherwise. Frank instructs the pilot of drop 
 him off at the towns mall and return for him in 72 hours. As soon as he lands, he begins his investigation. 
 Frank quickly discovers that what he saw as he flew over Willamette was not a riot, but an infestation 
 of the undead. Now Frank has 72 hours to get his scoop and survive by any means at his disposal.
 
  
  Dead Risings story is set out more rigid than some people may like. The missions or cases as 
 they are called all happen at designated times, and on certain days during your stay at the Willamette 
 Park View Mall. You must be there on time or the case goes cold and you wont learn the truth about 
 the happenings around Willamette. However, you do not have to do case after case, most of the time 
 youll a number of hours in between cases. During this time scoops or side missions will come 
 about, these are also on a time limit but can be done as soon as they become available. 
  
  The scoops mostly consist of Frank rescuing other survivors and bringing them back to the safe 
 house. A few of these scoops however, lead to fighting with a psychopath, Dead Risings equivalent 
 of a boss character. None of the psychos are extremely difficult to fight but they are a lot harder 
 than the zombies you encounter. Not to mention some of the psychos are pretty interesting characters 
 in their own right and its worth seeing them in action. The scoop missions are purely optional 
 and can be done or not done in any order you see fit.
  
  The scoops can be fairly difficult at times depending on the mental status of the survivors youre 
 trying to rescue. Some will fight along side of you, some will be injured and have to be Carried 
 by Frank to safety, and others may just be terrified and literally have to be drug by the hand 
 to safety. Otherwise theyll collapse and crawl around on the floor scared out of their mind. All 
 of this occurs as hordes upon hordes of zombies descend on you and your companions. This means 
 you have to kill, and kill, and kill more zombies.
  
  This is where Dead Risings gameplay deviates from other survival horror games. First off there 
 is a small RPG element to Dead Rising. Frank gets prestige points or PP for taking photos, completing 
 missions, or killing enemies in a certain fashion. These points are used to level Frank up. As 
 you gain levels you gain access to new skills, more inventory space, more life, or other things. 
 Also the zombies in Dead Rising arent especially powerful and more than likely a single zombie 
 can not kill you. The zombies are here pretty much to provide a road block between you and your 
 destination. Rather than being a game that goes for jump scares like some of the things Seen in 
 Capcoms flagship horror series Resident Evil, Dead Rising goes for a feeling of constant tension. 
 Not that you will be nervous playing the game, but you will begin to worry about the clock, and 
 making it to places on time. 
  
  Another mechanic that adds tension to Dead Rising is the save system. Well more so frustration 
 than tension. You only get one save slot in Dead Rising, and since the game is based on getting 
 from place to place on time the save system can have some brutal consequences. In theory you could 
 get side tracked doing side missions and save the game, then notice you only have a very small 
 amount of time to get to a case mission thats clear on the other side of the mall. The amount 
 of time left is absolutely not enough time to get there and the case goes cold. Essentially the 
 game is over then. 
  
  However, the game gives you the option to save your stats and start over on a new game if this 
 scenario happens to play out for you. Since youre a lot more powerful this time around it should 
 be easier for you to get back to the point you were before the game ended. Unfortunately, the way 
 the save system works kind of feels like a forced way to elongate the game. But, if you choose 
 not to restart the game you now have whatever time you had left in the 72 hours to kill wave after 
 wave of zombies.
  
  If Dead Rising does one thing right, its the fact that it throws a ton of enemies on screen and 
 still manages to look great. The graphics on Dead Rising are certainly no slouch, all of the main 
 cast looks fantastic at a distance and up close. When you get a chance to see Franks face up close, 
 you can see the pours on his forehead or the freckles on his nose begin to appreciate the amount 
 of detail that was put into making the cast look as lifelike as possible. However, those survivors 
 that are not part of the main cast look fine from a distance but if you get up close you can see 
 the textures are not nearly as high res as those used for the main characters. Zombies also lack 
 the detail of the main cast, but you wont really notice because of the sheer number of them on 
 screen at once.
  
  The Willamette Park View Mall itself looks outstanding. All of the stores are very detailed and 
 believable, from the card board cutouts of the newest teen pop icons at the music stores, to the 
 no frills shelves and inventory of the home improvement stores, to the expensive look of the jewelry 
 stores, Dead Rising nails what a mall of this excess should look like. Luckily for Frank all of 
 the stores in the mall come fully equipped with anything he should need to kill a zombie foolish 
 enough to get near him. Frank can use a myriad of weapons such as bladed weapons, construction 
 tools like sledge hammers, guns, and so much more that it would take too long to list them all. 
 All of the weapons have their own unique attacks and unique end results when used on a zombie. 
 Heavy blunt weapons like the sledge hammer can very easily crush a zombies head and making it explode 
 into a gooey mess, and weapons such as the chainsaw or katana can slice a zombie in half no problem. 
 
  
  Should you become tired of using weapons Frank also has a number of fighting moves at his disposal. 
 While hand to hand combat isnt as effective as standard weapons some of the moves pretty entertaining 
 animations that go along with them, like the face crusher or disembowel moves for instance. The 
 combat may seem like it would get repetitive fast in Dead Rising but actually is surprisingly satisfying, 
 not to mention Frank will become covered in gore for a few seconds after a particularly brutal 
 melee with zombies, nice touch.
  
  However, what makes the combat so satisfying in Dead Rising is most likely attributed to the sound 
 effects. The foley work in Dead Rising is outstanding and everything sounds the way you would hope 
 it sounds. From the thundering crunch of the sledge hammer hitting a tile floor, to the swooshing 
 sound of a butchers knife cutting through bone and sinew, to the hollow thud of a mannequin being 
 hit against a zombie; the sound effects are simply awesome. The one aspect in the sound department 
 that seems a little under used is music. Simply put, Dead Rising does not have a lot of music in 
 it. Youll catch little snippets of mall muzak every once in a while but nothing that is constant. 
 
  However, you may become so focused on the action at hand and the incredible foley work that you 
 might not even notice the music anyway if there were more. The voice acting in Dead Rising in general 
 is also really good. All of the characters come off very believable and none of the voice work 
 feels flat. Luckily the entire cast is serious about the situation at hand, so you wont be subjected 
 to any stupid one liners that just make you roll your eyes in embarrassment.
  
  But, Dead Rising isnt without its comical moments. Dead Rising has a number of in jokes for Capcom 
 fans that should put a smile on their faces. For instance Frank has a number of different costumes 
 to change into like a servbot and a full on Megaman costume. Frank can also take masks and put 
 them on zombies, causing them to stumble around blindly. Frank also has the option to change into 
 womens clothing such as a dress, which causes Frank to do a questionable dance as soon as he fits 
 into one. You can also break gumball machines and watch as zombies slip around on the candy and 
 fall on their backsides. This can open up an opportunity to take an outtake photo.
  
  Since Frank is a photojournalist he always has his camera ready. Taking photos also nets you PP 
 to help you level, depending how good the shot is you can get a ton of PP to help you level quickly 
 early on. You can take photos that range in a number of different genres, horror, drama, and erotic 
 some of the different genres. The erotic photos are nothing more than taking a picture of a female 
 zombie thats wearing something like a nighty, or taking a photo certain female survivors who are 
 well endowed. While you could get through the entire game without taking a single photo, it makes 
 some missions much easier if you take the right photo beforehand. Unfortunately, the photojournalist 
 aspect of the game feels a little tacked on, and not fleshed out enough.
  
  Dead Rising is an outstanding game that features plenty of gory action, interesting characters, 
 and a good story line. For the most part it looks great, and sounds even better. The action is 
 fast, fun, and offers a lot of replayability. With new modes, extra goodies, and a total of fifty 
 achievements to unlock, Dead Rising will have zombie and action fans occupied for quite some time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace6706
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely surprised me, the first time I played it I thought it was just going to be 
 all about beating up zombies and saving people. The story goes deeper than expected, with plenty 
 of surprises to keep you on edge. Level up system keeps you playing for something more, plenty 
 of weapons to choose from along with great combat moves makes this game one of a kind. This game 
 shows great replay value with plenty of different endings depending on the characters decision 
 to just kill zombies or go through the entire story. Toss in a couple of insane psychopaths for 
 bosses and you've got Dead Rising, this one isn't for renting, go buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maustin5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game would be a 10 if it werent for 3 things:
  
  1.) Otis the Janitor calls you every 3 minutes, could be in the middle of 100 zombies, or in a 
 boss fight, the phone doesnt stop ringing, it gets old.
  2.) You kill every zombie in the room, leave, come back to that spot in 2 minutes, the zombies 
 are back.
  3.) Escorting hostages is annoying, especailly the ones who cry every 2 minutes.
  
  Whats good:
 
  
  Missions are good, boss fights are fun, lots of zombies to kill, the hand to hand moves are cool 
 once you level up. Story is solid, picture taking is kind of fun.
  
  Once you get the red drill in the hardware store, the one with the boss fight... theirs no going 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldamaster01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I gave it an 8.0. I agree on everything it was reviewed on by gamespot, but one thing they might 
 of missed was the fact that things respawn which is very irritating. I just got playing and was 
 escorting somebody back to safety when suddenly the damn convicts are back alive, which isn't fair 
 to the player. I find it near impossible to be them without the SMG. Also what is with that point-blank 
 missing? I would be up to the gunner's face with the pistol and there is not a single piece of 
 damage, yet when he fires at me with his heavy-machine gun point-blank it hurts me everytime. The 
 game is fun until you have to escort, at that tme you notice that it cheats you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artorius
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very enjoyable game, there are problems but they are overshadowed by the intense 
 game play. I do think they could have had a better save system, but if you think about saving strategically 
 you shouldn't have any problems.
  
  Graphics-8.5, the Graphics aren't the greatest on the 360 but when you realize everything that 
 is going on they are pretty impressive none the less.
  
  Gameplay-8.5, This is game is just plain fun to play, there are some control issues, first person 
 aiming is a tad to slow, as is the camera aiming. But other then that you can shoot, hit, hack 
 and slash to your hearts content and it is consistantly enjoyable to do so.
  
  Sound-9.5, This game has some of the best foley work I have ever heard, the hit from a bat slice 
 from a blade, and even cutting off the head of a zombie with a sickle sounds awesome. Love the 
 feint elevator music in the background, if you have ever been to a mall and who hasn't you know 
 what mean.
  
  Reviewers Tilt_10.0, what can I say but I am having a blast playing this game, tired of using a 
 hunting knife well how about shooting some hockey pucks and the zombies or lop their heads off 
 with a sickle or one of my favorites the chainsaw, talking about making a mess lol. In closing 
 if you like action games you can not go wrong with Dead Rising , in my humble opinion it's one 
 of the most enjoyable and original games in a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chryz707
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any Horror enthusiasts and for those who love a good hack and slash 
 game. The story is solid and the graphic are superb. I dont own a High Definition TV, so I think 
 I would be even more into this game with a High Definition TV. The only detractor of this game 
 is the one save point which I quickly overcame because it is fun just to kill more zombies and 
 find new methods to do it too. This is a must have and I hope if they make another one, that maybe 
 they can make a Co-op mode where two people can go thru and kill away or better yet make Co-op 
 combo moves. This game is like Grand Theft Auto against the Zombies.... AWESOME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyncro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game the shows a lot of effort was built into it. From the gameplay and detail 
 into the mall, to the great voice acting. Let me start off by saying how immersive this game really 
 is. You start out and when you get to the mall, you can go into a shop and you feel great when 
 you can just go in and pick up almost virtually anything you want. You can make different kinds 
 of drinks, even go into a clothings store and change your clothes. Of course you probably knew 
 this already but it really makes you feel like you're in this mall. The number of zombies may seem 
 overwhelming but considering the zombies aren't hard to kill some people may find this a problem 
 but considering the numbers I think i can safely say that it's just right how you can just start 
 fighting zombies and having it not that hard, otherwise it would make the game impossible, with 
 the in game timer and all on your quests. 
  That is another thing about the game. Some people may complain about the save system but if everyone 
 thinks about it this is the way it used to be! You would have to find a save point, in my honest 
 opinion there is nothing wrong with the save system the thing wrong is the in game timer. The timer 
 puts you against the clock so that if you have to be some where for a main storyline quest and 
 you save at an inappropiate time, then you would have to start the game over again. But no worries! 
 It saves your stats too so you can start the game over with your level 20 frank and not a level 
 1. In a sense this game is also an RPG, where you level up Frank based to side missions and good 
 photos you take. If you level up you can get more health or carry more items, or you get stronger 
 or faster. Thus making it easier to fight zombies and bosses. This is another intuitive game system 
 in this type of game.
  The game does have it's flaws, there a tiny bit of lag issues when you use a certain weapon. Let's 
 say for instance you pick up a soccer ball, when you first kick it the game stops for less then 
 a second thus creating a bit of lag but this is an easy problem to get over and dosen't affect 
 gameplay almost at all. Another issue is the Xbox Live fuctions. You don't actually get Xbox Live 
 multiplayer but if you unlock a game mode called Infinite Mode then you can see how long you can 
 survive in the mall on limited weapons and food, and it gets ranked in the leaderboards online. 
 This is also very fun and intuitive for this type of game.
  There's not much left to say except that the music in this game is also very phenominal and well 
 done and the voice acting is very good quality movie acting. The story is very interesting and 
 gives you a fell that the world might end near the end of the game and becomes even more immersive. 
 I suggest you pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangler
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  There was a time where I loved Capcom, but got tired of all the Street Fighter 2 and Mega man games. 
 The Resident Evil series never amused me until, Resident Evil 4. 
  
  Now, with a "The power of the 360!!" (In Darth Vader's voice) we bear witness to the next level. 
 Dead Rising Rocks in many ways, but I Wish the save feature was better implemented. 
  
  The story is just right, so is the voice acting and scripting of events. Half the time I found 
 myself spinning in circles to complete objectives, because each objective had a timer and you must 
 prioritize from the main to the sub missions, which is not always clear. Yes the Zombies are dumb, 
 but grouped together they tear apart the best gamers out there. This is a must buy, which will 
 rest permanently in your all star 360 lineup. 
  
  9.4 in my Book!!!! (Deduction for Save feature)
  
  Thanks Capcom, I would 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Childeater10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of a kind. Where else can you find thousands of zombies to kill? Resident Evil? 
 I don't think so... There is no other game out for the 360 or any other console that lets you destroy, 
 humiliate and take pictures of zombies.
  There are minor flaws in the game such as the saving system can be a bit harsh if you save in the 
 wrong area, which would mean your starting all over. But you can restart with your current lvl 
 and skills. The story in DR is also shickingly good and at times funny. and the few extra modes 
 mean for some replayabilty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeggieOverlord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Capcom knows zombies. This has been proven correct time and time again with their wildly successful 
 Resident Evil franchise. But, while Resident Evil has always been about fear, Capcom's latest offering, 
 Dead Rising throws the fear out the window and instead focuses more on sheer number of zombies 
 to create a different kind of excitement. 
  
  Dead Rising has been hotly anticipated all summer. The whole time the biggest question has been 
 whether or not the game would deliver on its two widely publicized promises: The number of zombies 
 you encounter, and the wide variety of weapons at your disposal. Well, be rest assured, these are 
 the two things Capcom NAILED. You'll see hundreds of zombies on screen at once with little effect 
 on the framerate and you'll be able to dispact of these creatures with everything from your bare 
 fists to a replica of the Mega Man Mega Buster. The weapon system is handled remarkably well and 
 may be the game's strongest point. The feel of the weapons is great and there's no shortage of 
 them.
  
  While, its wonderful that Capcom got these two things right, gamers were worried that Dead Rising 
 would become dull quickly and have no incentive to play again once completing it. Luckily, this 
 isn't the case. The game never gets too tiresome and you get a lot of bang for your buck with multiple 
 endings and side missions you'll want to complete once you beat the main game which will take you 
 anyhwere from 10-20 hours.
  
  The story, is shockingly good. You play as Photojournalist Frank West who got a tip that something 
 big was going down in Willamette, Colorado. You go to investigate to find out the truth of what 
 happened and you have 72 hours to find out what happened and get the hell out of Dodge. You'll 
 discover a story of a massive government cover-up. The voice acting and cutscenes are great and 
 the game doesn't take itself too seriously, so while its violent, its done so over the top, its 
 comical. The game is very clever filled with commentary on American society.
  
  The game does have its share of problems though. The game's save system and mission structure has 
 been much criticized. You must complete all the story line missions: Fail one, and thats it. The 
 story ends. Of course, you can reload a save, but here's the catch-22: You only get one save per 
 save device, and if you save in a point where its impossible to get to a mission on time or impossible 
 for you to complete a mission, you're screwed and must start the game again. Luckily, you will 
 start over with the same stats that you had saved with so you'll be able to blow through the parts 
 you've already played much easier than before. Personally, i didn't have too many problems with 
 the save system/mission structure. You just need to be careful and get to missions on time. Sure, 
 its a pain that a game that seems so open ended guides you along, but it doesn't hurt the game 
 too much in the long run.
  
  The game is fairly challenging, but its not because of great game design, but rather because of 
 broken boss fights, awful NPC AI, and control issues. These are all small problems, that add up 
 over time. The game lacks a certain level of polish, but they don't hamper the experience too much 
 because what Capcom did right, they did very well, so it compensates for any shortcomings. 
  
  At the end of the day, Dead Rising is a great game that was worth the wait and even exceeded 
 expectations. Things are pretty light right now for the 360, so if you're looking for a game that 
 is a blast to play and will last you a while, Dead Rising more than fits the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beachedwhale29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a great game that shouldnt be missed by anyone with a 360... it might even be worth 
 it to buy a 360 just to see this game. The save system is easy to use if you save smartly and save 
 right before any case starts or right WHEN a case has started to avoid losing time on a case and 
 not being able to make it to the objective. Dont listen to the complainers, this game is fun, and 
 it makes you want to play it over and over again (such as leveling up Frank to do good in OT mode, 
 awesome way to go Capcom!) . The graphics are awesome (Im using SDTV, and they look great) and the 
 sound is great. One of the best games I have ever played. Dont listen to the haters, buy this game! 
 Hilarious, violent, what more could you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  In a time like this, with all the chaos plaguing the world and so few a number of quality games 
 coming out, it's titles such as Capcom's Dead Rising that get everyone to remember why games are 
 great to begin with. The sometimes-serious, sometimes tongue-in-cheek premise of the developer's 
 latest zombie party can be traced back to George A. Romero's classic horror film Dawn of the Dead, 
 one of those movies that defined a generation and spawned countless clones. Well, this time, you 
 play photojournalist Frank West, a tough young guy who gets wind of a conspiracy in the small town 
 of Willamette. As you enter the random mid-western town, you'll notice that Government officials 
 have blocked off all access via roadways to the area. Luckily, you're traveling by helicopter, 
 and you begin to few the landscape through the lens of your camera, a sort of introduction to one 
 of the twists of the game, as well as an introduction to the terror that awaits. Progress through 
 the streets, taking pictures of vicious murders and suicides, as the awe overpowers you. A gas 
 station explodes, and cascades of smoke hamper your eyesight. The pilot takes you up, and then 
 another cutscene begins. Governmnt choppers ambush you, and Frank notices a nearby mall, supposedly 
 the only major attraction of Willamette. Mr. West stylishly jumps out onto the roof of the complex, 
 and your survival story begins.
  
  The gameplay is fairly straightforward. You navigate the mall, searching for clues, helping survivors, 
 working with government officials, avoiding government officials, taking out madmen and zombies, 
 and solving the mystery in general. But it's the means that hold the weight of the fun that Dead 
 Rising has to offer. Hundreds of zombies wander about onscreen, growing more vicious the closer 
 you get, and they will pose as a challenge. But what's that? Is that a flower pot lying precariously 
 on the ground? pick it up with the B button and hit an unsuspecting zombie over the head with it, 
 by simply pressing X. Do you want a more effective, yet more time consuming attack? Hold the right 
 trigger, aim with the left analog stick, and press X (you'll be doing that a lot) . Boom! You just 
 knocked a number of undead to the ground! 
  
  The game features an RPG-like system in which you earn PP, and as you grow in strength, you'll 
 progressively level up. New moves, a lengthier health bar, and a larger item capacity are rewards 
 for leveling up. To earn PP, you must kill a ton of zombies, which isn't asking too much. Also, 
 you can take pictures of large groups of zombies, as well as survivors, to not only earn PP but 
 also to unlock Achievements. Another original mechanic is the option to escort survivors, people 
 you find at random places in the mall and the surrounding area, to safe houses throughout the mall. 
 This can get repetitive, but it's all in good fun, and it's useful if you want to unlock Achievements, 
 of which there are a variety. (Killing 53,000 zombies is worth 20 points, for example, as are all 
 49 other Achievements) . 
  
  The save system is where Dead Rising can get frustrating. You can only do your business in a few 
 select safe houses, such as security rooms and bathrooms. Sometimes, you pick a bad time to save, 
 and this messes up the whole game, making it impossible to reach your destination in time, especially 
 if you partake in more than just a few of the plentiful side missions. A save-anywhere system would've 
 been flawed as well (you're in a mall swarming with the undead, for instance) , but it seems like 
 a better alternative to what they went with. Maybe a save-in-any-store idea would've worked best. 
 Still, with only a few flaws and a lot of positives, Dead Rising still makes the grade with ease.
 
  
  The graphics range from pure sarcastic bliss, such as the realistic, humorous charm of the stores 
 and restaraunts and good character animations, to somewhat bland in spots, mostly with minor characters 
 and the zombies themselves. As with gameplay, however, the good outweighs the bad, and this department 
 comes out on top too, with a winning score.
  
  Speaking of a score, there is music in Dead Rising! While your wondering through the mall, you'll 
 hear the cheery, utterly hilarious and off-setting elevator music, exactly what you would experience 
 in a real mall. And then, in certain scenarios such as boss fights (or "psychopaths" as the game 
 calls them) , a rockin', sometimes repetitive beat starts up, and it gets your adrenaline pumping 
 for the more action-packed moments in the game. You also get excellent voice acting from every 
 human in the game, as well as superb moans and groans from the zombies. The sound effects are excellent 
 as well, such as the roar of the chainsaw as you slice through rotting flesh. Woohoo!
  
  The game is rather expensive at $59.99, but with numerous side quest, ten endings, two unlockable 
 gameplay modes, and a fun experience, you have no reason not to buy this game. It's what the Xbox 
 360 was made for.
  
  Overall, Dead Rising is one of the top 360 games yet. Don't pass it up, you'll have a lot of fun. 
 This game is a dream come true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrolator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is one of the most addictive Games I have seen in a long time. Altough it is not as 
 addictive as The Sims 2 it begs to be played at least once a day. Dead Rising does suffer from 
 a driven story line that does not let you go experince the full game right away, and from the fact 
 that it only has one save slot. But i do get so much enjoyment from killing zombies. My favorite 
 weapon has to be the lawn mower. Who could have thought that mowing the lawn could be soooo much 
 fun. And you also have to love when you take the sledgehammer to a zombie's head it makes such 
 a nice blood spatter when its head explodes. The game does make you laugh when you put on all of 
 the different outfits. My all time hilarious outfits has to be the ladies outfits The sound in 
 the game is one of the better ones i have heard. The opening menu is sooo creepy it just sends 
 a tingle down your back. The game also does a good job to make sure that none of the zombies get 
 too repetitive and that none of the boses have the same story, considering they are all psycopathes. 
 The game is also rated accuratley. Overall I would say Dead Rising is well worth the 60 bucks i 
 paid for it and it should be in every gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Budbrowny
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a fantastic game where you hack your way through mobs of zombies in a mall and attempt 
 to escort survivors to your savepoint. On you're way you will discover a suprisingly good storyline 
 and several psychopaths to kill on top of the thousands of zombies.
  
  Gameplay - Say what you will about the save system whether you like it or not its up to you but 
 personally, I found it extremely frustrating at times and would have loved to see a different system. 
 Unless you're extremely paranoid and take the time to save constantly you will die and lose a lot 
 of progress. 
  
  The controls I found to be very akward and could have used some fine tuning, particularly with 
 gun aiming. There is also issues with the camera but most of them can be customized in the options 
 menu.
  
  On the plus side the actual game is very fun if you can set aside some of its poor mechanics, which 
 is easy to do because the game's so intense. The massive amount of weapons will keep you sawing 
 zombies in half and chopping heads off for hours and whoever came up with the achievement list 
 is a god!
  
  Graphics - A delight! I was very impressed with the amount of zombies on the screen at once. Though 
 there are better games graphicly on the 360, this is no slacking effort from capcom. Very beautiful 
 environments... considering.
  
  Sound - People seem to love the sound in this game but I disagree. The sound effects are terrific, 
 10/10 for that, the moaning and the sound of the gore is superb. The music on the other hand... 
 not so much. It is just too dam quiet, when Im anihalating zombies i wanna hear some death metal.
 
  
  Value - I can see myself playing this for a long time thanks to the brilliant achievement list. 
 If you dont like achievements as much as I do then there is probably less value to this game but 
 still definatly worth a rent.
  
  Tilt - the mechanics bring this one down a notch. I really wish they took more time with this game, 
 it could have been brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterholmes
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is kind of short the replay value is great considering the multiple endings, 
 constant upgrades and open gameplay. In my opinion the developers could have put more than just 
 escort missions in this game and also made it a little longer .Yes the missions do become a bit 
 boring and frustrating after while but the game is still fun and worth buying.
  The only other games that really top Dead Rising is the Resident Evil series. Not only does the 
 storyline grab you but the gameplay does as well. I am not saying Dead Rising is a bad game but 
 a few things could have been different. Dead Rising may need a few changes but it still can be 
 one of the greatest horror action games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan_Lee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Capcom can arguably be considered as a pioneer in refining a now well-known game subgenre that 
 is survival horror with their introduction of Resident Evil back in 1996. The Resident Evil series 
 being one of the best-selling game franchises to date proves that the formula of placing players 
 in a horrifying scenario where they must ultimately discover the truth and escape the terror is 
 still successful. 10 years later, Capcom breathes fresh new life into the genre with their introduction 
 of Dead Rising.
  
  Dead Risings premise centers on veteran photojournalist Frank West and his mission for the ultimate 
 story, which leads him to Willamette, Colorado where unexplained riots and other strange occurrences 
 have led to complete communications lockdown and military involvement. This leads Frank chartering 
 a helicopter to the Willamette Parkview Mall where the truth behind the mystery will be hopefully 
 revealed. Frank will encounter other survivors and, of course, the zombie horde while discovering 
 what exactly happened in Willamette. Dead Rising weaves a great story and contains some good and 
 often humorous dialogue.
  
  Dead Rising can be best described as survival horror combined with intense action and time restricted 
 objectives. The game by default starts you in the 72-Hour mode where Frank has 3 days in and around 
 the mall to find out all he can before he must rendezvous with the chopper. This is where the bulk 
 of the story will be revealed via scoop objectives or cases. Each case represents a chronological 
 account of events that will ultimately lead to the truth. Along with the case objectives are optional 
 scoops that Frank can also choose to fulfill which will mostly involve meeting and rescuing survivors, 
 encountering the games other enemies, and the like. Frank can pick up weapons and items, change 
 outfits, take photos, or even use one of the many features in the mall and will gain Prestige Points 
 (referred to as PP) throughout the course of the game that will allow him to level up and increase 
 his health, items slots, and make him stronger and faster.
  
  Dead Rising showcased the numerous ways you can fend off and eliminate the living dead  indeed, 
 there are many ways you can hurt and kill zombies and other enemies. Almost anything within the 
 mall, conventional or unconventional, from chainsaws to showerheads can be used as a weapon and 
 some are also quite humorous in their execution. There is an apparent item durability factor since 
 all of the weapons will break and disappear over time with use. Various guns are available as well. 
 Aiming is accomplished either manually, which switches the perspective along with the inclusion 
 of a targeting cursor, or automatically by simply firing the weapon when enemies are present although 
 the latter can be inaccurate. You cannot reload and once ammo is depleted from a single firearm 
 it will break. Almost all non-firearm weaponry can be thrown. Additionally, Frank can use his bare 
 hands to attack his foes. His normal attacks are limited to punches but as Frank grows stronger 
 by leveling up, he will learn special moves that can be used to effectively attack and escape his 
 foes. Some of these moves are quite spectacular and gruesome such as disemboweling enemies and 
 walking like a zombie. You basically have a diverse array of options and trying new ways to defeat 
 or escape your enemies can be exhaustive yet satisfying.
  
  There are also numerous health and support items that can be found. Most of the food is pretty 
 standard and provide health recovery. Books and magazines can be found and these can enhance existing 
 items or provide PP bonuses. A ton of outfits and accessories are available for Frank to wear offering 
 diverse customization. Vehicles and other means of transportation are available and can also be 
 used as weapons but are also subject to the durability factor. Most items can be used as weapons 
 as well but are obviously not as effective. Dead Rising also includes a good number of bonus weapons 
 and items that are unlocked by meeting certain conditions. In addition to these items, a transceiver 
 will be provided for news on various scoops along with a map of the mall. Also, the player must 
 choose what Frank can carry since there is a limit to how many weapons and items he can have in 
 his inventory. Frank is also equipped with a digital camera to take photos. He can earn PP by taking 
 photos and the game will also present prime photo opportunities, where some are triggered and some 
 are fixed, for decent PP bonuses.
  
  The game implements a real-time system where basically 5 real seconds equals 1 minute on the game 
 clock. Frank has a watch in game that you can check and the setting is accurately reflected based 
 on the time of day. There are time restrictions to meet the objectives presented to you in game. 
 If you fail to meet any scoop objective when time runs out, then that objective is lost and if 
 its a case, then the entire story is lost although you have the option of continuing the game 
 if this occurs. Fortunately, pausing the game will stop the clock if you need to take a breather 
 from the action and the guide function along with a map can direct you to wherever you need to 
 go within the mall. However, conversations with other characters in game cannot be skipped or rushed 
 but this adds a bit of a challenge with the time constraints.
  
  There are plenty of survivors in the game and each will have their own personality. They may be 
 scared, courageous, sexy, and so forth. Some will be injured and may require assistance while others 
 can be armed with weapons to help Frank out. You can direct the survivors to follow Frank or set 
 a waypoint for them to meet at. Its enjoyable to figure how best to utilize the survivors as you 
 try to escort them to safety. 
  
  Zombies are also numerous and not entirely unique but are not the only threat to contend with at 
 the Willamette Mall  there are also psychopaths. Think of psychopaths as people who have become 
 deranged and maniacal from the zombie outbreak. Psychopaths can be viewed as much tougher than 
 zombies. A lot of the personalities are unique and at times very humorous. Some of these psychopaths 
 will be encountered as part of the main story and will present a challenge at times. Other regular 
 enemies aside from zombies will also appear in the game offering a bit more variety.
  
  The game allows only one save per storage device and Frank is only allowed to save in designated 
 areas such as restrooms and other spots throughout the mall. At times the save system can be frustrating 
 due to a lack of multiple slots on one storage device but this doesnt necessarily detract from 
 the actual game.
  
  You may find yourself playing the game again as well with the games other modes, which include 
 the Overtime mode, which is a continuation of the story and the Infinity mode, where you are tested 
 on how long you can survive at the mall. Both are locked and require the player to meet certain 
 conditions in the 72-Hour mode. The catch in the Infinity mode is that your health slowly depletes 
 and you cant save. The 72-Hour and Infinity modes also include online rankings for best scores 
 and survival times. There are also plenty of achievements to unlock as well that vary in difficulty 
 from simply taking photos of survivors to surviving a full 7 days. Including the additional modes 
 of play, you can basically visit the mall anytime if you wish to attain a certain achievement and 
 most may find pleasure in revisiting the mall to just fight hordes of zombies. The mall offers 
 a variety of options and things to do and is refreshingly fun to try out different activities aside 
 from killing zombies.
  
  Graphically the visuals are detailed from the decaying flesh of the zombies to the crazed demeanor 
 of psychopaths. The character and vehicle models are well designed, as well and there is, of course, 
 a lot of gore. A great amount of detail was put into the Willamette Mall where you have the obvious 
 stores and food court but also a park within the center and even an amusement ride. Although at 
 times the lighting within game can become very dark, it isnt that much of problem and is used 
 for effect. The camera angles can seldom become off at times but making adjustments is not difficult 
 at all and you do have the option of changing the aiming perspective. Also there were a few moments 
 of slowdown that wasnt attributed to system latency but it wasnt overly severe and only prevalent 
 during a certain point in one of the modes.
  
  Sound effects are great from the sound of a chainsaw cutting through zombies to the moans and groans 
 of the walking undead masses. Along with the sound effects, the voice acting is actually quite 
 good. The soundtrack, for the most part, is effective. In fact, as the game actually begins, the 
 music makes you feel that youre involved in some classic zombie movie such as Day Of The Dead. 
 There are also a handful of original artist tracks interspersed throughout the game along with 
 the standard mall music.
  
  Dead Rising refreshes the survival horror genre and is best accepted as a welcome change of pace 
 and a great game in its own right. This title definitely will appeal to survival horror fans and 
 those who like plenty of action. It is a welcome entry due to its change of pace from more traditional 
 entries and is quite fun to play. Highly recommended to all but not for the squeamish or easily 
 offended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Notoria
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When I heard of the Dead Rising coming for the 360, I went finally, a game that's just about having 
 fun while still keeping with a good story. And then I played the demo from Live Marketplace. I 
 went "that's it I must have this game". So that very day I went to Future Shop and bought it. It 
 was the best 80$ (Canadian) I spent on a 360 game to date. I love the fact that the zombies are 
 just obstacles in the way from uncovering the truth from Willamette. I think Capcom did a great 
 job of making a game like, I was so afraid they'd screw up, luckily I was wrong. Killing zombies 
 in this game is the one the most exhilarating feelings I've ever had in a video game. If it weren't 
 for the awckward save system I'd probably give this a much higher mark, but in the end this is 
 a must have for owners of a 360. So thank you Capcom for countless hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PraiseJohnson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, im not much of a writer, but i can tell you about dead rising. There have been lots of incredibly 
 hyped games out lately, that have all sucked horribly. (prey, N3,) . BUt dead rising is exactly 
 what it promised to be. Its an incredibly fun game about killing zombies in many exiting ways. 
 The various moves and weapons in your arsenol really add replay to every situation, such as my 
 personal favorite, disembowel, where you just rip out a zombies entrails. 
  
  The story is unredeemably bad, and the voice acting is even worse. but dont worry about that. Theres 
 your regular zombie outbreak being covered up by the governmeny story. But there are just a few 
 too many anti-american moments in the story for it to hold any water. There are 10 endings each 
 being significantly different in the basic outcome. The primary game mode is 72 hour mode, which 
 is your charcter, a photojournalist being in a zombie infested mall for 3 days, waiting for his 
 chopper to rescue him and any non-zombies in the mall. your progress is constant, so after you 
 beat the game, playing any othet game modes you'll still have your level. The game uses a PP (prestige 
 points) system to level you up. Leveling up grants you new skills, a bigger inventory, or a larger 
 health bar. this adds replayability, as does Survival mode. this is an unlimited time you spend 
 in the mall, where food does not respawn, so you need to ration it out to deal with your slowly 
 depleting health bar. There are countless clothing stores to customize your character, and an Xbox 
 Live leaderboard system.
  
  Now as much as i love this game, it does have its flaws. The save system is a bit alienating at 
 first, because you can only have one file at a time, and you can only save in designated areas, 
 but i never had a big problem with it. Also there have been some reported disc read errors and 
 hard drive issues, but i havent seen either yet. all in all, i would say this is the 360 killer 
 App 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtb08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, im not much of a writer, but i can tell you about dead rising. There have been lots of incredibly 
 hyped games out lately, that have all sucked horribly. (prey, N3,) . BUt dead rising is exactly 
 what it promised to be. Its an incredibly fun game about killing zombies in many exiting ways. 
 The various moves and weapons in your arsenol really add replay to every situation, such as my 
 personal favorite, disembowel, where you just rip out a zombies entrails. 
  
  The story is unredeemably bad, and the voice acting is even worse. but dont worry about that. Theres 
 your regular zombie outbreak being covered up by the governmeny story. But there are just a few 
 too many anti-american moments in the story for it to hold any water. There are 10 endings each 
 being significantly different in the basic outcome. The primary game mode is 72 hour mode, which 
 is your charcter, a photojournalist being in a zombie infested mall for 3 days, waiting for his 
 chopper to rescue him and any non-zombies in the mall. your progress is constant, so after you 
 beat the game, playing any othet game modes you'll still have your level. The game uses a PP (prestige 
 points) system to level you up. Leveling up grants you new skills, a bigger inventory, or a larger 
 health bar. this adds replayability, as does Survival mode. this is an unlimited time you spend 
 in the mall, where food does not respawn, so you need to ration it out to deal with your slowly 
 depleting health bar. There are countless clothing stores to customize your character, and an Xbox 
 Live leaderboard system.
  
  Now as much as i love this game, it does have its flaws. The save system is a bit alienating at 
 first, because you can only have one file at a time, and you can only save in designated areas, 
 but i never had a big problem with it. Also there have been some reported disc read errors and 
 hard drive issues, but i havent seen either yet. all in all, i would say this is the 360 killer 
 App 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewleggee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is by far the best 360 game i've played thus far. The action and fighting is unbelievable 
 and feels great. The sound effects make it that much better. The ability to use anything for a 
 weapon is phenomenal, esp. all the creative things you can do to kill the zombies. The only flaw 
 about this game is the entire saving interface. Just about everything about the saving is horrible 
 with the exception of the unique feature that allows you to save and restart the game with all 
 of your xp and abilities that you've gained so far in the game. All in all it is an awesome game 
 as long as you don't mind having to start a game completely over atleast once due to the fact that 
 you can save yourself into ajam and not be able to fix it or go back any saves because there is 
 only one save slot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandemicSuprise
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising developed by Capcom is a game like no other we've seen on the 360. With the ability 
 to pick up almost everything and anything except for humans and slaughter zombies with them is 
 very immersive. The game its self is a little tough to get ahold of at first. The the hand to hand 
 is a little lacking in the beginning but as you continue to level up, you gain more and more skills 
 which will contribute to your experience. The opening cut scene is awesome. It seems like something 
 that would come out of a John. A Romero movie even though the game was not intented to be taken 
 like Dawn of the Dead. This game will get you caught in a hype over saving or destroying the lives 
 of the survivors of the mall. The only thing I have trouble with is the saving system. If only 
 it could be more of the lines of like Elder Scrolls where you can save anywhere and less like RE 
 4. All in all its a great game with literaly endless ways to kill zombies. It will take some time 
 to get used to some of the controls and movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Zombies are perhaps one of the most killed enemies in video game history. Capcom wrote the book 
 on zombie games with its Resident Evil games, and now theyre doing it again with Dead Rising.
 
  
  In Dead Rising, you play the role of Frank West, a wartime photojournalist who has gotten a tip 
 that something is happening in the small town of Willamette, Colorado. After chartering a helicopter 
 ride to the local mall, it becomes apparent that the town has been overrun with zombies. The rest 
 of the game is spent trying to survive in the mall for 72 hours until the helicopter returns.
 
  
  The plot will sound immediately familiar to anyone thats seen John Romeros Dawn of the Dead. 
 However, the plot is much different than the classic horror movie. Instead of trying to hide from 
 zombies, you will frequently adventure into areas infested with them to find other survivors, take 
 pictures, or just to kill the undead.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  A lot of hype for DR has focused on the ability to use almost anything as a weapon. Everything 
 from the usual guns and swords to potted plants and bowling balls can be used to slay the undead. 
 This makes for some very fun and rewarding experiences.
  
  It might sound like this gets old fast, but it doesnt. This is mainly because the game doesnt 
 force you to kill thousands of zombies (some areas literally hold thousands of undead) . Instead, 
 your main tasks are to find out what is behind the zombie outbreak, and to rescue survivors. Killing 
 zombies just happens along the way.
  
  The controls are smooth, and allow you to perform many different moves and attacks, as Frank gets 
 stronger. Combat with guns can be a little awkward, though. And even melee attacks can be hard 
 to perform sometimes. The zombies are kind of passive, even at night when they become stronger. 
 Some will pursue you more actively, but in large you will find that the zombies wont come after 
 you unless youre within 15 feet or so. It would have been nicer to see them gradually sniff you 
 out, and try to corner you in a store. Now thats horror.
  
  The biggest problem with the game play is that you can only have one save file at a time. Combine 
 this with the fact that some story missions need to be completed at a certain time, or the game 
 ends means that its possible to save yourself into a corner. Thus you might need to start the 
 whole game over again if you dont plan ahead.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The environments look great. The setting of the colorful mall is a stark graphical contrast to 
 the undead horrors that stalk its halls. DR is a very gory game, and it shows in the nearly limitless 
 ways you can kill zombies. All the characters are well animated, but the texture quality varies. 
 Frank and the NPCs look great, especially in cut scenes. But the zombies look a little on the low 
 rez side.
  
  Theres also a problem with the GUI where in-coming calls from your walkie-talkie are displayed 
 in text on the screen with no voice-overs. Not necessarily a bad thing, but the text is so small 
 that its hard to read from a distance, especially on a normal TV screen. This will undoubtedly 
 lead to some confusion about how to perform certain tasks. But overall the graphics look great, 
 and help pull you in.
  
  SOUND
  The sound in DR is something to behold. You wont find much in the way of music, but its not missed. 
 The real treat is in the ambient sounds. Cheesy mall music plays throughout, and in a hall full 
 of zombies you can hear each of them moaning and shuffling around. Each weapon sounds unique when 
 used on the dead, and further adds to the fun of it.
  
  The voice acting is well done too. Each of the main characters provides a convincing performance, 
 and you grow attached to them. Unfortunately, some of the other NPCs just sound bad. Theres also 
 a minor problem with the lip-synching during cut scenes, but overall this is treat for the ears.
 
  
  VALUE
  This is where Dead Rising really shines. Because of the in-game time limit, and the huge size of 
 the Willamette mall, you really need to play through this game at least twice to see everything. 
 The scoops, or side missions, offer a wide variety of optional content. Plus you can unlock different 
 game modes that allow you to stay in the mall as long as you want.
  
  There are many achievements to unlock. Some of which are so easy youll literally fall upon them 
 (fall 16 feet for 20 points) . Others require you to kill over 53,000 zombies (the entire population 
 of Willamette) , and are a bit harder. The only downside to this is that all the achievements only 
 give you 20 points. This means there is less incentive to do the harder ones.
  
  The one thing that Dead Rising lacks is some kind of co-op mode. In a game like this, it would 
 have been so easy to create an online mode were you can perform zombie genocide with a bunch of 
 your friends. Frank also levels up as you take pictures, kill zombies, and perform side quests. 
 But it would have been nice to allow the player the ability to determine how they want to level 
 him up. Like putting fewer points into inventory, and more into power.
  
  Despite an ugly save system that can get you into trouble if youre not careful, Dead Rising is 
 a fantastic and original game. Capcom has reworked the genre they started, and created a fresh 
 take on zombie horror. If you love horror games, or just like original adventure games, Dead Rising 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_Louch
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is one of the greatest ever! Capcom did it again, u can count on them especially 
 with zombie/survival games. This game was the Number 1 reason why I even wanted a X-Box 360. And 
 as soon as I got it, I've been playin it like crazy. Some people bad talk the "save system" saying 
 it's horrible. Well the people that say that, I think they cant take challenges. They expect to 
 save everywhere to prevent losing a game or something. The fact that u have to save somewhere out 
 of harms way is perfect, more realistic. I wouldn't like to fight several hundred zombies, then 
 all of a sudden just pause the game and save the game in the middle of the action. This game is 
 great, and if they make sequel I will be pre-ordering that one too. And the action alone "may" 
 get repetitive, but I like the original ways to kill zombies. Overall this is a great game, and 
 I would recommend everyone with a 360 to get this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbie1989
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game like in the title is an ok game. Your a journalist who travels to a little town in colorado 
 where you see the army and people getting eaten by some creatures. Later well like 5 min later 
 in game you find out those creatures are called zombies go figure. Well in the game you do what 
 are called cases the next case starts at a certain time so that leaves enough time to do whatever 
 like kill these people called phycopaths. They arent zombies but they are people who turned crazy 
 do to the zombie attack. Well you can do that or you can save people. This is the part thats funny 
 but also annoying. If you wanna try to save people try to carry them if it wont let you give them 
 a weapon to try and defend their selves. The annoying part is theres so many zombies its a hassle 
 to rescue them but worth it due to getting pp which are points rewared towards your level. The 
 funny part about rescuing people is that when they die it goes to a cutscene with their guts getting 
 pulled out so children dont play this or unless you have your parents permission. So during the 
 game you can take pictures which gives you pp and that helps you level up at first but then its 
 pointless unless you get a great photo. The game to me is short i played at a friends house and 
 in two days pretty much beaten it so if your looking to buy a fun long game this isint going to 
 be the one for you. If you just wanna kick ass here is your game. The game is a must rent at least 
 and or buy because it is an k game.
  Thank you for your time hope this helps people in the future
  The Sherb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox101101
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  The game is exceptional if your a capcom resident evil fan. It seems like an easy game at first.. kill 
 zombies and take some pictures. It is far more than that, it is very hard to not to die running 
 from place to place around the mall. The game is very ongoing though, the true time of 72 hours is 
 good for length but it feels like if you have played one day you played the rest of the game. I 
 have heard swat comes and stuff but I have yet to run into them. The games graphics are good for 
 what the game does, put lots of enemies on screen. No other game has had this many enemies at once 
 i do not think. Atleast in a tightspace like a mall. It is very chaotic. I thought the graphics were'nt 
 up to snuff but then again there is alot of stuff happening and occanionally the frame rate does 
 bog but not bad at all.
  Overall the game is fun but I cant see it having for a long time sitting on your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaman2x
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising. Clear, Cut, and Simply the best game to come out on the XBOX360 yet. everything im 
 about to explain contradicts that of the people who rated this game lower than a 9.0.
  
  The Save System: The save system is absolutely phenomenal. I hear people complaining that there 
 arent enough save spots in the game and that they are hard to find as well as scattered far across 
 the mall in between plazas. My repsonse to this is that these people obviously do not know how 
 to read a map, otherwise they would know that each plaza with the exception of the food court has 
 a bathroom/spot for saving. Had they made save spots in every single store, the game would simply 
 be TOOOOO EASYYY. go and stock up on a ton of weapons and OJ and save right before a boss battle.... thats 
 just simply too easy. why would anyone want to have a game so easy? The save system is not flawed.
 
  
  Boredom: anyone who says that this game gets bored after a while, they are full of it. there are 
 tons of unlockables as well as zombies to kill. hell, its impossible to accomplish everything the 
 first time through. the second time through you'll find more scoops to the story and more reasoning 
 for these people turned psychopaths. its impossible to get bored in this game. from the ability 
 to creating your own cakes, burgers, MARTINIS, and OJ concocktions, to finding your way to a spot 
 overlooking Leisure park where u can snipe off all the zombies u possibly can. the missions are 
 damn near endless, and the amount of survivors u can rescue is above and beyond what any other 
 game has offered to date. The weapons are endless, from hangars, to frying pans, to bowling balls, 
 all the way to heavy weaponry such as shotguns and .50cal machine guns.
  
  however the only flaw, and the only reason this game is not going to receive a perfect 10 is because 
 of the in game caption. The caption is too small and very difficult to read unless you have HDTV, 
 which then is still hard to read. i wish Capcom would have used voice instead of the caption. anyways, 
 its possible that capcom, being the great company they are, may release a patch either fixing the 
 small caption or creating voice to go along with the caption. so dont complain, just wait and see. 
 
  
  Enjoy the game. Its by far the most fun game out on the 360 and is a huge accomplishment by far... and 
 one more thing... its completely EXCLUSIVE for the XBOX360, so PS3 fans need to stop posting up 
 here with the nonsense reviews!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  So, how did this game turned out? It turned out great! In fact, it is the probably the most unique 
 and entertaining single player game for the Xbox 360. The gameplay is so intense and action oriented, 
 it will really give a run for your money. The main attraction of this game is the swarms of enemies 
 charging into the mall as time passes and the framerates rarely slow down when that happens. Here 
 are the summaries for each category.
  
  Gameplay: This is a game where you just run around the mall killing, killing, killing like there 
 is no tomorrow. Many different objects and people to interact with. Interesting time limit system 
 that force players to make tough decisions. Hilarious varieties of killing zombies
  The Bad?: Horrendous saving system, annoying load time and kinda "shallow" escort missions. Photographing 
 system feels tacked on.
  
  Graphics: Hundreds and hundreds of zombies appear in the screen at once. Very detail looking mall 
 and character models, Extremely satisfying gore effect.
  The Bad?: Framerates do bog down once in a while and there are some clipping issues.
  
  Sound: 
 Flawless weapon impact sounds and gun firing sounds. Awesome dialogues. Ridiculously hilarious 
 over the top voice acting.
  The Bad?: Well, I gave it a 10 in the sound category so there aren't really anything bad about 
 the audio.
  
  Value: A truly fun game to waste time with.
  The Bad?: Time pass by really quickly though and there are no free roaming mode or anything that 
 allow players to play this game for the killing part. 
  
  Tilt: I haven't had so much fun in killing people since the first State of Emergancy game. It is 
 absolutely a great experience. 
  
  If you love to play zombie games like resident evil but with more action and gore, go get a copy 
 right now. Period. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  The game has its flaws first of all. For example, the save system sucks, also at night it can appear 
 to be very very dark, and there are basically 3 types of enemies throughout the bulk of the entire 
 game; zombies, bosses, and crazy people. Other than that everything else is pretty damn fun. First 
 off the sound of the weapons is probably the single best accomplished part of this game. Secondly, 
 there hasn't really been a game quite like this (RE4 is nothing like this game) . That means its 
 something many have probably looking forward to for quite some time. Zombie outbreaks and survival 
 has been a talked about topic for a long time now, so naturally, this game lets you reenact that 
 fantasy if you wish too. I myself enjoy killing the zombies but after awhile it does get pretty 
 old. It would have been neat if they added a few more modes. Possibly a mode where you have to 
 survive without the depleting life *hint hint*!! The whole infinity mode with depleting life is 
 kind of flawed in my opinion. Its basically memorizing where the one time food spawns are (yes 
 they are no food re-spawns in this mode) and surviving long enough to get to all of them. It would 
 have been cool if there was a mode where you can barricade a spot you can choose to make a last 
 stand, and then have the zombies become more aggressive as time passes. The zombies are so mindless 
 it actually starts to get annoying after awhile rather than entertaining. Thats why after beating 
 the game I can only play so much before I turn off the system and continue on some time later. 
 I guess you can say its fun, yet boring over long stretches of time. The only question is how long 
 will this guilty pleasure keep us all busy for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert032
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a only a start of what can come. This is one of the fastest selling titles for the 360 
 (for the moment) all because of the moto "Chop till you Drop" for good reason... anything is a weapon... all 
 things... not quite... alot of things still Yes!
  
  Nothing like sticking a coat hanger or a shower head into a zombies head, and it makes for some 
 humerous moments and fine picture oppturnities!... and a few monents that are scary... and plenty 
 of difficult boss battles
  
  what alot of people compaining about is... of course the save system... you only have on slot and 
 you can only save in the security office... or a restroom... yes a restroom... no joke and if you 
 die... you start all over on day one... but you get to keep the levels that you leveled up atleast 
 (unless you dont save)
  
  Still is someting new and sometimes the first time doesnt always work out as well as Capcom may 
 think... but its Capcom support and im not complaing (expect for the save system) . All because there 
 are many other places that where a sequal can take place... heck even a whole city
  
  etiher way its worthplaying... or atleast rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroneVirus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The game is solid and very fun.... Thouhg the whole 72 hours thing bugs me a little.. For gamers 
 you want all the time in the world to kill some zombies... But your limited in Dead Rising.. I 
 need the time to kill my zombies you know... I feel rushed while playing it... AM I GONNA MAKE 
 IT?? CAN I KILL THIS ZOMBIE BEFORE I???? It gets annoying everytime you go somewhere and the "23 
 until helicopter arrives" thing pops up... It sadens me...... No more zombie killing in 23 hours..... 
 Hey a zombie!!! TIME TO KILL IT! But the graphics are good. Story is good. And the fact they got 
 this off of Georges DoTD Is to good! Another thing is that sometimes when you escort survivors.. 
 You feel for them, and want to get them there alive.. I remember when a guy named Bill I was escorting 
 was eaten.. I was sad. He was a cool Bill. Then I loaded back before his death and got em there 
 safely. Then theres always the left behinds. I had to escort 3 women out of the mall when there 
 was another women being attacked.... I was about to help when suddenly an army of zombies swarmed 
 the girls. I had no choice and ran.. The girl was killed, and I had guilt for that... God thats 
 strange to feel guilt over something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  First I must say, if I play a game with a count down of 72 hours I expect 72 hours. Instead if 
 you can live all the way and non stop, it is 6 hours. 
  
  To go onto the saving problems people mention, there is no problem! Basicly just go back to the 
 main HQ place and save. Since it helps to be there before a mission just head over a minute early 
 and save... not a big deal!
  
  One thing that does upset me thoug is the reading... the print is bloody small! My friends and 
 I have given up reading all messages sent to us in the game... which may be a bad thing.
  
  On the piggy back helping people to saftey missions. I do not have the patient for this people 
 sometimes. And as long as you give it a fraction of a try the game gives you like 10,000+ exp. 
 So go to them and get the points... easy.
  
  In ending all one needs to really say is if you are in a bad mood or you just wanna knock a game 
 out quickly, get Dead Rising for some senseless zombie killing (I personly like the lawn mower) 
 , then sell it on eBay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgeverity
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I was stunned from the start, but of course, being the zombie lover that I am, winning me as a 
 customer was like shooting fish in a barrel for Capcom. 
  Flying over Colorado in a news helicopter, I could almost feel the breeze brushing against me. 
 When part of the cutscene ended, and I was directed to start taking pictures I was a bit hesitant... 
 I didn't quite know what to expect... But when the whole intro was finally over, I got to see the 
 true heart of this game unfold before me. 
  The first thing I did in the mall was.... well whats the first thing you always do in the mall? --- 
 I took a trip to the electronics store! I walked around fir a bit when i found a box.. I didn't 
 quite know what to do with it, so i did what any respectable human being would do in a mall surrounded 
 by zombies -- I picked it up and well... chucked it at a zombie, to my surprise, it broke open revealing 
 a water gun. I ran over to the zombie and punched him to a bloody pulp before taking my watergun 
 back to the electronics store. When i got there, there was a pleasant surprise waiting for me behind 
 the counter... a zombie i opened fire on him.. when that didnt work... i threw the toy at his face... 
 that did the trick.
  This game is amazing any way you look at it... It has amazing graphics, sound, value.... and a 
 surprisingly short learning curve.
  Buy this game for yourself and see what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnager
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I finally beat this game yesterday (72 Hour mode and overtime mode) . The story was great and kept 
 me guessing. The gameplay had some variety because there are some items in which you just smack 
 zombies with it, some items you throw or have to aim with (Golf club and golf balls, guns, CDs, 
 etc.) . The game also gives you the chance to drive cars around and hitting as many zombies as you 
 can which is much more than entertaining. This game surprised me because while everyone was saying 
 "The AI is soooo dumb," I figured it would be pretty simple. I was wrong, the game gave me a few 
 issues in a few places. The boss fights (the game calls them psychopaths) were interesting and 
 varied well depending on who it was. There was a psychotic clown, goth kid who is sick of people 
 laughing at him, insane grocery store owner and a lot more. And you CANNOT just run through hordes 
 of zombies thinking they wont grab you because while your taking one guy out, someone could come 
 off the screen and just run at you and start chomping on your face. The 72 hour mechanic was really 
 well done and didnt seem to have any problems. The main storyline was separated into what the game 
 called Cases. This had a few problems. One was that there was a VERY precise and distinct time 
 listed that that specific case would occur and if you weren't back at the security office (basically 
 where your home base is) by that time, you would have to reload your last save. While this makes 
 sense, its very aggitating when you miss a case. Which leads me to my next part of the review. 
 Saving. Everyone seems to be saying "It's the only reason this game sucks," or "The game was ruined 
 because of the saving." I see NOTHING (caps) wrong with it. It's VERY simple, at first, I'll admit, 
 I didnt understand it and was worried it was going to bother me. But when I figured it out, there 
 was nothing difficult or annoying about it. Find a bathroom, there is four in the entire mall (six 
 sections of the mall) or you can save in the security office. There's another save point you can 
 use but that is aquired later in the storyline (dont want to reveal too much) . There is pretty 
 much ONE thing I hated about this game. And it wasnt much of a thing as much of a person. Otis. 
 Otis Otis Otis. I HATE YOU. Otis is the janitor of the mall and stays in the security office throughout 
 the entire game and communicates with you via tranceiver and tells you if he knows of survivors 
 in the mall and tells them their location. The tranceiver is something to get used to. You cannot 
 attacking while listening to your tranceiver, you cannot jump while listening to the tranceiver, 
 and if you get attacked while listening to the tranceiver, you must restart the message over again. 
 If you choose to not answer your tranceiver, too bad, Otis will keep calling... and calling... and 
 calling (did I mention he'll keep calling you?) . This game is one of the most original games I've 
 played and I reccomend it to anyone that is a xbox 360 owner, zombie lover, george romero fan. 
 But be sure to be careful of the age of the people that play it because this game has the most 
 gore ive ever seen in a video game before (just watch how the psychotic clown dies and you'll understand) . 
 GET THIS GAME! ITS AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowheartless
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  It's every George A. Romero fan's dream! Or maybe every Resident Evil veteran's dream! Or maybe 
 it's every man's dream! Well I pretty much fall under all of those categories. Just like George 
 A. Romero's "Dawn of the Dead", the game takes place in a mall found in Willamette, Colorado. I 
 find it interesting that Willamette is in Colorado, just as Racoon City (the main setting for many 
 Resident Evil games) is. I would really like to think these two are connected. Anyways, the mall's 
 infested with zombies and, as a freelance photo-journalist named Frank West, you must survive until 
 your helicopter ride can come pick you up. Aside from that, you must find the origin of the incident/outbreak 
 and close all related cases. You get to interact with survivors and even bring them back to safety. 
 There are many survivors, but you can't save them all. You do your best to survive the three days 
 stuck in the mall by using anything as weapons. This game is one of the greatest to release for 
 the Xbox 360, at least for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a zombie game it isn't too scary and it isn't your normal zombie game either. They 
 tried to do something new by putting the game instead of dark coriders and shadowy places but in 
 a bright mall. Its really cool to especially the whole premise of only having three days to survive. 
 Some of the characters are interesting especially the psychopaths but there isn't as many voice 
 acting where there should be for every survior as well also and the main characters voices isn't 
 as good as the secondary characters and such especialy Frank West voice. The graphics are pretty 
 to look at but only the main characters and the characters the appear in cutscenes as well as the 
 scenery really looks next gen but the low resolution zombies don't come out as well. There is no 
 Xbox Live play which is okay but there is a ranking system but it does't really feel like it should 
 be there. I mean if you are gonna put in leaderboards might as well add some sort of online play. 
 Despite all of this the game is still fun and is a good break from the bleak amount of games to 
 come out this summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewalrus007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I just had a dandy ole time killing zombies. We just laughed and laughed and giggled and laughed. 
 
  
  My friends are afraid to play the game. I had to turn on the lights when they stayed over. I explained 
 to them, lights wouldn't stop the zombies, but they had to go home early because their mom said 
 they'd have bad dreams. You know, you'll wet your pants if you play with fire.
  
  I put on a mask and scared my friends. They told my friends at school that i wet my bed. They're 
 liars! I only wet my bed after playing this game. 
  
  Yes, i'm making this up. Great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HickoryShinobi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased Dead Rising, i was hoping to do whatever i wanted to but just found myself running 
 back and forth to the security room (safe house) over and over doing the main story mode. Although 
 the main story is VERY interesting i just need some more time to do other things, i always feel 
 like im being rushed, and you think that youre going to get a break once you beat it and transfer 
 into overtime mode, but no, just more running around avoiding death for A LONG TIME. But most of 
 the gameplay feels nice, escorts are fairly difficult because of the whackjob AI on the survivors, 
 Always getting into trouble, or getting stuck, falling down and never getting up, having to escort 
 a crawling man was pretty lame same with some of the ladies who cant use weapons but constantly 
 strive to run into the middle of a crowd of zombies and try and push all 70 of them down... but 
 besides that stuff I'd say this game is pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  There haven't been many Xbox 360 titles I've been waiting on since launch, but this was one of 
 them. The premise of being trapped in a mall for three days with a town full of Zombies grabbed 
 my attention from the start and I crossed my fingers that it would be as much fun as it sounded.
 
  After playing through the 72 hour mode which continues into the overtime mode I have been very 
 pleased with everything the game had to offer. Challenging thoughout the game uses the constant 
 advancment of time in an interesting way to keep the pace of the game high. I think the amount 
 of side missions and out of the way spots you can't make it to in the first play through give this 
 game a very high replay value. Overall the game was fun and worth the money and the wait.
  While the escorting trapped civilians can get a little frustrating with some pathing issues there 
 are only a few small flaws in the entire game. Graphically the game is beautiful and the sound 
 effects are spot on, I could only wish for more of a soundtrack to be present.
  I was very pleased with Dead Rising and think that most people would be able to enjoy it no matter 
 what their favorite genre of game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_LoverTDL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  From the get-go, Dead Rising sets you up in an outrageously over-dramatic setting, where chaos 
 runs amuck. As soon as you hit the first zombie with a 2x4 or baseball bat, you feel in total control 
 of Frank. Me personally being a huge Romero and Resident fan, I love this Game, hands down, let 
 alone af ew minor problems. The controls can get a lil clunky at times, causing you to literally 
 run into hordes without meaning too, and some of the weapons are a bit sluggish when attempting 
 to use. Other than the fact that you can pretty much use anything and everything as your personal 
 arsenal, the feel of the game is unreal. I personally took hours just driving the convicts vehicle 
 in the maintanence Basement, taking out hundreds of zombies at a time, and never getting tired 
 of it. And the fact that you can rack up over 50k kills, is too good too be true, Dynasty warriors, 
 eat your heart out. All in all, I love the game, not giving it a perfect 10, but with a lil more 
 tweaking, it could have easily scored perfect in my book. 9.1 of 10. Way to go Capcom, You're trully 
 my favorite company! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheUltimateNewb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  If brutaly killing thousands of zombies interests you than this is your game. Dead Rising is probaly 
 one of the most succesful 360 games and has only been out for a week. The Gameplay is fun and addicting 
 and is easily replayable but there are a few flaws like with the starting mode 72 Hour Mode you 
 end up being time restricted alot towards the end of the game and sometimes it can be frustrating 
 so you replay it a few times to do everything you want but by the time you unlock the extra modes 
 the games first impression of fun and addicting have now become more lame and old. But dont let 
 that discourage you for I have played it nearly 40 hours now and have not go sick of it and its 
 not really starting to get old. This game is extremely good in other cases the more technical reasons 
 its graphics are up to date and its sounds is amazing. Say your weilding a baseball bat when you 
 swing = perfect sound when you nail a zombie in the skull with it = perfect sound and its like 
 that for everything. Another valuable point is that the game is not hard nor is it easy it has 
 parts which can be harder and also parts which are really easy but overall its balanced. I recommend 
 Dead Rising to most gamers but if lots of blood and gore turns you down for games then you most 
 likely might to look for a different game but otherwise Dead Rising is a must have 360 game for 
 your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_darwich_hayes
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  First of all, my review has spoilers, so you might want to stop reading.
  After some months of making expectations for this game, today finally it arrived home. I ordered 
 it on the net and honestly, I had my doubts that it would arrive but it did, but that's not what 
 I am reviewing. My first impression of it was "scary" due to the box design, so I decided to give 
 it a try before I left to school. Man... this gotta be one of the best horror games ever made. 
 The graphics are more complex than what I thought, giving it a beautiful image even though it's 
 a horror game, besides it has a very nice storyline, that makes you fall into the story deeper 
 and deeper and to add the little cherry on the top, the music is fantastic! It is made correctly 
 with the correct instruments and for the correct scenes, you won't believe how ad-hoc it goes with 
 the game! Although the game is horror action, it has some comic scenes and actions that give it 
 a little extra, like taking pictures of sexy zombies or acting like a pimp... though it goes a 
 bit ridiculous sometimes. It perhaps has some time in front of it before it becomes a classic like 
 Resident Evil or Silent Hill, but Dead Rising definitely is making a very good way to the top. 
 This game, along with "Alan Wake" and "Condemned" are definitely my picks for best horror games 
 of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXor512
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has arguably been the most hyped up game that has come out so far for the Xbox 360. 
 The story in the game is that there are a bunch of zombies in the mall your in and your helicopter 
 ride out of there is coming back in three days. During your time in the mall you can help out other 
 survivors, do missions and move the story along by completing case files, which are the main missions 
 in the game. 
  
  The main thing that was hyped up in this game and the part that is the most fun to play is killing 
 the zombies. There are a bunch of different ways to kill zombies, from kicking soccer balls at 
 them, to slapping pucks at them with hockey sticks, to running them over with cars, to shooting 
 them, cutting them in half with chainsaws and plenty of other things. Some of the things you can 
 do with weapons are really creative. For example you can throw a propane tank at a bunch of zombies, 
 back up a safe distance and shoot the propane tank blowing up all the zombies in the area in a 
 graphically impressive explosion. Other fun things you can do are stick masks and buckets on zombies 
 heads so they wont be able to see you and attack you. You can also throw cooking oil on the ground 
 and zombies will trip and fall. The different ways to kill and have fun with the zombies is easily 
 the most enjoyable part in the game. Unfortunately, all the fun weapons are located usually in 
 a hardware store and most of the game your stuck surrounded by a bunch of useless clothes stores. 
 
  
  One of the worst parts about Dead Rising is the save system. Most of the time you can only save 
 in bathrooms and they are hard to find. There are very few bathrooms located in the store so you 
 will most likely have to travel a lot to get to save your game. It gets very tedious when you want 
 to save somewhere and youll have to go completely out of the way to find a bathroom. 
  
  Another bad part of the game is the dialogue, or the lack thereof. With the exception of a few 
 videos the game has little dialogue boxes at the bottom of the screen with incredibly small text 
 that is very hard to read. Capcom should have taken the time to record voiceovers for the characters. 
 This is the next generation of gaming and there is no excuse for having to read dialogue boxes. 
 
  
  Another really annoying part of the game is that your cell phone will be ringing constantly. This 
 guy in the story mode named Otis will call you all the time, it doesnt matter if your surrounded 
 by 30 zombies or in a boss battle, this idiot will call you non stop. And if you choose to answer 
 your weapon will be put away and you also wont be able to jump, leaving you open to be attacked 
 by zombies. Whether you answer your cell phone or dont answer Otis will keep calling you back 
 telling you the same thing over and over again. It is by far the most annoying part of Dead Rising. 
 
  
  There are plenty of other problems that hold this game back. For example, the main missions are 
 set up so you have to be in a certain place at a certain time to play them. So if youre near where 
 a mission is about to start in 15 minutes then you pretty much have to hang around and cant drift 
 to far away so you dont miss the mission. Also, if you dont have a gun it will be pretty much 
 impossible to kill a human enemy. Another problem is the loading in the game. Every few hundred 
 yards the game loads, and while the loading isnt really long it is very frequent and annoying. 
 
  
  Overall Dead Rising is a big disappointment. The part where you kill the zombies is fun but unfortunately 
 there are a bunch of other problems that bring down what could have been a great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HALOSUCKS69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game mainly just about one thing killing zombies. It does this extremely well, 
 there are so many weapons and tons different way to kill zombies. Yes the save system does suck, 
 but it is easy to figure out. The cases (missions) are different because they require u to be there 
 at a certain time and place, if u are not u will not find out the story that Frank came into the 
 mall to get. Also the Boss battles can be extremely hard at times. Putting all those things aside 
 Dead Rising is still and extremely fun game, it is something that every 360 owner should at least 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1al
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Dead Risings Gameplay was all what it was cracked up to be with many different ways to eliminate 
 your enemies with a quite decent storyline to back it up as well. With atleast 800 Zombies at a 
 screen at once you will not miss out on many of the games weapons that you are able to use. What 
 really pis*ed me off about this game was the SAVING which was very annoying because it could take 
 you way far back if you forgot to save and get a gameover, But that just dents the gameplay this 
 game delivers.
  
  Graphics 
  
  The Graphics for Dead Rising are overall quite Solid with a nice smooth Framerate and The Graphic 
 Display meets the Standards.
  
  Sound 
  
  To my surprise The Sound in this game was the quality that stood out the most . Every Single Weapon 
 sound just like how it could effect the enemy
  From a soft toy Bear barley making any dammage to a Loud Chainsaw shredding through the massive 
 Field of zombies. As Well another thing i loved about this game was the in game MALL music those 
 tunes you would hear in an elevator.
  
  Value 
  
  An exellent Quality about Dead Rising was the Value after you beat a 72 hour mode there is almost 
 no way you have completed everything the game has to offer there is an estimated 50 survivors you 
 can save or plenty Phycopaths you may encounter as well. So i asure you will get your dollars worth 
 in this game for sure.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Great style of Gameplay that will keep you hooked for hours
  -Good Framerate and Graphics
 
  -Amazing Sounds from the moans of a zombie to the smashing blow of your weapon
  -You will get your dollars worth from this title
  
  Cons: 
  - Saving in this game is abosolutley 
 Broken (what were they thinking?)
  - Killing the Zombies could bit a little tedious at times
  
  GREAT GAME i give it an A! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowlinex
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is by fare one of my favorite games of this year. It's fun, it's witty, and it has 
 tons and tons of zombies. So like Capcom. However this game has a few drawbacks that in my opinion 
 don't hold a flame to the complete experience of this game. So lets begin...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This is the most unique idea I have seen in gaming for a while. Dead Rising has so 
 many interesting aspects to it that it doesn't get that repetitive. However, you have to expect 
 it to be somewhat repetitious from the look at the box. Not only can you pick up so many odd weapons 
 in this game it can be just a blast to experiment with weaker weapons. One of my favorites is literally 
 teddy bearing a zombie horde to death. The shear amount of weapons in this game required me at 
 least a second play through to find the ones I missed. 
  
  This game means "zombie horde" not only will you feel there pain, but it is crazy to go all out 
 crazy on a horde at night. This game will be difficult and sometimes frustratingly so until you 
 reach higher levels and have more life. After that period the game for me really start to get running. 
 You become a walking tank with so many item slots that you can carry 10 machine guns and a couple 
 of OJ's for good measure.
  
  The biggest draw back this game has and I feel that it was dalibrate on Capcoms part is the save 
 system. You only get one save slot per profile you have on you xbox 360. Another big one is the 
 NPC A. I. which in one word is "stupid". One of the other down comings that some have stated is 
 the game in 72 hour mode has harsh time constraints however I fell this is a lie because the game 
 lets you choose to do the case files or not. All you have to do is click the second option when 
 the load screen comes that says "Return to Game." Only problem is you won't get to complete the 
 story unless you A) load up the save, or B) start a new game in 72 mode. Either way, its a bummer. 
 
  
  All in all, the few problems it has are greatly over come by the pure awesomeness of seeing a zombie 
 getting chop in two or stuck under your tire.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  This game has some of the best zombie graphics I have ever seen. There is so many on screen that 
 are fully rendered with bloody faces and animating nicely. The area is diverse from dark maintenance 
 tunnel to colorful childrens play land. During the day the lighing is great as it shines through 
 windows revealing a good amount of which is inside or out. 
  
  SOUND:
  This is an OST to buy when it comes out the battle music is beautiful, but nothing compared to 
 the ambiance of the sounds in the mall. The mall really seems to be alive dispite the fact that 
 mostly everyone is dead. From moans to groans the zombie are truly the dead sounding. The weapons 
 sound like real weapons and the gore looks and sounds like real gore.
  
  REVIEWER'S OPINION:
  Get it, if you like the zombie genre then this game will fill all your delights 
 dispute a few meahcanic mistakes. This original experience will entertain you for quite some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ortan13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well first of all this game was perfect in almost every way you can ever think of. The one thing 
 bad in this game was the sound. When there's a seen with people talking and you like to listen 
 music you won't be able to hear them and you will have to read alot. The sound other than that 
 is really good. When they say chop till you drop their not kidding either. You will want to chop 
 until you are dead. The graphics were perfect just like the game-play. In the game you will be able 
 to go in almost all the stores and take what ever you want. You can take a hockey stick in the 
 sports store or change into a suit and tie in another. I'm sure anyone who buys this will love 
 it. The last thing left is the ending. I was pissed when I got to the ending and thought it was 
 over. Then it said I unlocked an over-time mode. That didn't last long and that had a terrible 
 ending too. Hope fully they will bring back Frank and Isabela to kill some more of the SWAT, Psychos, and 
 of coarse Zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for dead rising. lucky for me, most of my expectations were met. i'll tell 
 you the bad stuff right now. the saving can be annoying. the only problem with it is that if you 
 die, you may lose some progress. otherwise its fine. the real-time structure is actually really 
 cool. the graphics are very impressive. in cinematics, the characters are very realistic (hand 
 motions, walking around, speech well animated) there are thousands upon thousands of zombies and 
 over a hundred different weapons to slaughter them with. the story is pretty interesting, and the 
 fact that you gain levels is pretty cool. overall, it is definately worth a purchase. cant wait 
 for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agfdfahdfhah
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  The Good: Killing zombies with the many weapons available to you is increadibly fun and addictive. 
 The level up system works suprisingly well allowing you to start the game as a weak photographer 
 who has trouble taking on 5 zombies and ending the game as a total zombie slaughtering Bad-ass. 
 Interesting story that kept me playing when normally I would of put the controller down. Boss battles 
 with phycopaths that are guineuinly disturbing, scary and fun. 
  
  The Bad: One of the worst save systems I have ever had the displeasure of using. Items break very 
 quickly making you unable to destroy an entire army of zombies with a awsome weapon it took you 
 a really long time to find. If you dont spice up the action through experimentation it can get 
 rather generic after fighting 100 of zombies.
  
  Bottom Line: An experience like no other that at time will make you thank god payed 500$ for your 
 X-box 360 and at other times make you wonder why you bothered to pay 50$ for the game. Fortunatly 
 the first occurs much more often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekid23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  I see pretty average reviews for this game all over the place. And at first I wasnt surprised. 
 After playing the demo, I was throughly unimpressed. Then the more I thought about the demo, the 
 more I wanted to play.
  So I bought it.
  At the beggining of the game I was very frustrated and didnt know hwat to think. I enjoyed the 
 game, but I kept dying and redoing parts. Then I realized that the part I was dying at was completley 
 optional. But I kept trying. Fianlly I beat the part. The more I play the stronger my character 
 got. Then I realized how good this game is. You have options, the only thing you have to do is 
 the missions. But if you want to get those done a little easier you better do some side missions 
 to build up your character. Add to that that the save systme creates an intense situation where 
 you will absolutley fight to survive. No half a$$ing it here. It creates a great tension. You may 
 beat a hard psychopath and then get more skills. But now you have little energy and a survivor 
 that wants you to escort them to safety through HORDES of zombies. What do you do? 
  Well, sometimes in life you gotta leave the wounded behind. Its a great tension and decision making 
 that constantly arises. Even if you dont realize how much.
  You may be on a main story mission and you run into a psychopath that you hate. Fight? OPr Run 
 to your mission?
  I am compleley addicted to this game, and the more I play the more I like it As my character gets 
 stronger, it goes from... running through a crouwd of zombies, knowing that your baseball bat wont 
 cut it... too... Smashing a lane through them and getting to your objective.
  This game is really fun, it doesnt force you to fight zombies, it just puts them in your way. The 
 missions and psychopaths and escort missions, breka up the game so it doesnt get monotonous. Add 
 to that the fun of runnig chainsaws and bats through armies of zombies and you have one great gameplay 
 experience.
  
  Be warned, the save system may turn you off initially, but as you play more, the better it gets 
 and the easier it gets to save your progres..
  
  Get this game, and give it a chance... more than the 1 hour that the bashers give it.
  
  One 
 final note. Dying in a video game isnt always a bad thing. Beating a game with quicksave, removes 
 a lot of the fun from it. It just becoems a race to finish the game. This game makes you earn a 
 victory and each time it is worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising takes a less conventional approach to both action video gaming and zombies in general. 
 The only problem... a few short comings. 
  
  Pros: DR (Dead Rising) is a very fresh experience... One of the biggest selling points about this 
 game, to me, is its over all quality compared to other games that have come out recently. The 
 environment is big and actually looks like a mall. The mall is also very atmospheric at times. 
 The graphics themselves are definetly next gen, with good motion blur and lighting effects. The 
 zombies are great enemies, but the bosses are totally over the top, my favorite being the hatchet 
 man enemy in the hardware store. The generic mall music is fantastic. The melee combat is brilliant 
 and satisfying. Rescuing survivors, and in the ways you rescue them, is brilliant gameplay. The 
 72 hour mode may be short, but there is a ton of re-play value seeing as how its impossible to 
 do all of the scoop and rescue missions your first time through. Weapons are diverse, but well 
 get to their short comings in a minute. You can drive vehicles in DR as well, which as you can 
 guess, are weapons in themselves. All and all, this is a very strong title.
  
  Cons: The scoop set up of missions where you must be at a certain place at a certain time, is 
 annoying at times. How you save your game is straight BROKEN, just like Alex said. You have to 
 find 1 specific couch or one specific toilet in order to save. Which, in turn could have you walking 
 around for 15 minutes just so you can save. And, if your in the middle of a scoop and need to save 
 and leave the game.... you might as well just shut off your 360 and loose the content now. The 
 game is only 4 hours, but if you screw up the complicated saving like I have, itll prolong that 
 experience with at least 4 more hours of re-doing everything youve already done. Which pisses 
 me off so bad sometimes I actually quit playing this incredibly fun game. The game is incredible, 
 but one stupid thing like saving ruins it. Games should always give you a easy way to save at any 
 time, PERIOD. 
  
  In the end, Dead Rising is so fun I wish I could give it a 10.... but in the end it gets a 8.5 
 just because of the stupid saving and annoyance of re-doing everything over and over again wiether 
 you like it or not. Even with one of the greatest game ideas, and some of the greatest gameplay 
 youve had in a long time, the saving kills it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  While I haven't finished this game, I could cirtainly do a review on it, no?
  
  So anyway this game as we all know is a game where you are in a mall with thousands upon thousands 
 of zombies that you have to kill. Like GTA with zombies... and much wierder weapons.
  
  Anyway unlike GTA you are always timed. From the start of the game to the very end, each and every 
 thing you do is timed. Which can make the game very hard. Especially when you have to complete 
 numerous tasks within a cirtain amount of time.
  
  This is real-time mind you (not like Animal Crossing, but along the lines of the Sims, except time 
 goes by slower) . So instead of have a clock with like 60 minutes you just have your watch to see 
 what time it is, and a time bar for each objective. When the bar runs out, you lose that chance 
 to do that objective.
  
  It does really get in the way when you want to do some of the side missions but don't have enough 
 time, because you need to get to the main story mission in time.
  
  Onto the gameplay. IT IS HARD. Maybe at the very begining of the game when you just have a few 
 zombies every few feet it is easy, but then it turns night on the first day, and you have to get 
 to an objective. There are zombies EVERYWHERE. Not only that, but at night the zombies get more 
 powerful, so you also have to watch out for that. And it is dark, and sometimes the lights in some 
 areas go off. AND if that doesn't make things bad enough, there is a group of convicts in a car 
 driving around in the park in the mall just dying to kill you. So yeah the zombies block your way 
 EVERYWHERE. And there is a need to kill them, but that's also hard. Considering you might not have 
 a good weapon, say, some plates. Then you go against this huge group of zombies in your way. Not 
 cool. 
  
  And then there are the escort missions, which, you do not need to do even one of them. But it definatley 
 helps to gain some PP which levels you up. Unfortunatley the people you are escorting are dumber 
 than anything. They can not keep up with you, so they will probably fall behind and get attacked 
 by zombies, and then you need to kill those zombies to get the person back, but by the time that 
 happens more zombies will be near you. So you basically need to carry them and/or hold their hand 
 so you can take them back to the ONE AND ONLY way to saftey. Even if that means running all the 
 way around the mall without using any weapons (because you are holding your escortees hand) . Yeah 
 hard.
  
  LUCKILY, there is the option of starting all over but saving your stats. So that means instead 
 of starting the game on say level 1, you start on level 12 or whatever. Sometimes it may seem like 
 your going back so far after getting so far into the game, but for some reason you just want to 
 do it.
  
  But, then again, you could always forget about the missions and go rampaging around the mall killing 
 zombies anyway you please. Whether you use a baseball bat, or CD cases, you can kill kill and kill. 
 It's probably fun for the first ten minutes. Sure there is a lot of things you can kill with, but 
 the really cool weapons (the smg, machine gun, katana) are usually hidden in places that you really 
 don't feel like finding.
  
  Anyway overall this is a pretty good game. You are always wanting more the story (even if it does 
 move at a rather slow rate) and the graphics are awesome which just improves the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dxes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this game for since it has been announced... its one of the reasons i bought 
 an Xbox 360 and its been worth it...
  
  The Gameplay is great, the only reason it got a 9 and a hard difficulty was because of its awful, terrible, evil 
 save system that pissed me off more than once... Other than that, the chainsaw and a coupla other 
 weapons really surprised me with the amount of freedom it allowed...
  
  The graphics are on the better side, its not ground breaking but it sure is alot better than N3 
 or some other xbox 360 games... personally i love the blood effects on dead rising... it is so 
 photorealistic and great looking splattering the floor like that :D...
  
  The sound is fantastic, it made me go "whoa" when i first took up that katana and slice off the 
 side of the zombies body... that my friend is quality...
  
  As for value, it may be an open ended game with all kinds of side missions but the terrible save 
 system makes it super annoying to trace back and redo missions again...
  
  Tilt was good and it allowed me to catch all of the action on screen...
  
  Overall, dead rising 
 presented to me a completely new take on the cool zombie survival series... great job capcom! youve 
 done it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niceguy_e2001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  First of all let me state for the record - yes this game has a few shortcomings. Aside from the 
 environments and the graphics on the cinematic cut scenes, it looks like Capcom could have beefed 
 up the gameplay graphics. And it's tough only having one save slot per storage device (hard drive, 
 memory card, etc.) And quite frankly the escort missions do get a bit repetitive over the course 
 of the game.
  
  HOWEVER - those same shortcomings have their reasons. When you're trying to render hundreds and 
 hundreds of zombies on screen at the same time, something has to give. Take your pick, frame rate, 
 or graphic quality. Personally, i'd rather rip through a giant crowd of o. k. looking zombies at 
 a fast pace, rather than have the game slow down to a crawl for the sake of a few more pixels. 
 And as for the save system - it's set up that way for a reason - it's supposed to be challenging. 
 Just like Grand theft auto. How many save places are there in those games?
  
  If you rated this game under an 8.0, dare I ask what benchmark you're holding this game up to? 
 Do you not enjoy a challenge? Did you have no idea what kind of game you were getting? Is your 
 attention span so limited that you can't get through the first half hour of the game and get to 
 the really good stuff? 
  
  This game is "Grand Theft Auto" meets "Shawn of the Dead" set in the "Dawn of the Dead" shopping 
 mall. The humor is tongue in cheek, the action is fast paced and as diverse as you want to make 
 it, and the fun factor is through the roof. 
  
  If your idea of a good game is solely based on good graphics, go get a crappy game like Over G 
 Fighters, ignore the **** gameplay and drool over the pretty pixels, and leave this game alone. 
 Obviously the concept of 
  having FUN while playing a game is foreign to you, you graphics whores. 
  
  However, for those 
 of you who are intelligent enough to realize that you're buying a video game because it's fun to 
 play, literally turning you into a zombie as you get hooked on the joy that is slicing and dicing 
 the undead - go pick this one up. It's bound to be one of those game that you'll never be able 
 to bring yourself to trade in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: progidey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and fairly addictive. Just being given the ability to take practically any object 
 located within the mall and use it as an weapon in your defense against countless hoards of zombies 
 is truly the heart and fun of this game. Other than that the save system is descent. It is not 
 as cold hearted and ruthless as people say it is. You have unlimited saves but you can only save 
 in selected areas such as the security room, and the restrooms (which there are several of) . My 
 biggest complaint about this game is the added difficulty that is at times unnecessary. The game 
 was fun until it reached 7:00pm on the first day in the game. Thats when the zombies eyes began 
 to glow, and they became more aggressive. To add to that, you now have convicts in the courtyard 
 to make it all the more harder for you to escort poorly programed characters who at times will 
 slow you down, get lost, or just freeze in their tracks and not respond to your call. Not only 
 that, but also after a certain hour the lights in the mall turn off, now making it harder to see. 
 And to top that; as the game progresses the zombie population increases which is a good concept 
 except for when you have escorts, side missions and case missions to complete in order to fulfil 
 the story line; so often times you will find yourself re-loading your last game save and re-doing 
 a story/case mission. With all of these concepts in place, it often times makes it seem impossible 
 to complete the escourt missions and add to the story line with these hindrances. Overall this 
 game is addictive, and fun, but for me... its just a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Littleblueneon
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  At first the game was lots of fun, hundreds of zombies to kill and thousands of ways of doing it. 
 Unfortunately the novelty off it wore off fast. Moving in and out of the mall and to any section 
 of it you are slapped with a load screen, also some other random times you get slapped with a load 
 screen to. The phone you get is ringing every 10 minutes and it seems to ring only when your up 
 to your eye balls in zombies, Ignoring the phone wont work, it will just ring until u pick it up 
 and if you do pick it up to hear Otiss helpful info haven for bid you hang up on him or get 
 attacked while he is tell you some thing. He will just call you back to tell you that it was rude 
 to hang up. The stranded peoples A. I. is a joke its a chore just to get them threw the sea of 
 zombies or to even fallow you. The game also feels over whelming at times with all sorts of people 
 to save and Cases to solve before time runes out. There are a few redeeming points in the game. 
 The graphics are not bad, the ability to pick up almost any thing in the mall to use as a weapon 
 is pretty entertaining and that youre trapped in a mall with thousands of zombies and thousands 
 of ways to kill those buggers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicymonkey111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Well the time has come and dead rising is in our hands finally after many debates on when it came 
 out.
  I'll start off by saying i own this game, and i play it vigorously!
  
  Graphics-9/10
  These are some awesome graphics... up to a thousand zombies on screen at once, 
 but sometimes your game may experiance a certain slow down when attacking more that one at a time, 
 but mainly using the sledgehammer.
  
  Sound-7/10
  Dont get me wrong, the sound is great, hearing zombies moaning in the distance while only being 
 equipped with a teddy bear and a coffee creamer is certainly frightening.... especially adam's death 
 scene... to hear that was to hear the sounds of zombie hell at its best.
  but where it lacks is talking to people, the text is so small you can barely read it, and it is 
 a next gen game, so i would have expected full voice overs.
  
  Gameplay-6/10
  The fun part is halfing a zombie with a chainsaw, while the dullpart is the save system... the save 
 system for lack of better words is.... edgey, its not a great design for this type of game with 
 its time constraints, and the survivors can be hard to save also due to time constraints.... the 
 boss fights offer some time off from mutilating zombie after zombie, but not and escape. *spoilers* 
 by the end of the game, and overtime you will be pit against spec ops, and they will be tough to 
 kill... so look out.
  
  Story-7/10 
  the story is pretty much the same as all zombie stories *Spoilers* government does testing... government 
 creates zombies... zombies overrun a town... man goes in to find out what happend... man escapes.... government 
 denies... thats about all for the story, but there is an upside, 6 endings and you get to find out 
 how to get them.
  
  Controls-8/10
  The controls are pretty straight foward, X is to attack, hold it to do a MASSIVE DAMAGE attack, 
 A is jump, B is interact, Y is to call out , right button/left button is to switch weapons, left 
 trigger to bring up camera, right trigger to aim, and so on.... but where it lacks is a poor weapon 
 attack variation, you cant really pull of any sick combos where you flip the enemy zombie over 
 and attack there weak spot for massive damage.
  
  Overall-9/10
  game is good, its flaws make it unique, people will remember this as one of the best action survival 
 horror games ever.
  
  rent or buy
  
  I suggest rent it and find out if you wanna buy it!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioinfomatic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  You start out as Frank West, a photojournalist who wants his name to be known by everyone. He wants 
 that huge story that everyone will be talking about, and when they do, his name will be known by 
 the world. You start off riding in a helicopter, talking to the pilot. Were here. And the pilot 
 says: Willamette, Colorado. Population: 53,594.
  
  Youre in the back of the helicopter with the door open, peering out of the side with your camera. 
 The cutscene ends there, and youre left with a camera view, given the responsibility to take pictures. 
 As youre flying parallel with one of the roads following it closer to the middle of town, you 
 see random beings walking in the middle of the road aimlessly wondering about.
  
  As youre flying, you see cars crashed, zombies surrounding a bus, and just the whole city taken 
 down by these creatures. You then come across a car with a woman on top of it kicking away these 
 zombies with her legs, she can see you riding in the helicopter, so she starts waving her arms. 
 The story in Dead Rising is chosen by you. As you get further into the story, the story gets more 
 and more open ended. Youve got 72 in-game hours to get your story and get out of the mall by riding 
 your helicopter out.
  
  But wait, you arent there to save people (yet) , youre there to report the story. So take pictures! 
 Press B to zoom out, press A to zoom in, and press X to take the photo. When you take pictures, 
 you gain PP (Prestige Points) which in turn helps you level up later in the game. The more zombies 
 youve got on screen when you take the picture, the more PP you gain. You can also gain PP by completing 
 missions, having survivors join your party, and killing different increments of zombies (50,100,1000 
 etc.) . More PP can also be gained by taking pictures of Brutality, Drama, Erotica, Outtakes and 
 how close you are to the zombies. If you take a picture of a zombie while its getting killed, 
 the onscreen PP collector labels this as brutality. The same thing happens if you take a picture 
 of a zombie who is wearing a low cut dress, the collector labels this as erotica. Also, if you 
 stick a mask on a zombie and take a photo, that picture is labeled as an Outtake. Finally, if you 
 take a picture of a zombie while its attacking someone, this is considered drama. Take pictures 
 of all of these things happening in one frame, and youll be getting a lot of PP.
  
  The audio in Dead Rising is top-notch. Every object sounds correct as to what it should sound like. 
 Hollow objects sound right with that thud that makes it sound hollow. Swords let you hear the flesh 
 slash that works so well, and smashing zombies with sledgehammers never felt so good from the superb 
 sound. The game just sounds right on the money. The soundtrack is good although you dont hear 
 it too often. You usually just hear zombies moaning and groaning. Voice acting is another factor 
 which this game does pretty close to perfect. There arent any well known voices in Dead Rising, 
 but the acting is very good.
  
  Dead Rising is a fun game to play. As youve all probably heard, theres endless possibilities 
 for weapons. It has the usual suspects such as knives, guns, swords, and hammers. It doesnt end 
 there though. Dead Rising has so much more than that, such as baseball bats, park benches, skateboards 
 (which you can ride) , buckets, mops, CD cases, water guns, teddy bears, big cardboard boxes, and 
 so many more objects. When you get a sharp object, and you slash a zombie, the corresponding flesh 
 is cut away. Was that zombie about to kick you? Well, his legs gone now. Was that other zombie 
 about to grab your throat? Not anymore without arms. The blood is glorious with it splashing everywhere, 
 including on Frank West. Frank starts off in the game as a weak normal man without any fighting 
 experience, and as you fight and up your level you gain different moves and different things you 
 can do to zombies with the highest level being 50.
  
  While slicing and dicing your enemies, you will be hurt a lot from the zombies attacking you. Youll 
 find different food items scattered around the mall in different areas. Look around and see lettuce, 
 cheeseburgers, subs, popcorn, potato chips, alcohol, pies, lettuce and anything else you can think 
 of foodwise. Low on life? Drink some orange juice. Bleeding from your eye sockets? Suck down that 
 cheeseburger. Youll be fine. Food is plentysome so you wont have to worry about it too much.
 
  
  The save system is a little off. When you go into public restrooms, you can save by taking a leak 
 in the urinal. The problem is that youre only allowed one save on your memory unit per profile. 
 Since youve only got 72 hours to complete the game, (with missions in between) you can easily 
 paint yourself into a corner. The game makes up for this by the fact that if something happens 
 and youve screwed yourself by saving in a wrong place at the wrong time, Dead Rising makes you 
 start the game over, but with your gained stats still intact. Dead Rising is fun enough to where 
 you will want to play over and over, but some will find this extremely annoying. The game is mostly 
 you trying to save different survivors throughout the mall by getting them to the safe zone which 
 in this game is the malls security room.
  
  There is no online or offline multiplayer for Dead Rising. Could they have come up with something? 
 Probably. While this fact does bring down the score a little bit, the single player completely 
 makes up for the void. Dead Rising does have leaderboards which you can check anytime while youre 
 playing.
  
  The game looks great. From the very beginning where youre in the helicopter looking over the city, 
 to inside the mall taking pictures, it all looks really good. The textures look really good everywhere, 
 the style almost reminds me of Project Gotham Racing 3 because everything looks so fluent and smooth. 
 At times there are an amazing number of zombies on screen (300 - 500 at times) with very little 
 (if any) framerate drops at any time in the game. One problem with the look of Dead Rising is the 
 character reactions during cutscenes. At times these arent too great in the overall look of Dead 
 Rising. They look almost robotic sometimes. Overall though, this game looks amazing.
  
  The achievements in Dead Rising are great. From silly ones like falling from a ledge at least 16 
 feet high, to getting 33 feet of air while ramping a car into the huge courtyard of the mall. It 
 feels great. Theres also achievements for getting a certain amount of PP such as 1500PP, 3000PP 
 and many other different achievements.
  
  Dead Rising is easily one of the best Xbox 360 titles released to date. While it does have some 
 minor problems such as no multiplayer, a weird save system and repetitive missions sometimes, the 
 game makes up for itself by being pure fun and insane. If you love slashing zombies in half and 
 smashing zombie heads in, if you love a free roaming open ended story, and if you love video games, 
 youll love Dead Rising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shoun
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  On the surface Dead Rising appears little more than an excuse to slaughter zombies in as many ways 
 as possible, with as many implements as possible. While this concept is certainly part of the whole, 
 its actually a very small part of the experience, which in the end allows precious few moments 
 to haphazardly smite zombies.
  
  Behind the veil of violence is a story about hope, survival and conspiracy. While the presentation 
 could easily confuse an uneducated viewer into believing youre playing Dawn of the Dead, the designers 
 make it very clear that it is in no way associated with that particular series. Ultimately, while 
 the fundamental concept is identical (zombies in a mall) the story is entirely different.
  
  You play the roll of Frank West, a freelance journalist intent on getting the biggest scoop 
 if his lifetime, which depending on how you play, he may or may not achieve. You enter the game 
 via helicopter, flying over a town that appears to be in the throws of a riot, overturned cars, 
 exploding gas stations and violence. However, as you watch events unfold through the viewfinder, 
 you realize this is no ordinary riot. The small town of Willamette has a much bigger problem than 
 a simple riot.
  
  Frank ultimately exits the helicopter on the roof of the Willamette Mall, which appears to be the 
 center of the violent activity and orders the pilot to return in 72 hours. If only Frank understood 
 the dilemma he was about to be engulfed in.
  
  The main story is split into various Case Files, or missions. These Case Files are the primary 
 objective of the game, they lead you through the story arch and each case you close leads you closer 
 to the truth about the events in Willamette. If you fail a Case File you fail to uncover the truth 
 and lose the game.
  
  Along with Case Files there are also unrelated dramas unfolding within the mall. There are basically 
 two types of side-story characters, those that need saving and those who have gone insane. Frank 
 carries a transceiver (two-way radio) with him and gets frequent updates from the makeshift base 
 of operations. Among these transmissions are story related information, locations of survivors 
 and strange actions taking place in the mall.
  
  These transmissions are called Scoops, and once activated have a time-limit until they are no longer 
 available. While the non-story related Scoops are optional, they do allow for a large number of 
 Prestige Points, which act as experience that raises your level. The interesting thing about the 
 Scoops is its up to the player to determine which, if any, they want to do. If youre on a time 
 sensitive Case File you might have to ignore the optional Scoops. However, Case Files are also 
 time based, meaning that once you finish one, you may have a few hours before another becomes available, 
 this allows you time to take part in the optional Scoops.
  
  These optional Scoops are typically divided into two types, one is to rescue survivors, the other 
 is to dispatch psychotic maniacs. Both are difficult, but for very different reasons. 
  
  Saving a survivor requires you to find them, talk to them, and escort them back to the safe area, 
 which can be an arduous task, especially if the survivor needs help walking. Now by its self this 
 isnt a difficult task, however when youre surrounded by dozens of zombies it can be very frustrating, 
 especially since you can damage the person youre trying to save. Luckily there are two times youre 
 awarded Prestige Points for helping a survivor, once when you get them to follow you, and another 
 when you deliver them to the safe area. This way, even if you dont make it back to safety you 
 at least get something for your effort, and these bonuses go a long way to earning you levels.
 
  
  Ridding the mall of psychotics is a whole other story. When you find one youre treated to a nice 
 little cut scene, typically displaying their complete insanity, then youre treated to a fairly 
 rigorous battle. If youre ill prepared when you encounter one of these psychotics you probably 
 wont survive. However, you do have the option of leaving that part of the mall, and the lunatic 
 with it, youre in no way expected to kill the optional ones and they wont follow you outside 
 their area.
  
  When you complete certain tasks, such as aiding a survivor or killing a lunatic, youre awarded 
 with Prestige Points, or PP as the game refers to them. There are many ways to obtain these points, 
 and one of the best ways is by taking pictures, you are playing a photojournalist after all. It 
 takes some practice, but you can learn to take some impressive pictures that earn you massive PP. 
 There are also small stickers hidden around the mall, most businesses have them, and they will 
 give you additional points based on your distance from them when you take the picture.
  
  As you earn PP Frank will level, and each level provides various stat boosts such as additional 
 health, attack power and inventory slots. Frank will also learn skills which he can use to kill 
 zombies in more exciting ways.
  
  The thing I found most interesting about the story is how the ending will unfold depending on your 
 actions towards the end of the game. There are three endings, one called the True Ending and 
 two others that end the game without allowing the true story to be told.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Dead Rising is a fairly standard 3rd person action game, with one major exception. 
 Practically every object in the game can be used as a weapon. From something as basic as a bottle 
 of ketchup to powerful machine guns (and yes there are chainsaws) Frank has a plethora of weapons 
 at his disposal. These weapons have limited usage times, however considering their massive numbers 
 you are almost never without some sort of weapon.
  
  There are also foodstuffs to consume, which regain health, and books that grant Frank abilities 
 while the books are in his inventory. Some of these books give PP boosts while others extend the 
 usefulness of weapons.
  
  The combination of zombie violence, Case Files and Scoops keep you well occupied and never standing 
 in one place for too long, almost to the point of feeling rushed at times, but when you only have 
 72 hours to uncover a insidious plot there isnt any time to waste.
  
  Provided you complete the required tasks, there are two additional chapters to the story. One 
 is call Overtime, which takes the story past its initial 72 hour arch. The other is an Infinity 
 Mode, which requires you to obtain the True Ending to unlock.
  
  The Infinity mode is more or less a survival challenge. You dont have to worry about Scoops or 
 taking pictures, you simply have to survive in the mall for as long as you can. Unfortunately its 
 not as easy as it sounds. Youll slowly lose health as time progresses (to prevent you from standing 
 in a safe spot for days) and food is far more limited than in the 72 hour mode. You also cant 
 save the Infinity mode, which means you really have to dedicate yourself to surviving.
  
  There are also a healthy number of achievements to unlock, which along with the time limit inhibiting 
 you from finishing all the Scoops, that will provide a good amount of replay value to what appears 
 to be a simple, mindless, zombie killin game.
  
  The save system is probably the biggest letdown in Dead Rising. Youre only allowed on save slot 
 per memory device, so unless you own a memory card in addition to your hard drive youre limited 
 to one game at a time. On one level I can understand the idea, you only have one chance, if you 
 screw up youre toast. However, if more than one person wants to play the game on a single 360 
 youre out of luck, which is a real bummer. I think simply allowing player profiles, with one save 
 slot each, would have been an easy way to resolve this frustrating scenario.
  
  Graphically speaking Dead Rising looks fantastic. Unlike most horror games, Dead Rising makes 
 good use of a real-time day and night system. During the day colors are bright and vivid and the 
 environments are spacious and intriguing. However, at night, darkness prevails. Spaces that used 
 to seem cavernous now appear tight and claustrophobic and zombies seem to appear almost magically 
 out of the shadows. The juxtaposition of the two is almost indescribable, during the day you feel 
 fairly safe and in control, however once night falls all you want to do is run to safety.
  
  The audio is also top-notch, with the exception of the less than stellar songs that are scattered 
 throughout some of the environments. However the sound effects make up for any of the other audio 
 issues. Each weapon has a distinct sound and the zombie effects (moans, sloshes, deaths) are fantastic. 
 The added touch of these sounds help to round out the game in a very satisfying way.
  
  Ultimately Dead Rising provides a fun, fresh experience to the tried and true survival horror genre. 
 With a huge amount of things to do and things to kill, Dead Rising should provide even the hardiest 
 of gamers more than one play through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigantorz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  like the game, it takes a little getting used to, and a ton of effort. I was hoping the full game 
 would be more like the demo. I should just worry about the story missions rather than the other 
 ones, but sometimes, I don't want to wait for them occur, so I try something new.
  
  I like games I can just sit down and play whenever. I don't have alot of time. DR is difficult 
 because you not only have to find a savepoint, you've got to get to that save point. Takes time. 
 I don't want to lose my progress, but I gotta rush out the door! So part of the reason I haven't 
 beaten the game yet is because I can't devote the time required to the game. Sucks, but the games 
 so much fun when you get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMOKEMNHALO2001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Are you sick of zombies? Sick of the same old shot here shot there formula? Are you tired of killing 
 countless zombies row from row? No? Well then Dead Rising for the xbox 360 is your kind of game. 
 you play as Frank, Frank is a freelance journalist out to find the next big story, after getting 
 a tip about a small town Frank decides to go and see what all the noise is about. So he gets a 
 helacopter to fly to the small town, only to find that chaos is in the streets. Is it a riot, or 
 something else? Well soon Frank finds out it's zombies, and decides to stay and find the truth 
 behind the madness. And that's where the game starts, you have 72 hours to find the truth, after 
 that you have to get back to the helacopter. but if you find the truth and don't make it to the 
 choper than you'll be left behind. At first this may sound dumb, being stuck in a mall for 72 hours, 
 but the more you progress the more the story'll make sense. You'll have plenty of weapons, pistols, 
 machine guns, dead fish.... hmmm... yeah you can beat zombies with dead fish, it's actually funny. 
 Anyway, you'll find that the mall is pretty big... you'll leave one plaza just to go into an even 
 bigger plaza filled with more zombies! Thankfully the game has an rpg fell to it, the more zombies 
 you kill the more pp (persige points) you get. pp can be earned by takeing pictures, saveing people, 
 and killing zombies in a certain style (run them over with a lawn-mower, cut their head off with 
 a sickle, ect.) . There's a level cap of 50, but that's ok. some of the missions make sense, while 
 other are just dumb. Otis, the mall janitor, will call you time by time to tell you where a souviver 
 is, but this can get in the way of the main story. by answering Otiss' calls you'll be left prone 
 to zombie attacks (even though you can still move, there's too many zombies sometimes) . I know 
 some people (or all of us) hates escort missions, but in Dead Rising the souvuvers can take care 
 of themselves (sometimes) . You can give people weapons to use, although not every person you help 
 can do this, some you'll have to carry, while others you'll have to hold there hands. But escorts 
 are worth the trouble, you'll get alot of pp just for letting someone join your team (25,000 points 
 really) and 40,000-45,000 pp just to take them back to the hideout. Now the main missions are very 
 important. You'll have a time limit for starting a new mission. once a mission, or "case" as the 
 game calls it, ends you'll be told when a next one will start. It may be at 3 am or 3 pm, point 
 is if you're not there after a while than you'll miss the case and you'll never finish the game, 
 or you can load a saved game. That brings up one of Dead Risings weak points, pathetic saves! you'll 
 finish one mission and get thrown into another, after a while you'll be so far in the game you'll 
 forget to save, if you die on, lets say mission 4-1 but you last saved on mission 2-1 you'll lose 
 all the pp and weapons you had and go all the way back to mission 2-1. you'll have to find a bathroom 
 or a couch to rest and save. this can get very annoying seeing how you'll barely find a bathroom 
 to save at. another weak point for the game is no co-op. just think how fun it would have been 
 to slice and shoot zombies with a friend over Live. Still, this a game that doesn't get old due 
 to the different weapons you can find. And vehicals, there's a bike you can use to run over zombies, 
 that never gets old. Dead Rising is what zombie killing gamers has been waiting for. It really 
 is worth a play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game had a very interesting story, and very high potential. It began nice, showing off it's 
 decent graphics and amazing sound.. but when I began to play I soon realized that there were many 
 things that just annoyed me insanely. For example.. the Targeting system for guns is like a cheap 
 translation of Resident Evil gun game targeting. Which means there isn't a lock-on. On top of that 
 you can't move when you aim with your weapon. You can shoot and move but you won't hit -anything-. 
 The bullets just.. go someplace else other than where you want. Oh, and when you do get this game 
 go to the gunshop. You think other games are hard? The Gunshop boss, "Cletus", is almost invinceable. 
 Although I was level 10 I had an immensely hard time just trying to hit him with the Katana. That 
 and the Convicts are about the most annoying thing I've ever seen in a video game. I shoot at them 
 with a 9mm handgun.. and they just start laughing. Come on now, are they Convicts or are they Men 
 of steel? I'd really love to know.
  
  Over all, it was a decent stab at Zombie Games.. but it leaves you itching for something greater. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danplunkett
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a extremely fun game if it had the ragdoll physics it would be even sweeter the graphics 
 are awesome like if you get bit you will see a piece of your skin hanging out of the zombies mouthand 
 they get detailed with the inside of the mouths too you can see teeth tounge blood etc. 
  
  the sound is awesome such as the blood hitting the ground or a head exploding. 
  
  the weapon 
 selection is like hella huge 250+ wpns 
  i will give you a short list ofthe most creative weapons
  
  10. Stuffed Bear
  9. Bench
 
  8. Dishes
  7. Squirt Gun
  6. Bowling Ball
  5. Scythe
  4. Frozen Drinks
  3. Potted Plants
  2. Bowling Ball
  1. Soccer Ball
  
  Most Gory
  
  10. Hunting Knife
 
  9. Baseball Bat
  8. Nightstick
  7. Shopping Cart
  6. Sledgehammer
  5. Scythe
  4. Hedge Trimmer
  3. Lawn Mower
  2. Chainsaw
  1. Katana 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Dead Rising for a while now; I heard about it a while back when it said to 
 have a lot of problems. Though the articles were never specific on what was wrong with the game, 
 there are still a mess of things wrong with Dead Rising.
  
  You might think "Hey I love killing hundreds of anything, zombies, Chinese warriors, weird bloody 
 things in Nanobreaker, let me at em" but this game is not for you, or for anyone. Dead Rising falls 
 under an identity crisis it tries to do many things which are all good on their own, but none of 
 these elements should be put together. So there's an overview of the review. Let's start out with 
 the Good versus the bad then Ill go into what shouldn't be met with what.
  
  Whats good about the game you ask? Tons of things, a unique time system, which doesn't sound thrilling 
 at first but it helps the plot go through and it makes it seem like every moment you do something 
 it's part of a story, if you spent 11:00am to 3:00am killing zombies you can believe that's what 
 actually happened in the story. Instead of killing zombies for days on end in real time and in 
 game time having it only be a few hours. As most of probably already know, there's a lot of weapons 
 to use. Though in the demo only a handful of them were useful, that's not the case in the full 
 Dead Rising. You got knives, sword, battles axes, guns, lead pipes, wooden planks, sledge hammers, 
 masks, laser swords, can of beans, ladders, and more. The mall is pretty open, not all parts of 
 the mall are open at first which is a tiny bit annoying but it's nothing that doesn't get unlocked 
 on the 2nd day when all the areas are unlocked at around 6AM. The voice acting is also very well 
 done, there's one moment when the character Jessie seems like shes reading lines instead of 
 speaking them, but other than that its grade a quality. Even the psychopaths, with their over the 
 top attitudes give a good performance, which would be a good time to mention the bosses. All the 
 boss fights are fun; they're all different in a way. Youll find crazed shop owners who decided 
 to equip their shopping cart with sharp objects, a maniac security guard who hates women who seem 
 like theyre selling themselves, and even the classic insane clown with chainsaws.
  
  However with all these goods there is a bad. There are a lot of good weapons to use but it seems 
 like they only last a few attacks, the Katana you find in the demo only lasted 10-20 slashes, even 
 if you didn't hit a zombie. Well thats how it is in the real game as well. Youll run into a lot 
 of weapons that just dont seem to last for any reason at all. Bowling balls just seem to dissolve 
 into air, pure steel swords break before baseball bats, and plastic light saber is one of the longer 
 lasting items, it's a good thing we're being consistent. Youll find other annoying concepts like 
 these weapon health inaccuracies like a boss youll run into called The Convicts. The first time 
 you run through this game you have four or five bars of health, yet for some reason Capcom found 
 it a good idea to make one of the hardest bosses in the game almost impossible to avoid. The convicts 
 are the three jerks who will haunt your gaming experience. Almost all the survivors are across 
 the park and in order to get them back you have to go through the convicts, and at the lower levels 
 its impossible. They deal mass amount of damage and almost always kill whoever youre guiding. 
 Which gets to the frustrations of the game, saving survivors is fun, but with difficulties like 
 down right retarded AI it seems like youre saving them from themselves rather than zombies. The 
 first real survivors you'll encounter are two people called Burt and Aaron. Burt was fine, and 
 probably the only smart NPC in the entire game. You can give him a gun or bat and he'll be fine. 
 Aaron on the other hand liked to stop and cry while the zombies ate him alive. Good job Aaron. 
 Youll have to be on the higher levels in order to successfully protect a lot of people, most of 
 the time because youll be throwing yourself in front of zombies just so your survivor doesnt 
 die. Which means youll be taking a lot of hits. The game forces replay so much its almost inevitable 
 that youll have to restart the game at least once. Though its possible to beat the game in one 
 run, its not as much fun as you think it would be.
  
  Lets also mention the annoying zombies, now if the zombies just attacked you that would be fine. 
 But they decided to take a God of War approach and they can grab you (Which makes your survivors 
 go into a state of confusion where they normally lose some health, or shoot you in the face) and 
 you lose anyone you're carrying or holding hands with (A way of transporting survivors) . This adds 
 to the lists of annoying features they shouldnt have added or should be fixed up.
  
  As for the identity crisis youll notice it in the main game. It's "open ended" but "open ended" 
 means "do whatever you want" not "Do what you want, but keep in mind if you do what you want you 
 fail the main storyline" Awesome. Theres also a counter of how many zombies you killed, but the 
 game has no Free Mode where you try to kill as many zombies in a certain amount of time or with 
 no heal items. Unlimited mode doesnt count since that seems more like running to go find some 
 food before your health is all gone. Theres also a photography part of the game but you NEVER 
 have to use it, they decided to make the main character a journalist but never implement the idea 
 of actually using your camera. Theres some PP stickers that you can collect but nothing worth 
 while comes out of finding them all. They decided to make him a journalist instead of some ex-con 
 which would explain why hes so strong.
  
  The main annoyance of the game is how it's balanced to be 10 levels higher than you are, which 
 is just stupid. The game overall feels sloppy and unfinished, between the terrible AI, horrible 
 unbalance, and broken save system, oh yeah! There isn't one. I'm fairly sure that Microsoft made 
 a default save system incase a game forgot to put on in. Because you save completely in the Xbox 
 Guide button, making the game seem even more unfinished and rushed. Capcom has made a lot of good 
 games, a lot of good zombie games, this isn't one of them. Killing zombies is fun while it lasts 
 but unless you find killing zombies endlessly for a whole week two hours a day, you have no reason 
 to buy this game. The plot has been praised by some but its nothing a 4th grader couldnt think 
 of, there are no big twists in the story unless if you havent already played a Capcom game. There 
 are other things to play afterward like Overtime Mode which is easy at the highest level (Level 
 50) but instead of giving the game a GOOD ending they give us some lame final boss and some text 
 explaining what happens. Luckily it leaves an open ending which means Dead Rising 2 maybe?!
  
  I would imagine you could rent the game, but seriously, don't buy it. Its fun, but you only 
 get the impression it's a good game because all the stupid and terrible stuff is at the beginning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsn187
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I found that dead risiing has some of the worst saving actions ever theres hardly any place to 
 save which makes the game not as good because you might have to redo something over 3 or 4 times 
 which no one likes doing. The night mode that the have for the zombies is a little weird but fun 
 and hard at the same time because it takes double the amount of hits to kill the zombies. This 
 game is fun none the less. One of the aspects i had trouble with is the text, it is so freaking 
 small you cant read what otis is saying half the time as well as the people that you are trying 
 to save from all the different stores that there are in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawnboi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  
  You start out the game in a helicopter flying up to a little mountain town. What the main charecter 
 (Frank West) sees there is beyond him. It is your job you viciously kill zombies inside a mall 
 and rescue all survivors, in 72 hours.
  
  The whole plot of this game is one huge puzzle, you will often find yourself trying to figure out 
 how in hell you can put the whole plot together. 
  You put the plot together by doing task and rescuing people, sounds easy?
  Since you only have 
 one save, once you miss a task, thats it your done, you have to start the game over.
  
  Dead Rising almost lets you do anything you want inside the mall that Frank West is trapped in. 
 The most fun you will have in this game is violently killing zombie with a laundry list of weapons. 
 The weapons in this game are in now way limited. You will always have a weapon in your inventory. 
 I would say half the weapons you find in the game are not very useful to help out when you are 
 saving people. If you are not saving anyone, there is tones of fun to be found in popin' a zombie 
 with a rabid fire tennis ball launcher.
  
  As I complained before, the save system sucks. The save system makes a good difficulty game into 
 a fest of temper tantrums and controller bashing. Since there is a estimated total of 7 places 
 where you can save, when you die you will go back 30 minutes and sometimes 1 or 2 hours. The save 
 is not a bad thing if you like a little difficulty, but you will still find it very frustrating.
 
  
  The controls are another great factor to Dead Rising, you will learn all the controlls within 10-20 
 minutes of play time!
  
  The presentation in this game is great. The sound of the chainsaw and the meat cleavers slashing 
 zombies is awesome. the voice overs are also great. This leads to a good story that is believable 
 and entertaining.
  
  There are still some complaints I have to rap up my review.
  One huge complaint is, if you have a regular TV I would suggest thinking about getting this game 
 or not. On a regular TV you can't I repeat CAN'T read ANY of the text, which leads to a sloppy 
 and somtimes boring time through Dead Rising.
  
  As I close Dead Rising is a game for.. most ages, that will supply you with many replays and tones 
 of intense action and violence.
  Thank you for reading my review on "Dead Rising"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stebun
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  After I played the demo of Dead Rising i knew i would be in for a gory, zombie infested, treat. 
 But after about 30 minutes of the actuall game play i descovered the horrid saving system. After 
 dying you have to go back to your last save; and you can only save in the bathroom and the security 
 room. This sounds like a pretty good idea at first... but as soon as you get past a mile stone in 
 the story you have low life left so you head for the bath room... but in between you and the bathroom 
 are 500 zombies that want to feast on your brain. After dying a couple times and going back through 
 pretty much all of the game (i only had one chance to save before this paticular missions) i kept 
 dyin, so then my dad comes in and i offer him the controller because after redoing that part of 
 the story so many times i was a bit frusterated... he then makes a new game and plays for about 
 an hour. So then i felt i was up for another try, so i go in there and start up the only save i 
 see... i thought my dad hadn't saved his game... his loss... but to my sad surprise he did.... 
 so after that you can imagine my frusteration.... so i check up on gamespot to see if i hadnt saved 
 my game or something else.... but i soon figure out that Dead Rising only supports one save..... it 
 made me almost want to break the disc at that point... but i didnt.. i just continued on with my 
 dads game... and we have continued to play one story mode...
  
  Pros
  -seemingly endless amount of ways to hack and slash your way through zombie crouds
  -the story 
 is quite interesting
  -having the option to do the story missions or just kill zombies
  -the graphics are some of the best on the 360, especially the cut scenes
  -the sound of metal 
 (or anything else for that matter) through zombie is great
  
  Cons
  -the game is made for one player and one player only
  -the saving system is one of the worst 
 i have seen
  -when you miss the time for a missions it is gone forever so you eather have to start the game 
 again or just kill zombies
  
  Overall
  The cons are over shadowed by sheer greatness of the the rest of the game
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Capcom is definitely no stranger to the world of zombies. After all, it essentially birthed the 
 whole gaming craze on the living dead with its ridiculously popular Resident Evil series. With 
 the fourth iteration of that series resting happily as a critics darling and the fifth game years 
 away from release, Capcom has dropped Dead Rising, which is in many ways the polar opposite of 
 the Resident Evil titles  a funny, completely off-the-wall and entirely tongue-in-cheek affair 
 that takes a classic B-movie setup and mixes in some genuinely unique gameplay devices to make 
 a greatly enjoyable and gory action romp.
  
  Dead Rising stars Frank West, a photojournalist whos gotten a tip that something fishy is up in 
 Willamette, Colorado  a low-population town encased in mountains. Franks hired a helicopter pilot 
 to take him in, which turns out to be a good thing, as the military has barricade the main roads. 
 As the chopper ferries Frank about town, he spots some grotesque tableaus of survival and panic 
 as a few hysterical citizens fight off hordes of slow, stalking anomalies. Of course, these turn 
 out to be zombies.
  
  A little fazed but still determined to get the scoop on whats going on, Frank lands on top of 
 the towns apparently sole attraction  the Willamette Parkview Mall. After a few minutes of scene 
 setting, the zombies make their way inside, and Franks mission becomes one of survival, as he 
 must last three days before his ride returns and he can expose whatever story he happens to find 
 therein.
  
  The main distinction that separates Dead Rising from most other games is that time is constantly 
 passing in the mall. The 72 hours that make up the game are scaled to equal about seven or eight 
 hours of real time. In the games opening, youll meet up with some key survivors that get Frank 
 started on the trail to the truth behind just how this town became a mass of the shambling undead. 
 After that, its up to you in regards to your actions. The games story missions are presented 
 to you in a linear arc, and take place at specific times in precise locations throughout the mall. 
 If you dont make it there in time to start the mission, the story mode is effectively cancelled, 
 requiring you to reload your last save if you wish to get another crack at it.
  
  Thats not so bad on its own, but heres where things get a little messy; you only get one save 
 per storage device, so unless youve got a bunch of hard drives and memory cards laying around, 
 youre stuck with just the one save. Tragically, if you save yourself into a position where theres 
 not time to physically make it to the next story missionits time to start the game completely 
 over again. If this happens, youll be able to restart with any skills and the like Frank has picked 
 up from his time in the mall thus far. This nasty business can be counteracted by simply playing 
 a bit carefully and being sure to save well in advance of a mission via one of the games sparsely 
 distributed save points, but its still an archaic and potentially angering system that feels a 
 bit too punishing for its own good. 
  
  Luckily, Dead Rising is a lot of fun, and playing through the games different missions more than 
 once doesnt really affect it too much. The missions fall into two basic categories  youll typically 
 either be fighting a boss enemy or discovering survivors trapped in the mall and escorting them 
 back to a designated safe zone. The former tend to be the more exciting of the two, as the game 
 throws some absolutely crazy enemies at you. These include a crazed hunter who is convinced hes 
 in the middle of a communist invasion; a psychotic, chainsaw-juggling clown whom nobody is laughing 
 at anymore; a supermarket manager whos outfitted a shopping cart with all manner of blades, and 
 many more. Each of these bosses  or psychopaths, as the game classifies them  are each given 
 a cinematic to introduce them as well as a gruesome follow-up after your fight that shows their 
 gory and oft-hilarious deaths.
  
  The typically optional escort missions often follow a psychopath boss battle (as theyve often 
 taken some hostages) and require you to join up with survivors of the zombification and lead them 
 back to a safe house known as the security room, which serves as your base of operations. The personality 
 of your survivors varies quite a bit  some will be very aggressive and start taking the zombies 
 to town  others will need to have you hold their hand, and a few will even require you to piggyback 
 them to the security room. The latter two options effectively prevent you from using weapons of 
 any kind, which makes them a bit annoying, especially since there are so many hilarious and awesome 
 weapons on display here.
  
  The Willamette Parkview Mall is host to about 80 stores, and just about any item in them that isnt 
 nailed down can be picked up and used by Frank as a weapon. Hedge clippers, bowling balls, CDs, 
 free weights, lawn mowers, rifles, handguns, light-up toy sabers, Frisbees, and a ridiculous amount 
 of other stuff. Hell, theres even a replica Megaman blaster that shoots tennis balls. Theres 
 simply a ton of things to pick up and experiment with in Dead Rising, and indeed, youll likely 
 spend a good amount of your time in the mall smashing up some zombies real, real good. All weapons 
 in the game will break after a couple dozen uses (weapons also get cleared when they run out of 
 ammo) , so youll constantly be having to pick up some close by items to keep up the hurt. Although 
 it might seem like a hassle to constantly be grabbing new items, its hard to imagine a game like 
 Dead Rising without this mechanic, as it keeps things consistently fresh and manic, and is definitely 
 to the games credit.
  
  Adding further intrigue to the gameplay are skill items and prestige points, or PP. In the game, 
 youll spot a number of bookstores located in several wings of the mall. Youll be able to pick 
 up a couple books and magazines that will increase specific skills as long as you keep them in 
 your possession. You may be able to, for example, use bladed weapons three times as long before 
 they break, or increase the power of healing items by 50 percent. There are quite a few books available, 
 and its interesting to experiment with all the different literature in the game.
  
  Perhaps more appealing, though, is the prestige points system, which is essentially a way for Frank 
 to earn experience and grow stronger. As you level, youll learn new hand-to-hand throws and wrestling 
 moves, get more health, more storage space, increased throwing ability, and more. All of these 
 different upgrades really make it seem as though Frank is growing markedly stronger after each 
 level. Prestige points are earned by doing all kinds of things  primarily defeating psychopaths, 
 successfully escorting survivors to the security room, and taking pictures.
  
  Since Frank is a photojournalist, youll be able to take a picture at any time by squeezing the 
 left trigger, pointing, and shooting. The number of points you get for a picture depend on a number 
 of factors, such as how many zombies are in the frame, or what is going on when you take the picture. 
 They are then classified into four categories  horror, brutality, outtake, and erotica. Got to 
 dig those zombies in fishnets!
  
  Ultimately, although the time scaling caps Dead Risings experience at around eight hours, itll 
 most certainly take you longer than that, as youll probably need to try most of the case missions 
 multiple times before finally getting through them  a late-game mission requiring you to speed 
 through the malls maintenance tunnels whilst being pursued by an assailant stands out as particularly 
 trying. In fact, some of the missions could end up driving you completely bananas, as taking too 
 long with one mission could end up bottlenecking your free time for the next one.
  
  Anyhow, after completing the games main story and surviving for 72 hours, youll unlock Overtime 
 Mode, which  without giving anything away here  simply provides a true denouement to the games 
 storyline. After completing that little extra adventure, youll unlock Infinity Mode, wherein your 
 health is continually draining as you fight to see how long you can stay alive. Between the three 
 game modes and the inherent replayability of thrashing hordes of hundreds of zombies, theres a 
 good amount of value to be had in this package.
  
  It also doesnt hurt that the games got good looks going for it. Dead Risings visuals are a bit 
 of an interesting case. The game doesnt have any one moment where youll jump out of your chair 
 and gasp, but the games clean, polished, and detailed look makes it one of the better looking 
 games on the 360. The mall has this wonderfully sterile and inoffensive atmosphere to it, which 
 contrasts beautifully with the spilled blood of zombies, which will do cool stuff like split apart 
 when sliced with a katana. The visuals have a tendency to be a touch uneven, though  the human 
 characters are given a nice amount of detail, and their importance in the storyline seems to indicate 
 their precise level of detail. The zombies, however, look a little rough around the edges when 
 compared to Frank and others, though admittedly its an extremely small sacrifice to be able to 
 have hundreds of them on screen at once. Remarkably, the framerate rocks steady throughout.
  
  Dead Risings audio is bound to go down as one of the best sound designs in a videogame ever. 
 Voice acting is solid and appropriately hammy  Frank in particular holds a unique and genuinely 
 likeable presence throughout. The psychopaths youll be fighting are an absolute blast to listen 
 to, and their completely deranged performances will definitely stick out. It only gets better with 
 the sound effects, which sport tons of samples and some of the most wet, crisp, and just downright 
 brutal noises youve ever heard in a game. Youll cringe and smirk with delight when you first 
 hear the dull, crushing thud of bowling ball on zombie skull. And try not to just laugh out loud 
 when you hear the shrill grinding of a lawnmower plowing over the living dead. Simply brilliant. 
 The music is a small collection of rock and long swells on a synthesizer that are effective and 
 used sparingly.
  
  Ultimately, Dead Risings appeal to you boils down to how partial you are to beating the crap out 
 of zombies. If the idea of liquidating the living dead in a huge, sprawling playground is appealing 
 to you, then absolutely, positively pick this one up. Its got some frustrating missions and a 
 potentially infuriating save system, but these do surprisingly little to hamper Dead Risings core 
 action, and that should definitely say something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbAlIvEr10000
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising does a great job in the overall look of this game -- making it more fun and colorful, 
 instead of dark and gloomy settings; unlike Resident Evil its game predecessors. However the gameplay 
 of this game needs extreme amounts of fixin'. 
  
  Im sure everyone knows about the save system in this game. Its really cool and all going to the 
 restroom or something to save, but after killing going around killing hundreds of zombies, it pretty 
 much DOESN'T cross your mind to go and save when your low on health. You pretty much always have 
 to start the game over again from where you last left off. GAME NEEDS WORK!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinXan360
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising Is Very Easy! This game is the easiest game I ever played. There are a bunch of zombies 
 and you dont even have to kill them, you can just run past all of them. The Save system sucks, 
 the graphics aren't all that good, and for 59.99$ you deserve a lot more for that type of money.
 
  
  Rent it, and thats it. Its a great game to rent. I wasted my money buying it. The only thing I 
 did like about this game was the sound, all the weapons sounded really real, and very nicely made. 
 Overally though, this game is bad, not very bad, but bad! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most original game I've seen in a while. It's Sandbox Mode (I think) is better 
 than GTA's. I love the whole, "You Got 72 Hours" thing. I think it's great. Gameplay is awesome. 
 Killing zombies never gets old even though it might considering there are tens of thousands of 
 zombies. So many variations of deaths. Never gotten old for me. It's graphics are good I think, 
 considering it's hundreds of zombies on screen. The environment I would say is the coolest and 
 original by far, ever. THe bright colors and mall music makes it seem cheery in a death-ridden 
 place. Not a dark, cramped building where you have to turn the brightness up on your TV. Bright 
 and cheery, awesome. Controls run smoothly, also. Framerate never slows down except when you're 
 using a huge weapon with a lot of zombies on screen. Overall, it's a great game that nobody should 
 miss, unless you're wheezy at a little wheezy at a little blood. That was a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snichols77
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  The 360 marketplace downloadable demo simply doesn't do this game justice. It must be rented or 
 purchased to truly get an idea of the depth this game offers.
  
  If you love the zombie genre, you will be glued to this game until you beat it and get the "true 
 ending". The storyline, suspense, cutscenes, and plot twists (as well as the various endings) are 
 very well done in my opinion, especially for such a complex RPG/action game.
  
  You might hear complaints about the save system (you're only allowed *1* save slot that can be 
 saved-to by using bathrooms and the security room, as well as periodic milestones in the missions) , 
 but in my opinion it is really not needed, because the game is not very long and you can always 
 save your character's "state" (appearance, skills, level, etc.) and re-start in one of the two 
 game-mode choices that are available ("72 hour" by default and "overtime" after you complete "72 
 hour".
  
  Aside from the aforementioned save "issue", this game is pure fun. You can use almost everything 
 in the mall as a weapon, and you can even spit mixed drinks on zombies and watch them dissolve 
 or burst into flames. The "scoops" (rescue stranded people side missions) are challenging and the 
 cutscenes are great. All of the boss fights are extremely creative (some of them just blow me away 
 at how unique they are) and most are pretty challenging.
  
  This game is like an "Oblivion of the Dead", meaning you have some really good RPG characteristics, 
 as well as fighting combination moves that you can use against zombies and psychopaths, as well 
 as time-sensitive missions, and unlockables galore (most of the 50 achievements take a significant 
 amount of work to get, and I only have 25 of them after playing for 4 days nearly non-stop in the 
 evenings. 
  
  This game has an insane amount of replay value, and as an experienced gamer I had to save and restart 
 the 72 hour mode *3* times before being able to get most of the "scoops" as well as complete the 
 main/required objectives on time. That is what I love about this game -- It isn't some easy walk 
 in the park. The genre demands that it be true in being fairly difficult (surviving against all 
 odds) while being extremely exciting and suspenseful. 
  
  You'll probably have to play the game over maybe 3-4 times in order to get to level 52 and gain 
 most of the achievements, because as you complete the game you learn more about how to time the 
 "scoops" and find the right timing to explore or tackle zombie crowds. But replaying the game is 
 fun, it isn't at all something you dread. Why? Because you simply can't do all there is to do in 
 a couple runs through the game.
  
  Graphics are incredible, interactivity and physics are excellent, sound is absolutely top-notch. 
 The game can display something like 1,600 zombies in one scene, which you can capture with your 
 camera and get mega PP (prestige points) for, giving a nod to the power that the 360 offers in 
 terms of graphic capability.
  
  In a game like this, you'd suspect a lot of similar looking zombies but they did a great job of 
 adding variety and randomizing the zombie crowds. The only thing that is a little odd is that all 
 items will respawn back in the place you originally found them. They didn't choose to randomly 
 respawn items in each cell or containing room. That is the ONLY feature that makes the game a bit 
 easier. If it wasn't for that, you'd spend a lot of time trying to find what you needed, and the 
 suspense of making your "scoops" and completing missions in the time required just wouldn't work, 
 so I can see why they opted for no randomizing of item spawns.
  
  I can't really see this game having a multiplayer, but it would be great if you could fight the 
 zombie hoards with intelligent partners or form a "survival group" and try to make it as long as 
 possible in a survival co-op mode or something. Maybe they'll release a Dead Rising 2 with some 
 form of co-op mode... but until then, what they've offered now is just right.
  
  In my opinion, this is in the top 10 all-time best video games, and is in the top 3 for what the 
 360 has to offer right now. I'll probably be doing nothing but playing Dead Rising and Dead or 
 Alive 4 until Gears of War comes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Oh how dead rising is great...... The katana through the mort flesh of the 22,498th zombie youve 
 killed, sigh, how wonderful. You're Frank West, a freelance photojournilist looking for the scoop 
 of you're life, a small town in colorado called willamette has been quarintened, and you wanna 
 find out why. youre flown in by a chopper, and dropped off at a wilamette mall. from their on its 
 your choice. your actions choose the ending, kill zombies, rescue civilians, or take pictures. 
 nearly everything is a weapon. great game besides THE CRAZY ANNOYING SAVE SYSTEM, but still a good 
 game!!!!
  Buy this game, its not as good as oblivion, but its just as fun!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  It's hard to write a review without mentioning the save system first. It is the most noticable 
 flaw with the game, allowing only one save per device, and making it easy to save yourself into 
 a corner. When you fail/miss one core case file, you immediately lose every core file in the game; 
 you cant complete the game. This is overlooked by the fact that killing zombies is just fun, and 
 DR makes it more fun with the completely obsurd ways to kill them. There are guns of course, but 
 the real fun lies in the objects scattered around the mall. Some of those objects arent even 'weapons' 
 as they do no damage, but it's pretty satisfying to blast a zombie with a water gun or a toy laser 
 sword. You might think that zombie killing would take center stage in a game like this, but the 
 story focuses more on killing crazed survivors rather than the zombies. And that leads me to another 
 big fault with this game, the boss battles against these psychopaths are just plain boring and 
 slightly frustrating at times. And if you happen to die during a boss battle, you'll have to backtrack 
 from your save point to try again, all while battling the game's time limit system, which gives 
 you anywhere from 4+ in game hours to less than 2. But that in itself does not ruin the game, especially 
 when the games' achievements are focused mainly on killing zombies, taking pictures and escorting 
 survivors. The sound is the star in the game, however. Every object will make its own unique sound 
 when used. Everything just sounds like what you would expect it to sound like. Voice acting is 
 great as well, every character in the game has a voice that fits their character extremely well, 
 my favorite being Steven, the owner of the games in-store grocery store. Dead Rising is definately 
 worth buying even if you have no intention of playing the story mode, the countless ways to kill 
 zombies is worth the price alone, and with downloadable content already available (for free) , the 
 variety will just keep expanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game on the release day and brought it home and couldn't believe my eyes. This 
 game has been everything I have ever dreamed of in a zombie game. I have always loved the zombie 
 movies from Romero and even though this game was not endorsed any way by Romero's crew I still 
 love every minute of it. I can finally fulfill my deepest darkest ways of killing zombies in a 
 video game that has limitless ways to do this. I think everyone should give this game a go and 
 even purchase it to add to their evergrowing Xbox 360 collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game is on par with Capcom's most famous zombie series Resident Evil and in some ways it is 
 even better. What seperates this game from the rest is the sheer amount of zombies to destroy and 
 survivors to save or let the zombies get them (There are funny zombie attack videos when a survivor 
 is killed) . The sheer amount of ways to dismember and kill zombies is awesome. This game also has 
 a wicked sense of humor, you may find yourself laughing a lot, nothing beats throwing a pie at 
 a zombies face. The game also make really good use of the camera requireing you to use it to level 
 up, there are 50 levels all together. Some of the aspects are confuseing such as time management 
 and rescueing survivors at first, but once you get it down you will have one heck of a wild time 
 with this game. It doesn't hurt the game that the main character is awesome either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marionette_Lime
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Wow... when I played the demo for this game, I thought that it was pretty cool, running around killing 
 zombies, pretty fun, then, when the game came out I went out and bought and boy what a surprise, 
 this game is more then just killing zombies, it's got a pretty good story line (not too deep as 
 to ruin the action, but not to shallow as to make the game only action) the basics of them game 
 are to just run around and kill zombies, but with rescuing the people in the mall and finding ways 
 to take new pictures, wether it be funny, erotic, brutal, or horror pictures, i think it just adds 
 more to the game. Being able to level up and learn new abilities also adds more, since you get 
 the most points by rescuing, it kinda gives you more incentive to go out and actually do these 
 little side quests. My main issue with the game is the saving, i personally think there should 
 be some kind of auto save or something, because when I'm surrounded by hundreds of zombies and 
 i just found where they "hid" the katana.... all i'm thinking is "poor zombies, i'm gonna **** you 
 up now :)
::::::

::::::
UserName: EStoker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a welcome addition to the Xbox 360 library. If you love zombies, and seeing zombies 
 killed... again, then you will love the gameplay and feel of Dead Rising. The only 2 downfalls of 
 the game are the dumb AI of the other survivors, and the save system. 
  The AI fo the zombies is smarter than the people who are still alive around the mall which will 
 make doing the escort missions a pain, but if you want to gain PP, you have to tough it out as 
 each survivor that makes it to the safe zone gains you 20,000 PP. 
  The save feature is not as bad as people make it out to be, but if you don't save before you cross 
 one of the many very TOUGH bosses, you will have to go all the way back to your last save point. 
 And that would suck if you last saved 4 hours ago. 
  But when all is said and done, i love this game, and can't wait to see what else it holds as i 
 go further into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewezzy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect for gamers who love the felling of being trapped in a (enter building here) . 
 This game showcases a storyline that may never get old. TheI am trapped in a zombie infested 
 ....... and got to get out before i'm A. zombie chow or B. Blown up by the army or swat. The gameplay 
 is great and so is the fact you can use anything. The one thing that is hopeless is the laser sword. 
 It is palstic and it wont be your best weapon. The graphics are some of the best on the 360. I 
 Really think this one of capcom's great games, but RE is still numero uno.
  My top 10 weapons (order doesn't matter) :
  1. Chainsaw
  2. lawnmower
  3. sythe
  4. motorcycle
 
  5. Katana
  6. pistol
  7. knife
  8. sledgehammer
  9. car
  10. sword 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Capcom and Zombies maybe a match made in heaven.
  Once again they lets use go at it with zombies, but this time your weapon is everything from a 
 gumball machine to a lawnmower. 
  
  It may not win any game of the years awards for best graphics or story, but it is fun. And in the 
 end thats all that matters. 
  
  The gameplay is fun and it varies due to the options of weapons at your disposal. Bats, guns, propane 
 tanks, CDs, shopping carts, chainsaws, you see it in the mall; you can probably use it to kill 
 a Zombie. 
  
  The game is not just about killing zombies. You can play dress up and makes sure that your character, 
 Frank, looks good when bashing in those zombies. When youre low on health, go to the food court 
 and use a blender for a nice refreshment. Frank is a journalist so it does pay off to take some 
 nice pictures. Try to get ones when people are being ripped apart by zombies. Those get you some 
 nice points. 
  
  The games story is interesting and worth paying attention to. The game offers a lot of side quest 
 the help boost your stats RPG style so you can be a meaner killing machine.
  
  Leveling up is key because by doing so, your stats increase and new moves are unlocked as well 
 as other things.
  
  The graphics aren't "Wow" but there are pretty good. Its crazy how many zombies are put on the 
 screen at once. 
  
  The sound effects are great as well. From the moaning zombies to the chainsaws ripping through 
 zombie flesh. 
  
  The game's save feature could have been a little more friendly.
  
  This game is fun, and there is no experience like it on the Xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_one_629
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  Okay first off are the graphics, the graphics for such a game thats surprisingly huge enviroment 
 wise, are beautiful and IMO great, from the real time reflections to the nice blur it shows as 
 you run around doing the many things that are possible, the blood gushing out is realistic and 
 satisfying, if youve got an HD set with the proper cables and the like you'll love it even more, i 
 know i do! Now the sound, nothing bad at all here, hearing a 1,000+ zombies at 2am is pretty scary 
 in DIGITAL surround sound (make sure you got some fiber optic cables for the best sound) , my only 
 bone to pick with it is just that there arent any voice over work when you talk to people like 
 in side missions and the walkie talkie but the text is ok, the cutscene work is great, no crappy 
 dialogue or horrible acting its all good here, the gameplay mechanics are perfect and simple, A 
 to jump, B to pick up items/open doors, basically the "Action" button, X is the "fun" button, with 
 no weapon or item equipped you punch, kick, throw, chop, lift up and body slam, etc with the leveling 
 up granting you more moves, Y button doesnt really do much except when youre doing the escort missions 
 and you wanna yell at the poor guy/girl to stay with you, right trigger goes into an over the shoulder 
 view/aim mode so you can precisely shoot and throw items like knives and bowling balls for a strike 
 maybe lol, right bumper lets you scroll through items/weapons forward, the left trigger is your 
 camera: also within the camera mode you can zoom in and out by pressing A and B, and snapping pics 
 by pressing X, and the left bumper serves the same as the right by scrolling through your inventory 
 counter clockwise. Now everyones been having a problem with the save system, i admit at times ive 
 caught myself swearing at the game cause of it, only because i hadnt saved it for a while and the 
 convicts killed me and i had to start from where i left, which meant any leveling up or items i 
 mightve gotten were now lost, BUT if you can remember to pay very close attention to your watch 
 like the game says its great, i save it after every psychopath battle, and etc, oh yeah to be honest 
 the only other bad thing is how annoying the old guy is named "Otis" who will constantly bother 
 you and sometimes if you "cut" him (for example a zombie might attack and the convo was disconnected) 
 the guy will call back and say its rude that yoou just hung up on him and then repeat what he said 
 to make sure you got it which for the most part just frustrates me but sometimes i didnt see what 
 he was talking about so its cool) . And lastly the achievements are a total of 50, each giving you 
 20 pts, some are easy others not so easy, the game deserves the "must buy" sticker, its full of 
 life no pun intended, so much to do, and to that other guy who wrote a review there is a MODE that 
 will just let you roam freely without the worry of having to do the missions/case files, its called 
 INFINITE MODE n00b, the 8.4 gamespot gave the game isnt good enough, i would say the game deserves 
 at least a 9, i say a 9.7, oh yeah and it doesnt get repetitive, the zombies are just a mere nuisance 
 but dont get it twisted, they can be very difficult at times, well i have to get back to trying 
 to get my achievement for 53,594 zombies killed, i hope you found this review helpful... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  This game is a romp through endless zombies smashing gore and blood all over the place. Unfortunatly 
 the idea of this is cramped with Case missions that limit your time a bit too strictly to really 
 go around exploring. Loaded with people to save and tons of times to meet for missions and such 
 you tend to feel cramped. Weapons are not quite anything you can see you can use to be quite honest. 
 Same with some foods, books, and other items.
  
  On to the brighter side... this game has a pretty solid story line though some parts did not make 
 perfect sense. This game has plenty of ways to destroy zombies however very creative and bloody 
 ways for the most part. Weapon variety is a little dry in some departments like guns, however the 
 melee weapons like chainsaws and drills make up for this quite nicely. Frame Rate is slick for 
 the most part but it can chunk up rarely usually when melee smashing a group of 5 or so zombies. 
 Frame rate stays beautiful in this game even when driving a car through shoulder to shoulder zombies.
 
  
  Several endings to unlock in which you can unlock the True Ending and unlock the Infinity Mode... sounds 
 like GTA mode to me but.... its totally NOT. Sadly its more of a game of survival than a game of 
 free roaming which is one of the biggest disspointments this game has to offer other than its lack 
 of Online Multiplayer. This game is great though bosses and fights are creative and classic videogaming 
 for the most part which is a lot of fun to watch some of the gory cutscenes you earn for your efforts.
 
  
  Voice acting is done really nicely and the acting is very good. This game also has a very nice 
 soundtrack with plenty of mushy, crunchy, blood dripping noises to entertain your ears for hours. 
 Vehicles are a lot of fun because you get to smash through zombies at full speed however just like 
 weapons they wear out as well over use... which was another annoying limitation added to this game... too 
 strict in some situations... and very annoying when your fiercely battling a school of zombies when 
 you end up hitting X again and use a valuable item like health when you didnt need to. The button 
 scheme is pretty odd, for the most part simple but the aiming mode has a rather odd set up that 
 cannot be totally customized in the options.
  
  This game has its disspointments, glitches, and problems. But it really does a great job covering 
 these limitations of its greatness with variety, violence, and some really fun gameplay. Tons of 
 GORE tons of zombies, great music and sound effects, some funny costumes and combinations can be 
 used. Beat up zombies with a nice assortment of weapons, and even skill moves that you unlock as 
 you level Frank up by defeating objectives and zombies. Dissapointments here and there but more 
 greatness to still make this a truly nice shot at a next gen zombie game. A sequal is screaming 
 with potential as much as any other game ever could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  The great Dead Rising is now on Microsoft's Xbox 360, and it acts, sounds, and feels like an Xbox 
 360 game.
  
  You are Frank West, a freelance photojournalist sent on a charter helicopter to investigate suspitious 
 military activity in Colorado. When you go beyond military controlled lines, you realized that 
 the small town of Willamette is infested with zombies. Your pilot lets you off at the rooftop of 
 Willamette's shopping mall, and the games picks up from there.
  
  The game was excellently scripted dialogue, cinematic cutscenes, and an interesting evolving plot. 
 
  
  Pros:
  *Many hours of gameplay
  *Acceptable graphics for the Xbox 360
  *Sound is mind blowingly great
  *Good taste of many different weapons (over 250 usable weapons)
 
  *Action can be nonstop and intense
  *Mall is just the right size, not too big, not too small
  *Game kinda feels like a good combination 
 of Dawn of the Dead and the FOX TV show 24
  
  Cons: 
  *Otis the Janitor calls every 15 seconds
  *Save system is terrible
  *Some boss fights are so 
 frustrating, you are wondering how does this involve me and why is it here
  *Bad Achievement system (fifty 20 point achievements)
  *Artificial Intelligence looks clunky 
 at times
  
  In the long run, this game has minor flaws that might disappoint some gamers, but Dead Risng is 
 a rock-solid action game, which any gamer, who can handle watching blood and gore, will have to 
 check out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnKnownViper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A vast amount of weapons to use including guns, sporting goods, hardware, and many more. 
 A large playground to play in. A great story and the game actually has a "plot". Hundreds of zombies 
 can cover your screen and there is absolutely no frame rate drops. Plus the various objects have 
 many polygons to make the objects look closer to real life than most other games... and the players 
 faces and details look so well you wouldn't be able to tell the difference if the persons face 
 was real or not (only on the main characters, hostages which look great to but not as good.) .
 
  
  The Bad: When you first play the games if your like me you will get really pissed off at the weak 
 hostage AI and the games poor save system which only allows you to save in a bathroom or in a security 
 room. And after dying on the other side of the mall and running back after loading will suck as 
 well.
  
  The Ugly: No pitch fork. (that I know of) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Sleepsalot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  + Loads of enemies can be on screen.
  
  + Each weapon has it's own quirks and amusing features, which makes it extremely fun to explore 
 what each weapon can do. 
  
  + Movement feels precise and responsive in and out of combat.
  
  + A simple RPG leveling-up 
 element adds a layer of depth that makes killing all the more worthwhile.
  
  + Well-executed photography system that awards you experience.
  
  + Simple customization options.
 
  
  + Campy horror story offers plenty of laughs.
  
  + Different modes of transportation. (Skateboard, bike, shopping cart, car)
  
  + Achievement 
 awards are well thought out.
  
  + Great frame rate.
  
  - Archaic save-system that can be extremely frustrating. 
  
  - Small text that is nearly unreadable 
 without an HDTV.
  
  - Camera can be a little annoying at times.
  
  - It's slightly difficult to flip through items to what you need quickly.
  
  - Repeating the 
 game at low levels to gain experience to continue will turn off impatient people.
  
  - TOO MANY LOAD SCREENS! GRAAAHH!
  
  Graphics:
  
  + Appealing visuals with above-average 
 character models.
  
  + Great blood-splattering effects.
  
  - Textures are occasionally ugly.
  
  Sound:
  
  + "Mall" music adds great atmosphere.
 
  
  + Combat sounds as great as it looks.
  
  - Voice acting can be amateurish at times.
  
  Value:
  
  + If you enjoy hack-n-slash games to any degree, buy this game.
  
  - Rent 
 only if the idea of slaughtering zombies for hours upon hours bores you. How could it!?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticbox520
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is LOADS of fun to play. How can anyone say they don't like just spending 
 hours slicing and smashing zombies? The storyline aspect of the game is pretty interesting as well.
 
  
  Second, as everyone who's played or probably heard about it by now, the save system completely 
 blows. It gets very frustrating to continually have to replay an entire section to reach a bathroom 
 or head back to the security room to save your game. It's not like you can even say that it makes 
 the game more challenging (like in Call of Duty 2, where you must make it to the next checkpoint 
 to save your progress) . Since the zombies infinitely respawn, it just becomes tedious.
  
  Third, as most people who do not own an HDTV have found out, all of the text on communications 
 with Otis or the survivors in the mall is painfully hard to see and read. I've heard on HD it's 
 not at all but I have not seen this for myself. Capcom really needs to put up a free update on 
 Xbox Live for this because a good amount of the gaming community still uses standard televisions. 
 We want HD but not everyone can afford it.
  
  Overall I still love this game to death. Great stress reliever and 50 achievements makes the gamerscore 
 even a bit of a challenge to capture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surllio
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the years, there have been hundreds of games to come out that try to capture the sense 
 of fear and sense of adventure that many of the zombie and horror films have set forth. Resident 
 Evil got the fear right, but it as geared more for jumps and spooks with eerie settings and mood 
 music to keep the tone of everything just right. Until now, the Resident Evil franchise has set 
 the standards for how zombie horror games have gone.
  
  Now, the makers of Resident Evil have attempted to create the feeling of many of the classic zombie 
 movies of our time. With the attempt to capture both the sense of style, the sense of adventure, 
 and the sheer terror of being totally out numbered, Capcom had a lot to work for to get this right. 
 Needless to say, their attempt was largely successful. Capturing all the above, and giving you 
 a reason to pull out your Dawn of the Dead DVD as well.
  
  Dead Rising is a survival horror game with a unique twist and feel to it all. From all appearences 
 the game seems to be a dead on copy of Dawn of the Dead. However, once you get into the game a 
 good ways, you will see very quickly that the game is far from. The game's plot is fairly cheesy, 
 but the characters treat it as if it is serious.
  
  The game is far from short on the zombie aspect of it all. Thousands upon thousands of zombies 
 are in this thing. They are everywhere, holding everything, and generally blocking the path to 
 anything you want. Luckily, these zombies are slow and stupid, though the occasional one has a 
 knife, nightstick, or handgun, but usualy doesn't use it very well. The zombies are a roadblock 
 of sorts, giving you something to hinder you along your progress rather than actually pose a threat. 
 Don't get me wrong, they ARE a threat. A hoard of zombies can take you down at level fifty pretty 
 quick.
  
  This also is one of the main draws of this game. The game is always challenging, even at the higher 
 levels at the begining of the game. Zombies are always spawning, and always flooding in. A room 
 with just a few zombies can quickly fill into a room full of hundreds in a matter of minutes. Do 
 not fret however, as pretty much everything can be used as a weapon.
  
  Yes, you read that correctly. Pretty much everything is a weapon. You have y our normal weapons; 
 handguns, shotguns, knives, swords, etc. You have your slightly odd; dishes, lawnmowers, steel 
 shelves, televisions, etc. And then you have the completely strange; large teddy bears, waterguns, 
 toy light up swords, soda cans, CDs, etc. Everything can be used, and generaly will be used to 
 do something at some point. 
  
  Zombies aren't the only enemies in the game. There are those who are locked up in the mall that 
 have gone crazy because of the events. The game calls the Psycopaths, and generally they are you 
 boss type characters, and your challenging opponents. They are not just challenging, they are outright 
 difficult most of the time.
  
  The game also uses a lot of missions. Missions generally consist of finding other survivors, and 
 taking them back to the safe area of the mall. These escort missions are all over the game, and 
 actually get annoying at several points. Some of the escorts will fight along with you, others 
 you have to lead by the hand, and some, well, you have to carry on your back. Every one of them 
 is increasingly difficult due to the sheer ammount of zombies and psycos that block your path.
 
  
  The game looks great. It really uses the power of the 360 well, with beautiful character models 
 and very detailed clothing. The mall itself is a sight, each section with its own theme, and several 
 different zombie models so that while you will see the same thing, you won't see it everywhere.
 
  
  The game sounds great too. The mall elevator music will ultimately drive you nuts, but then again, 
 all malls play pretty much the same set of elevator music. The weapon sounds you would expect are 
 there. Even the sound of the sloshing water, the splatter of the blood, the snap of the camera, 
 all are crisp, clear, and very well done. The voice acting is great, which is something can't be 
 said too much in video games.
  
  Even though the game sounds wonderful, it does have its flaws. The game is full of text that is 
 nearly unreadable because of how small that it is. Even on a HD TV, the text is still small and 
 hard to see. This causes a lot of frustration when attempting to figure out what books do what, 
 and even more so when trying to read what the NPCs are saying to you.
  
  The other problem is the save system. The game allows you 1 save per memory unit. So if you have 
 a hard drive, you get one save on it. If you have a memory card, you get one save. The other issue 
 with this is that save points are few and far between. Why is this an issue, because you quickly 
 find yourself stuck in corners, about to fail a key mission. If you haven't saved in a while, or 
 saved from a point that you have no choice but to fail, the game's save issues really come into 
 effect. When you die, the game gives you the option to save your status and start over. While in 
 many respects this is a good thing, you wil be playing through the story of the game again to get 
 back to the point where you were. This is a burdon and a blessing, and has a mixed feeling from 
 me.
  
  Dispite its short comings, the game is a fun game. What could be more fun then killing zombies? 
 Killing zombies in thousand of different ways, just running around and having fun. The replay value 
 of this game alone is enough reason to pick up and buy a 360.
  
  If you like zombie games, or just like to kill things, it is easy to recommend this game. For those 
 looking for a truely fun, challenging, and overall great gaming experience, then Dead Rising is 
 the game you need to turn to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stpersonshoot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Not that ive actually played the real thing, so i wouldnt know of the apparent saving problems, 
 but i picked up the free demo off the marketplace, and it was just fun. Thats all there is to describe 
 it. Just fun. i played hours of just pwnin zombies and had a freakin blast. it has a great combination 
 of hilarity just because your killing so many zombies, and coolness, because your killing so many 
 zombies. The controls felt relatively tight, and worked well with the hack and slash style of gameplay. 
 The graphics were incredible for a 3rd person action. Physics were tight, everything just.... fit 
 together.
  
  And my dad liked it. he came in and for once didnt say ooh is it guy with a gun 87 your playing? 
 he laughed, which is amazing, and that should give uber props to the game =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  For 72 hours, Frank West a photo journalist will have to solve a mystery in Willamette, Colorado. 
 A mystery that will unfold in 72 hours. What is going on in this town? Why are there so many zombie. 
 Maybe to find out the greatest mystery of them all......... why in the middle of all this chaos, 
 would Frank put on a dress? All this and more in Capcom's newest zombie game "Dead Rising".
  
  This game is great, so great I will say it's perfect. I know no game is perfect. This game, 
 like all games has bugs, cliches and can be hard time times it will make you want to slam your controller 
 down and turn the game off. Yet the game does everything right and it can be easy to over looked 
 the short comings. Lets talk about the "Anything and Everything is a Weapon". This is only half 
 true. Just about anything and everything is a weapon. Can I pick up a dead zombie and fling it's 
 body around ? No. Can I pick up a card board cut out and use it as a weapon? No. Can I pick something 
 up that has a icon by it and use that as a weapon? Yes. Not everything will have that icon, but 
 many things will, and you will have a blast with you can find out is a weapon. A example of a unlikely 
 weapon is a traffic cone. Pop it on a Zombies head and he can't bite you. Also something that bugs 
 me that you can only try on certain clothes in stores. You can not run up to the sports store and 
 try on those clothes there, yet in some kids stores you can wear clothes to small for you. Is that 
 a bad thing? No. Yet it is funny to see Frank in a dress and no one ever ask why he is in that 
 dress. Something else that is bad, the text is small you can read it. Does that really matter? 
 Not really. One bug I have fund is when you put on custom soundtracks, you will miss what is said 
 and sounds during cut scenes. You'll have sound and voices for everything else, it just seem to 
 effect the cut scenes. This can be fixed by leaving subtitles on for dialog , but I don't like subtitles, so 
 maybe there will a patch to fix this later?
  
  Saving can be a little tricky as there are not that many and the are spread out in few places in 
 the mall. This can make the game a little hard, but you can save as much as you want. So it's kind 
 of a give and take. The voice acting has come along way from the old "Resident Evil" days. It's 
 good enough, yet sometimes has a little humor to it. Other times you can feel the pain or anger 
 someone is going through. The zombies look real it's sometimes scary. It's not just the Zombies 
 that are life like, the people in the game look like everyday people you could see every day. There 
 is just so much detail in a person you wonder if they where modeled from a real person. Sure the 
 game is short, but you'll want to play many times just to find and unlock everything. If your a 
 fan of Zombies or loved Capcom games you will love this game. Also look for cameos from classic 
 Capcom games. After playing this game for four days I still love it the same amount as the day 
 I bought it. Capcom has made a new classic and hope they will make more "Dead Rising" games in 
 the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffdiver1982
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  If you played the demo first, you are in for a surprise once you play the retail version. The demo 
 leaves out key parts to the game, such as survivors. If you thought the demo was easy, you are 
 definitely gonna get a wake up kick to the nuts! Surviving isn't so bad, until you have Otis, the 
 janitor, calling you at what seems the least oppurtune times in the game. Not only that, but you 
 can't shut him up or speed through the dialogue. This causes for a lot of frustration and possible 
 losses of life. The saving system is just as annoying. You can only save in one slot, and with 
 a million missions going on at once, it makes things difficult. I didn't think it was all that 
 bad, until I was doing an escort mission and I saved. 2 of the 3 stayed close and the 3rd was teleported 
 back to their original spot. This all happened when I hit the point in the game when you have to 
 crawl over zombie's heads. Survivors are annoying because they rarely follow and get left behind. 
 This makes it difficult to save x amount of survivors while managing time to deal with psychopaths 
 and solve case missions. The game is fun, and has a good story; but if you have a short temper, 
 be warned! My first day of owning the game I broke a controller, between Otis's annoying phone 
 calls and the random zombie coming from no where and killing me, while accepting Otis's call. If 
 it wasn't for the phone calls, and the way they are handled, this game would be almost perfect! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasz_erecinsk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised my self. The game gives a great amount of opportunities to use different types 
 of weapons to kill zombies. The graphics are good. The ound is good. The storyline is surprisingly 
 interesting. All in all it is a good game. 
  
  The graphics are very good. The character models move smoothly and the enemies are very detailed. 
 
  The sound is rather crisp. If you are plaing with a Dolby setup then you can experience some interesting 
 sensations (like sounds of being attacked from behind) 
  The storyline, and the gameplay, are also good. 
  All in all it is a very compelling game that 
 is fun to play and will allow you to kill time in a pleasent manner/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastboy007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Trapped in a mall with zombies and anything and everything is a weapon. Someone is responsible 
 for this epidemic and you are determined as a reporter to figure out who has done this and why. 
 Items from as small as a soccer ball to as big as a parasol can be used as weapons. Hack zombies 
 with chainsaws, hit them with electric guitars, use them as pins with a bowling ball, or even run 
 on top of them. Your level increases as you finish cases, defeat psychopaths, rescue survivors 
 and take the survivors back to a safe location. You also learn new movues as you level up as well. 
 You have 72 hours to figure out the truth behind this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iasfdglai
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I was very pumped up for this game and my hype for the game might lead to me being biast in some 
 ways, but I try not to.
  
  Gameplay - This is what killed the game for me. I couldn't stand that there was no way to set my 
 control prefs because I don't like how you can't move your camera and attack that the same time. 
 Also the gun fire in the game sucked, when you hit the right trigger to aim, the camera would switch 
 to where your guy was facing not where your camera was facing. This made boss fights harder than 
 they should be and annoying.
  As I said let the flaming begin because this game apperantly doesn't have control problems, I'm 
 just a newb.
  
  Graphics - Great graphics with some obvious flaws, but they really don't matter. They do what they 
 are sopposed to do. 
  
  Sound - Best part of the game. The music is great and the zombies sound fantastic.
  
  Value 
 - The game has enough content that the people that enjoy the games controls and can look past the 
 save system will have plenty hours of fun.
  
  Tilt - The Save System... sucks. Very bad and cause me to personally quit playing. But of course 
 the fanboys say things like "Save system is fine. It just doesnt work for fools." but the truth 
 is it's flawed. They are all in denial.
  
  The AI sucks also
  
  Overall this game is flaw and had great potential. For some reason is has the most fanboys I have 
 ever seen in a game.. ever. So don't worry, I know this review will get about 3 recomendations 
 and over 40 fanboys that disagree. But if your a normal gamer looking for a review from a normal 
 gamer. I hope this help. If you haven't bought it yet, try renting it first.
  
  let the flaming begin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Worr
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  It is awesome right up until you have to start over again and again. Since there are not very many 
 save points, you go a really long way, die and have to start about an hour behind where you were. 
 There are awesome weapons and skills you can get, like the chainsaws, and the map is gigantic. 
 I can't say much for the AI that the survivors have. They just attack everything they can so you 
 have to yell at them to follow you every ten seconds. I also think that the Bosses are too hard 
 to beat, and it is really annoying when you get shot or attacked, and you drop your weapon or stop 
 aiming for about 3 seconds. It is too hard to kill people when you keep losing your weapons or 
 just can't get aimed before you're shot or attacked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_blanchard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised how good of a game this was. It would have been a perfect 10 but because of some 
 small issues like the gun aiming style and the saving issues it would be good. What I mean by saving 
 issues is when you die and press "Save and Quit" it saves your stats but makes you restart the 
 game from the beginning (not from the most recent save point) . If oyu want to quit just makesure 
 you save and then go back to dash board instead on pressing save and quit. Also it would be nice 
 if it had checkpoints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  After reading so much about this game, I was hoping for one of the best games for the Xbox 360. 
 I was greatly disappointed.
  
  I am not going to talk about the save system. Even if it's bad, I could have live with it. The 
 biggest problem is definitively the gameplay.
  
  OK, let's start with the good things: graphics are great, sound is incredible.
  
  Now, let's 
 talk about the bad stuff: the gameplay itself. Not that the game mechanics is wrong, it's just 
 that is become very boring and repetitive. Finding different way to kill zombies is not something 
 that I find very fun (or maybe it's because I don't like shopping) . It becomes very repetitive 
 after 30 minutes. This game is really for people who like to go on rampage and kill everybody in 
 sight (zombies I mean) . 
  
  Sometimes, I even wonder why Capcom bother to put missions in this game. Just put the main character 
 in the middle of the mall and let loose thousand of zombies. That's how it feels to me.
  
  My suggestion, rent this game first (don't use the demo version, is too short to really have a 
 feel of the game) . If you like it (play for at least 2 hours) , buy it, if not, return it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:34 am PT
Review:  Hints and Traces of this game have been around since the dawn of the 360. I remember buying my 
 360 early on and thinking "man oh man ... so what if there aren't many games out for it ... Dead 
 Rising is on the way!" So my enthusiasm and anticipation for this game have been in full gear. 
 Needless to say, I have had very high hopes for this game.
  
  So am I disappointed? Not at all.
  
  Now it is here and I've had enough game time to help you 
 out with a breakdown of what I feel makes this game great ... and what some may consider not so 
 great. 
  
  The Great:
  
  - There are more interactive items in this game than just about any other game I've played in the 
 past. Many other games might include a lot of side items maybe just sitting there, but boxes and 
 benches would often be there as something to just break through or walk on as opposed to ... being 
 there so you can pick it up and use it to defend yourself, as they are in Dead Rising.
  
  - They did an incredible job making it possible for hundreds of zombies to be on screen at any 
 given point without slowing down the gameplay. Also, each zombie acts and reacts individually. 
 Unlike say ... Hitman: Blood Money ... where the hundreds of people walking the street in the Mardi 
 Gras level all seemed to have no free will. (Normally I'd say "like zombies" but um ... that doesn't 
 apply in this game, hehe)
  
  - You're in a freaking shopping mall. My friend pointed out that it is often a person's dream to 
 be able to roam a shopping mall and access the stores and their items freely ... so maybe people 
 didn't dream about zombies being there ... but still!
  
  - What a way to take out some frustration you may have had in some of the Resident Evil games you 
 played in the past where you weren't able to just pound the crap out of a slow and stupid zombie! 
 The action and atmosphere is much different from many other zombie-type games.
  
  - The environment is very highly detailed. From polished floors to boarded doors, this game has 
 it all. Certainly a great job on the graphics and visuals!
  
  - Very diverse gameplay, despite what some may worry to be monotonous. The game keeps you interested 
 with the variety of included factors (e. g. zombie slashing, zombie maiming, zombie punching ... 
 oh yeah ... and photo taking, escort missions, case missions, interactive environment, etc.) .
 
  
  The Not So Great (or what some may consider to be) :
  
  - Focused on what people didn't like, the resounding feedback has been revolving around the save 
 system. To explain, I think I counted a bout 5 save points in like ... the biggest mall ever (okay, 
 I don't know that, but still) . The other part to the frustration stems from the fact that the game 
 is based around a 72 hour period of time (only amidst actually playing the game, not in real life 
 time either) . So if you want to save before you attempt a harder task ... you may find that you 
 won't have enough time to run from where you are to a save point and then be able to return in 
 time.
  
  - Some of the controls are a bit awkward to get used to. They do make most of it very easy ... 
 but gun aiming has been a particular point of conflict. Even after playing the game for several 
 hours, I would still find myself pushing the wrong analog stick to aim (they use the left analog 
 stick and the right trigger in combination to aim) . I'm sure getting it down solid will come in 
 time, but the aiming still leaves a bit to be desired. You don't at all often have to use a gun, 
 but there are some instances where there isn't much other option.
  
  - I have mixed feelings about the escort missions. Their AI isn't always the best. There was one 
 instance where a person got stuck behind an automatic door that they couldn't seem to figure out 
 how to open. I even broke windows and was like "come on!" a buncha times and they couldn't figure 
 it out. I think the main thing I've been hearing is just the large number of them that are in the 
 game. Considering some escape routes aren't always so easily accessible, I can see how this could 
 be very frustrating. The other side to that is that it adds an element of reality.
  
  - So far, the most annoying thing to me has been the freakin' walkie-talkie. Otis, the janitor, 
 will call you on it constantly and it won't stop until you pick it up, for the most part. To go 
 along with that, while you're talking on it, you can't really do anything else ... even while amidst 
 a crowd of zombies. To go on top of THAT, if you cut him off (and you might by accident, because 
 he talks slow and you might think he's finished) he will just call you right back and start over. 
 How about a way to speed up the conversation? Text message me or something, hehe.
  
  - Maybe I just haven't found a way to do this yet, but after accepting a mission, there's not really 
 a menu area I can see where you can re-cap what was explained to you upon accepting a mission. 
 You can check your watch and it will slowly scroll the mission details at the bottom of the screen, 
 but you're left vulnerable and the clock keeps on ticking like that.
  
  Overall:
  This is an excellent must-have game for the XBox 360. I am thoroughly impressed with many aspects 
 of the gameplay and the environment. I remember seeing Dawn of the Dead and thinking "dang, this 
 would make a great game" and this game is so similar in some aspects they even have a disclaimer 
 on the front of the box that says "This game is not affiliated in any .... etc. etc. ... with George 
 A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead" hehe.
  
  I could see the frustration in there being no multiplayer ... but at the same time, it seems everyone 
 expects every game to have a multi-player mode these days. Who knows, the might have had to sacrifice 
 a lot of features in the game if they were to include a multi-player mode.
  
  In any case, I think the minor set-backs are more than made up for with many impressive aspects. 
 Game on, Capcom.
  
  - Brian
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosonic04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy playing, so don't get me wrong, but this game has some serious flaws. First allow me to 
 examine what I like about the game. Killing zombies is satisfying no matter how you slice it, pun 
 intended. Personally I dig the bladed weapons the best, and you can easily get lost spending hours 
 just laying waste to the legions of the undead. The shear number of weapons to choose from allows 
 the game to stay imaginative and fresh.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but probably could have been a little nicer for a next-gen exclusive 
 game. The effects are great though and the animations are killer. As was mentioned in the video 
 review, the sound effects were done extremely well. 
  
  On to the flaws. The save system has been beat to death in previous reviews, but it still stinks 
 pretty bad. You can easily save yourself into a situation that kills your progress. If you get 
 relatively far in this game, and save at a point where you realize you don't have time to complete 
 the next case, you're gonna be a little more than upset.
  
  Escort and NPC pathing and AI are absolutely broken. Your escorted characters will be the dumbest 
 human beings alive or undead. They act just about as smart as the zombies trying to eat them. Giving 
 them weapons in many situations is all but useless as many of them will stand there and get grappled 
 by a zombie who approached from 10 ft away when the whole time they had an SMG or pistol in their 
 hand... c'mon, that's just ridiculous. Pathing is terrible, they get stuck behind virtually everything 
 they can possibly get stuck behind. They have difficulty following you up stairs, around corners, 
 around furniture, (forget about taking them into a store that has a door on it) . They often refuse 
 to listen to your commands to follow you, and have no ability to ungrapple themselves from zombies. 
 
  
  Escort missions result in much more frustration than they do fun, but if you're concerned with 
 getting high PP ratings, you have to do them for the ludicrous amount of points you get from completion.
 
  
  Overall, it's a fun game, and I will continue to play it. However, poor programming on friendly 
 char AI and pathing, as well as the lack of saves threaten to break the game for many people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a fun thrining game that becomes a boring long game with no more than a few min 
 off sitting infront of a screen slicing and dicing zombie scum! All of the weapons and clothing 
 options in the game is what keeps the game in check with only a pistle in hand this game would 
 blow. I like the plastic sword altho lacking in power it makes a kick@$$ noise on impact. The slow 
 m oving zombies in the game pose little threat unless unarmed and im a massive dead crowd all trieing 
 to eat your brains. The game added batteries to its camera making it ignoying to keep going back 
 for pictures which also make leveling up very simple. But this game is great for releasing some 
 anger out on creatures of the damned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game has the worst storyline, unrealistic weapons, and oh yea, you can actually kill zombies 
 with a soccer ball. There is no reason to buy this game if you are actually that desperate in killing 
 zombies. The storyline is so uninspiring, and there is no reason for you to do what you are actually 
 doing in the game.
  
  Whats the reason running around killing zombies? Really... very stupid..........
  
  When you 
 start playing the it looks cool, but after a while it gets so boring because that the only thing 
 you do, is killing zombies. I started to 
  
  Its just not a fun game at all, really made me throw up when I played it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  When I first downloaded the Dead Rising demo I was in awe after about 5 minutes of play. The amount 
 of characters, the visceral yet somehow lighthearted combat....... the sheer scope of what seemed 
 possible.
  
  After playing the demo through twice I got up of my trusty couch and bought the game. Now, I cannot 
 put it down despite the fact that *gasp* this game makes me have to play through the same scenario 
 several times before I can beat it.
  
  This game had EVERYTHING that games had in the golden age of gaming. Atmosphere, challenge, innovative 
 game play and most importantly.... THIS GAME IS JUST PLAIN FUN!! 
  
  I look at everything in the mall and wonder 
  
  "Can I use this item"?
  
  The game revolves 
 around photojournalist Frank West who thrusts himself into a sleepy Colorado town where something 
 big is going down. After being heliported onto the top of the local Mall (which is the center of 
 the towns economy and social scene) he starts to realize that the town is infested with thousands 
 of rotting, putrid... and yes... man eating zombies.
  This is never a good thing, unless you are a game player or a George Romiro fan. The innevitable 
 comparisons between this game and zombie flicks of some reknown will abound.
  
  This game is so much fun partially because of the myriad of gameplay mechanics that add flavor 
 and depth to the experience. The use of the camera as a means to get PP (experience points) is 
 killer. Its fast, easy to use and almost feels somewhat like a mini game. It is nothing to take 
 a picture with 70 plus zombies milling mindlessly around some pizza store in the mall.
  
  There are numerous escort missions that need to be completed in order to gain the perfect endings.... of 
 which there are many. The main story takes place in what is called Case Files. The side missions 
 are similar and when you get info on any particular case its appropriately called a "scoop". Frank 
 is a photojournalist after all. 
  
  The missions vary from escorting barricaded civilians to the only "safe" area in the mall , to 
 eliminating psychopaths and criminals. You can do this in ALOT of ways. I have found myself starting 
 over from the begining, which you can do repeatedly AND carry over your past experience levels 
 and skills to each NEW game, just to try the variety of methods I could use to accomplish my goals. 
 Should I dice and slice all the zombie hordes in my way or should I be less confrontational and 
 just try to zip past them? Maybe I should make a barricade... somthing that is not that hard to 
 do. In fact since the player has 72 game hours to save the day and get the scoop its not like I 
 could just barricade myself in Joes Mens Cloths with benches and shelves and still beat the game. 
 I COULD do that and live though...... hmmmn.
  
  The graphics are at times jaw dropping and NEVER are they less than great. The amount of items 
 you can mess with and use in this game boggles my brain. Everything from a toy litesaber (which 
 is usefull at night when it is dark and there are more zombies) to Mega Mans helmet and buster 
 gun which shoots toy foam balls. 
  
  You have to get this game. You will love the challenge, the ambience and most of all the fun. I 
 would writte a longer review but I have to work.
  
  Wait a minute......... what is that indescript moaning in the back of my store?
  Oh My GOD!! THIS 
 CANT BE HAPPENING!!
  
  (2 days later)
  
  Itchy...... tasty.............
  
  Thanks Capcom for another GREAT and innovative game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggpjntim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  at first look its probably just another zombie spoof off of the popular resident evil series. Then 
 you notice its produced by Capcom, who practically own the zombie genre you change your mind. In 
 essence your trapped inside a mall swarming with zombies for 72 hours and have to find out why, 
 but thats not the only thing going on here. There's tons of zombies and even more ways to kill 
 them which creates a bloody paradise for anyone who just feels like killing everything for absolutely 
 no reason. The game seems easy but it surprisingly harder than anyone would think, and the psychopaths 
 you encounter are even worse. Other than that it's pretty easy, by the time the zombies are in 
 the mall you know how to play the game. the sounds are perfectly matched up to each weapon, convincing 
 you that your actually hitting a real person with a real TV. The music isn't the best though so 
 you might want to play some tracks in the background. They perfectly nailed the voices of the psychopaths 
 to literally scare you stiff. The graphics are all really good, though of course the zombies aren't 
 super detailed, it's not like your going to care what they look like when your killing billions 
 of them. The game never really slows down until you crack out some nasty weapons and kill about 
 fifty zombies at once. The plot is interesting enough to make going through the pain of hunting 
 down the case files worth it. Though for anyone who likes GTA this game is a must, if you don't 
 really care about the main plot and just want to kill endless amounts of zombies. Then you have 
 all the time in the world, and there are no wanted stars! so it has unlimited replay value in the 
 fact that you can just go killing zombies forever without a care in the world. I definitely recommend 
 buying this game. It is a must have for any Xbox 360 repertoire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiserySignals
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I'll say lately the game industry has been wearing thin and thankfully hasn't taken my money for 
 sometime. Then I downloaded the demo of dead rising... of course the killing of so many zombies 
 in a demo couldn't be enough so my arm was twisted far enough to buy dead rising. I went into the 
 game like I do with anything now-a-days expecting nothing. This game blew me away with its sheer 
 funness of killing zombies with a mall as your weapon. Given the story is there but it seems to 
 wear a little thin as a classic zombie story with people who know something and other wonder why 
 this is happening. But I will say that the game impressed over all with just the zombie fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryNo75
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a pretty good game. There are many pro's and con's to it though. The Pro's are there 
 are a variety of things you can use to kill the zombies but at times u will probably think there 
 are not enough items u can use but u'll get over it. Also the mall us huge so theres a lot of area 
 to roam around in. Plus the weapons are pretty good and they make the gun more fun. The missions 
 are pretty cool if u can beat them otherwise they get make u pretty mad. Some of the con's to the 
 game are the zombies can get very annoying because most of the time they just get in the way. Another 
 con to this game is the "psychopath" or "boss" fights. Some of them can be done very fast and some 
 of them take hours for example the clown psycho takes at least 30 min to defeat but on the other 
 hand the psycho in the cinema only takes 10 min if u use the right weapons. The one last thing 
 that can make u really mad about this game is the missions. For some reason you can complete one 
 and it will cancel all the ones that are supposed to follow but other then that its a pretty good 
 game and i would say its worth a rent first and then if u like it buy it. But dont buy it right 
 at first if u dont know what game to get cause u could be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medsolid
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about this game, I knew that this game will be perfect for anybody who have played 
 and loved Resident Evil. Because in Resident Evil, you can't kill zombies with anything, you have 
 a very limited weapons. but in Dead Rising, you have like 250+ weapons that can kill a lot of zombies 
 in any way. Also, in Resident Evil, there were like four or five zombies on the screen, while Dead 
 rising have more than 500 zombies.
  
  I know that many people had some problems with the save system, but I liked it, becuse it add some 
 difficulty to the game, that will let you start the game over and over again.
  
  The graphics is simply perfect and the sound is amazing, the gameplay is great.
  
  I think 
 that you will beat it in 7 hours, but don't forget that there is about 10 endings in the game and 
 there are others mode you can play.
  
  THIS IS THE BEST GAME ON THE XBOX360 AND THE BEST GAME I EVER PLAYED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I started playing it and I thought I was getting tired of it... well I was. Things seemed to be 
 the same over and over again. I started the game over before I decided to write a review and as 
 of playing the story and going along with it... the game is really pretty good. It has alot of funny 
 things in it, but it is extreamly violent.... like we didn't know that already? The game places 
 you in a situation where you have to find whatever you can to survive. This has a RESIDENT EVIlL 
 feel from it... due to the voice acting... but the game stays solid all the way through. I am finding 
 myself wanting to play it more and more to see what is next. If you plan to just run around and 
 do what I did this game will wear thin quickly. When you start it up... go with the flow and save 
 the people and you will have yourself a good time running in and out of the mall's area's. All 
 I can say out of playing this the last couple days is "BUY IT"!! If you like a good "beat em up" 
 till you drop kinda game this one is for you. I have had many hours of fun with it and I plan on 
 having whole lot more. The controls seem like they are not fit, but if you give it a chance it 
 falls into place nicely. This is one of the few games in my collection that I can say....$59.99 
 plus tax... I got a deal! This game makes up for the crap that come out on the XBOX 360. Capcom 
 did a really good job on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehPwnzter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Honestly after ChromeHounds dissapointing Single Player performance this is a breath of fresh air 
 to the single player aspect of the Xbox 360. In my opinion a must have. Why have such a powerful 
 machine if your using it for anything but spawning hundreds upon hundreds of swarming zombie masses. 
 This game also mixes the most types of entertainment of any game to date IMO. I mean Horror... Duh, 
 Action - nothing but, Erotica- .... Zombie cleavage? .... okay ignore that, Not to mention hours 
 of laughs if you chose to find them , Using the super speed potion to spin circles around zombies 
 until they collapse, watching thier futile attempts to walk down stairs humiliating them with a 
 number of items from giving them a skylight window hula hoop to smashing a traffic cone on thier 
 head and theres the excavator that you just have to see.... And after all that biols down the games 
 just plain fun. You can spend hours (if you ignore the story) finding millions of ways to obliterate 
 zombie hordes using anything you can imagine. From decapatation via saw blades too slicing through 
 a croud with a katana. Not to mention its not just mindless hack 'n slash it gives you drive for 
 the kills by rewarding you with PP or experience to lvl up and gives you brutal finishing moves 
 like the judo throw or karate chop or one of my favoorites the suplex! Add a zombie-tastic story 
 line and you have yourself a damn good game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houli252
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a action RPG-style game where you are Frank West, a freelancer photographer who 
 has come across a scoop that could be the story of his lifetime.
  
  First off, this game does a good job of story telling and action in one. Some may find the story 
 cheesy, but you'll be compelled to the end to find out who started all this. The action may get 
 somewhat repetitive, but nothing that is horrible. You'll find yourself opening new areas that 
 lead to weapons that you would have never thought of, and watching yourself beat zombies with it 
 will bring laughs and disgust at the same time.
  
  Anything from a water gun to a dumbbell to a 2 x 4 can be used in this game. The shear amount of 
 weapons can be over whelming. When the weapon you used is all used up, you'll find yourself desperate 
 for anything so you'll just run into any store using ANYTHING. Moments like this bring the game 
 to the most exciting times. Knowing that these things are following you and you have nothing to 
 fight it with makes for some intense moments.
  
  Some problems I've been hearing about are the Save system. I never found a real problem with this. 
 Basically its you only get one save per storage device and thats it. You can only overwrite your 
 one save the next time you decide to save, and I guess if you save at the wrong time and not make 
 it in time to your next case, you're basically screwed. So be careful and be aware of the time 
 when you're saving.
  
  Watching the blood and guts of the zombies you kill is satisfying and gross at the same time. Watching 
 them get their head bashed in with a bowling ball will just make you wince in pain but feel better 
 knowing you killed that bastard. The gore effects are well done and don't disappear after seconds 
 which makes some gruesome sights, seeing all the bodies on the floor. There are many psychopaths, 
 or bosses, that are around the mall which will give you huge PP points (prestige points) which 
 will level you up and make your character able to carry more stuff, gain more life, become faster 
 and what not. 
  
  My only complaint that I really feel necessary to say is that there are no physics to the bodies 
 at all. Watching the bodies fly around when fighting them would have made the game more realistic, 
 instead of watching them fall the same way every time.
  
  Dead Rising is definatly a excellent 360 game. Although if you want to buy it, I'd make sure you'd 
 want to play this game over and over again and not just once since the amount of time to beat this 
 isn't very long. 
  
  I recommend playing the demo before playing the full game before deciding to buy it or not. If 
 you feel like you'll enjoy for years, I definatly recommend it than. But without any doubt this 
 game MUST be played by all 360 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent graphics and sound; some few gameplay parts that are really cool/fun; lots 
 of zombies to kill with alot of weapons.
  
  The Bad: The firearm gameplay is extremely hard to use, especially when you are being fired upon; 
 defeated enemies reappear after they have been killed; the save system is absolutely pathetic; 
 the NPC artificial intelligence is horrible.
  
  As you play Dead Rising, you can either try to save everyone, kill every psychopath, and complete 
 the main Cases or you can just complete the main cases and kill thousands of zombies. If you try 
 to do the first, you will find yourself frustrated and angry along the way. You have very little 
 time to save your NPC's, and they are quite stupid also. Additionally, the psychopaths are extremely 
 hard to kill because of one common problem: the aiming scheme.
  
  When you use a firearm, you go into a first person over the shoulder camera view and you are forced 
 to stand still. That being said, when the enemies fire at you, you are unable to fire back as long 
 as they are hitting you. So your only option is to run away while being shot and slowing losing 
 health. This problem could have been easily avoided, but Capcom didn't want to avoid this. They 
 wanted us to die over and over and over, and start over just as much, and that is why we are forced 
 to scream in anger. 
  
  Other than that, I have one other bone to pick with Capcom. Why did you make only one save slot? 
 Also, why are there no Autosaves? Are we using half GB memory cards still? Last time I checked, 
 my 360 hardrive can store a thousand saves! This will also force you to start the entire game over 
 if you save in the wrong spot, which really really blows. 
  
  Other than the idiocratic faults I just mentioned, this game is pretty fun and cool. You can do 
 just about anything to zombies. Put things on their heads, shove arms into their mouths, cut them 
 up, saw them up, mow them up, kick them with soccer balls, and slam their faces into the cement. 
 It's all fun and avoid getting repetitive because their is so much to do in the game. Also, alot 
 of gore and blood that adds to the effect. If you can weather a broken save system, horrible gameplay 
 mechanics, and brain dead AI, then this is a gold gem for you. Otherwise, have a stress ball on 
 emergency call in and some blood pressure medicine just incase. Happy Gaming!
  Aromon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  There aren't too many exclusive Xbox 360 titles that deliver as much fun and entertainment as Capcom's 
 Dead Rising, and with this many things to do, it's hard to argue. You get a whole lotta game for 
 what you pay, and there's something here for everybody.
  In Dead Rising, you take on the role of Frank West, a hardened photojournalist. Your mission is 
 to investigate a bizarre mystery in the small town of Willamette, Colorado, specifically, the Willamette 
 Parkview Mall. Quickly, you learn that the place is overrun with zombies, and the national guard 
 has blockaded the town. Your helicopter pilot drops you off on the roof of the mall, and you have 
 72 hours to investigate this strange place. Along the way, you take many photos, help survivors 
 get to safety, and fight countless zombies. And you also cover several missions, called Case Files 
 . This is the main story, and it's the most crucial part of the game. Time passes in the game, 
 and it's important you make it to each Case mission on time. Failing to do so will basically fail 
 the mission, and you can't continue the story. Rather than start over however, you are given the 
 option to continue rescuing survivors (called Scoop Missions) . The only catch is you need to be 
 back on the helipad by the 3rd day at 12pm, to get picked up by the helicopter.
  During your stay at the Willamette Mall, you are given access to literally 100's of cool weapons. 
 Some that are very usefull, and some that are pretty pointless. You of course get your standard 
 ranged weapons, such as pistols, shotguns, and such. But you also receive a wide array of melee 
 weapons, such as sledge hammers, chainsaws, guitars, gardening tools, and baseball bats. And another 
 cool thing is, almost every weapon can be thrown. That means if you grab a butcher knife from a 
 kitchen, you can throw it and stick it in a zombie. Or you can use larger things, like benches 
 and trash bins, and throw them to knock over large groups of zombies. This is another spot where 
 the game shines. The ammount of zombies. Experience litterally 100's of zombies on-screen at once, 
 with very little slow-down. Taking on every single zombie is usually not a good idea, since they 
 are relentless and keep coming back for more. Later on in the game, you have access to several 
 vehicles, which are great for cutting through large numbers of these guys. Throughout the game, 
 you'll also face off against several bosses, called Psychopaths . This part isn't always fun because 
 some of the bosses can be very frustrating. But you feel quite proud of yourself after completing 
 these. The game also includes a cool RPG-ish levelling system. Fighting lots of zombies, completing 
 scoop missions, and taking good photos earns you experience, called PP (prestige points) . Every 
 so often, you go up a level. Levelling up increases maximum health, speed, damage done by weapons, 
 and occasionally earns you new attack moves. Aside from having an impressive ammount of enemies, 
 the game also boasts very nice visuals. The characters, like Frank, look very realistic. And the 
 environments are very detailed, particularly the outdoor areas. The sound is also quite good. The 
 weapons all sound very appropriate, from the chainsaw ripping through flesh, to the dull thunk 
 from the baseball bats. The character voice-overs are a bit cheesy, but this is what you'd expect 
 from a game like this.
  One of the big misconceptions I've heard about is this game is alot like Resident Evil. It isnt 
 fair to compare these two, because they are both so different. RE tended to blend moodiness and 
 horror to create a much more frightening experience, whereas DR is more about action. Calling it 
 a Survival Horror is a big understatement. The actual story is similar to say, a Metal Gear Solid 
 game. The plot itself is very serious, but the actual gameplay is pretty comical and goofy.
  The game offers alot of replay value as well, since you usually can't complete every case mission 
 AND scoop mission in one play. There are also additional modes to be unlocked, and there are TONS 
 of achievements to unlock that will keep even the toughest gamers busy for quite some time. The 
 game does get quite difficult as the story progresses, so it might not be for everybody. And for 
 those of you who can't play without cheats, you won't find 'em here. When you first play the game, 
 you may find some missions are nearly impossible to complete. However, as you unlock new weapons 
 and upgrade your player, you will be able to come back to these missions and get through with less 
 trouble. This is another reason why DR is rich in replay value. You will probably have to play 
 through the game a few times before you find all the secrets and reach your maximum experience 
 level. With only a few quality games on the 360, I hardly think Capcom could've done a nicer job. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mada_Nniuq
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Most of the people who complain about the difficulty probably haven't even beaten the first 2 bosses. 
 Once you level up and you learn to play right the difficulty is just right. The save system, although 
 not perfect, could be worse and after you get far enough to the point where you have more freedom 
 and can save when you want it doesn't bother you.
  
  The graphics are good, although they aren't perfect. 
  
  The sound is good, but the music for 
 boss fights is really random. For example, when you are facing white convicts there is rap music 
 in the background. When you are facing a crazed deli owner (not a tough boss, you can tell just 
 by that.) there is a mix of hardcore rock and rap in the background. When you're not in a boss 
 fight there is absolutely no music. So my only complaint here is the music.
  
  Imagine GTA+Oblivion+Resident Evil 4 and you have Dead Rising. It has good plot for a zombie game, 
 and despite what I saw one reviewer say, most boss fights to contribute to either the plot or new 
 abilities. Such as one boss is in a gun store, when you beat him there is no addition to the plot, 
 but you gain access to shotguns and smgs, and of course a buttload of experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeromind_Eric
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting anxiously for this game for months. Besides one small issue with the game, 
 I am extremely happy that is has finally arrived. 
  
  The game is plain fun. Easy to pick up controls, really funny wardrobe options, and amazing graphics 
 and sound affects. Just one thing.... the save feature can be down right horrible. Yes, it does 
 make the game that much more challenging but, you will find yourself backed into a corner in MANY 
 instances without being able to save your progress. Easy to get around and prepared for this though. 
 You just have to save and save often. Or else, forget about it. 
  
  There is no game that can even come close to the excitement and open-ended world that Dead Rising 
 brings. It is worth the $60. Get this and add it to your collection. Concentrate on the "first 
 72 hours" then go for the Achievements. 
  
  Whether you are chopping them all down with a lawn mower or just perfecting your golf game (ha!) , 
 this game is a must have and just plain KILLS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baumy3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me be the first to say that the only reason I bought a 360 was for this game.
  
  Now that I have played this game, I have mixed reactions.
  
  Most of you probaly already know 
 a'lot about this game, so I will break it down in a sense of assuming you guys know what I mean.
 
  
  One thing that has really let me down through this game is the difficulty of the "bosses."
  
 
  The game for the most part plays pretty real, but shooting a clown or a man named Carlito 55 times 
 is not my idea of fun. Shooting convicts in a humvee also sucks majorly.
  
  There is no real reason for these bosses to be in the game. They are extremely hard, and serve 
 no real purpose. They do not even contribute to the story,
  
  One more major gripe is the way the missions are set up. Sometimes they leave you sitting there 
 saying "Ok, what do I do now?"
  
  For the most part though, the game is pretty sweet.
  
  The idea itself makes this game tough to fail.
  
  I would buy it if you are a fan of anything 
 like this.
  
  
  
  Graphics - Cutscenes show off some beautiful images. Regular gameplay flows pretty smooth for the 
 number of zombies on a screen, and lighting in the mall looks pretty great. Not worth 10 out of 
 10, but close.
  
  Sound- Sound is amazing on this game. Every object sounds different, wether you throw it or hit 
 something with it. Almost perfection.
  
  Gameplay- Pretty good for the most part. No real gripes about anything. Frank handles pretty smooth.
 
  
  Overall- Really above average game. At least rent it if you are skeptical. This game will open 
 the doors for other types like it. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldemon47
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  When most people hear the name Capcom, they think zombies. The publishers name is well-known for 
 the Resident Evil series, a slow paced action adventure game that has you wondering around cramped 
 corridors with awkward controls and fixed camera positions. The series has always relied on cheap 
 scares and uneasy environments to send a chill down your spine. However, going into the next generation, 
 Capcom has surprised many with the release of its new title Dead Rising. It still has zombies, 
 but gone are the fixed camera, bad controls, and cheap scares. Now its all about taking a chainsaw 
 and running though a crowd of the undead. Sounds fun right? Thats because it is.
  
  Believe it or not, there is a story to this insane premise. You play as Frank West, a war time 
 photojournalist who is always looking for the next big story. When he gets a tip that something 
 is happening in a seemingly innocent small town, he rents a helicopter to fly him into the city 
 to see what is happening. Upon arrival, he sees that the army has blocked off all entrance into 
 the town and notices people attacking other people in disturbing and gory ways. He tells the helicopter 
 pilot to drop him off on the roof of a shopping mall, giving him strict instructions to pick him 
 up in 72 hours. And so, the carnage begins. 
  
  The gameplay is what makes or break a games design and Dead Rising delivers in spades. There is 
 nothing quite like taking a bench or chainsaw to a zombies mid-section or running them down with 
 a lawnmower. This may sound extremely grotesque to some, and it is, but since the game never takes 
 itself too seriously, its also hilarious. You can even put masks on zombies to blind them and 
 make then wander around aimlessly. There are an extremely large amount of weapons to choose from. 
 If you can think of things that would be in a mall, odds are pretty good Capcom put it in this 
 game.
  
  With all the zombie killing going on, you may forget that Frank is only in the mall in the first 
 place to get a story. To advance the story you must do missions known as cases which happen at 
 specific times during the game. If you miss a story event, thats it for the story. You cant continue 
 it. There are also side missions (known as scoops) that can be done while waiting for the next 
 case file to happen. Most of these are escort missions. The janitor Otis will contact you from 
 the security room and tell you he sees someone on the monitor. Its your job to go and rescue these 
 people from swarms of undead or the games lovely psychopaths. Psychopaths are the games boss 
 battles and have you fighting regular humans who have gone insane during the zombie outbreak. These 
 guys are really creepy and youll face everything from a chainsaw juggling clown to a machete wielding 
 brute who believes hes in Vietnam. 
  
  
  When the game starts out, Frank is a pretty weak fellow. He cant really defend himself and it 
 can be hard to survive though large groups of zombies. Thankfully, the game has a RPG style system, 
 which allows Frank to level up and gain new abilities. You can gain Prestige Points by simply killing 
 a lot of zombies, completing side missions, or taking pictures. They allow Frank to level up and 
 as he does, he will become stronger. Sometimes his health, running speed, or inventory space will 
 increase, while sometimes he will get new moves to avoid or vanquish the living dead.
  
  Since Frank is a photojournalist, he is able to use his trusty camera and take pictures of the 
 events occurring around him. The pictures taken are rated of how well centered they are, what is 
 happening in the photo, and how many people on in the shot. They are sorted into 5 different categories; 
 horror, drama, brutality, outtake, and erotica. Depending on what you take a picture of, the category 
 will be different. Just a take a picture of a crowd of zombies, you get a horror rating. Take a 
 picture on a zombie with a mask on, you get an outtake rating. Pictures are really just a fun addition 
 to the game and can be completely ignored. You can go through the entire game without taking any 
 pictures at all if you want, but its always fun to experiment and see what kind of pictures you 
 can obtain, pus the extra Prestige Points are always welcome.
  
  The only real problem with the gameplay is the save system. You get one save per memory device 
 on your Xbox360. To most, this means you get one save slot. Thats it. Many will get so caught 
 up with the zombie killing they will forget to save. If you die after completing a large portion 
 of the game without saving, you start all over again. And you cant save at anytime either. You 
 must find designated save points (such as a bathroom or security room) to save your game and these 
 are few and far between. It can be really annoying playing the same part of the game over and over 
 again. Should you save yourself in a spot where you cant make it to the next story mission, the 
 story is over. However, you can opt to save Franks level progression and start over. This feels 
 like a really cheap way to make the game longer and feels really unnecessary. 
  
  Another issue one might have with the game is the AI of the NPCs. The zombies are fine. They behave 
 as you would expect. But the humans you are asked to rescue can be extremely dumb, and run right 
 into swarms of zombies or simply run away from you and fight ones that pose no threat to you. They 
 can be extremely brain dead making missions where you have to escort more than one person a serious 
 chore. Youll be better off saving one and leaving the others to die. May sound cruel, but youll 
 be doing the exact same thing when you play the game. Trust me. 
  
  For a next-generation game on the Xbox360, Dead Rising looks really good. The environments are 
 large and have and huge selection of objects which are all well detailed. Sometimes the textures 
 are of lower quality in some areas, but this can be forgiven with the amount of stuff around the 
 mall. During cutscenes, the character models are highly detailed and almost look real. During gameplay, 
 the characters are less detailed, which is still understandable with the sheer number of people 
 on screen. There can be hundreds upon hundreds of zombies on screen at once. The animations look 
 great and are fluent. With all this stuff youd expect quite a drop in frame rate eh? Well youd 
 be wrong. The game runs almost entirely smooth. There were a few spots where the frame rate dipped 
 alittle, but these only lasted for a second and only seemed to happen when a large blunt weapon 
 took out a group on the undead.
  
  The sound is the star of the show here. It all seems to work so well. Each weapon has its own sound 
 when making contact with the floor or a zombies head and it all sounds great. You could swear thats 
 what it would sound like to take a sledge hammer to someones face. I dont know how they got these 
 sounds and when I think of how they might have, Im disgusted. Oh and the voice acting is pretty 
 good too.
  
  If you like zombies or mayhem or just plain action, I definitely would have to recommend Dead Rising. 
 It one of the most entertaining a unique games to come out in a long while and will satisfy the 
 need many have to obliterate the undead. It can be difficult at times and the save system is a 
 pain, but the game is always fun from start to finish. You never want to put it down. So, until 
 zombies actually rise from their graves and start to take over the world, Dead Rising will suit 
 you just fine for your $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  After all the waiting, after all the release dates being pushed back, after all the anxiousness, 
 Dead Rising is finally here and it seriously kicks. Ive heard people talk about the game, and 
 about how frustrating the game is.
  
  When posed the question why? the answer was weak. Well, I couldnt save many of the survivors 
 and then I died. If all Dead Rising consisted of was walk around the mall for the 72-hour period 
 and just mindlessly kill zombies, there wouldnt be too much of a game there. 
  
  But for me, personally, its all the little things about the game that is going to keep Dead Rising 
 in my constant play list. Take notice the names of two of the restaurants in the mall. Chris Fine 
 Foods and Jills Sandwiches. Is this maybe paying homage to the classic game Resident Evil? I would 
 like to think so. Just the fact that the game takes place in a mall is a tribute to George Romero 
 and Dawn of the Dead. It almost makes me wish that the team over at Capcom worked on Georges Land 
 of the Dead game. It would have been worth buying then. 
  
  Dead Rising gets an A+ from me. I think I might need to buy a second copy to have when I burn a 
 hole in the first one from playing it so much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullkiller3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising
  
  Gameplay- Rpg Elements like leveling up and stats which help you get stronger. Freedom in a mall 
 open wide choose any weapons at your disposal. Controls are easy and get used to fast, The ammount 
 of depth to the gameplay is not limited at all you can change your outfit to your needs and use 
 the weapons you choose.
  
  Graphics- Wow this game looks great, the textures shine perfectly blood spills out massively when 
 you cut up a zombie and it looks awesome. Explosions look amazing and the models look really nice 
 to the little textures on there faces.
  
  Sound- Guns shots, blades cutting, Chainsaws, everything sounds so perfect. character voices are 
 all just right.
  
  Downsides: Text appears to small, 1 save slot no problem about saving in game
  
  9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I personally don't like writing reviews, especially when reading negative ones, but let me assure 
 those who are into zombie flicks that despite some minor flaws and inconviniences, this is one 
 game that will give you hours of fun. Problems? yes, what game is perfect? Alot of kids trash the 
 game because of the save system. In a way it's broken, but I personally think the reason the developers 
 opt for this is to make the game more challenging and not allow a quazillion saves, thus, finishing 
 the game quicker than normal. The time based missions aka case files was also deliberately implemented 
 to focus on the game structure and storyline and not wander off a la GTA. People, this is not GTA. 
 The free roam that was mentioned, was how many ways you could attack a case file. I hate when people 
 have to compare everything to a GTA style game. Anyway I got the negative out of the way, now for 
 the positives. Like I said, for all those who love zombie movies, will definetly dig the storyline. 
 It has an exact premise to George A. Romero's "Dawn of the Dead", except you have to save citizens 
 and reach certain scenarios within a time limit. The concept is well excecuted, although the AI 
 seems off sometimes, there's still ways to work around it. You need to be a little more creative 
 and be efficient, which is no easy task. Once again, this is probably the reason why there's only 
 one save system, which is for the challenge. Remember, the focus is the story and not GTAesque 
 venture. About the graphics, this is truly next gen. The details, shadow and lighting are suberb 
 and character models look outstanding, compare to say Hitman Blood Money's characters. The controls 
 are spot on, once you get use to them. Again, this is a different game, so you're going to have 
 different controls, so get use to it. The only reason I didn't score this game a 9 or above is 
 because of the weak save systme and troublesome AI. Bottom line is this, if you're a diehard GTA 
 freak and like to make comparisons, then you'll probably be dissapointed because of the freeroam 
 throw off. You'll also be turned off if you're a save junkie and like to finish a game on record 
 time. On the contrary, if you're a zombie fan like myself and appreciate innovative and creative 
 style games and pay no mind to the somewhat crap save system, then you'll definetly dig this game's 
 storyline and gameplay. Is it flawed? yes it is, but the innovative gameplay, graphics and strategic 
 challenges make up for negatives. To all those who bash this great game, go back to the old stupid 
 GTA games and pretend people in the game are zombies. Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHappyBizzar
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  If you're like me at all, you have been anticipating the release of Dead Rising for a long time 
 now. Capcom does not disappoint with this insanely addictive zombie shooter (if it can even be 
 referred to as a shooter, the assortment of weaponry is uncanny) . I have a few problems with the 
 game but none of them are major enough to make me not love this game.
  
  The graphics in the game are sub par, at best, and lack some of the visual flair that is apparent 
 in other 360 titles. The fact that there is no form of slowdown when the zombies hordes get massive 
 is quite impressive (though I don't know if this is the result of a finely tuned game or the fact 
 that the Xbox 360 is something of a powerhouse) . 
  
  The controls in the game are pretty intuitive and fairly easy to pick up on. I have two problems 
 with the controls of the game (and one of them might not be considered a control issue) . The first 
 issue that I have is that when you go into a corner the camera sometimes doesn't know what to do 
 with itself and you are stuck with a view that is not too advantageous for you. Often times this 
 can be overcome by flailing around wildly, although that's probably just about the best strategy 
 throughout the entire game. The other issue I have with the controls is that the camera aiming 
 is incredibly sensitive (I have not checked to see if this can be altered though) and is sometimes 
 very difficult to deal with.
  
  The sound in the game creates a very good ambiance and adds a great deal to the gameplay. This 
 game is ridiculously fun but the escort missions and timed gameplay does get annoying from time 
 to time. The AI on the survivors that you are escorting seems less intelligent than that of the 
 zombies, I have run into a number of problems that should not have been problems. The survivors 
 will have a tendency to wait to stick around and fight the massive hordes of zombies as opposed 
 to just running by them, this becomes quite irritating because they then get captured by the zombies 
 and expect you to help them. 
  
  The save system in the game is also somewhat problematic due to the fact that you have to be careful 
 not to save it at a time when it is not possible for you to reach your next destination in the 
 time allotted. One thing I do like about the save system in the game is that if you die, you can 
 opt to restart the game with your stats intact. This is extremely useful because the game is very 
 difficult (in my opinion) when you are at level 1, there are certain parts that I absolutely could 
 not overcome without restarting the game and leveling up more before undertaking them again.
  
  It may sound as though I don't like this game due to the amount of criticisms that I have handed 
 out but these things that I have mentioned are very minor and barely detract from the fun factor 
 of the game. I intend to buy an Xbox 360 solely for this game and I would advise anyone even vaguely 
 interested in this game to do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike04016
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  The save points are often complained about because they might get you in a position where you can't 
 make your case file on-time, but if you don't do 3,000 side missions you aren't in danger of that. 
 My only problem is, when you have to kill a boss, it can take a while to get back to it from the 
 save point if you die.
  
  From what other people said, it seemed as though zombies would only attack you if you were practically 
 touching them. They don't mind you if you're far away, but they start to care if you come within 
 attack range with almost any weapon, and they'll come a little farther to attack you at night. 
 The only danger of the zombies is the number of them, and with a jump kick, you can get through 
 most thin crowds of them without a fight. It would be nice to have more than one save file, maybe 
 just so you can have one file that just kills zombies, and one that does the case files.
  
  For most bosses, you'll have to use your surroundings. If you feel completely outmatched, you're 
 probably missing something. However, most bosses are a challenge, and are pretty well-thought-out, 
 while others, are fairly stupid. I'd recommend saving before going into any case file, because 
 the bosses can be in places you wouldn't expect.
  
  The aiming system is pretty bad, but what can you expect from a third-person game?
  
  All-in-all 
 this game is really good, I'd definitely recommend getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaTcHaLL
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  This could have been a lot better if they would worked more on the NPC followers - how many times 
 you see them jammed in the corner of a stairs, standing still when they are surrounded of zombies... 
 too bad because the concept and graphics are really well done. 
  
  Also the bosses are ridiculy tough compared with the rest of the game - f. e. the 3 inmates in the 
 jeep - really hard to kill when you have no pistols - even by jumping on the jeep, sometimes a 
 glitch blocks you doing some damage to them : (
  
  Also i wonder why the NPC can't get throught automatic doors by themselves - i wasted some many 
 time trying to get them out because the doors were closing too fast for them to come out.
  
  Also, it would be nice to have a more persistent map - when you kill everyone in a zone - you 
 don't expect to be full again just by getting in and out... doesn't make sense... Also the save 
 system isn't fun at all - it's cool to be able to save at certain moment (like before fighting 
 bosses) - hopefuly, when you die, you can use your upgraded guy...
  
  After 11 hours of play, i'm still trying to get into it... something doesn't stick...
  
  A 
 good advice, rent the game, play for at least 1-2, then you'll have a good idea before buying it.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I love it. It's rather grotesque and disgusting, with all the blood and guts 
 and mass murders or zombies, but it's still one of the most addicting and fun games I've played 
 on the 360. The violence reminds me of GTA, but in this game there are many more possible weapons, 
 and the killings are more bloody and graphic, and the graphics themselves are much better than 
 any GTA game. Plus, you can never feel guilty about killing a bunch of zombies. The only thing 
 I do not like about this game is the saving. There are very few places in the mall that you can 
 save, and the game does not autosave after moving on to the next stage of a "case", which I think 
 it should do. I'm not finished with the first case even, and I've already restarted the game about 
 five times, in order not to lose all of my stats and such. In fact, that's the only good part about 
 the saving -- that if you have to restart the game, you are at the same level you were when you died, 
 which makes the game a bit easier to get through the second and third, and fourth and fifth times 
 around. Dispite the issues with too few saves, this is still one of my favorite games to play. 
 The gameplay graphics aren't great, and the lip-syncing sucks ass, but it's still a lot of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexisonfire828
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Save system this, hard gameplay that. Alright listen up people if it's not one thing it's another 
 and by that I mean. "Oh this game's way too hard"or "Pffft this game can be played by an infant", 
 would you want a hard game that's fun or an easy game that offers no challenge at all? If you picked 
 easy, well you should be playing games rated EC (in my opinion) .
  
  This game is great and offers a lot to the player, I mean the mall is HUGE and there's literally 
 thousands of zombies to kill, mame and torture, christ you can disembowel them! How cool is that? 
 Can you honestly say that there's another game out there that's lets you do this? Anyway, Dead 
 Rising is a fresh new title from Capcom, sure it's pitting you against zombies, but the story of 
 the game and the gameplay of it is all new and refreshingly original. Don't get me wrong this game 
 is hard but, don't let that discourage you from playing it. This game has a lot of offer from in 
 game skills and leveling up to achievements and unlocking new modes of the game.
  
  Now... the save system, I know just about everyone has a problem with this, hell even I do, but 
 it doesn't stop me from playing it. I find that you have to strategize as to how you use the save 
 system. If your going through the mall just hacking and slashing, yes, you will eventually die. 
 Why someone would go about trying to kill more zombies after a huge boss fight is beyond me. Save 
 points are also not that far apart and they are relatively easy to get to if you put your mind 
 to it.
  
  Boss battles, yes they're hard, but again would it be fun or entertaining if they weren't? The 
 randomness of the boss battles is what makes this game good. It doesn't just give you the real 
 good weapon, you have to work for it. Is it so hard to knock down 4 mall cops, grab their guns 
 and be on your way? I don't seem to think so, but it may take a death or 2 (probably 4 or 5) to 
 beat them.
  
  During the game there's a lot of things you can do not involving the story such being side quests 
 or the "scoop missions". Let me clear something up here you DON'T always have to answer the call 
 from Otis, just let it ring and yes Otis turns into a weeping b***h when you cut him off, but oh 
 well. Throughout the mall, there's plenty of stores (go figure huh) in which you can change clothing, 
 put on sunglasses and even ridiculous hats and masks. Books can be found and used to your advantage 
 cause if they're in your inventory an added bonus from that book will stay with you until the book 
 is dropped.
  
  The fact that you can use just about everything in this game is awesome, and the sheer joy of constantly 
 killing zombies in many different ways never gets old and all the escort missions are well worth 
 the trouble of gaining your PP. And what's wrong with him constantly having his camera, it doens't 
 take away a spot in your inventory, so what's the big deal? He IS a photojournalist who went to 
 the area to photograph things.
  
  I know this wasn't really a proper review in any way, but it is indeed an unbiased one where the 
 focus and rating wasn't based on the save system or it being hard.
  
  Cheers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkreign2424
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  First review and probably last.
  
  You probably already know the story, so I am not going to bore you with that as if I were interviewing 
 with Gamespot for a job.
  
  Long story short, two mechanics break this game entirely.
  
  The Save feature and the Scoop system. Both blow.... big time.
  
  Saving is nonexistent 
 except for some silly sofa in the Security room and Bathrooms (of alllll places) . Problem is there 
 is so much content in between save points, and its so easy to die, that you spend alot of time 
 just running to the nearest save point instead of trying to complete Scoops.
  
  Which brings me to my next point. The missions (called scoops or cases) in this game are artificially 
 difficult. Let me explain.
  
  Zombies, in droves, are not that difficult to bypass or slaughter (fight or flight) . The problem 
 comes when you unwittingly walk into some new area on an escort mission and without warning a cutscene 
 comes up with Frank (main character) and some douchebag youve never seen confronting some enemy 
 you had no idea existed and was even in that particular location. Its these wonky segues that really 
 pissed me off. One moment Im running for my life trying to get some poor schmuck to the security 
 room, and the next I am in the midst of a boss fight I had no idea existed, with one bar of health 
 and no ammo. Obviously, youre dead.
  
  Which leads me back to my first point. The ****ing save system.
  
  You see how this circular 
 logic comes back again and again?
  
  Its these mechanics in a game that ruin even a polished turd like Dead Rising. Slaughtering endless 
 zombies sounds like alot of fun when you hear things like "hundreds of weapons". Slaughtering zombies 
 gets real old when you realize that 60% of said weapons completely suck. Youll find yourself stocking 
 yourself full of Katanas exclusively and only leaving one stock slot open to experiment with all 
 the worthless items in the game. Slaughtering the same group of zombies every time you just-so-happen 
 to misstep into some boss fight you didnt know existed 10x starts to wear on you.
  
  Im done. Bottom line; avoid this game unless slaughtering zombies in the same fashion over and 
 over again thousands of times sounds like alot of fun and is worth $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burncycle_79
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics to date are one of the best shown on the xbox 360, and the fact of how many 
 zombies that can be produced in one area. There is little to no slow down. Great cutscenes and 
 voice acting is very high coming from Capcom. The different moves that you can enable as you unfold 
 the truth of the story is great as well. You recieve PP which means Prestige Points to level up 
 either on health, or movement, or learning new skills. 
  
  The Bad: Unless you have your eyes against the T. V. or if you have a 50" projection screen T. V. 
 I thought it was hard to read the messages coming from the transreceiver. They should've actually 
 added sound when they are talking instead of using subtitles. I also found that if you don't check 
 your map out you will be lurking around trying to figure out where the people are that need to 
 be saved. I also didn't like the NPC intelligence. They are pretty dumb when it comes into saving 
 them. I've had not much luck saving any of them because they keep running into hordes of zombies, 
 which shred them apart in seconds. 
  
  Overall: If your a Capcom fan, and Zombies are your thing then you need not read any reviews, because 
 this game does an excellent job on the many ways that you can eradicate the dead. Using a Katana, 
 or a battle axe, or my personal favorite which is the chainsaw. There are a few flaws to the game, 
 but none I don't see that would keep someone from buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Os1r1s
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of zombie movies, when I saw this game, which like everyone else, reminded 
 me of Dawn of the Dead, I had to pick it up. I love the whole feel to it. The combat, mood, sounds 
 and graphics are great. I have yet to uncover the whole story, so more on that on a later day. 
 
  
  I have a few concerns, the save system, which only lets you save at the bathrooms and the security 
 "lounge" really makes for some long backtracking just to save your progress, and on a few occasion 
 I have died while walking back from 1 hour missions trying to save. 
  
  Also, the text font for the scoop text, and when chatting with other NPC's appears small and on 
 my TV, really pixelated, and I need to squint to understand a few words (hopefully this will be 
 fixed by christmas when I get an HDTV)
  
  Overall, these flaws, when ignored, prove to actually make this game worthy of a purchase. With 
 a high replay value, its a sure hit for the end of the summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jypson44
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun sometimes, smashing zombies with your favorite weapon or running them down 
 in the thousands when you finally kill the guys driving your new jeep... but the rest of the game 
 is pure torture. The save system is rediculous, the mall is pitch black at night, the zombies really 
 get to be very annoying after awhile, the boss fights are insane, the melee weapons break way to 
 soon, they expect you to find times to read books to improve your stats between the very punctual 
 main missions and numerous side quests, there is a glitch that keeps bringing the convicts back 
 to life (not as zombies but back to regular bad guys) , and the music is very poorly done. This 
 game had sooo much potential, and some how they still managed to fudge it all up in the final production. 
 I really wish I could give it a higher rating due to its origionality and presentation, but when 
 the day is done, it's a broken game not worth sinking your time, money, and frustration into. I 
 would most definitely recommend renting this title first or buying it from a store that will let 
 you return it, 'cause chances are it will drive you insane too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volgin13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  This game is Dead Rising the best zombie killing masterpiece that has ever been made! You are a 
 journalist named Frank who happens to discover some strange happenings going on in the small Colorado 
 town of Willamette. Frank decids to get off at the mall and do his story there and tells the pilot 
 to pick him up in three days. in those three days you must uncover the mystery that is making the 
 dead rising! You can use any thing to kill the zombies and they all have there sound effects. Its 
 a little difficult with the psychopaths and the save system. You can save only on couches and bathrooms. 
 It has 50 achievements to unlock and loads of action so buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scelous1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  I was one of the many people excited about Dead Rising. I read the previews and downloaded the 
 movies, and anxiously read the first reviews released. Not only that, but I like zombie stories, 
 so I figured I'd probably enjoy it even more than most people. Imagine my shock when I found out 
 that even with my penchant for zombies, the game itself is quite mediocre.
  
  The story starts out with Frank investigating the town of Willamette, Colorado. He lands on the 
 roof of the local mall and soon becomes embroiled in the drama that unfolds inside. The cast of 
 characters is great, and the voice work is excellent, when there is any. The problem is, however, 
 that very few characters get voice work, and even fewer have any real significance. After spending 
 time and effort rescuing any of the survivors, chopping through hordes of zombies and continually 
 babysitting them to the safety zone, you receive a one-line text response from one of the survivors, 
 something akin to, "Hey, thanks man." I just blinked and stared when I first saw that, and thought, 
 "Why did I even bother?" The characters don't feel real, and really seem more like poor AI bots 
 than people trying to stave off a zombie invasion. You also receive experience points for them, 
 which you can just as easily gain from photo shoots, killing zombies or killing bosses, all of 
 which are less of a hassle.
  
  The graphics are nicely done, with the mall just oozing in style. This is one of the most successful 
 parts of the game, in that the designers and artists have captured the proper feel. The character 
 designs look solid enough, with the only real complaint being hands that are somewhat larger than 
 normal. The sound complements this well, and as most reviews have mentioned, the sound effects 
 made by the various items are spot-on.
  
  The gameplay is, unfortunately, the big letdown. To start, there is the absolutely punishing time 
 limit; despite always trying to make efficient use of time, and choosing the most effective routes, 
 some of your efforts will defintely result in failure. The only real reason for causing players 
 to miss out on events is to encourage replayability. There are players that enjoy replaying a game 
 again and again in order to get the best score possible, but this kind of gaming should not be 
 forced on to the player in order to get the entire experience they paid money for. It's a cheap 
 way of adding hours to the game. Not only that but if you happen to save during one of the many 
 times you're trying to beat the time limit, and you happen to discover it's impossible for you 
 to make it, well, get ready to start all over again. The anitquated save system is the reason, 
 and the same desire for the developer to cheaply add hours to the game.
  
  The save system allows one save per storage device; this has been criticized by every review out 
 there, and justifiably so. There is no good reason whatsoever to force a player to limit to one 
 save, unless you were trying to artificially add hours on to the game by forcing the player to 
 restart after a mistake. What this means is that you will have to exercise extreme caution in order 
 to do such a simple thing as saving your game. You might go out, fetch weapons, beat a boss and 
 rescue some victims only to die (or run out of time) near the safety zone. You get to play it all 
 over again. And again. And again. And again.
  
  The obstacles in reaching the hostages and defeating the bosses, besides the save and time limit, 
 will be hordes and hordes of undead. It's fun to kill them with the variety of weapons available, 
 but if you're trying to actually accomplish goals and solve the "scoops," then there will be no 
 time to fight them, and they'll merely be an annoyance. The first time one of the zombies got ahold 
 of Frank, I shouted and started mashing the buttons frantically in order to free him. The one-hundred 
 and fiftieth time Frank was grabbed, I just rolled my eyes and unenthusiastically tapped the buttons 
 with my sore and calloused thumb. This is the problem with the Dead Rising - the entire thing devolves 
 into a tedious button-masher, similar to a fighting game but even less rewarding.
  
  It's sad to see such a great concept turn out to be a flashy but ultimately worthless game. I genuinely 
 wanted to like Dead Rising, but the developers seemed to want the exact opposite, and so implemented 
 some of the worst features ever seen in gaming. Dead Rising has a beautifully rendered theme with 
 a lot of polish, but underneath is a game devoid of interesting characters and gameplay. Hopefully, 
 this review will save you some time and money, as I wished someone had saved mine. However, if 
 you're as enthusiastic as I was, then by all means, go and try it out. I think you'll sadly find 
 these glaring flaws to emerge at some point, as I unfortunately did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Did you see George Romeros remade Dawn of the Dead movie and ever wish you were in the movie? If 
 the answer is yes, then this games for you. Fans of comics will liken this game to Robert Kirkmans 
 Walking Dead which is a great comic in its own right as well. Lets face it, killing zombies with 
 lawn mowers, bowling balls and samurai swords is fun as hell and you get to use countless types 
 of weapons to slaughter the undead hordes. Also, Dead Rising has an enjoyable story. One thing 
 that you may expect that this game is not though is easy nor open ended. Its linear in the routes 
 you can take within the game but the story progression is open ended. A cool thing I would have 
 to point it is the roleplaying aspect of leveling up your character which is especially fun if 
 you don; t decide to say and start over with your current stats which means you can start incredibly 
 strong and resilient therefore seeing everything the game has to offer as you probably won't be 
 playing the same game twice. 
  
  Its a no brainer, if you liked the movies Dawn of the Dead or 28 Days Later or Robert Kirkmans 
 Walking Dead comicbook, then this is the game for you. A strong entry from Capcom for the Xbox 
 360s slim selection of games that looks to be finally picking up in the coming months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vokail
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising takes a different take on the world of zombies than resident evil. Instead of a few 
 of them that jump out at you from the dark, there are hundreds and thousands of them all over the 
 place. This game is overall amazing, with some minor irritations, but ones that are negligible.
 
  
  The Gameplay is the best part of the game. The fact that you can use pretty much everything in 
 the place is fun - from 2x4s to benches - if it's on the ground, you can pick it up! The amount 
 of zombies in the game make it very intense, there are some areas that I think to myself; how am 
 I supposed to get over there? The character progression system is great as well, you level up and 
 as you level you get increased health, speed, etc. as well as new skills to bust up zombies.
  
  The game isn't without problems though. One problem with the game is the save system. It reminds 
 me of the same style they use for resident evil, where you have certain points to save, but you 
 can only save one game per profile. This can be annoying, but it's nothing that ruins the game. 
 Also the convicts can be very annoying as well; they drive around in a jeep with a mounted machine 
 gun and god help you if they find you and attack. I've died to them a few times now, but this does 
 make it interesting by finding ways around them and ways to get by.
  
  The detail that capcom puts into the game is very pleasing. You can see minor details, like stubble 
 and imperfections in the skin. The skin has a life like shading to it as well and multiple colors 
 in the skin to give it a realistic look.
  
  The sound in dead rising is one of the greater parts of the game. The effects are realistic in 
 the game and the voice actors are above par as well. Though it would be nice if they had more voice 
 overs in their characters, it really isn't a big deal.
  
  This game also has a lot of potential in it's replay value. There are a lot of missions you can 
 go on, some of them are very hard with you trudging through hordes of zombies. The amount of missions 
 and the massiveness of the game allows for playing the game many times and still have fun.
  
  Dead Rising is definitely a must have for anyone who love games with action, horror, and some 
 difficulty. It may have some kinks in it, but none that destroy the game. It truly is a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_D28
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Capcom, the creator of the Resident Evil series, is known as the "go to company" for gamers zombie 
 fix, and Dead Rising does not disappoint.
  
  Graphics - 9
  The in game graphics are pretty good, and while running in an HD resolution are especially sharp 
 (well thats a given) . The characters when seen in motion, especially in the cutscenes, move fluidly 
 and have pretty lifelike facial expressions. The zombies themselves are gruesome, from their pupiless 
 white eyes, to the rotting flesh and gaping wounds on their bodies. The psychotic bosses look decidedly 
 insane, and really give you the impression that they've completely lost all grips on reality. The 
 main draw of course is just how many zombies appear onscreen at once! You really get a feeling 
 of desperation once you lay your eyes on the insane amount of zombies that can appear.
  
  Sound - 10
  The sound effects and music in Dead Rising really lend to the atmosphere. While traversing 
 the mall, you'll hear the shuffling and moaning of zombies coming from all sides, while at the 
 same time the speakers in the mall spouts looped advertisements and of course, mall muzak. The 
 music in the cutscenes fit every situation taking place on screen, whether its a mysterious character 
 appearing, a reunion with a fellow survivor, or preparation for a boss battle. Speaking of which, 
 each psychopath boss has his/her own theme, and each seems to try to drive your adrenaline level 
 up as you fight for your life. And weapon wise, each has its own satisfying crushing, slicing, 
 slashing, or explosive noise, which really helps out when taking out the masses of undead in the 
 mall.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  The gameplay in Dead Rising is definitely something new. Its sort of like if you took a Beat em 
 up and a Survival Horror game, and fused them together. Another draw to the game is the sheer number 
 of weapons and items that you can use. Usually if you can see it, you can pick it up and use it 
 as a weapon (or in some cases, a tasty health replenishing snack) . Theres nothing more satisfying 
 than picking up a katana and slicing through zombies like butter, or bashing the faces of countless 
 undead with a frying pan. The bosses in the game are called psychopaths which are decidedly insane, 
 and put up a really good fight (what else would we expect from Mr. Inafune, father of the Megaman 
 universe) . The only bad point in the game however is the save system, due to the time constraints 
 of rushing across the mall to complete an objective. Sometimes you'll save the game, and then realize 
 you dont have enough time to finish a main mission. However you can always save your stats, and 
 start a new game with said stats intact (which is what you'll have to do after beating the game 
 to see all it has to offer, and the several different endings) .
  
  Wrapup - Capcom has once again struck zombified horror gold with Dead Rising. While this first 
 entry has some spots that need touching up on, its a excellent first try, and I hope for at least 
 a trilogy of games from the Dead Rising universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, Dead Rising is truly a change-of-pace game. It pits you up against zombies... lots of zombies. 
 I'd say thousands, I doubt anyone would disagree. The best part is, you have inumerable methods 
 of slaying these quite slow, very stupid creatures around the mall, and weapons range from classics 
 like swords and guns, to the more obscure tvs and trash cans, and some others (but I won't spoil 
 the fun) . A majority of the entertainment value comes from exploring all the posibilities across 
 the mall.
  
  However, though the zombies are slow and stupid, they swarm by the hundreds, so the game is actually 
 quite difficult. Throw in some crazy people with automatic weapons, and you've got a pretty hard 
 game.
  
  Dead Rising looks great, but Oblivion's graphics are yet to be bested, even after almost 6 months. 
 The sounds are fantastic, from the sickening crunches of bones breaking to the soft squish of heads 
 bursting (the game is rated M with good reason) , such sounds are part of the fun of exploring new 
 weapons. It's a great game that all 360 owners with a resilient stomach should check out, but it 
 will probably be a while before stores get stock for those who failed to pre-order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustopants
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game that has zombies... in a mall... sound familiar? Well, despite the complete 
 ripoff of George Romero's Dawn of the Dead... Dead Rising turns out the be quite a good movie licence 
 title, haha! just kidding!
  
  Anyway, in all seriousness... Dead Rising is an amazing game that hits a certain chord in my brain 
 that triggers happiness out of gory, gory pleasure. It's also a game that can appeal to many different 
 types of gamers, and does lots of things right, despite having a few minor drawbacks that don't 
 take much away from the experience.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  Ok, first things first, let's talk about the gameplay in Dead Rising. You play as Frank West, a 
 photojournalist, and you wind up covering a story in the town of Willamette, Colorado. You get 
 dropped off by a helicopter on the roof of a mall, and end up finding zombies that are trying to 
 break in. Armed with your trusty camera, you can take pictures and earn "Prestige Points" (PP) to 
 level up and gain new skills.
  You can also earn PP by killing zombies. You can either fight them off with your fists (or other 
 melee fighting moves you earn from leveling) , or you can fight them with the hundreds and hundreds 
 (maybe thousands) of weapons you can find scattered throughout the mall, in the halls or in the 
 various stores.
  The boss battles in the game are quite tough, they have you facing off against other humans that 
 have went crazy and attack you. Lots of the time I have to face a boss a few times to finish him 
 off, and sometimes it gets a bit frustrating... but that's not to say they aren't any fun... after 
 you beat them, you do get a nice sense of accomplishment, and what would a game be without a bit 
 of a challenge?
  The controls are solid, but fall a little short when aiming weapons... basically, you can't aim 
 your weapon and walk at the same time... so you have to keep switching on and off... think of it 
 as the same "over the shoulder" aiming system from Resident Evil 4. Also, the save system can be 
 a bit tedious at times, but it's not as bad as everyone says it is...
  
  Graphics - 9
  The level of detail in the graphics is amazing for a game with so much action on screen at once... 
 the main characters, and the items in the stores all look extremely nice, as well as the stores 
 themselves, and the rest of the environment... there is some texture lag when you walk into stores 
 sometimes, but it's hardly noticeable...
  The zombies, while they don't look bad, aren't as detailed as the rest of the stuff in the game, 
 but this is probably just because there are so many of the bastards on screen at once!!
  The animations in the game are very varied for all of the different weapons. Frank seems to use 
 all of the weapons with mostly separate animations, and all of the animations are smooth and work 
 great together.
  overall, the game has incredible graphics, and an incredible framerate for theese graphics, I haven't 
 seen one framerate drop once! and that's pretty amazing for all of the action taking place on the 
 screen.
  
  Sound - 9
  oh man, the sound in Dead Rising! Everything sounds so crisp and great, all of the weapons have 
 specific sounds and they all have such a satisfyingly gruesome pitch to them... weather you're 
 running zombies over with a lawnmower, hearing all of their bones and flesh being churned... or 
 hitting them in the head with an electric guitar, with the funny little guitar chords... the game 
 sounds amazing!
  It also helps that the game has a great cast of voice actors who bring the characters to life, 
 and really help to sell the suprisingly serious storyline of the game.
  That being said, the majority of dialouge is in the cutscenes... the only things you'll hear outside 
 of the cutscenes are some small sentances or phrases... the maor dialouge outside of cutscenes 
 is just written text.
  also, the soundtrack itself doesn't stand out much, it's mostly just your generic fare of mall 
 music, or elevator music... there's only a few spots where there will be any actual songs that 
 stand out, such as the park area, where you can hear a rap song being played by some enemies, or 
 some music during boss battles.
  
  Value - 10
  
  The value of this game is unbeleveable, with so much to do, and see, and unlock, and download... 
 There is so much variety to the weapons that the game's bound to never get old quick, you'll probobly 
 want to play it for a while to unlock everything, and even after that, you might just load it up 
 for some quick fun. there is also some free downloads on xbox live that unlocks new costumes, and 
 there probobly more downloadable content to come.
  
  Tilt - 10
  
  I put my Reviewer's tilt at 10, because I view this game as a great, fun title that will most likely 
 be remembered 10 years from now, Maybe even becoming a great franchise in it's own right, and replacing 
 or overshadowing Capcom's current franchise, Resident Evil.
  I think I can speak for most people when I say that i'd love to see a sequal, and i'm going to 
 enjoy this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowsung
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Krazy Bosses
  Awesome Weapons (everything can be used)
  Perfect Sound
  Lots of Zombies and Blood
  Leveling system works well
  
  The Bad:
  Frustrating Save System
 
  NPC survivors aren't the smartest people
  
  Every George A. Romero and zombie thriller fan buy this game. Even if you aren't a fan of either 
 of those, buy this game. Dead Rising is a large leap for Capcom. Almost everyone who has ever picked 
 up a controller knows of or has played a Resident Evil game. While RE is a survival horror game, 
 Dead Rising is more of an action adventure game with zombies. There is a great story line and the 
 scoops (side quests) make it easy to be enthralled in but hard to accomplish. Next off... weapons, 
 weapons, weapons. The great variety and spot on sound that each makes, puts you right into the 
 action. (However, the shotgun does have unbelievably long range) While the game is fun to play, 
 it does have its shortcomings. I have found that the game tends to be so frustrating at times you'll 
 want to pull your hair out. The save system, which only allows the regular gamer one save, can 
 lead to lots of trouble because of timer and because the only places you can save are bathrooms 
 and the shelter. (you'll need the rogaine) Saving characters can be a nightmare, especially if 
 they are injured or scared ****-less by zombies. However if you need some anger management or just 
 want to kill something, the infinite mode is for you. To try out the controls and the gameplay 
 mechanics you should test out the demo in the xbox live marketplace. This game is a definite must 
 buy for any 360 owner and I know you'll enjoy it just as much as me. Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertruchotzke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is the best zombie game ever made not saying that much but its awesome. 
  The Good: You can literally use anything in the mall chairs guns trash cans tvs soda cans frying 
 pans katanas this game is just so much fun its ridiculous. 
  
  The Bad: But the save system is horrendous it just blows. Only one save place in the whole game 
 a sofa. Wow they could have at least made a few more but no there is just one if not for that little 
 fault this game would almost be perfect. 
  
  Overall Impressions: This game hits where it needed to hit right in the zombie killing action this 
 game never fails to send more zombies at you it is almost impossible to not be surrounded by ten 
 of them at once and then you whip out your baseball bat and crack some zombie skulls .Oh and the 
 sound in the game is so delightful its almost scary. Weapons are just down right awesome who thought 
 an HD TV had so many uses and how bout frying pans. 
  
  I must recommend this game buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robogare
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  DEAD RISING is a stupid video game it has great graphics but no story no soul for one only voice 
 in cut-scenes no in game voice over its not like they dont have a voice for the guy. also the controls 
 are typical play station controls. you cant move well shooting unless your auto aimingwhich doesnt 
 let you know who or what your shooting at and whats with the camera points. items dissapearing appearing 
 because they are damaged and you cant even see the damage. running slow, gamplay sucks, story stupid 
 (72 hour story with helicopter why cant you make a normal story) especially because its lacking 
 save points i didnt know that for a while you have to save at the same save point i saved and it 
 restarted the story for me anyway. this game is awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I was not going to buy this game when I first heard of it, but the demo changed that. This game 
 has beautiful graphics the kind you would expect from a next gen game. This game is most appreciated 
 on a nice 5-6 speaker surround sound system if you dont have one you are totally missing out. The 
 game play mmmm... lets just say whats not fun about whacking zombies with baseball bats, lead pipes, 
 2" x 4"s, park benches, cutting them up with branch clippers, chainsaws, katana blades
  ( Kill Bill) and capping rounds with 9mm's, shotguns, uzi's and so on. I will highly recommend 
 getting this game it is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is non stop fun. (Except for boss fights) There is no stop to the crazyness this game 
 offers.
  
  Pros:
  Non stop zombie killing
  (Almost) Everything is a weapon
  Cool storyline
  Sequel upcoming
  Bloody and gory
  Shooting guns in crowds
  You can kill 
 everything in sight without out the guilt
  Making smoothies and baking stuff to eat
  Taking pictures
  Killing cult members
  "Stupid" zombies
  
  Cons:
  Hard boss battles
 
  "Smart" zombies at night
  Only one gun store
  Not enough different types of stores
  Infinite Special Forces and Cult members
  North Plaza being under construction
  Either Convicts 
 or Special Forces Helicopter occupying the park
  Reading small text during zombie killing action
  Answering the transmitter
  
  Its the little 
 things that make this game a 8.8 and not a 10 but its the greater things that propel this game 
 to the top 5 for the 360.
  1. Oblivion
  2. GRAW
  3. Call Of Duty 2
  4. PGR 3
  5. Dead Rising
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising was the best zombie game ever! You got everthing that a zombie fan would dream of. 
 Chainsaws, bats, Lawnmowers, and most important the actual feeling of hundreds of zombies surrounding 
 you. For hours I would be running for my life in finding a better weapon to slash, hack, bash, 
 blast, mauled, and smacked my way though the unndead hoard. Everything looks great and feel great 
 to my perspective. Okay find there is that dumb saving situation which everone was talking about. 
 PEOPLE, when did you all became a bunch of whining babies? Back when i was playing Mega MAn on 
 the NES, they didn't have any saving spot for your convient when you died and have to redo the 
 whole game. That's called tough luck. It's either you take it like a man and redo that section 
 or turn of the game and find a good wall to punch at. But to rap this up, Nobody shouldn't feel 
 dissapponted when playing Dead Rising. This game was the very reason why I bought a 360 in the 
 first place. So go play the game will ya? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising has been a game in the headlines along time now, every since I first saw that amazing 
 "super-market" screen shot I knew this game was going to be good. For the most part Dead Rising 
 delivers, its a bloody expience but its serious fun. There are some problems though, the biggest 
 being with the whole "save system" itself, you can only save in the bathroom and back room with 
 the "HQ" is. Other problems include time, you only have so much time to get things done, if you 
 don't make it, your basically screwed and have to start over. 
  
  The graphics are great, very next gen. Not as good as that one screen shot long ago, but still 
 its amazing. The blood looks very nice also (Sorry if that sounds creepy) but its true, it looks 
 realistic. The sound is also pretty good, the sounds of the Zombies getting killed is very realistic, 
 if you could kill Zombies, it would sound something like this. The gameplay is pretty good, fuild 
 and smooth and using anything as a weapon is sweet. Overall this game is pretty good, it has problems, 
 but in the end, its good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuppetBaby0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first slipped this game into my Xbox 360, I somewhat expected this game to be less of what 
 I have been waiting for for quite some time. However, it turned out that I couldn't put the controller 
 down for a few hours before I suffered from dehydration! 
  The controls are easy to get used to, and the sound makes it feel like you're really hitting a 
 rotting person with a lead pipe. I find the blood stains to be the most realistic I've seen in 
 any game, let alone the graphics and a stunning motion-blur effect. The CG cut scenes really feel 
 like your'e watching a theatre-quality movie, and the plot roped me in quite quickly.
  Overall, this is one of the most addicting 360 games I've played since Oblivion. Though the... interesting 
 save system could have been better, everything else in the game is simply superb. I strongly recommend 
 it to all Dawn of the Dead /zombie fans, and also gamers who are craving a great 3rd person action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mons_vulva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Imagine being trapped in a mall, every 14 year old girls dream come true eh? But not for Frank 
 West, its not the same case. There by choice, he embarks on a photo-op of a zombie crazed mall 
 set in a small town in Colorado. But this story of the year soon turns deadly as Frank meets a 
 barrage of zombies and finds himself in a fight for survival. You will meet many characters, some 
 good and some known as ''Psychopaths''. The psychopaths are alot more entertaining primarily because 
 they are the object of your weapons affection, whilst the other scared and helpless characters 
 beg to be saved and thats where the real frustration with the game comes into play. And the save 
 feature..... well it sucks, you save in bathrooms and at a sofa. you will find yourself backtracking 
 quite a bit..... and one more thing WHY DO SO MANY 360 GAMES HAVE SUCH SMALL TEXT??????? PGR3 made 
 me wall bust my 360, and this game is worse. Oh, and this game has the best sound known to man. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  When Capcom anounced Dead Rising at E3 it was instantly insanely popular among fans and non-fans 
 alike. Now that it's finally out, we can finally stop playing the demo and finally experience the 
 real thing.
  
  Overview:
  
  Pros: TONS of weapons, great sound and voice acting, graphics are great, great boss fights, innovative 
 gameplay mechanics, tight controls, over-the-shoulder view a la RE4, Capcom easter eggs.
  
  Cons: Escort missions can be a real chore, survivor AI sometimes screws up, the save system is 
 incredibly frustrating and makes the game overwhelmingly difficult in spots, the text (on a standard 
 TV at least) is down-right patheticly tiny and can get really annoying when you're trying to figure 
 out what some people are saying. 
  
  Gameplay: You play as freelance photojournalist Frank West. Frank gets a tip about something big 
 happening in a rural town in the middle of nowhere. That something happens to be bigger than Frank 
 could ever imagine as the helicopter he's riding in pans over the area, there is carnage and murder 
 in the streets. Frank firsts thinks they are riots, but after getting dropped off on top of a seemingly-deserted 
 shopping mall, he finds out about the horror that secretly lurks within the town.
  
  Anyway, the zombies are kept at bay for a good while by a determined group of survivors who have 
 baricaded the mall's doors from their undead adversaries. Of course: one of the survivors is a 
 crazy old lady who keeps whimpering about her precious dog Madonna. When she sees Madonna at the 
 door of the mall among the undead, she unwittingly lets the zombies in. All the survivors die...... so 
 you think, as Frank has to do anything and use anything to survive the hellish shopping mall overrun 
 by the undead.
  
  Ok, so now that the story is out of the way we shall get down to the gameplay basics. Frank controls 
 very well, and the weapons handle differently depending on the weight of the weapon or size of 
 it. When using a melee weapon (you will most likely use one for 85% of the game) you can hit your 
 enemies with it, or alternatively, holding the right trigger to throw it at them. When you use 
 a firearm (primarily in boss fights) you can hold the right trigger to go into over-the-shoulder 
 mode (from RE4) which makes aiming easy, enabling precision aiming. 
  
  The boss fights are known as "psychopath" fights, during which you don't fight hellish creatures, 
 but humans that have gone insane as a result of the zombie outbreak. The psychopath fights are 
 incredibly fun, and vary in location and in fighting style. From mall clowns to butchers to terrorists, 
 you'll have to take them down to survive. 
  
  The only real problem with all this is that this game suffers from what I like to call: "Prince 
 of Persia Syndrome". Meaning that the save system is really awful. Take this for instance: towards 
 the beggining of the game, you'll be faced with your first "scoop!" mission, (I'll explain those 
 later) in which you take a tutorial on taking pictures from an egotistical young photographer. 
 After that, you'll have to go through your first psychopath fight, and then you have to escort 
 two more survivors in your second scoop! mission. Then you'll be tasked with helping a mother who 
 has just lost her child and has an injured leg. You'll have to give her a piggyback, with the other 
 two survivors in toe, (one of which won't do too much to defend himself, even if you give him a 
 gun!) until you can eventually get to the safe room. If you die at all during this time, you'll 
 have to start it all over again. Yep, that's how bad the save system is. It's tolerable after you 
 learn where all the spots are, but it's a bit hard to believe that with a game like RE4 where the 
 typewriters are so well-placed (as well as checkpoints!) that Dead Rising could have such awful 
 save points.
  
  Along with your main CASE missions, as I mentioned above, you'll have your scoop! missions. These 
 mainly consist of escorting survivors to the safe room. Some of them are easy to bring in, while 
 others can be so frustrating that you will want to kill them yourself. One survivor is a gluttonous 
 man who you must promise food to persuade him to come with you. Later on, he threatens to start 
 a mutiny and bring a large group of survivors with him to forage for food, causing you to bring 
 him more food before he can escape. 
  
  The weaons are by far the star of the game, as you'll comadeer pretty much everything that is tangible, 
 or not glued to the ground. This makes it a lot easier since you never really get stuck in a no 
 ammo spot. As a humorous addition to the game, if Frank has no items or weapons, and you hold the 
 right trigger and press X, Frank will hock loogies at the zombies. It's not effective, but it's 
 quite comical. 
  
  Did I mention that the whole game is timed? Yes, you are basically a timed mission throughout the 
 whole game, but it never really feels like that, since you do actually get a lot of free time in 
 between cases. Your main goal is to get to your chopper within 72 hours and to uncover the truth 
 about the incident before you escape. To achieve the best possible ending (there are multiple ones, 
 depending on how you do) you must rescue every survivor, and complete every scoop! mission. If 
 you fail to do so, you will have an alternative ending in which Frank will most likely die. This 
 makes the replay value all the more better. 
  
  The sheer amount of stuff, from lawnmowers to chainsaws, boosts the gameplay, which I will give 
 an 8/10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are at their strongest in the enviornments and (most) character models in 
 the game. The enviornments are rich, and beautifully lit, and the character models look great. 
 Perhaps the strongest graphical presentation is in the attention to detail that Capcom put into 
 this game. The zombie models never really get repetitive, nor do they look bad. The character models 
 look great in-game and in the cutscenes. In some spots, the character models appear a bit blocky, 
 but you can forgive these shortcomings by appreciating the immense detail put into the enviornments 
 and stores. 
  
  The only problem with the graphics is the text. When you talk to survivors, it will usually revert 
 to text, instead of a cut-scene (I thought this was next-gen!) . I normally don't mind reading the 
 text in a conversation, but in Dead Rising's case, reading is hard. VERY HARD. For a near-sighted 
 person such as my self, reading the text is a strain for the eyes. I've heard the same from other 
 non-glasses-wearing people and they've said the same thing. Thankfully, the game's plot doesn't 
 unfold through these conversations with the survivors. It simply just gets frustrating when you're 
 two inches away from your TV screen attempting to figure out what to do.
  
  The weapons look great as well. Many of the items are detailed, and the various animations that 
 Frank uses to wield these weapons are fluid too. In addition to the great enviornments and character 
 models, are the effects. The water effects are great, and your weapons actually impact the enviornments 
 when you use them on it. The graphics are great and worthy to the 360, which is why I'm giving 
 them an 8/10.
  
  Sound: The sound is the best aspect of the game. The sounds that vary from weapon to weapon are 
 each unique and sound great. The chainsaws buzz wonderfully, the hedge-clippers snip with fiendish 
 snipping, and the zombies groan with dread when you take away their head priveldges with a shotgun 
 blast to the head. The voice acting is great too, no "Jill Sandwhich!" moments here! (Well... there 
 is, but it's not in the dialogue) . The story is actually quite involving and intruiging, filled 
 with twists right out of an actual horror movie. 
  
  All the sounds here are top-notch, which is why I give the sound a: 10/10.
  
  Value: You're 
 not going to want to play this game once and then forget about it. You also can't go through the 
 game once and use every item. It's just too expansive. Once you complete the main mode, 72 hour 
 mode, you unlock overtime mode. This mode basically allows you to go through the mall with no time 
 limit, but Frank's health slowly deteriorates and many of the psychopaths from the main game return 
 to kill Frank. 
  
  This is where the Xbox Live part comes in. There's a leaderboard system for inifinity mode, in 
 which the person with the longest time spent before dying is the winner. The Xbox Live Marketplace 
 also plays a role in the game, as it gives you exclusive items for free or a certain amount of 
 points. 
  
  The replay value is obviously extensive here, but I just wish there were more unlockables like 
 in RE4. That's why I give Value a 9/10.
  
  Bottom Line: This game isn't so much survival horror as it is action, like in RE4. There's no real 
 scary moments, though the game is not for the faint of heart (or the near-sighted) . However, if 
 you like the GTA games, and are a fan of any other Capcom series, Dead Rising will not dissapoint. 
 The sheer number of items and free-roaming space is great, and it all pans out nicely. The good 
 outweighs the bad here and it works. Dead Rising is an experience that any owner of a 360 would 
 be stupid not to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goochyslap101
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna give this game a 8 ( it rated 7.9) just because the saving feature in the game subtracts 
 2. Sometimes you'll get overwhelmed by zombies and if you haven't been anywhere near a save point 
 and you have low health, you better not die. Cuz if you do then you start where you last saved. 
 All the weapons, level ups, and cloths you found are all gone. The game is really awesome. Seeing 
 a zombie explode blood after you bash him with a lead pipe or 2x4 make you want to scream at your 
 tv tough talking the un-dead, dead zombies. It's too cool. Buy the game, you won't be dissappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Does anyone remember the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles side-scrolling beat-em-ups? Or the X-Men 
 games in the same vein? Remember how badly they failed when they were converted to 3D? Dead Rising 
 is what the 3D versions of those games should've felt like; fun, enormous, and just killtastic! 
 
  
  I do have a couple of gripes about the game, though. The first is that even though supposedly everything 
 can be used as a weapon, there's a surprising shortage of weapons that would be useful to you in 
 a certain context. The most obnoxious example of this that I can think of is in the first boss 
 battle (I'll try not to spoil anything!) when you're still sort of getting acclimated to the controls 
 and you'd really like a ranged weapon, but you'll run out of ammo too quickly or won't be able 
 to arc your throws just right and so on.
  
  The second thing is something I only kind of have a problem with, though, and that's the save system. 
 Like everyone says, it's a little too selective and that leads to some problems, but once again 
 no one complained (too loudly) about having to restart after an entire level in the X-Men or Ninja 
 Turtles games. Also, when you start the game over after beating it you retain all of your Prestige 
 Points (PP) so things go a little quicker and makes the zombie-slaying action that much more fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying, "This is a great game!" Once you pop this in your 360, it might not 
 come out for a few days. One thing though, I did expect a little more from this game. Don't get 
 me wrong, it's really fun, it just could have been better.
  
  Anyways, in the game, you're Frank West, a photo journalist. You start the first 15 minutes of 
 the game flying in a helicopter taking pictures of all the zombies. Every time you take a good 
 picture, your PP goes up (Prestige points) and when you get enough, you level up and get a new 
 ability, and your attributes go up, strength, health, etc. When you go above the mall, you tell 
 the driver to pick you up in 3 days when you get the scoop. 
  
  Whenever you lose health, you can either go to the food court, or just find a little restaurant, 
 which you might have to do if you're fighting a psychopath. 
  
  One thing about this game is that there isn't any multiplayer. This could have made it a lot better. 
 Like if they added a mode where you can have a little squad of people working together online, 
 or just a Co-Op mode. 
  
  But in the end, this is a good game, but it could have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gcarlomagno
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  A lot of fun running around and killing the zombies. graphics are slick too. there are a few annoying 
 controlling issues. i. e. aiming with the gun and aiming with the camera. two different mechanisms. 
 gets distracting. the gun aiming isn't intuitive at all. so when you're under fire, there's NO 
 room for error. VERY AGGRAVATING!!!! also, the weapons system is a little annoying. changing weapons 
 and picking up objects takes a little while to get used to. when surrounded by mutliple zombies, 
 it's easy to find oneself fumbling through your items to fend off your attackers. they could have 
 satisfied this by using a GRAW aiming system instead of the mess they put in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  There certainly has been a lot of anticipation and excitement about Dead Rising with good reason. 
 Consoles are finally able to capture the feeling and atmosphere that could previously only be captured 
 on film. Unfortunately, there have not been many games thus far in the next generation that have 
 proved this. Dead Rising shows off its muscle with style exhibiting interactivity, theatrics and 
 a heckuva a lot of zombies. 
  
  You play as Frank who is a freelance photojournalist that got a tip that was going on in a small 
 town of Willamette. He hires a helicopter so he can get the scoop before the competition does. 
 As they fly over the city it is immediately clear that there is something wrong. The Army has blocked 
 off al the streets, cars are on fire, and most disturbing, are the mobs of people that are attacking 
 other people. Yes, we have seen this set up before but even in this opening movie Dead Rising shows 
 that you are in control as you are able to take your own shots of the carnage below as it happens. 
 Frank has the pilot land on a helicopter pad oddly enough on a mall. Frank barely makes it as Army 
 helicopters try to close in. His ride will return in 72 hours. 
  
  This is probably the most leisurely time you will have for the next 72 hours (each hour is about 
 10 mins real time) . You meet up with other survivors finding out that ... wait for it.... there are 
 zombies! Immediately, you get to see the horror up close as the zombies attack while you and the 
 others try to escape to a security room. From this point on, the game gives you "main cases" that 
 help progress the story in finding out what caused this zombie fest as well as "scoops" which are 
 basically optional quests consisting of rescuing survivors and bringing them back to safety. 
 
  
  Making your way through the mall is always a challenge as there can be up to 1000 zombies on screen 
 at anytime. If that were not bad enough, there are also some weirdoes who are referred to as "psychopaths" 
 out there too. For example, one of the more challenging psychopaths you will come across is a group 
 of escaped convicts who have appropriated a military jeep with a machine gun. George Romero could 
 not even come up with this stuff. 
  
  Dead Rising rarely gives you time to breathe and you really feel what its like to fight for your 
 survival by scavenging weapons, food and other items. The cases and scoops are timed in that you 
 will maybe have 1 case and 3 scoops all ticking down but its your choice in how you prioritize 
 them or even do them at all. If you miss a case though that becomes difficult because then you 
 miss part of finding the truth. The sheer intensity of the gameplay is heightened in that you can 
 only save the game in certain areas and you have only one save slot to use. 
  
  The controls can really give people a fright at times because you will sometimes find yourself 
 doing things you really did not want to do like diving into a horde of zombies instead of away 
 from them. Aiming weapons is also challenging since its completely manual, and the change in camera 
 perspective can be disorienting. The camera lifts its ugly head once more when you are trying to 
 carry or aid injured survivors. Its definitely something you can work with but it does take some 
 getting used to. 
  
  The graphics are certainly nice but not something that will amaze you right away. Its looking 
 at up to 1000 zombies at once, all having their own A. I. that will blow you away. Its even hard 
 to notice two zombies in the same area that look alike. There are hardly ever any hitches throughout 
 the game which shows Capcom really fine tuned this baby for primetime. The character animations 
 are another treat with some of the sequences being on par with games like Half Life 2 on the PC. 
 In all, it makes the game a very believable experience.
  
  The sound wraps up this package with some of the most gut wrenching hacking, slashing and slamming 
 of zombies I have ever heard in a game. The accompanying music is a decent collection but its 
 probably a game most people will want to use their own tunes for anyway. I was surprised that voice 
 acting was not provided through the entire game. This is amplified because many people who have 
 standard TVs apparently have to set their 360's to widescreen or sit very close to read the dialogue. 
 
  
  Overall, Zombie fans and gamers who like a lot of action will not be disappointed. The game is 
 brilliant, unique and gives you lots of reasons to replay it. However, its not for the faint of 
 heart but not because of its gruesomeness as much as the fact that the game can be very challenging 
 and even frustrating which some gamers will certainly not enjoy. Fortunately, you can also unlock 
 other modes that are not timed where you just go killing zombies and playing dress up at your leisure. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Champ721
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Capcom is definitely experienced when it comes to zombies. They have made fun and scary games. 
 This game is no exception, except for the scary part. And that's not really a bad thing, as that's 
 not what they were aiming for as you can clearly tell.
  
  Zombie slaughter was probably the #1 thing you wanted to do when you first heard about this game, 
 wasn't it? And Capcom has done it just right. Zombies are so fun to kill; you have so many different 
 and satisfying ways to kill zombies, it's not even funny. It's hilarious.
  
  The story in a nutshell: You're Frank West, freelance photo-journalist. You heard there was something 
 big happening at this one town in Colorado. You hire a helicopter pilot and head down there, only 
 to find the town has been invaded by hordes of the undead. You tell the pilot to pick you up in 
 three days. So, you have three days to kill zombies and uncover the truth behind the zombie invasion.
 
  
  There are many varied weapons to find in the mall. You can find things such as: shotguns (among 
 other firearms) , katanas, barbells, scythes, 
  ridable skateboards, cash registers, guitars, frying pans, etc.
  
  There are also some vehicles 
 that are fun to ride, but only really serve to mow down zombies. And they just explode without 
 warning after a while, which hurts you. Duh.
  
  Unfortunately, killing zombies isn't the top priority. At least that's not what the game wants 
 you to think. You can still "pwn" zombies to your heart's content as long as you are at the right 
 place at the right time.
  
  You get missions by going to a certain place at a certain time and, quite frankly, that isn't always 
 fun. Not *just* because you have to be at a certain spot at a certain time, but because, if you 
 miss it, you have to start the entire game over. And to top it off, the save system is beyond broken 
 and punishing.
  
  The side-missions often include escorting people over long distances to the zombie-free security 
 room. This gets very annoying and frustrating after a while. Some survivors can carry weapons, 
 luckily. Others, you literally have to hold their hand the entire way. I've also heard you actually 
 have to carry some, and you can't attack while doing this. Too bad you can't use them as a weapon. 
 Heh heh. But luckily, you don't *have* to rescue anyone. Although, you want to try, as you get 
 experience (or as the game calls it, "Prestige Points") .
  
  The save system boils down to you going to a few select places in the mall. This gets very frustating 
 as you can have a save thirty minutes back before a boss fight. A hard boss fight. So basically, 
 you have to repeat twenty to thirty minutes just to get to the boss and die. And to *really* rub 
 it in your face, you only have *one* save slot. So, if you make a mistake and you didn't know it 
 would be fatal, save, and have it drop on you; you have to start the entire game over. So, if you 
 save somewhere too far to reach a case in time, you're done for.
  
  The text is also *way* too small. It is so hard to read, that you-
  
  Who am I kidding? I can't 
 read the text at all. My vision isn't top-notch, to be honest, but many other people have the same 
 problem. Although, you may luck out if you have a big TV with wide-screen support, but I'm not 
 quite sure about that.
  
  And to make it worse, the only voice-acting in the game is during cutscenes and "Frank, help me!!" 
 So, you have to squint (which hardly helps in this game) to read all the mission objectives, dialogue, 
 and item names. And believe me, there's a lot of all of them. So, half the time, I don't even know 
 what I'm supposed to be doing.
  
  Also, the time is hard to keep track of. Sure, you have a watch, but you don't really know *exactly* 
 when you have to be at a certain place (just "Over 6 hours", "Under 6 hours", or "Under 3 hours") . 
 Oh, and a digital watch would have been a lot nicer with a display of the date, AM or PM, and the 
 time, of course.
  
  The whole time you've been reading this (you have been reading it, right?) , you'rve probably been 
 wondering, "Should I buy Dead Rising?" The answer depends. Do you like action-adventure games where 
 you can run around a large area and kill stuff? If so, this game is for you. If not, rent it first. 
 The demo on the Xbox Live Marketplace is fun, yes. But it's not exactly a good representation of 
 the game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_spartan_11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, it is unny as hell, and ive never had so mutch fun blowing a zombies head off!
 
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is fun, theres lots of things to do, a ton of stores to go into, and a ton of 
 options. It has such a funny style, im laughing out loud at zombies, while i wack a golf ball through 
 their face.
  
  Graphics: Graphics were good, many parts of the game looked top notch, but some surfaces looked 
 kinda wierd.
  
  Sound: The sound is fantastic, if i hit a Zombie with a pan, it sounds real, i wonder how they 
 got these sounds to be so real......
  
  This is a must have for anyone who wants to have fun, i loved it!
  
  Overall 9.7/10. Good job 
 capcom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Its summer. Releases are trickling in one by one and none of them have really been impressive in 
 my opinion. I have held on to hope that Dead Rising would be able to turn around my thoughts on 
 the 360 and actually provide me with a gaming experience that I would want to talk about and would 
 remember for some time to come. The concept of zombies in a somewhat-open world environment has 
 been thought up before. Namely, in Dead Rush, a title that got canned just before completion. Ever 
 since I have wondered what that game would have been like. And I have waited to see another zombie 
 game that didn't go the way of Road to Fiddler's Green on Xbox. Is Dead Rising the one? Can the 
 horror masters at Capcom pull another zombie franchise out of their hats for us next-gen gamers? 
 Wait no longer to find out. Here's the Game Breakdown on Capcom's long-awaited Dead Rising for 
 Xbox 360.
  
  Graphics: Graphically speaking, this game is spot on. Character models look nice in every aspect, 
 and even when there are a ton of zombies on screen at once, the game still looks good. I didn't 
 see a whole lot of repitition in the way the zombies looked either, which is really good because, 
 as we all know, nobody wants to tear through cookie-cutter enemies over and over again. Frank, 
 the main character, looks crisp, with no muddy textures. Environments are VERY nicely done. It 
 really looks like a mall as you are running through various stores throwing everything AND the 
 kitchen sink at the waves of undead. And the blood.... a very nice touch. Let it be known that there 
 is quite a bit of gore in this title. However, it never feels overdone and only serves to compliment 
 the gameplay experience.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty much spot on. The voice overs are surprisingly solid, and the handgun 
 sounds very nice. The moaning of the undead as you run past is a very nice touch as well. I would 
 love to have had voice overs instead of text in various parts of the game however. I'll touch on 
 that a little in the gameplay section.
  
  Control: Tricky. Where is the autoaim we all know and love? You pull the right trigger to draw 
 your weapon, and then, assuming it is a gun, you must manually aim the sights and press X to fire. 
 Why X? I don't know, as it does get a little awkward at times. Running and moving around in the 
 world is very easy and has silky smooth controls. Even using the camera isn't as complicated as 
 one may expect. The left trigger brings it up, with A and B buttons controlling the zoom and X, 
 once again, snapping the picture. To pick up items, simply move close to them and press B to grab 
 them. Very simple.
  
  Entertainment: You are in a mall full of zombies. Anything and everything is a weapon, down to 
 a clothes hanger or a bottle of ketchup. If that doesn't sound like entertainment to you, I don't 
 know what is. From beating zombies with benches to mowing them over with a lawnmower, this game 
 has many brutal and unorthodox ways for you to take out your frustrations on the undead. I can't 
 remember the last time I had so much fun in a game just by walking around and killing things. People 
 have complained about the A. I. I didn't really have a problem with it, as they will grab you if 
 you're close enough, but they are slow and quite stupid. My two gripes with this game are very 
 simple:
  
  1. Save system: It's the worst save system in the world. I've had to replay through forty minutes 
 of game play just to get back where I was before. Why is there no autosave? That would have EASILY 
 gotten this game a 10 in my book... but dang it Capcom, you had to mess up on something. So close 
 though... so very close. Give us a patch and I'll give you your ten. Although I don't see that happening.
 
  
  POTENTIAL SPOILER BELOW. FEEL FREE TO SKIP DOWN TO THE NEXT ALL CAPS LINE TO AVOID READING.
  
 
  2. 50 shots to kill the first boss: He's just a guy. A shot to the head, boom, done. Why in the 
 world does it take so many shots and then the guy escapes?? Come on... that's been done fifty times 
 in other games guys. And the old lady and the dog at the start of the game? Probably the lamest 
 opening scene they could have gone with.
  
  However, I forgive them because they allow me to take out my frustrations with those matters by 
 grabbing a pair of hedge trimmers and shredding zombies. That is the heart and soul of this game: 
 the fun factor. There is an ever-present timer to keep track of, and the way the story is revealed 
 in what they call "panels" I don't like. But you can't let that cost you the game's unique experience.
 
  
  All in all, Dead Rising is one title that may very well sell some Xbox 360 systems.. it's that good. 
 I'm having more fun with this one than I ever had with Oblivion, and that says alot. If not for 
 the save system, this game would have a ten, I guarantee. But I just can't do it unless they fix 
 that issue. However, what I CAN do is recommend this game for a rental. What I can ALSO do is recommend 
 it for a purchase. Basically, for $60, you're buying the ability to level vast armies of zombies 
 in more ways than you can count. I don't know about you, but to me, that sounds original... and 
 it also sounds like a TON of fun. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, it is. Pick this one up 
 and you can truly Chop til you Drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalafarside2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Dead rising is Capcoms new zombie romp as most horror fans would know. The game works very well 
 with it's evolving battle system and just the sheer amount of ways to take out a zombie. As odd 
 is it sounds the zombies in the mall that you will see in the thousands are secondary to the actual 
 characters in the game which is some of the best voice acting I beleive seen on the xbox 360. Great 
 B movie plot that goes seemlessly throughout the whole story. When you have to await for the next 
 story mission to come around there are more than enough things for Frank West to do to kill time. 
 While making your way throughout the mall you will receive calls from Otis who is about as needy 
 as that girlfriend who calls you every two minutes for whatever he has seen in his security office 
 is going down in the mall so you can help get survivors or stop certain psycho survivors from causing 
 anymore harm. That is a bit of the drag on this game is the annoying system to answer calls from 
 Otis since while talking to him you might as well be idle, because you can't do anything but run 
 around and at times you need to jump around to get onto higher ground to avoid the masses. Another 
 drawback is the survivors. When you are escorting a few people back to safety they sometimes get 
 caught onto the corners or walls which can be frustrating in the begining since you are not that 
 powerful yet. It is best I've learned to send the survivors to waypoints ahead and it drastically 
 drops them from getting caught up. ANother thing about survivors is you should equip them with 
 weapons if possible so they can defend themselves which gives you a better chance. Otherwise it's 
 not a bad system, but the survivor AI can be clumbsy at times which shows it flaws. The saving 
 system is not as bad as everyone has gone on about. there is a save area in about every part of 
 the mall and isn't all that much of a grap just remember to save often and think ahead. When you 
 are roaming the mall it is best to keep of how much time you have for your next case (story mission) 
 if the timer is in the red I would drop any ides of doing a side mission and get to where you have 
 to. If you want to chance it I suggest a save beforehand in case you can't make it on time after 
 you are running around, because you will have to restart the whole game which could be a major 
 drawback. The save system and cases make the player time conscious and you will have to keep an 
 idea on how long you got before you have to get going. Jut keep in mind every hour takes 5 minutes 
 in real time which gives you more than enough ample time to accomplish a side mission with 2 hours 
 until another case opens up. The sheer amount of things you can do and see are near unlimited, 
 because it's like going to Disney world you can't see it all in one day. This game will keep you 
 going and finding new things for a bit since the sheer size of the mall which is very gorgeously 
 detailed and how every store has it's own look and feel like a real mall. The mall truly is the 
 star of this game and it makes you forget that you are only in one building thorught your time 
 in Willamette Parkside mall. The game offers multiple endings and if you get the right ending it 
 will lead you to the true events. You can ulock a overtime mode which will give another day of 
 new stories and events and if you complete this mode which should take more than 2 to 3 hours, 
 then you will unlock infinite mode which gives you free time to do as you please throughout the 
 mall and see it all. The only catch is that this mode is on a time in a sense also. Anyone can 
 survive sitting still, but this mode makes you keep moving because throught this mode you will 
 slowly lose health killing or not killing hordes upon hordes of zombies which makes you non-stop 
 scavenge for health and survival supplies which is a great mode in its own. I do not reccommend 
 this mode until you get your character up to a level 50 since you will need to be on your peek 
 to stand a chance since also throughout this mode there are the villians of the game you will run 
 into time from time who will make it a really bad day for yourself. So if you are a huge zombie 
 fan and have been wanting that game where you can have that feeling of being overrun then this 
 game is for you. The only true setbacks to this game are the Ally AI and your friend Otis calling 
 you about breaking a nail every 30 seconds then I highly reccommend this to any gamer who wants 
 an exp. that will kill many hours on end. A must buy for the 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceasar015
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This is great game for any dawn of the dead fan and zombie fan. You can use just about anything 
 as a weapon running zombies over with lawnmowers to shoving limbs in the mouth of a zombie. The 
 game can get a little repetitive at times but all in all it is still verry fun. You have to explore 
 your options because you do just about anything so if you think it try it out and give it a shot. 
 This is definitely a fun one and its pretty realistic with pretty good graphics. Most certainly 
 is not a waist of your money since you will be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  
  There are SO many ways you can kill zombies it unbeliveable. You can kill zombies with: Soda cans, 
 CDs, Light Sabres, Big screen TVs, lawn mowers and the list goes on and on and on. The problem 
 i had with the game is the save system it is so broken its just frusterating. 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Everything looks amazing especially in HD. There are some framerate issues 
 though.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  AMAZING. The voice acting is great the sound every weapon makes when you kill a zombie is amazing.
 
  
  Value 7/10
  
  There is no online but the achievements take some time to do and you will have to go through the 
 game multiple times to get the achievements. Also there is a level system so that might make you 
 want to play the game longer.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  Very good game i recomend it to any xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a very good game made almost unplayable by its draconian save system. Hours and 
 hours of wasted and redundant gameplay -- no matter how brilliant -- are still wasted and redundant.
 
  
  Clearly, this game needs a patch, which could be provided via XBox Live and downloaded quickly 
 and easily. Other games have released updates this way.
  
  Capcom, why not allow user saves at any point? Even if you keep the questionable "one save slot" 
 mechanics, allowing the user to dictate the save point would go a long way toward fixing Dead Rising. 
 In addition, it seems a simple enough thing to have an autosave feature implemented. Instead of 
 having the frequent load screens serve no purpose beyond loading, instruct the game to autosave 
 each time. Hey, you could even change the text from "LOADING" to "SAVING" and players won't balk 
 so much at the constant loads. Trust me.
  
  While this game sounds amazing, is expansive, creative, and enjoyable in its grit and gore, the 
 save engine is so broken I can barely bring myself to play it.
  
  CAPCOM, FIX THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcraftfan234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a game where you take the role as Frank West, a Photojournalist writing a story 
 about the small town of Willamette, Colorado and while en route, he lands on top of the roof of 
 one of the main attractions of Willamette, the Shopping Center. What Frank doesn't know is that 
 the mall is home to litterally thousands of zombies!
  
  The most innovative thing about this game is that ANYTHING is a weapon, for example, why waste 
 bullets fighting against zombies when you can just use a baseball bat? Or a soccer ball? Or even 
 a TV??!!
  
  Also this game has 3 modes, 2 of which are locked until you beat the real game, which is the 72 
 Hour Mode. There are lots of things to do in the mall, you can do Cases and Scoop Missions, this 
 not only helps you gain Prestige Points (Helps you level up) , but it will do good on your game's 
 final score at the end which determines the ending. Oh did I mention there are over 10 ENDINGS 
 in Dead Rising?
  
  Another Innovative thing about Dead Rising is the Photography, since Frank is a Photojournalist 
 and the reason you came to the mall was to take pictures, why not do it? You can take pictures 
 of Zombies and Survivors, and there is over 5 categories of Photos: Drama, No Genre, Erotica, Horror 
 and Brutality.
  
  When you gain Prestige Points (Also known as PP) you gain levels which can give you new moves, 
 increase your weapon stock, health bar etc.
  
  The only negative things I have about this game are that the game is so huge and full of zombies 
 that the Graphics are not really the kind you would see in most games. Also the save system is 
 a real hassle, if you die in the game you can either load at the point you saved or you can start 
 the whole game over again but still KEEP YOUR STATS and ABILITIES. Also the Case Missions are unforgiving, 
 if you miss at least one mission, the story is done, you can not continue the story, you can still 
 play the game but you are not involved in the story anymore. Also the A. I. in this game such as 
 the Survivors are as brainless as the zombies, they can sometimes try and fight the zombies (They 
 would get killed) stop and call for help, or just stop and run away for no reason, which is really 
 frustrating.
  
  But this game still has a little bit of Resident Evil in it, such as Zombies unexpectedly coming 
 out of the elevator to the mall, the fact that at closing time all the lights turn off, the music 
 stops and it sets the mood for the game, which I really like.
  
  This game may have a few problems, but this game still gets a score of 9.0/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacidevil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Never written a review before, but I believe this game deserves my comments.
  
  This game has the perfect amount of cutscene to gameplay ratio its disturbing. Instead of feeling 
 like I am watching a movie and fiddling my fingers saying "hurry the f up" I actually feel like 
 I AM Frank and I am talking with my fellow prey. 
  The visuals are stunning and the controls move with such ease. The fact that the skills of your 
 survival arent default and that they improve based upon how you react is also very positive for 
 replaying the game. There is nothing like jamming a coat hanger inside a fat dead womans face and 
 then slamming her 
  down with a 2x4.
  
  The zombies in the game are sooo overwhelming in numbers I have to pause each time I leave the 
 area just to wipe the sweat from my head. I find myself screaming like a little girl which also 
 freaks the dog out and disturbs the wife.
  
  If XB can continue to give me this much fun, and its only been one friggin day, they have a customer 
 for life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jizohnrobertson
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising hijacks Romeros stuck in a mall full of zombies premise and incorporates the style 
 of use anything as a weapon. The idea sounds fun, and it is for the most part. Believe me when 
 I tell you that it is difficult to not get overzealous about killing the seemingly endless multitude 
 of zombies at your mercy. If you do succumb to the natural desire to off as many zombies as you 
 can, you do so at the risk of not being able to complete the mission (s) , or worse yet, the game 
 itself. The time restraints in conjunction with only being able to save at certain points in the 
 game (which are very few and far between) , is where the difficulty of this game is derived. Dont 
 get me wrong, I am an avid gamer who enjoys difficult games. After all, Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox 
 is one of my all time favorite games and I am the only person that I know personally who actually 
 beat the game. Dead Rising punishes you for not completing tasks by either making you replay very 
 large sections of the game over and over until you get it right, or the other option is to restart 
 the whole game. The only positive to restarting the game as a whole is that you are allowed to 
 keep any skills and attributes that you may have leveled up in preceding games. This has led me 
 to believe that this is the better option if you are not too far into the game (although I must 
 admit I have restarted four times to no avail) . It is a fun game and it is a game that I know I 
 will master (sooner or later) , but it is far from perfect. If you are not the type who is up to 
 repeating twenty and thirty minute segments of a game only to get to the boss fight and have to 
 repeat it all over again, then I would consider renting this first to draw your own conclusions 
 about the game before buying. So far I feel that it is probably worth the purchase, although the 
 game keeps reminding me of how I have the potential to be wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game needs a lot of things to be amazing, but what it has is better than great. The story 
 follows the events of Frank West, a journalist with a distinguished background, but his carreer 
 is at a low point. Desperate for a scoop, he follows a tip and gets a helicopter into a Willamete, 
 and ends up at the mall for three days. During the course of those three days, the DHS gets involved, 
 you get plenty of photo ops, and you'll encounter some psychopaths and convicts. And, oh yeah, 
 there are zombies. ; )
  
  The zombies are the true heroes of the story, providing both comedic relief and stress relief. 
 While the story is interesting to follow, you will often find yourself on random killing sprees 
 or hunting for a better weapon. Or battling the save system. This save system isn't horrible, but 
 it is a tad bit annoying when you die and find out that you haven't saved for the past five real 
 world hours.
  
  This game truly stumbles during the ridicuously tough boss fights. You will often times resort 
 to cheapness to win, and if this happens, something has gone wrong. And, the true ending nets you 
 a cutscene that leaves you craving an explination as to why you just beat this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake4248
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Weather its killing zombies with guns, different swords, running them over with cars, picking them 
 up and throwing them, chainsaws, sledge hammers, hangers. shoping carts, skateboard, sale signs.... 
 and the list goes on forever!
  
  I think whats makes this game so good is that it is so interactive, for example you can use practicly 
 anything in the game to kill zombies. The story line is also very interesting and unfolds very 
 well over the period of the game.
  
  I cant find 1 thing wrong with this game at all. NOT ONE THING!!! So in my opinion this is a perfect 
 10 out or 10. I recommend you buy it because you will love it!
  
  If you dont like games like Resident Evil or Silent Hill thats no problem becaus this game is nothing 
 like those ( except for the whole zombie kiling thing) . While those games are more scary, this 
 game is more funny. Like being able to dress up in kids clothes, womens clothes, or dress up in 
 funny costumes, put blocks on your head and so on.
  
  I definitely recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM2000
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I really, really wanted to like this game... especially after shelling out $60 for it. Killing zombies 
 is loads of fun... escorting people around I can tell gets tedious after only escorting the first 
 two people! Having to battle the first "character/enemy" turned out to be nothing but frustrating 
 thanks to the games broken save system, which as it turns out is this games Achilles' heel!
  
  I played through until I reached the first battle with Carlos... died and found that I had to 
 go all the way back to where I'd first saved the game when entering the security office! I had 
 to go all the way back through the game, about twenty minutes worth of playing (thankfully though 
 you're at least able to skip the cutscenes) and had to escort the first two people back to security 
 again! Got to Carlos again and once again died! Played through everything again, escorted the first 
 two people again, got to Carlos and again I died!!! 
  
  "Ok, I thought to myself, I've just wasted $60, because there's no way I'm going to go through 
 this crap again and again. Thanks Capcom for shipping a broken game that's nothing but frustrating. 
 My advice is to NOT buy this game so it will be a failure... Capcom deserves to lose their shirt 
 for delivering a game with so much promise that ultimately just lets the player down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2TrickedOut
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  I played the demo then bought the game. The detail that went into the mall is amazing. One huge 
 mall and all the stores are decked out in detail. Everything you would find in a real mall. The 
 mall looks alot like the mall we have here. The mall of America. almost anything you see in the 
 mall can be used to kill zombies. fancy food courts with food you can eat . clothes stores you 
 can wear some of the clothes. The Framerate is solid and its amazing how many zombies there are 
 at times. The AI of the people you rescue is pretty bad they don't follow you all the time so you 
 have to keep calling them. also they don't seam as realistic. I wish the game allowed you more 
 time to just mess around, but with so many zombies you can hardly stop to look at the mall itself. 
 Which is a shame since the mall is so well modeled. I can't imagine how many polygons it took for 
 the mall model alone. The main problem with the game is the saves. you can only save the game once 
 in a few diff spots so if you mess up you will have to redo the level or even the whole game somtimes. 
 I hope they have a update for this. I see the flaws minor overal since the game is so much fun 
 to play. sure a fixed save and better AI this game wouyld be perfect. There is no zombie game out 
 that you can do all this that looks this amazing. If you love zombie games this is a must have. 
 Replay value is great since you wilkl have to replay it a lot to get most of the achievements and 
 also there will be new d/ls on marketplace in the future. Capcom is an amazing company and it shows 
 there back full force here. go buy this game now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Have you ever seen "Dawn of the Dead"? Well, now you can play it. You play Frank, a photographer 
 trapped in a mall full of zombies. How do you get rid of them? By using anything you can find. 
 Pistols, SMGs, signs, bowling balls, gold clubs, mega busters (yeah, that's right... Megaman's weapon) , 
 knives, skateboards, lawnmowers, cars, shopping carts, potted plants, etc. The list can go on forever. 
 Just hack 'n' slash you way through loads of zombies to reach certain areas and complete certain 
 objectives. Tons of fun.
  
  Graphics:
  Very, very detailed and nice for the type of game this is. You would think a third person action 
 game with a far off camera and tons of items in it wouldn't be so detailed. But it is. Some of 
 the best I have seen on the 360. Definately has the best character models I have seen.
  
  Sound:
  The mall music really makes the atmosphere. Calm, relaxing music with thousand of moaning 
 zombies, gun shots, and katana slices. SFX are great, from the gushing blood to the crunching heads.
 
  
  Replay:
  TONS. TONS. TONS.
  You will play this game forever. Even after it gets a little old, it will be a nice pick-up-and-play 
 title.
  
  Overall:
  The best game on the 360 thus far. Capcom really outdid themselves this time. *takes off cap and 
 bows* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lessthankris
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I have no saving problems here. I save after each mission i do. I go to either a bathroom or a 
 couch to save my game. I dont understand the problem people are having with saving on this game. 
 I have saved my game like 6 times already and im probably about halfway through the game now. 
 
  
  I find the saving in this alot like saving in Resident evil games, instead of saving at a type 
 writer im saving on a sofa or a bathroom (which are all over the place and marked on your map.)
 
  
  Im having a blast playing the game and i really dont understand the low ass score they gave it. 
 doesnt make anysense to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaTt345
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Killing zombies have never bine more fun, i never knew you could kill a zombie with a giant teddy 
 bear or with a stack of cd's. The countless number of ways you can kill the crap out of thousands 
 of zombies is amazing. The graphics and framerate are pretty danm good for the amount of zombies 
 they fit on the screen at once and the amount of detail in the stores and the zombies is great. 
 Franks character is awsome and so are psychopaths and some of the supporting characters. It's also 
 pretty cool that you can change the outfit your wearing into kids or womens clothes. Running over 
 zombies with a car or a motor cycle is always fun and evan funner with a lawn mower. The physics 
 are great, when you hit them with a sword where ever you hit the that will be effected or cut off. 
 There is a good 10-15 hours of game play and alot of replay value. 
  
  Cons: 
  
  Alot of the rescue missions can get repetitive and the dumb AI dosen't help either. The Save system 
 is a pain in the ass and can cause you to repeat a level or loose some expieriance points. It sucks 
 that you can't play unlimited mode until you beat the story mode. Multi player and live would be 
 a good addition to the game but i could understand how this would be hard to find ways to play 
 this game online other than co-op. 
  
  Overall this is a a fun and bloody game and there is tuns to do but AI should be better and there 
 is no multi player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the best all around fun game available on the xbox 360. The story is actually better then 
 you think, and gets very interesting. The side missions add a whole lot to the expierience and 
 helps you level up which is also awsome. The moves frank can learn in this are so fun and awsome 
 to watch and he pwns the hell outa zombies. The controls for the game are very good and very simple 
 so you can pick up and play for the most part. The graffics are astounding especially since the 
 game can have hundreds of enemies on screen at once. The boss fights add a whole lot to the game, 
 and so does the infinate mode where you can go anywhere and do anything. The about of weapons in 
 this game is incredible, and will only continue to get better via xbox download content which already 
 has keys for free download on the first day the game was released. This is a great game for anyone 
 who doesnt mind blood and gore. But its one of the best titles out right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hough06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  When you first put this game into your Xbox360, you'll think its just any average shoot'em zombie 
 game. But this game brings more than just that. 
  
  The game alone brings humor, adrenaline, and pure shatless scariness! I believe this game alone 
 is one of the best I have seen for the zombie RPG games, it almost reminds me of the movie Dawn 
 of the Dead because it takes place in a Mall with zombies infested in every location. 
  
  Right off the start your the photographer named Frank. You basically flying in on a Helicopter 
 seeking to find out what hell happened to this town. Right off the start you are throw into action 
 with your camera taking snap shots of people begging for your help, but he doesn't exactly know 
 what is going on just yet.
  
  Either way I suggest you buying this game, I was gonna promote this game then colbert report game 
 on so I decided to give it up for now and let you find out for your self :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShellShocker42
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay i will name the cons about this game right now.
  The Saving System
  The repetative missions
  Thats all that annoys me, but trully, This game just rocks. 
  
  
 In Dead Rising for the 360, the player is Frank West, A freelance journalist who is looking for 
 a HUGE scoop. Well Frankie found it alright, in a mall. When he realized the zombie infection, 
 he still continues. The player can practically pick up ANYTHING and use them against the zombies, 
 help survivors, do missions, take pictures, or if your a wuss hide in a closet.
  
  During the game, Frank has 72 hours to do whatever in the mall until a helicopter comes to save 
 him. But the annoying thing is that you can only save once on a memory unit. No overwrites, which 
 TOTALY sucks. But besides that the gameplay is just awesome. Eventually the player can unlock more 
 time the spend in the mall, doing the whole GTA thing. Its really awesome.
  
  This also is one of the funniest zombie games besides infection ever. SO MANY GOOFY THINGS!!!!!!! 
 Theres Capcom memorabilia, stupid costumes and weapons, and, its just hilarious. 
  
  The sounds in this game are just, sooo devistatingly horrifying, its awesome. You will not want 
 to turn your volume down... but up once in a while. And its just sick when you beat over a zombie 
 and hear the death! As well.... the graphics are just soo awesome. Campcom has done something good 
 for every gamer in the world.
  
  You can also get books, learn wrestling, kung fu, speak languages, skateboard, all that stuff. 
 And Frank is soo heavily armed its scary. The bosses or "Phycopaths" in the game are just soo twisted 
 their actually fun. And after doing everything in the story, Its worth coming back.
  The problems in the game are sooooo well covered up, that this game has to be a 9.9 Its just too 
 good.
  
  Listen this game is for anyone who likes horor, funny stuff, action, and dawn of the dead. Cause 
 this game is just soo awesome, Its just too perfect to not play. This is a true as blue keeper. 
 When you have kids, dust off your 360, and show em this thing! Everyone will enjoy this! Anyways, 
 this game is too perfect.
  Get it and enjoy it.
  Pure and Simple! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to Dead Rising since it was announced, and I must say it was worth the 
 wait. It is a fun game and innovative. It brings all those zombie movies of the 70s and 80s to 
 life at your control.
  
  The controls are easy to learn and use. The vast amount of weapons and environmental items that 
 can be used as weapons gives you so many different ways to kill the zombies; some gory, some hilarious; 
 but all fun.
  
  The cut scenes are some of the best looking graphics to be seen on a home system. The in game graphics 
 are very well done, though not pushing the next gen limits when compared to games like Ghost Recon, 
 Oblivion, etc..., but overall, the game still looks awesome.
  
  My only gripe with the game is the sound. While the ambiance, weapons, cut scenes and the zombies 
 sound great, there is too much use of just writing stuff on screen instead of speaking it; i. e., 
 phone calls are read, not heard. No big deal, but I expected more in a next gen game in terms of 
 that.
  
  Other than the lack of a lot of voice acting, there is nothing else bad I can say about the game. 
 It is a game you must experience to appreciate. It may not be for everyone; but for those of us 
 who grew up on zombie movies, this is the game we have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, i havent played this game a lot to tell you the truth... well, at least, not the actual campaign 
 part... i enjoy just running around and chopping up zombies, using whatever is around to mow over 
 them, and then taking pictures of my accomplishments =)
  
  When i first started playing this game i thaught the controlls where terrible, the gameplay sucked, 
 and the only good part was the graphics. But soon after i started i couldnt stop! i was mowing 
 down zombie after zombie (usually groups at a time) and after i got used to the (actually easy) 
 controles, i was having a blast! 
  
  If you arent in to gore then i would lay off this game. But if your bored and need a game to suck 
 a few hours out of your life, then i would DEFINATLY pick this up.... you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty the only serious flaw that i find with this game is the save system. And it is a 
 huge deal. Basically you get one save slot and can only save at HQ or in restrooms. At first its 
 very confusing but after a while youll develop a strategy for saving. The problem is if you screw 
 up and save in a bad spot youll have to start everything over. And you end up repeating stuff a 
 lot. Especially on boss battles. I was stuck for over an hour on the second carlito battle. Other 
 then that the game is very well done. Th graphics are great. Everything is detailed and clear. 
 It looks great especially considering at times there are hundreds of zombies on the screen. One 
 thing i found amusing is this game always (except for a few spots) holds a solid steady frame rate. 
 It manages this while having hundreds of zombies on screen at once and games like quake and prey 
 turn into slide shows with more then 5 guys on screen. The sound is almost flawless. The voice 
 acting from all characters is superb. The blood sounds great when gushing out and splahing on the 
 floor. ALl the weapons sound very realistic. There is a good amount of value in that the main 72 
 hour mode must be done several times to unlock more features. And overtime and infinite modes also 
 add value. The game isnt as linear as youd think and you have very little downtime to just kill 
 zombies. Most of the time your going somewhere and killing them in a hurry. The cool part with 
 this game is all the weapons. A few of my favorites being the chainsaw, flower pots, lead pipes, 
 boomerangs, squirt guns, pop cans, lawn mowers, and of course teddy bears. You can also change 
 into most of the clothes. To regain health you eat food. There are pretty much all the basic restaurants 
 and a grocery store. So you can eat pretty much whatever you want. Overall this game does require 
 some imagination and patience in order to enjoy it. If your looking for a linear game with easy 
 achievments keep looking. These achievments are tough. I would highly reccomend it because when 
 you do get to just kill zomvies its a good experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Booshay
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first started the game up I was expecting like a streets of rage or a final fight style 
 beat em up but its deeper than that you can level up and stuff like that. The attacks felt off 
 at first mainly the shooting but when i got the hang of it its just fine. The graphics are not 
 extreme but their not bad as for the story i dont know cause I was just kicking the crap out of 
 zombies so long i dont even know whats going on. I couldnt tell much about the story but i can 
 tell you the gameplay is tight I still have lots of stores to explore and i didnt even use any 
 swords yet so yeah theres still some exploring for me to do. Its a different game but different 
 is good i can tell that it is going to be a classic and it will be loved by many. Go out and cop 
 this mayne as for me 1 down 2 more to go for this month. (Madden 07 and Saints Row) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devoresk8
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  i havent played too much of the game but from what ive played its fun as hell to kill zombies with 
 anything and everything... the actual story is cool but it gets frustrating with the games time 
 limit... no matter what mission your on if time runs out game over... you start over or u save from 
 a previous load but its kinda frustrating when your not sure if you want to save the game b/c it 
 could mess you up in the long run... i like this game.. but i would love it if it was just a standard 
 level by level action/adventure game with all the other game elements the same... then it would 
 be perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainniar
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I won't go into an indepth review of graphics or sound or story as all these items are top quality 
 for this game. However, I will say that for those of you who dislike the difficulty by frustration 
 design style you may want to turn away from this title. The bottom line is the game get's frustrating 
 when you have to restart boss fights and take another 15 minutes to get where your going only to 
 be killed again and again. Not to mention you'r constantly running out of time to fight these battles, 
 always keeping in the back of your mind that you MAY screw yourself by saving at the wrong time 
 and having to restart the entire story. There's simply a BUNCH of little nitpicks that just add 
 up for me, for instance when I'm in the heat of a gun battle with a boss the damn walkie talkie 
 deal starts ringing for me to pick it up (it never fails!) , and the problem there is the game continues 
 in real time meaning you can't fight while talking. Viewing your watch and changing current Quest 
 markers is also done in real time so when you're in the mine field of zombies and want to change 
 quest makrers have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJC36091
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising is a excellant game in which you can kill zombies in millions of ways. That part combined 
 w/ the story are fantastic but you can't just go around killing zombies all the time. This is where 
 the game suffers. I don't like to be at places on time, it's quite annoying and this is how the 
 missions work. For example: You have to be at this spot at 6:00 AM or the story is over. The save 
 system is also annoying. Only one save per unit, so if you save yourself into a bad spot , you're 
 screwed. You have to restart but luckily you can keep your stats , which is good. Don't be mistaken, 
 Dead Rising is an great game and the little flaws don't ruin the game. It's not perfect but it 
 is one of the best 360 games out there now. It's worth a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777_solidsnake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This Game is awesome. 
  1. It has hordes upon hordes of undead zombies!
  2. It has hordes upon hordes of undead zombies!!!!
  3. Lots of wepons, lots and lots and lots 
 of wepons.
  4. The plot actually isnt too shabby.
  5. Graphics are preety, now crushing a zombies face in is that much more satisfying!
  6. Lawnmowers!!! 
 hahahahahahaha LAWNMOWERS!!! ... well you'll laugh later...
  7. Team mates actually HIT STUFF!!! even though if your close they might hit you...
  the zombies 
 also act like well... zombies. they react to if you kill thier buddy they'll try and kill you! 
 also say you only take out a leg then they will crawl at you... it's that cool!
  
  now heres some bad stuff.
  1. There is not nearly enough save points. 
  2. yup thats about 
 it.
  
  GREAT GAME!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipher021
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  OK, so you have one of the most ingenious ideas for a video game, a chracter fending for himself 
 in a mall full of zombies. Then, if you're Capcom, you decide to get too creative and fill it with 
 the most hated mission type in video game history: The Escort Mission. This game has so much potential 
 but is bogged down by distracting pain in the ass missions that are unfullfilling and unrewarding. 
 Oh great... I saved a mute iggnorant fool (none of the characters speak, it's like playing a friggin 
 RPG from the early 90's) . The AI in the game is a joke, most characters get confused if you go 
 up crazy obstacles... like stairs. And you can't leave your followers in a safe place while you 
 clear a path for two reasons: Followers auto-die if you are too far away from them, and zombies 
 respawn in zones you are not in instantly. Way to screw up a great idea Capcom. I was praising 
 this as potentially one of the greatest games of the year... now its just another dissapointment 
 from a company still stuck in the 90's. BOOOOOOOOO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_user
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best and most fun 360 games to date . You do anything in this game 
 from obliterating a zombies head with a metal pipe to chopping up multiple zombies with a damn 
 Lawn Mower !The only problem is the saving ( you only get one save which can become a pain in the 
 ass sometimes) . Taking pictures in the game can be fun... exspecially when your taking a picture 
 of a bunch of zombies with Lego head masks on.. stumbling around not being able to see. If you own 
 a 360 .. hurry the hell up and get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda450
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I thought that it would suck. I thought that it would be just 
 like Dynasty Warriors in that it would just have you killing guys and racking up combos. Well, 
 I was right, but I couldn't have been more wrong about it sucking. 
  
  The first thing you'll notice about DR is it's amazing visuals. The character models are some of 
 th best on the 360. The detail of the mall is incredible too. The zombies look great, and Capcom 
 used quite a few different models for them, so you don't feel too much like you're fighting a army 
 of clones. Oh yeah, absolutely NO slowdown. Awesome.
  
  The gameplay in DR is as simplistic as possible, but that is a good thing. You pick up weapons 
 with the B button, swing them with the X button, and throw/shoot them by holding down the right 
 trigger and hitting X.
  
  As I'm sure you've heard, the sound in DR is some of the best ever. PERIOD. The sound effects are 
 simply perfect, and the muzak fits nicely with the mall theme.
  
  The only real problem with DR is it's save system, which only allows one save. Thats it. It sucks. 
 Also, you can't actually use EVERY item as a weapon, but I really can't complain since most games 
 nowadays have less than 10.
  
  Bottom line: If you own a 360, BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badcompany84
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing! So many different things you can do and the game lets you decide how 
 you want to solve problems. Depending upon how you solve the problem affects the story of the game. 
 You don't even have to save a single person, in fact you could just kill them all. I'm on my first 
 time through the game so I don't know the consequences. Pretty much anything in the store is a 
 weapon. Anyways, its a great and original game. I highly recommend buying. Don't rent, you won't 
 be able to take your time and truly enyjoy the game. It looks to have tons of replay value. The 
 only bad things I have seen is the save system is kind of weird, but doesn't hurt the game much 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best games ever
  although the save system may be flawed, you'll still have a really fun time
  there is SOOOOOOOOOO 
 much to do that you'll be playing story mode more than once
  anyone with a 360 should definitely buy this game!!!
  -there are 10 different endings
  -you 
 can level up to 50
  -there are so many moves you can learn
  -A LOT of scoop side missions
  -250+ weapons!
  -MANY different outfits
  -GREAT sound effects 
 and blood and gore
  -EXCELLENT voice acting and story
  -"sandbox" style gameplay
  -unlockable modes Unlimited Mode and Overtime Mode
  -only bad thing is the save system... one 
 save slot, can save as many times as you want on benches and in bathroom stalls... no autosave feature 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggerpance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who played the demo knows that running around killing zombies is fun. Slapping a lego head 
 on the walking dead only to slice it back off with a flying saw blade is just plain neat. But damn... 
 could it be any more hassle to get to the fun part? Yeh the camera is a pain in the ass and the 
 controls feel kinda awkward. But that's easy to overlook... especially since it's expected in a 
 capcom game. But why did I spend the first half hour with this game and only had the chance to 
 kill like 4 zombies? Cut scene after ugly looking cutscene interupted me. I've spent 2 hours with 
 this game and half of it was fun. The other hour was ruined by the crappy save system, reading 
 tiny timed text dialogues, and fighting through some of the worst looking cut scenes I've ever 
 seen. And the effed up part is that if you die, you basically have no choice but to repeat all 
 of the same intros and cutscenes to get back to the fun part. This game is very fun. And very annoying.
 
  
  After spending a little more time with the game (and keep in mind I haven't done any real missions 
 yet) I'm really having fun. I'm thinking of bumping my score up just a tad. Like I said earlier, 
 this game is very fun to play... if you can get past the first hour of it. Oh and the katana is 
 fun.
  
  Ok now I hate it again.
  
  P. S. a good way to not wanna puke everytime you see your character lifeless eyes and hobo teeth 
 in a cutscene is to get you one of those lego or bear heads to wear. 
  
  P. P. S. This really is a fun game and if you can diconnect from the initial aggravation of all the 
 hoops you have to jump through and sit back and kill some effing zombies it's fun as hell. This 
 game is best if you ignore what it wants you to do and just have fun.
  
  Ok, I'm back on the suck bandwagon. This game has the worst glich ever. Psychopath bosses that 
 come back to life after you've killed them. WTF!!!! So now everytime I try to make it through the 
 courtyard I'm gonna get pummelled by this friggin jeep fulla convicts??? Which furthers emphasizes 
 the crappy camera/aim modes because you can only defeat these idiots with the submachine gun and 
 you dont have a chance if they know you're coming. Cuz they circle you and you can turn your aim 
 fast enough to find them. Good ****ing god. Just when I thought I was actually getting somewhere 
 in this game it shows me a whole new level of suck.
  
  My score just went from a 7.3 to a 5.2. And any chance of me going against my better judgement 
 again and buying another capcom game is long lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebuzad0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  DEAD RISING
  
  Lets start with the story... You are Frank West, a middle aged regular guy who has made it his 
 career as a photojounalist. Frank has done it all... from small time jobs to war Frank is dedicated 
 to his job and wants to find the best story. Frank has just heard about the small town of Willamitte... something 
 not-so-small is happening in the small town. Frank hires a helicopter piolt to show him just whats 
 going on. Frank is willing to lose his job and even his life to find out this towns secret. Apon 
 arriving on board the chopper over the town Frank finds out he isn't welcome there... the government 
 has sealed off all road entrances.... typical. Frank is seeing that Willamitte seems to be in a 
 huge riot power struggle as he sees people dying below him- being pulled from cars, being pushed 
 off buildings, and even some sort of cannibalism. Frank isn't satisfied with just seeing the town 
 from above, he wants a on ground view. Frank directs the piolet to the quite large mall. As the 
 chopper heads toward the landing pad Frank asks the piolet to pick him up in three days and jumps 
 from his hovering save place and into the hard and harsh reality that is his journey into the unknown. 
 
  
  *** THE GOOD***
  Graphics- These are some of the best the 360 has to offer. When wearing a shiny new servbot mask 
 from a childs toy store you can see the beautifulll colorfull mall emerging from the reflection 
 on it. The mall is vibrent with colors and astheticly pleasing surroundings.
  
  Gameplay- This game has redifined the aspect of repetitive. You actualy WANT to do the same thing 
 over and over again with the sledgehammer just to see what happens to the zombies of the game. 
 Missions are broken down into Case files and Scoops... Case files are required to complete the 
 game, where as scoops are optional. There are MANY weapons in this game... but most of them are 
 not what you would expect! Thsi game doesnnt want you to use the normal weapons for killing (guns) 
 as much as it wants you to use the most unlikly weapon.
  
  Story- this story is quite immersive and serious. The characters are memberal and are done quite 
 well... as stated there are around six different endings for this game and different in many ways. 
 The voice acting is very well done considering that this is a Capcom game! It's easily some of 
 the best voice acting in all of video games.
  
  Sound- You are overwhelmed by the shere amount of moans and groans... you may be putting and end 
 to one of your fellow zombified homosapiens yet you may hear the small pitter-patter in the background 
 coming up behind you. Every weapon sounds like it sould... a sledgehammer sounds like a sledge hammer 
 and a shotgun sounds like a shotgun and so on and so on....
  
  Enemies- You may say yo me: "Why there are only zombies?" but boy are you wrong! I will break it 
 down for ya!
  #1- Zombie- your standard liberated undead corpse. But the game doesn't have the average same cookie-cutter 
 AI. no, some zombies are more dead than others and onters will almost run at you while others are 
 too tired to evern move! Some carry the weapons they may have used before they died and others 
 will be eating an arm while walking at you.
  
  #2- Cult members- these folks are completly insande and want to see you dead. They will use swarm 
 tactics and some will even try to suicide bomb our Picture happy protaganist.
  
  #3- Psycopaths- These are the Big bad boys of Dead Rising and your main bosses. The funny thing 
 is that the hardest enemy is not the undead hordes but the crazed people of humanity! After the 
 outbreak these people have gone full overboard in the head and have decided that neither zombies 
 OR humans should survive. These people are going to take tactics and good ole' skill to survive.
 
  
  ** BAD **
  
  Well I HAD to find something bad. 
  
  The Save system- The save system is not for everyone. It requires you to only have one (1) save 
 ber storage system. This game actually punishes you for making a mistake. Can't kill a boss? Too 
 bad! you die you miss the scoop and miss your opritunaty! this adds to the replay value by making 
 you play the game over to get the ultimate ir wnted ending.
  
  NPC AI- The survivors you are sent in to help are as dumb as the things you are forced to kill. 
 They listen as bad as a 14 year old emo! enough about similes. They just arn't smart... they die 
 too often and are like a child- sometimes you have to hole there hand or give em' a piggy back 
 ride!
  
  Well thats it For bad.
  
  **The Ugly***
  Well the only ugly thing to be found is the Zombies! ZING! I kid! I kid!
  
  ***THE BOTTOM LINE***
 
  This game is a must play- 
  The reason why? Because Capcom has givin every action and cideo game fan what they always wanted. 
 Zombies + Mall = Uber FUN GAME!
  Am I gonna say that this game will win game of the year? NO. It won't.
  Dead Rising is the "Independence 
 Day" (film) of video games... It won't get the oscar but is an amazing summer FUN blockbuster.
 
  
  P. S. I apologise for all the spelling errors but as you can see this review has quite a good length 
 to it and I'm too lazy and tired to fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbcruise
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Dead Rising I will compare to Grand Theft Auto They are both free roam with some nice storyline, 
 but not great. It's in the free roam area that they perfected. I will admit this very second that 
 GTA has great Free Roam and capabilities are much wider than Dead Rising. But Dead Rising has many 
 many different ways to play through with excelent replay value. Many people go into GTA and turn 
 on the codes and annhialate the city, where dead rising is doin so 24/7 and even while you are 
 doing the missions. But the developers from Dead Rising focused on this aspect, and perfected it. 
 Where GTA had **** up.. Im not bashing GTA ( I LOVE GTA ) But if it had as brutal and creative 
 ways to kill citizens and in such an enormous amount it would be considered the devil by people 
 in politics and HWA (House Wives of America,, I'm serious look it up )
  
  Also dead rising incorporated many easy to do tasks and cool things to appeal to a wider demographic, 
 while anyone enjoys killing a zombie, the developers decided to create many ways to kill a zombie, 
 and very cool ones to. Also the combining of things which made Resident Evil's healing so much 
 easier. But these combinations allow you to just have more fun in killing zombies. They also took 
 a roleplaying mechanic and went and added it as you level up you get skills to further kill and 
 level up and alos unlock goodies along the way 
  
  I'm not saying that they didnt work on the story line at all, I just dont want to reveal any of 
 it. But they did do a great job on the storyline, also recreated what a mall would actually be 
 like in a zombie situation.
  
  
  Dead Rising has focused on the one thing that most developers miss, the funnest mechanic of the 
 game. Developers of GTA had focused on having many cool but shallow things that you could do. While 
 Dead Risings' Developers focused on zombie killing and worked ou of zombie killing focusing everything 
 in the on Zombie Killing. Then layed a kick ass storyline to back up zombie killing.
  
  This Game Has Excellent Replay Value
  This Game Has an Excellent Storyline
  This Game Has Perfected 
 the Art of Zombie killing
  This Game gets a 9.6 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -gbomb360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all if you hated this game you must be on crack, and some good crack at that. shore 
 the saving system suck balls and the glitches in the game can get annoying. But come one man killing 
 hords of really stupid zombies is just so much fun. 
  if you thought killing people in GTA was fun you were wrong. the game as an insane amount of weapons 
 you can use, and each one has it's own sound and attack animation. + the number of things you can 
 do in the game is out standing, this game has it all, and just might be the best zombie game to 
 date, maybe the best zombe game ever. game play awesome graphics just what you need, sound outstanding, 
 and it value is on the spot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike360xoxo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow... this game is the BEST game i have ever played other than zelda. it's crazy. When you start 
 the game you have to do the whole chopper cutscene, personally i found that annoying =P but after 
 that it just Drops you into a swarm of zombies, and some people will say "WTF i don't even know 
 how to play yet !!!" as i did =P but i played the demo so i was kind of ready. anyway ... 
  
  ==**Good**==
  -Zombie A. I - It really was like a zombie should be, although im a little dissopited 
 that zombies don't run at night
  
  -Weapons ! - there are so many weapons it was just plain crazy. i would say roughly 1-3 weapons 
 per store. hardware store has LOTS 
  
  -replay vaule- I havn't beaten it yet but it seems like it will have lots of replay in the futrue.
 
  
  -Level system- Me as a RPG fanatic, found this games leveling up to be a real blast, every time 
 the P. P bar was almost full i would freak out, in hopes of more health lol
  
  -Bosses- So far the bosses really get you angry = ( but they are fun to fight, mainly because they 
 are smarter then all the other NCP's lol.
  
  -graphics- AWESOME ! little to none, jagged lines, it amazing ! 
  
  ==**BAD STUFFS**==
  - 
 Save - yup i bet you knew this was coming, but the saving is a pain in the ass. basicly if you 
 have no weapon in a "boss" battle your screwed and it gameover =P but at least you can your stats. 
 Also SAVE BEFORE AND AFTER EVERY MAIN CASE !!!!
  
  -Ncps- UGH ! they are as freaking retarded as a rock ! i Rarely do a scoop. Why? because it's a 
 pain in the ass and they end up dieing anyway before you get there. they are retarded, if you tell 
 them to run somewhere they will stop and go fight a zombie and die, so give them a good weapons 
 *tip* give em baseball bats trust me ; )
  
  -Attacking- while attacking i noticed that when i want to attack a zombie in front of me, sometime 
 he will attack an different one to the right and that kinda pissed me off, but nothing major
  
  
  **Gameplay** - absolute 10 ! 
 
  
  **Graphics** - 9 - Very good graphics for a 360, could of been better, but the 3rd best graphic 
 wise 360 game out there.
  
  **Sound** - 10 - Best 360 sound wise game out there. trust me.
  
  **Vaule** - 9 - what more 
 can i say =P
  
  **Tilt** - 10- my favorite game
  
  
  This game is a MUST BUY ! Maybe 
 a rent for you people that are a little short on cash. 
  
  Well hope you like my review =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggunz64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game will blow you away. Its replayability alone is worth the game, never the less the story 
 line, action and it's excelent sound , this game is definatly a buy. 
  While certain things are not the greatest about this game, like the saving system and the lack 
 of a could be hit multiplayer/co-op (more on that in a little bit) , this game blew my expectations 
 away. 
  
  Now the sound is just amazing. Each weapon has a different sound, and the sound in the game is 
 exactly what it would be like in the real world. Hitting a rotting corpse with a shovel across 
 the head would sound like. Or slicing through its body with a sharp edged katana making a sickly 
 noise as the rotting tissuse is sliced open. 
  
  And like I said above, the one thing this game is lacking, but it does not affect the over all 
 experience of the gameplay is a multiplayer/co-op. Amagine you have stocked up on tons of high 
 power weapons and guns, up on some high ground, and in the distance, you see your Zombait power 
 friend coming towards you on a skateboard, being followed by a horde of zombies, right into your 
 ambush. Now that would be a co-op I (and many other gamers I am sure) would love to see. 
  
  And what about a zombie killing game type where you and 5 other people would be set free in the 
 mall and after the time limit you would have to see who survived/killed the most zombies, now that 
 would be fun. Yes I am sure about the various technical obstacles, like getting 1000ish zombies 
 to apear on 6 different console and all that, but is it something to hope for Dead Rising 2?
  
  Over all this game looks nice, but I would have to say, the in game graphics aren't "mind blowing" 
 but is definatly the cutscenes where you get your next gen dose of "gorgeous". And yes I know, 
 the graphics dont make the game, gameplay does. 
  
  Well I hope my review was help full! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Quack_Quack
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  When you are talking about survival horror type games, you will most likely bring up developer 
 names like Capcom. They are practically a household name for creating stupendous horror survival 
 games thanks to the great Resident Evil series. Now Capcom has debuted their latest zombie gorefest 
 on the Xbox 360 called Dead Rising. Compare to their ever popular Resident Evil series, they have 
 taken a bold new direction. This game features more graphic violence and over the top action while 
 lessen the strategies and puzzle elements. Completely opposite from the Resident Evil franchise.
 
  
  So, how did this game turned out? It turned out great! In fact, it is the probably the most unique 
 and entertaining single player game for the Xbox 360. The gameplay is so intense and action oriented, 
 it will really give a run for your money. The main attraction of this game is the swarms of enemies 
 charging into the mall as time passes and the framerates rarely slow down when that happens. Here 
 are the summaries for each category.
  
  Gameplay: This is a game where you just run around the mall killing, killing, killing like there 
 is no tomorrow. Many different objects and people to interact with. Interesting time limit system 
 that force players to make tough decisions. Hilarious varieties of killing zombies
  The Bad?: Horrendous saving system, annoying load time and kinda "shallow" escort missions. Photographing 
 system feels tacked on.
  
  Graphics: Hundreds and hundreds of zombies appear in the screen at once. Very detail looking mall 
 and character models, Extremely satisfying gore effect.
  The Bad?: Framerates do bog down once in a while and there are some clipping issues.
  
  Sound: 
 Flawless weapon impact sounds and gun firing sounds. Awesome dialogues. Ridiculously hilarious 
 over the top voice acting.
  The Bad?: Well, I gave it a 10 in the sound category so there aren't really anything bad about 
 the audio.
  
  Value: A truly fun game to waste time with.
  The Bad?: Time pass by really quickly though and there are no free roaming mode or anything that 
 allow players to play this game for the killing part. 
  
  Tilt: I haven't had so much fun in killing people since the first State of Emergancy game. It is 
 absolutely a great experience. 
  
  If you love to play zombie games like resident evil but with more action and gore, go get a copy 
 right now. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario848
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Dead Risings unique way of exterminating zombies is one of the funniest things I ever seen. First 
 everything in the game is a weapon EX. Go into a hardware store and pick up a pair of hedge trimmers 
 and you can cut zombies in half by the waist or use a chainsaw and kill them the easy way.
  Second you can blind zombies by putting traffic cones or anything big and hollow on their heads 
 and kill them painfully. Third you can battle more then one hundred zombies at a time. Graphics 
 are really good considering that most zombies look different and there are thousands of them, and 
 the character kind of looks a bit realistic in a way. The game has a decent storyline by how you 
 are stuck in a mall with millions of bloodthirsty assailants from outside with other survivors 
 in need of your assistance to also live to see another day again, but the game is mainly about 
 your survival to beat the game. If you want more information, rent or buy the game if you have 
 an Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_E_Gray
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the very most anticipated game since Halo 2. Nothing amounts to the infinite possibilities 
 of Dead Rising. Everything about this game makes me want more and more. And I get just what I want, 
 more. 250 weapons of mass zombie killing destruction. In the beginning you only have your camera 
 and must survive hundreds of surrounding zombies in a mall in Willamette, Colorado. Frank west 
 is your everyday man trying to survive the biggest scoop supposed to be a riot of civil disobedience. 
 Benches, chairs, guitars, guns, shopping carts, chainsaws, pipes, sledgehammers, plates, knives, 
 umbrellas, cars, jeeps, motorcycles, and the "excavator" (a big drill) are your weapons scattered 
 in stores throughout the mall. You have three days to uncover the truth and get to your helicopter 
 to get the story to the public. Your associates and co-workers are there to cover the same story. 
 They may be your friends or foes along with all the other derranged survivors. The friendly A. I. 
 is not very supportive but that's what freewill is for. You can kill almost anyone any way you 
 want... if the zombies don't get them first. There are required missions and scoop missions which 
 give you points or open new content. To unlock the "UNLIMITED" mode/ the true ending, you must 
 somehow kill 53,000 zombies, wear every article of clothing, and use every weapon. It differs on 
 how you play. It seems impossible and it very well may be, but you can also unlock 5 days mode 
 and 7 das mode and so on. There are also mini games and scoops. They even somehow packed comedy 
 into this stunning zombie slasher. You can blind the zombies with an assortment of funny hats and 
 helmets like pigs, horses, smokestacks, and some other odd types of masks. Zombeis are not your 
 only official enemy, there are several cults involved with the killings of survivors and some other 
 ritualistic things. Take pictures to level up and get prestige points to unlock new things. This 
 game will take you on a ride worth getting in line again and again. There are over 10 different 
 endings also depending on how you play and help (or kill) your allies. This could be "game of the 
 year" and the most innovative and revolutionary game of all time.
  
  There are also some minor flaws to it. The saving system could get annoying but not unless you 
 suck at this game. You only have one place to save and will be sent back there if you miss your 
 chance to beat a mission or die. The framerate may slow down if you hit more than 4 zombies at 
 one time with a large weapon like a (dare I say it) light saber. The story could also get choppy 
 but there are ways around it. 
  
  In conclusion, this is the very best the 360 has offered and I'm so impressed to see the wait was 
 worth it. BUY THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE SURVIVAL/HORROR/ZOMBIES. IT IS VERY WORTH IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CH4RL3Z
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  A Zombie game achiving A 9.0 sounds right, the game play will get repetitive after a while although 
 the story is the most interesting besides oblivion i have seen by far on the 360, dead rising is 
 a game you will come back to play again just cause you thought of some thing that would be intteresing 
 to do , for example GTA you will want to play it again for some neat idea you thought of last night 
 like stacking a car on top of another car and climbing on top of a building and sniping humans 
 from the roof.
  
  the number of zombies in this game is just wowing which is another thing i want to put out there 
 learn NEW moves or your screwd big time so read lots o books to make mr. west smart to kill and 
 skateboard over zombies all in all this game is worthy of buying in my opinion.
  
  DEAD RISING
  -CH4RL3Z- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathxvx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Can't stop playing this game, it's amazing! So many things to do so many people to save, (or not 
 :P) im in love with this game and will never let it go! This game also kinda makes me wonder though, 
 since i live in colorado and all.... lol. Many weapons really added a diversity to the combat system, 
 and the leveling up was a really good idea that made the game 100X better. All the vehicles were 
 also a nice touch, how a player could pop into a convertible & just go for a nice drive while running 
 over hundreds of zombies. What i really dont understand is why gamespot only gave this game a 8.4?? 
 In my opinion this game has changed the way people, well me personally, will look at games in the 
 future. I understand that the critics always look for much more in games than an average person, 
 but common? ONLY A "B"?! I gave this game a nice high "A", almost an "A+" and that is exactly what 
 this game deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Gent1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game was defintaly worth preordering
  the entire kill the zombi type game was going downhill till the release of RE4 on the gamecube, 
 then the PS2 and now xbox has brought out a new game to combat the games on the other consels. 
 DEAD RISING.
  Sound: 10, cuz all the zombie matter spewing on the pazement after i chop them up was just incerdable
 
  Gameplay: 10, its not original, but u can use any wepon at any time, even a garbage can!
  Tilt: 10, just killing zombies is soooo much fun
  Graphics: 9, could have been a little bit better
 
  Value: 9, paying about 70$ for a nextgen game isnt worth it till this game came out
  
  Rent it before u buy it, cuz u might not like killing zombies
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyglitch8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Capcom is surely the best in the biz when it comes to zombie's. And they certainly have proven 
 with this game.
  
  SOUND
  
  I cant get over the sound of this game because its probably my favorite part of the game. When 
 you shoot a shotgun well, what can i say except that you HEAR the shotgun. When using a a hollow 
 pipe of some sort you HEAR the Thump. And if your the type of person who likes tp compare noises 
 well, youll have fun with this game. Although you never really hear a soundtrack in the game, in 
 the few parts that you do it surprisingly goes along with the whole "O #$@% IM IN A MALL FULL OF 
 ZOMBIES BUT THAT RANDOM ELEVATOR MUSIC IS SURE KEEPING ME CALM" theme
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The Graphics are pretty well done, they're just not NEXT GEN, but i guess i can forgive that for 
 the fact that there are so man zombie on a screen at once. The cutscenes are pretty well done, 
 good facial animations, and good framerate, the graphics in this game are average but all around 
 good job.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Honestly what do i have to say about gameplay, i'll start with weapons. Weapons in this game can 
 be brutal and fun to use. From Sledgehammer to a Lugie (Spit) weapons are EVERYWHERE. Where to 
 find the weapons are even better, the mall itself seems much much bigger than the town, and thats 
 a good thing. Now lets talk about vehicles. You can ride and have fun with just about anything 
 in the game. You wanna skateboard, you can skateboard. You wanna ride a bike then ride a bike. You 
 wanna kill thousands of zombie by running them over in a jeep, be my guest.
  
  VALUE
  
  What else can i say except its worth it. But if you dont like it then i guess you have a WEIRD 
 taste in games but alright. There are a couple of things i didnt mention. For one it has an odd 
 save system i cant go to much into detail (for one i dont know how) but its pretty bad. Two the 
 escort mission may give you a break from smashing zombies head in, but they are very dull. And 
 three give the story a chance just cause zombie games usually have a very cheesy story doesnt mean 
 you can enjoy this one.
  
  ACHIEVEMENTS
  
  For those of you that are only getting this game for the achievements, i gotta tell you  
 are going to take a while. There are the easy ones like kill 1 physcopath (game's bosses) . Then 
 the are the hard one like kill 53,000 zombies. If you would like to see what im talking about heres 
 the link so that you can check out all the achievements.
  http://www. achieve360points. com/game/deadrising/
  
  So bottom line this is a good game to keep 
 you occupied till Gears of War comes out in Nov. Its an all-around good game that is positively 
 a good buy, or rent (whatever floats your boat) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  The Good: awesome graphics, the zombies, the character models, and there is a tons of stuff in 
 the enviroments that looks really cool. and the sound is absolutely really good everything from 
 the voice acting on the cutscenes and when stuff smashes and stuff like that it's just awesome. 
 and the gameplay is really good, when you picking everything around the huge enviroments and killing 
 zombies is alwasy really awesome and really fun. and there is even one very sexy women with big 
 boobies, if not more sexy womens in dead rising and that's cool.
  
  The Bad: it could have a very aweseome multiplayer component, maybe a co-op play or something.
 
  
  this game is amazing. the graphics, the sound, the gameplay and everything is just really awesome 
 and there is a downloadable demo for this on xbox live marketplace that you can download if you 
 want to test it before buying it. but this game is overall just one of the best games i ever played!!! 
 AMAZING!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is just a great game, there is no way to say that this game looks alot of fun. This game throws 
 so many weapons for you to use and so many functions for one weapon. Its a great way to have fun 
 in a mall. Just go around hacking and slashing your way through 72 hours. The story is pretty good 
 and the voice acting is not bad at all. The best part about the game is the sound in which you 
 hear skulls smashing and the motor of a chainsaw turning on and then the chainsaw going through 
 flesh. The sound is very very good. The gameplay may get boring to gamers who dont like to fight 
 fight fight but it is still fun to see what new weapon you can use. The game has a lot of flaws 
 but not major. When your killing a lot of zombies at once there is a little framerate downage but 
 that is understandable because this game has a lot of zombies at once on the screen. The game has 
 great graphics and even in the cutscenes. The playability like controls are ok but after a little 
 bit you will get used to them. The game is just plain old fun and no one should miss out on this 
 great piece of work. This is one game which every zombie fan and dawn of the dead fan such as I 
 was waiting for. I am not into zombies as much as everyone else but i loved this game and that 
 means others will love it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOTGByron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I'm a big critic when it comes to zombie games since I am a huge fan of the original Resident Evil. 
 So far up until RE4 nothing has come close to bring the dead into something alive and fun! With 
 this game however it gives the player a little twist! You get to have fun killing zombies and in 
 so many different ways! One of the first things you'll notice off the jump is the detail of the 
 game! Capcom did an outstanding job delivering a nicely high def detailed world. The free for all 
 weapon system is cool and it keeps things interesting allowing you the player to choose the weapon 
 you want to kill zombies with! The story was good I was actually surprised, it doesn't go off track 
 and give you a generic reason for why the zombies are what they are, it's actually pretty deep 
 for what it is.
  
  Ok some complaints, I'm not diggin the save system since you only get a few saves that are scattered 
 throughout the world in places. However if your the type of player that loves a challenge then 
 this might be your piece of pie. Frustration might set in because the Case Files are timed and 
 if you miss one you'll miss the second because they are linked. 
  
  Other then that minor detail I believe Capcom has something here, I love the free for all system 
 of carnage, the ability to pick any weapon I see and the raw number of zombies you get to kill! 
 Hundreds literally! If your a fan of Resident Evil you'll love this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Dead Rising what a name for a fun game. Ok when this game frist started making news on gamespot 
 I was not into it and thought forget it, it looks dumb, but after looking at it some more I found 
 that I wanted it and so I got it. Ok the story line is a little different that I am us to play 
 since I am a frist person shooter player. The gameplay now that took me some time to get use tool 
 a little different but still was a fun game even knowing I didnt like it.
  The Graphics were vary nice and well Iloved them, the graphics were 360 and so far the games have 
 had good graphics. The sound was perfect all over the game it was so good it made me cry it was 
 so good. Value it was a little high, it was a fun game all and all but I would wait for it to drop 
 10 to 20$ before buying it. Ok over all I gave the game 9.1 so yes I loved it I hop you love it 
 and I would like to thank you for readying my review on the game Dead Rising and I hop you liked 
 it. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; Graphics, sounds, gameplay are all simply amazing. The game looks a ton better than what 
 they were saying. The sounds are zombie perfect. Oh yeah, and it's actually fun.
  &middot; The enviornments are nice, huge, and destructable; just like daddy likes them.
  &middot; This 
 is probably one of the first high-def textured games I've played. Even PGR3 had it's low-textures 
 at times. This one looks real. Nice jorb, Capcom. (Yes, I said jorb) .
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; Umm. This is usually the easiest part of reviewing a game for me. So, here's the only thing 
 I really can complain about: not everything is obtainable to pick up and hurl at the zombies. Yeah, 
 that's it.
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; With the lack of one thing I wasn't expecting, I really have no complaint of the game. 
 It's fun, and that's what games are about. Not about a dramatic 40+ hour game that has the usual 
 twist at the end. This is just an overall excellent game. This is not another 'State of Emergency' 
 at all. Maybe in the future, we'll see a co-op version of the game or something. Like a survival 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  This game redefines the word "fun" in video games
  
  The sheer variety of stuff you can do is so immense, you will never play the game the same way 
 twice
  
  Gameplay- Katanas, guns, carebears. Anything is a weapon, can u find them all and kill the zombies 
 b4 they morph into faster stronger monsters?
  
  Graphics- Nothing too special, but with the hundreds of thousands of zombies on screen, they look 
 very detailed
  
  Sound- Recaptures all those zombie movies of old, but Frank's voice is a bit annoying
  
  Value- 
 the Replay value is increddible and those achevements will make u wanna keep going back for more
 
  
  Tilt- Killing zombies has never been so unique, or so fun
  
  This game is a must-buy for all 360 owners, hands down
  
  The demo serves this game great justice 
 so try that so you'll become a zombie geoncider in no time 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
