-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead or Alive Xtreme 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/deadoralivextreme2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals.
 Consistent sun-and-fun atmosphere.
 So many bikinis.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 &quot;Soft physics&quot; look awkward more often than not.
 Actual games are too simple.
 Choosing partners is more frustrating than fun.
 Saccharine soundtrack will drive you totally insane.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.4, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,553 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Developer: Team Ninja
Genre: Sports
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Your enjoyment of Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 will be directly proportional to your interest in lusting 
 over ridiculously idealized polygonal female models. 

  Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 isn't much of a game. Like its predecessor on the Xbox, Dead or Alive Xtreme 
 Beach Volleyball, gameplay is almost an afterthought to the sight of jigglesome female models lounging 
 and frolicking about on an idyllic tropical island resort. In fact, fans of the first game may 
 be a little surprised by how little has changed, to the point that DOAX2 almost feels more like 
 an enhanced remake than an honest-to-goodness sequel. There's some genuine craft to parts of the 
 game's presentation, and those looking to do a little virtual ogling will probably come away at 
 least somewhat satisfied. Still, the quasi-dating-sim aspect of the game doesn't come close to 
 fulfilling its creepy potential, and the beach-themed minigames that populate DOAX2 are few and 
 simple to a fault.  

          Welcome to New Zack Island, where ladies get in free!     

  At least the game doesn't take itself too seriously, as exemplified by the game's opening cinematic, 
 which sees eccentric Dead or Alive fighter Zack discovering the sunken remains of Zack Island, 
 the tropical getaway from Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. With a little extraterrestrial 
 intervention, he's able to resurrect it, renaming it as New Zack Island in the process. All this, 
 of course, so that he can invite all of the lovely ladies from the Dead or Alive fighting tournaments 
 to take a nice, relaxing two-week vacation. It's openly suggested by some characters that Zack's 
 intentions are prurient, though beyond the prerendered cinematics that bookend the vacation, you 
 never actually see Zack. You'll receive a number of gifts from him over the course of your vacation, 
 though, and you'll do plenty of gift exchanging with the other girls on the island as well.  

 
  Before making your way to New Zack Island, you'll need to choose which DOA girl you'll be vacationing 
 as. You can choose from almost all of the lovely ladies who were featured in last year's Dead or 
 Alive 4, with the young geisha-in-training Kokoro being the single new addition to DOAX2 since 
 Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. The character models are arguably the centerpiece of the 
 game, and they really do look quite lifelike, with lots of individual detail and some realistic, 
 if occasionally mannered, animation. They perhaps look even better than they did in DOA4, and the 
 so-called "soft physics" that give the girls' breasts their pronounced bounce has been refined 
 so that each moves independently. While perhaps an impressive technical feat, in practice it's 
 overkill. With features like this and the ability to conduct tawdry,  Maxim -grade photo shoots, 
 it's apparent that the game aims to titillate, but the soft physics are so over the top and ridiculous 
 that it regularly kills the mood. Also, like in DOA4, there's a ribbon-like quality to all of the 
 long, flowing hair. It just looks fake, and the way it clips through the characters is distracting. 
 The oft-breathy voice acting matches the game's playful yet sexually charged atmosphere, and a 
 Japanese-language option gives the game an even more exotic vibe. The largely licensed soundtrack 
 is relentless in its cheery blend of mall-pop and overproduced reggae songs, though mercifully, 
 you can customize the game's playlist.  

          Like all stable economies, DOAX2 operates under a bikini-driven market.     

  You can 
 see a lot of detailed information about each girl on the character select screen, including nationality, 
 hobby, favorite food, and favorite color. It seems totally frivolous at first, but it's information 
 that's worth jotting down, as these details play a big role in successfully interacting with the 
 other girls on the island. On your first time through you'll spend your first day being guided 
 across the island by Lisa, who will also act as your volleyball partner at the start. There are 
 several locations where you can challenge other girls to a game of volleyball or just hang out 
 and relax, as well as a marina where you can take part in a Jet Ski race, a pool where you can 
 relax and play, and three different shops. The accessory shop features plenty of hats, glasses, 
 shoes, and other trinkets that you can dress up your girl in. From the sports shop you can pick 
 from a huge number of swimsuits that are usually character specific, buy new Jet Skis to give you 
 an edge in the marina races, pick up some different-colored volleyballs, or buy tickets that will 
 unlock additional beach games. Zack of All Trades is the most random shop of the three, with no 
 apparent rhyme or reason as to what they stock -- on a given day you might be able to pick up some 
 sheet music, a leather bag, and some fried chicken. You can't really  do  anything with most of 
 the items at Zack of All Trades, but any item you buy or receive in the game can be gift wrapped 
 and given to another girl. The stock in each store is almost constantly rotating, and since gift 
 giving plays such a prominent role, you'll likely spend an inordinate amount of time perusing the 
 various wares on offer.  

  Interacting with the girls on the island nearly takes prominence over actually racing Jet Skis 
 or playing volleyball or any of the other beach games included, though your means of interaction 
 are contradictorily limited. Though you'll always have the opportunity to start your vacation with 
 another girl attached as your partner, it's a union that's far from permanent. Showering them in 
 gifts that appeal to their tastes as hinted at in the character select screen is one way to keep 
 them happy, as is consistently winning the games that you choose to compete in. Keep your partner 
 content for long enough, and she'll start reciprocating and sending you gifts, including swimsuits 
 that are otherwise unobtainable. If your partner gets fed up with you, she'll do the passive-aggressive 
 thing and just leave without saying anything. The idea here is that you can't participate in any 
 volleyball games without a partner.     

  There's something uncomfortably compelling about the idea of plying these girls with gifts in order 
 to convince them to be "friends," but after doing the dance a few times the process reveals itself 
 to be far too limited to stay interesting. Also, the game is just terrible about giving you feedback 
 concerning the current state of your relationships. If you're already partnered with someone, the 
 only time you'll get any indication of their mood is at the beginning of the day, and depending 
 on how things go, you can very easily wake up the next day single again. When courting new partners, 
 the only way to see how things are going is to approach them with another gift. Sometimes it's 
 obvious whether a girl likes a particular gift. The girl who likes cooking will probably appreciate 
 the toaster oven, while the girl whose favorite color is blue might like the blue wind chime, for 
 example. But much of this isn't so clear-cut, and the lack of good feedback, combined with the 
 fact that these girls can sometimes just be fickle, can make the whole gift-giving process needlessly 
 vague.  

          Actually playing DOAX2 is possibly the least interesting part of the game.     

  To 
 bankroll all the shopping you'll be doing, you'll need to compete in and win games. Volleyball 
 plays roughly the same as it did in Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball, though after a couple 
 of rounds it becomes apparent why they took this particular game out of the title for the sequel. 
 There's just no depth to the action, and the camera angle it's presented at makes it nearly impossible 
 to get a sense of where, exactly, the ball is headed. Also returning from DOAXBV is the pool-hopping 
 game, in which you have to jump across a series of floating platforms to get from one side of the 
 pool to the other. Like before, the platforms are either right next to each other or spaced out 
 with a small gap, and you'll need to either tap or hold the jump button depending on what you get. 
 It's been enhanced slightly for DOAX2, as the platforms are now color-coded, and by pressing the 
 appropriately colored button on the 360 controller you can earn some extra cash; but it's still 
 a one-note experience that fades quickly. There are additional beach and pool game types that you 
 can unlock, such as a tug-of-war game played while perched atop floating platforms, a massive waterslide 
 that you have to speed down without falling off, a foot sprint on the beach, and the delightfully 
 named "butt battle," in which two girls stand on a floating pool platform and bump rumps in attempt 
 to knock the other off. They're all novel the first time through, and the girls look great in them, 
 but there's just nothing to them.  

  The biggest addition to DOAX2 is the marine races, where you'll compete against up to three other 
 girls on a variety of courses around the island. There are colored buoys to slalom between that 
 can earn you a temporary boost, and ramps to perform jumps and a few basic tricks off of. It's 
 reminiscent of Nintendo's Wave Race games, insofar as you'll have to compensate for choppy waters, 
 waves, and swells that will wash across the course. The water looks really inviting in the first 
 few races, with a rich aquamarine hue and a really great-looking glimmer on the surface. As you 
 advance, though, the chop of the water becomes really pronounced, and the shapes it takes on don't 
 look natural at all. The marine races are definitely the most compelling part of the experience 
 here, and they also prove to be the easiest way to earn lots of money; but it's just not enough 
 to carry the rest of the game.  

          Hello? Eyes are up here, thanks.     

  It will take you a couple of hours to play through the full 14-day vacation your first time through, 
 and if you play again with the same character, she'll retain all the money and gear that you accumulated 
 at the end of the first vacation. Since there's no real way to win or lose, the only thing to bring 
 you back is the burning urge to collect all of the swimsuits the game has to offer. Nearly all 
 of the Xbox 360 achievement points are based on this notion as well. Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 also 
 features Xbox Live support for the volleyball and marine race games. You can play ranked and unranked 
 games, which only seem to affect your position on the game's online leaderboards. When playing 
 volleyball you have your choice of characters and locations. Strangely, though, volleyball is strictly 
 a one-on-one game, despite the fact that you always have two characters on either side of the net. 
 It seems likely the reason for this limitation is that the game wouldn't have been able to handle 
 four live players in a single game, as we experienced some pronounced latency issues while playing 
 volleyball. The marine races, which do support the full four players, seemed to perform a bit better, 
 though as in the offline game, the collision was really erratic.  

  Though the "why" of Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 is transparent, it's pretty incongruous with other recent 
 work from developer Team Ninja, which is also responsible for the hard-hitting Dead or Alive fighting 
 games as well as the aggressively challenging and rewarding Ninja Gaiden games for the Xbox, and 
 fans of those games should take heed. Though it's marginally improved over Dead or Alive Xtreme 
 Beach Volleyball, the gameplay in Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 remains on the verge of being nonexistent. 
 While the sheer yardage of well-produced virtual skin will make it an appropriately guilty pleasure 
 for some, anyone actually interested in  playing  the game will no doubt be disappointed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Xequtra
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 17, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  Visuals
  
  Nice scenery.... away from the obvious... not really much of a clipping issue... but why would 
 there be? There's honestly nothing to clip against... Models are good
  
  
  Audio
  
  It is okay for about... O... I don't know... 3 minutes before you get sick of it... Maybe you should 
 try playing the volleyball game and then record just the sounds. You'll picture a different thing 
 altogether
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well, it is a whole bunch of mini-games altogether and it is all string with a sub-plot... what 
 it is... it absolutely bored me to tears, trying to earn your keep in Game Points, it takes ages, 
 unlocking everything takes too long and it isn't even a well thought out game... Most of the time, 
 I didn't understand anything and have completely no idea whatever and I'm pretty crap at volleyball, 
 so it doesn't really help.
  Knowing about the whole plot of the Dead or Alive series doesn't even help either. It is mainly 
 for the fanboys of the entire series and if you are really into the entire thing about girls of 
 Dead or Alive, which alone, it pretty a sad deal to remember, if you are that obsessed and sure, 
 I may of lasted two days, but hell... that was less than an hour of gameplay, each day...
  This game would rather be for those who have no life and live on playing mini-games which ends 
 up to a whole bunch of nothingness... Whatever you do, don't get this game! You've been warned!
 
  
  
  Longevity
  
  I don't think so!
  
  
  
  Stabs
  
  
  Yay!
  
  Erm... DoA girls?
  
  
  Boooo!
  
  Just so many I can list...
  Boob physics, Far too 
 over-the-top
  Game is too complex... (I didn't understand anything at all!)
  Elitist!
  Far too perverted and horrible to be called a game
  Is it even considered to be a game at all?
 
  Worst storyline ever!
  A pre-mature ejaculator would last longer than having to play this game
  Not even fun at all 
 to list everything...
  
  
  I know the answer! The Lowest marks I could possibly give! How Xtreme is that? 2eet 2eet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive, a fantastic fighting game with hot chicks. These chicks were so hot, they spawned 
 their own spin off. That was Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. Guess what, that spawned a 
 sequel, and it's the game I'll be reviewing RIGHT NOW. 
  
  Dead or Alive is a vacation simulator with lots and lots of fan service. All of your favorite girls 
 can be seen in teeny tiny bikinis playing volleyball, and now much more. Butt battles, tug of war, 
 racing, oh my. While it does have more content than its predecessor, the amount of content it has 
 is just not good enough.
  
  You get to choose between 9 girls. You get a partner and do all the things girls do on vacation. 
 Obviously they always slam each others butts together, "get friendly" , and strip. Okay so maybe 
 this is a guys dream vacation, but oh well. 
  
  You get a choice of various activities such as volleyball, butt battling, tug of war, watersliding, 
 flag racing, marine racing, the casino, pool hopping, and relaxing. That sounds like enough stuff 
 to do, but most of those mini games last under a minute long. The only ones that do take up a mild 
 amount of time are volleyball, marine racing, and the casino. The rest will take you a very short 
 amount of time. The thing is, that's all you do. 
  
  The lack of content is forgiven by the fact that you get to see your favorite pixelated chicks 
 in as little clothing as possible with their hoo has defying the lays of gravity (am I allowed 
 to see that?) . If you're perverted (or a gamerscore whore; aka moi) enough you'll stay bored to 
 try to get as many swimsuits as possible. 
  
  Don't worry though, it doesn't get too boring until you collect about two full sets of swimsuits 
 though, and that's somewhat time consuming. After that though most of your time playing will not 
 be because of enjoyment of gameplay, it's because of your enjoyment for video game babes or gamerscore. 
 
  
  Overall, I can't say much. DOAX2 is an enjoyable game for a short period of time, but the lack 
 of content makes it a questionable buy. Fortunately, the $8 price tag may be enough to buy it. 
 It's not the most fun you'll have in a game, but with a price so low you may want to check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  The background story to the game is that Zack has resurrected "Zack Island" from the depths of 
 the sea, where it was buried following a previous volcanic eruption. He has re-dubbed it "New Zack 
 Island", and has once again tricked the girls into coming to his island. The instruction manual 
 details the differing reasons for which each girl has come to the island, while cut-scenes further 
 flesh out the plot details.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Much like the original, Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 features a two-week vacation mode, where the player 
 can indulge in a variety of activities (listed below) . Each day is broken up into three segments 
 (morning, afternoon, and evening) , where players can perform a single activity during each.
  
  Partnership & Friendship
  
  The game puts a strong emphasis on friendship; players (playing 
 as one of the women) must befriend the other girls by buying them gifts they enjoy from the various 
 stores on the island. Doing so will increase the bond between the two characters. If the friendship 
 between the two is at a sufficiently high level (represented by floating icons next to the girls 
 portraits; the quicker they flow, the stronger the bond) , the character can be convinced to become 
 one's volleyball partner. After this is done, players must then ensure that the bond is kept strong 
 to avoid the partner subsequently abandoning them. This can be done by giving additional gifts, 
 spending time with the partner, and winning games.
  
  When a new player plays for the very first time, she is given a tour of the island by Lisa, who 
 automatically becomes the default partner. From that point forward, any new vacations which are 
 taken (without making use of the optional tour) will begin with a random girl approaching and requesting 
 to become partners, although the player can refuse them if desired.
  
  Players can bestow swimsuits as gifts to other girls, regardless of whether they are the current 
 partner or not. However, the more revealing a suit is, the harder it is to get a girl to accept 
 the gift. Again, players must ensure that the friendship level between their character and the 
 target girl is very strong to avoid having the gift returned. It is fair to say that the successful 
 gifting of swimsuits is the main point of the game (as well as the most frustrating) , as every 
 achievement involves holding a certain complete collection (or several collections) of suits.
 
  
  Volleyball
  
  The former "main event" from Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball, beach volleyball is once again 
 present. Similar to the original, players must have a partner in order to compete in a two-on-two 
 7-point volleyball match. The gameplay has been modified to make the game slightly more difficult 
 and to add variety. While there are still only two buttons necessary for gameplay (pass/block and 
 bump/spike) , greater manual control is required as, unlike the original, girls will not automatically 
 maneuver themselves into the best formation. In the online mode, two players can compete against 
 each other, each having a computer-controlled partner. Lastly, the camera has been slightly modified 
 to address the criticism that the one in the original game moved erratically or too frequently.
 
  
  The offline two player "Exhibition" mode from the previous game has been removed, forcing players 
 who wish to play against other players to do so via Xbox Live.
  
  Marine Race
  
  An all new game mode which allows the girls to race on jet skis, either offline or on Xbox Live. 
 The game has been compared to the Wave Race series. [3] Players earn nitro boosts (which give them 
 a substantial, but temporary, increase in speed) by navigating through seven consecutive buoy gates. 
 Players can earn in-game currency by winning the race and by doing tricks. The latter has led to 
 an exploit where players can choose to lose the race, and simply navigate the track indefinitely 
 without finishing, pulling off tricks to earn cash.
  
  Aside from the main beach volleyball mode, this is the only mini-game which supports multiplayer 
 play via Xbox Live, making all others single-player only.
  
  Pool Hopping
  
  Another mini-game carried over from the previous title, although with slight modifications to account 
 for the lack of pressure sensitivity on the Xbox 360 controller. In this game, players race another 
 girl, hopping across multi-colored floating pads. To successfully hop to the next pad, players 
 must conduct the correct jump; tapping any face button results in a short jump, holding it results 
 in a long jump. Pressing the correct face button that corresponds to the next pad's color results 
 in bonus points being earned.
  
  Beach Flags
  
  A new mini-game to the series which is simple in nature, but can be quite difficult and frustrating. 
 It requires the player to repeatedly press a button as fast as possible in order to reach a flag 
 at the end of the beach before their opponent does. To successfully grab the flag, the player must 
 not only be fast, but also correctly judge the distance before pressing the "dive" button. If the 
 player is too slow, falls short, or overshoots the flag, they lose. False starts also result in 
 an instant loss.
  
  Butt Battle
  
  Also dubbed the "Hip Battle", this mini-game challenges the player to knock her opponent off a 
 shared floating pad before the same can be done to them. It involves feigns, dodges, normal attacks, 
 and strong attacks, which the girls carry out using only their rear-ends. It is played in a similar 
 fashion to Rock, Paper, Scissors, in which one must correctly guess or deduce the opponent's next 
 action and respond appropriately.
  
  Tug-of-War
  
  This new mini-game is very similar to the "Butt Battle" in the manner in which it is played. The 
 player must attempt to make their opponent fall off of their distant floating pad. Player victory 
 can be achieved either by pulling the opponent into the water, or by tricking the competition (using 
 a feint) into accidentally throwing themselves in. This requires correctly guessing the countering 
 move, much like Butt Battle.
  
  Water Slide
  
  The final mini-game involves successfully sliding down a water slide at high speeds. The basic 
 gameplay revolves around keeping the player character from falling out of the slide as it twists 
 and turns. Pushing forward on the left joystick speeds the character up, and pulling back slows 
 them down. Left and right are used to prevent the character from falling out of the slide.
  
  Casino
  
  Similar to the original, the game features a casino which players can visit during 
 the evenings. Once there, one can partake in several games, including poker, blackjack, roulette 
 and a variety of slot machines (themed after each woman) .
  
  By betting the maximum amount and hitting the jackpot when playing Christie's slot machine, the 
 player unlocks sequences of her performing a pole dance in the casino. After nine jackpots in a 
 row, the player is gifted with a "Secret Ticket" the next night, allowing their chosen character 
 to perform this dance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  ok. dead or alive girls look awesome in this game. Its not about buying this game to admire the 
 gameplay, its to check this beauties out, from top to bottom.
  People should reonsider the low scores they give to this game;
  This game is meant to make you 
 horny, to see those courves and breasts everyone want to touch.
  All the mini games included in this game are very well made and they all aim towards one thing 
 "watch those sweet breasts bounce again and again".
  But.. i must admit the game gets old pretty quickly. Low variety of mini games and awkward controls 
 make the gameplay a bit frustrating. 
  Anyway, the volleyball and waterbikes games are really fun. Also another remarkable activity are 
 the photo sessions where you are able to take pictures of your babe. SWEET..
  So... all in all... definitley a game for men. guilty pleasure. its ideal to play it with no clotes. 
 makes you horny.
  
  bad things: lack of variety of mini games, wird controls.
  
  good things: hot babes ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ffenix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Collecting swimsuits is strangely addicting.
  - Although the volleyball controls aren't as precise as its predecessor, it's still fun and fast-paced.
 
  - More game modes and swimsuits than before.
  - Jet ski mini game is not bad.
  
  Cons:
  - Strictly for the fans of the series.
  - AI in volleyball matches are more brutal than 
 before.
  - Trying to win each girl's affections can be very tedious (much like real life!)
  - Weird clipping issues with hair and certain swimsuits.
  - Very limited time (about 20 seconds) 
 with the characters during the Relax scenes.
  - Completist's nightmare.
  
  Verdict:
  Even with all the negatives, the game has a certain hypnotic quality to it. DOAX2 will not win 
 new gamers (or female gamers for that matter) , but playing video games as an escape from reality 
 is good once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoslegion666
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, I want to ask to those who are rating this game with bad scores, why in the heck 
 did you guys buy this game in the first place? Whatever your reasons are, I bought it for one reason 
 and one reason only; to enjoy viewing of amazing scenery, beautiful graphics, and best of all, 
 DOA girls. I'm pretty sure many people who played this game, whether it be from renting or owning, 
 got it on their hands for the same reason that I bought it for. I'm sure there are some exceptions 
 such as people who had to play for reviewing, got it as a present, or got it in any way without 
 spending any money, but that doesn't change the fact that most of us are perverts and are fascinated 
 by any sex related topics. However, many people are saying that they got it to play a volleyball 
 game, but I find that hard to believe. Just think about this; why do you think that Tecmo developed 
 a game like this? Because they know that most men are perverts and would get this so called "game" 
 even when it's actually more of a soft porn rather than an actual game. 
  Basically, my point is that it's really funny to see that many of you guys are saying that this 
 game sucks when it's real purpose isn't even to be played but rather, drooled at. It's just too 
 ironic that people rent or buy this game knowing what kind of "game" (or in my case, porn) this 
 is, only to end up bashing about it. Ultimately, it would be better if everyone just admit that 
 they bought it for different reasons than to play it and just enjoy this sexually welcomed and 
 fantasized game. Lastly, I prefer paying $20 for a "game" (which can be played for hours ) and porn 
 put in one rather than an actual porn that only lasts a few hours. Besides, if your mother catches 
 you playing this porn, you can pass it off as a game. Can you do that with an actual porn?
  For those who were forced to play or got this game for free, you ratings are perfectly reasonable. 
 But then, once again, it wouldn't hurt to keep it in the shelves and pull it out every once in 
 a while when you are in need of sexual desires. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NT082786
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Aside from the obvious eye candy and fan service, DOAX is a game that is true to its concept: vacationing. 
 Whether you are a boy or a girl, you'll feel very relaxed playing volleyball, trying out new swim-suits, 
 getting new accessories like hats, sandals, bracelets, etc.
  
  Certainly, DOAX will not be everyone's cup of tea, not to mention that the game can become repetitive 
 and with room for improvement. But playing it after those long days for an hour, taking cool photos 
 or participating in some beach flag contests; Dead or Alive Extreme 2 is definitely welcome in 
 a market full of competitive and stressful games.
  
  Difficulty adjusts to the gamer and the controls are spot on, graphics are among the best for the 
 current gen. This is a game with a lot of appeal to the entire family: mom and sister will love 
 to buy outfits, try combinations with the accessories and send the right gifts to make a friend 
 during the vacation; while son and dad will enjoy the eye candy and prove their skills on volleyball 
 and jet skiing.
  
  DOAX 2 is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diniz_RD-SF_
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive Xreme 2 is a nice way to whatch hot girls in bikini, is this a good game? 
  So lets review this game.
  
  LEVEL DESING
  Here wh have really nice mini-game do play like 
 voleyball, or others on the whater, so here all goes fine, but first you need to get a partner 
 to do that games.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are ok, the visuals aren't the best but they aren't bad at all, but the best part 
 are the girls, they are beautifull, sexy, hot, they are simply awesome, the girls desing is impresive, 
 they lock great, and the boobs phisics are awesome and exiting, here the the game is allright.
 
  
  CORIOSITIS ABOUT THE GAME
  Here we can get difrent tipes of bikinis to the girls, and here we can fin great things to do, 
 the best part we can take photos.
  
  FINAL COMENT
  This game is awesome, the girls, the mini-games, the pole dance and other great things make this 
 game and exelent game, so if you loking for games with hot girls, buy this game.
  For me the hottest girls in the game are Hitomi, Kokoro, Ley Fang, Ayane and Kazumi.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Most people who bought DOA Xtreme 2 were probably expecting to get a taste of some awesome mini 
 games which they could casually go in and play with some items to collect and maybe team up with 
 some friends for some multi-player and check out the girls. 
  
  This game offers none of the above, whilst the mini games are ok there is no quickplay mode and 
 you are forced to play within a pointless and annoying story which has a form of in game clock 
 which is just annoying and leaves you with almost no freedom as the game determines what you can 
 chose to play and when you can play them and you are only able to play a certain amount per day. 
 If this was not annoying enough you are forced to partner up and develop relationships with the 
 other girls which is an o. k idea in theory but besides the fact that it is to hard and in the end 
 will just annoy and frustrate you and will totally keep you from enjoying the games.
  
  The graphics are outstanding bar the ridiculous physics but that aside that as mentioned earlier 
 most people might have wanted to team up with there mates to check out these computer game girls 
 together and get into the mini-games but guess again there is no multi-player, no quick play feature, 
 nothing. You are stuck in that time constricted story all by yourself so you are taken into it 
 alone which will leave you feeling like a pervert in the end.
  
  As mentioned the mini games are o. k and can be fun and you are able to visit the casino as much 
 as you like which is probably the highest point of this game, but mini games in general are unexciting 
 as you are stuck playing them alone and mainly concerned about the ridiculously hard task of keeping 
 a friend who will ditch you if don't win all the time. 
  
  Sure you get money and can buy some cool items and go on photo shoots but in the end it takes to 
 much effort and kinda gets boring, and guess what by the time you've saved up and got what you 
 wanted the game's clock runs out and the story finishes and if you want to play again you have 
 to start from the beginning without your items and go through the same annoying story again.
  
  The music from the one trailers was really great but other than that you might find yourself 
 going insane after a few hours of the music found in the game. It's cool to see all the DOA girls 
 again and to be honest their voice acting wasn't that bad but in the end the game was very average 
 and a major shortcoming of what it could have been and did not utilize the concepts and ideas it 
 was trying to achieve. If you like to play alone, gamble or look at attractive girls then this 
 game is for you because there is not much else you can do without being frustrated to tears or 
 losing interest otherwise you may have ended up purchasing yourself a new frisby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Okay this has to be said..."WhAT GaMEpLay?!?" All you really do is talk to people and 
 then you get to see a five second fan-service clip of them talking but their lips aren't even moving. 
 The wave racer and volleyball is what you'll find youself doing most of the time (or just relaxing 
 so you can take see nothing but fan-service again) but if you want quick cash to buy that "nothing 
 but string" bikini you know your perverted self wants you can just gamble on some black jack, roulette, 
 or a poorly done slots machine. The volleyball games are annoying as you'll find yourself screaming 
 "why the hell can't she serve the ball over the net!" Though after getting used to it, it seems 
 too simple. You can buy tons of extra bikini's, items, and wave racers at the shop. If you go to 
 the radio station to listen to the music you heard at that one place you are sick because the music 
 is horrible and makes you wanna go suicidal. So why play you ask? Well watch the opening sequence 
 five times in a row and tell me you wouldn't play this game.
  
  STORY: You go to an island. You meet girls. Your 3/4 naked the whole time either relaxing or playing 
 for days straight (how long is this freaking vacation?) . That's it. No plot twist, no evil lord 
 attacking defenseless fan-service girls on a vacation. All you do is relax or play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are the only good part. The graphics are great. Not like gamespot says the 
 hair on the characters could have been done a bit better then ribbons like and the whole soft physics 
 for bounce is a little more then needed. Other then that it is a-okay.
  
  Overall: Even though I love this game (for obvious reasons... lol) there is no denying it sucks. 
 I believe i can give this game a 5.5 for the game itself. However if i had to rate this on fan-service 
 and guilty pleasure only i'd definately would say 10 / 10. But that's just me... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Here goes nothing. 
  I got DOAX2 based on the following logic: I enjoy softcore pornography and I enjoy video games. 
 Therefore, a video game that is more or less about softcore porn should be alright in my book. 
 But after spending a few hours with the game, it has become apparent that the mad geniuses at Tecmo 
 and Team Ninja have crafted something far more appealing than your average "skin" game (like Rumble 
 Roses XX, for example.) 
  
  DOAX2 features jetskiing, volleyball, and a number of minigames such as butt battle, tug-o-war, 
 and pool hopping, to name a few. These games may be what initially draws some people to the title 
 (other than the aforementioned softcore porn,) but it soon became clear that the very core of the 
 title is the shopping system, in which you can buy items for yourself or as gifts for other girls 
 on the island. Gifts are split up into five different categories: Love, Like, Neutral, Dislike, 
 and Hate, and each girl has different turn ons and turn offs that you must be mindful of when purchasing 
 items. For example, if you buy Hitomi a Cloth Bag item, she will love it, but if you buy the Cloth 
 Bag for Leifang, she will dislike it. Figuring out and then exploiting the love/hate relationship 
 of characters to items is the most rewarding and addictive part of the title. 
  
  But of course, in order to buy girls presents, you must have money. This is where the games come 
 in. You may jetski race against other characters at any time, on any day, but in order to participate 
 in volleyball you will need a doubles partner. Perform poorly on the court (err... beach) and your 
 doubles partner will leave you hanging. Unfortuantely, performing poorly seems to be kind of a 
 given in many volleyball matches because the camera angle tends to really get in the way of the 
 action and there is no convenient way to adjust it on the fly. Also, I have found that my AI partner 
 has cost me a few points in the game by missing easy shots, so it doesn't really seem fair that 
 my partner left me when it was just as much her fault as mine. Overall, the volleyball is kind 
 of fun but is not fit to be played very often.
  
  I get most of my money from jetski races, which are much more fun. The watercraft respond quite 
 realistically to the waves, and the controls are fun and easy to pick up. It plays a lot like Wave 
 Race: Blue Storm for the Gamecube, but while that game was extremely hard, you never feel as if 
 the races are too challenging in DOAX2. 
  
  Other games provide good distractions, but none of them are really spectacular enough to mention, 
 in particular. I do find all of them to be at least marginally enjoyable, though. 
  
  So after you have saved up enough money, you can buy lots of things from the shop. I touched upon 
 the gift giving features a bit earlier, but there are plenty of things that you can buy for yourself 
 in the shop, too. Take, for example, the robust inventory of swimsuits. Some are quite sexy, and 
 others are... well... granny panties. But if you want the rewards that come with collecting them 
 all, you must buy them all, ugly or not. There are also accessories such as flowers that you can 
 put in your hair, ribbons, hats, etc.
  
  The graphics in DOAX2 are sort of a mixed bag. They run off of the DOA 4 engine, which seemed like 
 it performed pretty well on the 360. The water effects in the game, while not living up to recent 
 realeases such as Bioshock, are nonetheless stunning in motion. All of the bright environments 
 are rendered admirably enough, with colorful schools of fish swimming by in underwater scenes and 
 the sun reflecting off the water. The beach volleyball scenes don't look quite as good as the water 
 based activities, but they still look decent. Also, it is important to note that a lot of work 
 clearly went into designing and rendering the swimsuits, as almost all of them look like the real 
 deal when examined up close. The only exceptions are the schoolgirl outfits, which will clip through 
 pretty much everything while still managing to somehow turn me on. 
  
  Wait, what's that you say? You don't care about fancy graphical effects? Just describe the girls 
 already? Well, I'm not going to lie. These girls are pixelized perfection. The DOA girls carry 
 the torch as the hottest girls in gaming. Before long after starting the game up, you will be drooling 
 over these character models. But then something happens. Many of the characters in this game have 
 long, flowing hair that clips through their bodies. This would be excusable if it only occured 
 every so often, but it happens a lot and can be quite the buzzkill (if you play the game for a 
 buzz, that is.) In addition to this, something about the girls just looks lifeless. Their voices 
 are full of warmth and charm, but sometimes their animations look a little robotic, which can be 
 jarring in a game that draws many of its fans in with the attractive women. The worst part is that, 
 with time, Tecmo probably could have fixed these issues to an extent. Oh, and then there's the 
 breast physics.
  
  O "soft" physics, how you amuse me. These girls breasts will bounce and jiggle with the slightest 
 motion. And if you're girl really starts moving... oh boy! It looks like someone strapped a sack 
 of rabbid rodents to her chest. I swear that I once saw Helen's breasts SWAYING IN THE WIND. Oddly 
 enough, I have actually managed to get used to this kind of thing after playing the game for around 
 five hours. Some people may find this harder to adjust to than others. 
  One last thing about the graphics that bears mention is the tanning system. You can now buy your 
 girl or another girl tanning lotion which will cause your girl to develop tan lines. This game 
 has been criticized for implementing that feature, but it really strikes me as kind of impressive. 
 I really like the feature. You can even make a game out of it if you know somebody else who owns 
 the game: compete to see whose tan lines are skimpier!
  
  Despite all of the flesh on display in DOAX2, I can't help but feel that this is a little more 
 toned down in the mature content area than I would have liked. The girls may do a few naughty things 
 for you if you put in the work to see them, but they never actually take anything off, giving me 
 the feeling that this game was created mostly for young teens who haven't yet discovered the internet.
 
  
  The sound in DOAX2 is supposedly all about relaxing the players, and it does a decent job. I can 
 only relax so much whilst listening to girly pop music, though, so it's a lucky thing that the 
 game lets you build your own radio station out of playlists that you have saved on your 360. The 
 jetskiing and volleyball sound like... well, jetskiing and volleyball, and the girls' voiceovers 
 are appropriately cute. 
  
  In conclusion, don't expect a mind blowing experience when going into DOAX2 and you will be pleseantly 
 surprised. The games are fun enough to push you forward as you get to the real meat of the game: 
 collecting swimsuits. It may sound lame, and sometimes I do feel lame for dumping so much time 
 into it, but it really can be addictive. Since much of the gameplay comes in short bursts, it will 
 leave you with a sense of "oh, I'll just play until I get that next swimsuit," followed by "I suppose 
 I'll keep playing for just a little longer so that I can buy Kasumi a new present," which will 
 once again be followed by "well now I need to go to the casino" in hopes of recovering lost money. 
 I cannot properly describe how deep the gift giving and friend making systems can feel at times, 
 even though when examined you are really just buying these girls' friendship. 
  
  So, when looking back to my original expectations of the game, was I dissapointed? Most definately 
 not. The game is more fun than I had thought it would be. Collection addicts and porn addicts should 
 enjoy the game, but if you're addicted to both (lol) you should find this game to be truly enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Those who owned the original Xbox will have heard of the derogative spin off to the Dead or Alive 
 series, Dead Or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. While many praised the attention to detail on the 
 character models and environments, everyone quite rightly agreed that the game was lacking in substance. 
 The main game mode was a very basic, but decent effort at providing a volleyball sim. It could 
 be exciting at times but there wasn't much to it. Those who wish to participate in different activities 
 could do so in a basic pool hopping game and casino, the former being mildly amusing and the latter 
 being about dumb luck. And then there are the 30 second animation sequences on the empty part of 
 the islands that were merely ehh. Then there's the extensive swimsuit collection that surprisingly 
 took up most of the game's lasting appeal. It was somewhat addictive collecting items and swimwear 
 for the ladies. Funnily enough the more revealing garments were the most expensive ones. All this 
 provided a substantial fan base and is basically fan service. Tecmo saw fit to provide and grace 
 the good gamers of the 360 with another outing to New Zack Island, as it is now called. But is 
 it worth another trip?
  
  Well, the game doesn't take itself too seriously. Right from the start it knows this with one of 
 the cheesiest and embarrassing opening sequences ever. So the game is light on story and lacks 
 a solid reason why nine ladies would venture to this island, again. Once again they all fall for 
 the lie that Zack provided, the island is host to the DOA5 tournament. If the name of the island 
 and the announcer of the news didn't give it away, then WTF? Anyways, gripes aside with the stories 
 (which is essentially the same as the first title) it serves no actual purpose and is hardly engaging. 
 But that was never its purpose. Its purpose is to provide the fans of the DOA series to get *intimate* 
 with their lady of choice. And surprisingly the game does just that with greatness.
  
  One of the main criticisms of the last games was the whole gameplay experience was a little hollow. 
 There weren't many gameplay modes and things were a little weird, such as the Casino is essentially 
 static images and the island actually feels empty. There's no real option to explore the island 
 with a 3-D avatar. Just like the first, you pick pictures and you go there. It's a shame because 
 the game would have benefitted from this, but no. Then there's the volleyball itself which plays 
 just like the first title, except the camera angle is a little weird and off. It's actually worse 
 than the original to say the least. It's just about serviceable but it does no favours in helping 
 you judge where the ball is going to land. The controls are easy and the opposing AI is decent 
 but that's not enough to mask the obvious flaws and weaknesses. The pool hopping game is back but 
 spruced up a bit. You now hop and race against your partner and if you press the corresponding 
 button to the corresponding colour of the float you get extra points and cash. It's pretty fun 
 but it does a little while to get used to. However, it's not enough over the original and falls 
 flat on its face. So what about the new additions?
  
  Well, there are a total of five new games this time round. The first one is the butt battle, which 
 is one of those scenes that have to be seen to be believed. You face off against your opponent 
 on a floating pedestal and objective is to knock her off using your hips and *butt*. The next game 
 is the flag race that is a basic Track and Field type game. You frantically tape the A button towards 
 the flag and press B to dive for the flag. Dive to early or late and you miss the flag. Waterslide 
 is a bit odd. You have to keep the girl within the slide and get to the bottom without falling 
 out. Now I've been on plenty of waterslides and I've never fallen out -- but if you do so in this 
 game you die, I think. Tug of War is -- well, you should know what that is. The major addition 
 is the Marine Race and this is a great mode. It's like Wave Race 64 in that you have to accommodate 
 for the choppy waves and pass through the right side of the buoys. All of these side games have 
 their strengths, weaknesses and strategies but they all lack lasting appeal. Only the Marine Race 
 has any lasting value and I found it to be the most enjoyable. What I hate most of all is the entry 
 fee to play these games (except Marine Race) , their brevity and the horrible way they DO NOT APPEAR 
 on the main menu. This is another sore point because for some reason there's no offline multi-player. 
 There's online but with only two modes -- volleyball and marine race -- it's primitive. It is a 
 shame that you can't play these side games in multi-player because it would have been some what 
 fun, but once again it misses out.
  
  The abundance of items and swimsuits is once again the crowning and achievement of the game. It's 
 just as tedious and addictive as before. The swimsuits are even more revealing and at this rate 
 they may as well walk around naked. The shop system works in a basic way, you visit empty shops 
 there's a menu, you pick (with a choice of a gift wrap in case you want to bribe another person 
 to be your partner with a present) an item and that's it. Yet it so addictive and just like the 
 original, it has this pull on you and once again it's hard to pin point what it is. I must point 
 out the new feature of taking pictures of your favourite girl. The camera is extremely in-depth 
 and you can literally take a picture at any angle, for all those amateur photographers out there 
 who would get sued for taking pictures of such *voluptuous* bodies. But the time you have to get 
 the camera ready for a shot is a bit short and not negotiable. I also found the camera to be a 
 bit convoluted in controls, yet with practise this won't be such a problem.
  
  How can anyone not be impressed by the characters and the bright, vivid colours? It is a great 
 looking game, yet once again the lavish is on the girls, which is not surprising. Everything is 
 animated smoothly and yes I'm leading up to that feature of the game in just a sec. The water effects 
 of the Marine Race are a real stand out moment, with twinkling lights cascading of the surface 
 and the realistic waves. What Tecmo can't do right for some reason is hair. It still feels a little 
 off, yet it is a noticeable improvement over DOA4. The boob physics have been improved, though 
 for the better remains debatable. I found them to be okay, but when you ram up the age they bounce 
 wildly and the tiniest knock can get them going. It's difficult to talk about this as if they are 
 objects. The funny thing is in this sense is they are. These aren't real ladies at all, just code 
 and polygons that are there to make teenagers go ga-ga. But despite the questionable taste of extreme 
 wubbly jubblies the game is undeniably a good looking thing.*
  
  The lifespan once again falls upon the obsessive player collecting absolutely everything within 
 the game. If you play it that way then the game could last for about 25 hours. But if you play 
 it for the experience of volleyball then you'll be sorely disappointed. The side games add very 
 little to the hollow experience and just about lifts it past mediocrity.
  
  Dead Or Alive Xtreme 2 is a game that is in questionable taste. If you're a fan of the DOA series 
 and more importantly the design of the females then you really can't be disappointed. You'll get 
 a kick out of seeing your fave girl in a string bikini and what not. Yet as a whole gaming experience 
 it's extremely poor. This is one of those games that's great in a half hour session a day gaming. 
 I wouldn't recommend this game at the full asking price, but if you see it cheap then give it a 
 try. I only got this because of the offer it was in, so I suggest you do the same if you're curious, 
 but to be honest you really not missing out. However, I do have to say that although it's clear 
 sexism (PM me if you think otherwise) it's not as creepy as Rumble Roses. Now that I wasted the 
 conclusion with that, I'm off.
  
  *I didn't mention sound because it's a complete cop out with the exact same songs from the original. 
 Hell, even the sound effects are the same. The only noticeable addition is the English voice-over 
 that's hardly ground-breaking. It's extremely lazy in the sound design.
  
  * One Word= Hollfun (Hollow Fun)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuppetSoul
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Every modern gamer knows the Dead or Alive brand by name: it's the one with the bouncing breasts. 
 However, it's unfortunate that Tecmo has taken the brand seriously. The original game was light-hearted, 
 and understood that it was essentially a softcore fanservice game, complete with one-handed control 
 setup. While the sequel has done away with that control scheme, opting for a more serious layout, 
 it hasn't improved anything to make it require one.
  
  The new volleyball controls are abysmal. They continue to be non-responsive, with the "difficulty" 
 of the match decided by the game, choosing whether or not to allow your player to respond to button 
 presses and how quickly, or in most cases frustratingly slow, they will react. This superficial 
 difficulty caused by intentional mechanical failings is maddening. Especially when you realize 
 that a match is unwinnable regardless of effort, and that the game will punish you for losing, 
 but that in addition to that, they've installed safeguards that will punish you if you turn the 
 xbox360 off or signing off; shame on you for trying to skip an arbitrarily unwinnable match. The 
 several bugs which cause the game to lock in volleyball mode (i. e.- your opponent passes a ball 
 into the back of their ally, which causes the ball to hit the ground but the game doesn't realize 
 this; so your ally and their spiker will continue to repeatedly spike/block the air indefinitely) 
 make this problem worse, as when they rear their heads it's essentially a relationship hit, game 
 loss, and loss of that day period as you have to reload the game to continue. The camera was also 
 changed since the last outing, and rather than go with a stable camera angle which would allow 
 the player to actually see what was happening on the field, they decided to implement the "virtual 
 crackhead" camera. This new innovation allows the player to never have a usable view of the court, 
 but to additionally sway uncontrollably and CHANGE THE ORIENTATION OF THE PLAYER'S CONTROLS during 
 key situations, such as blocking spikes and returning the ball. If pressing B to receive the ball 
 after a spike and having your field of mannequins not respond wasn't frustrating enough, when the 
 game does allow you to play it changes the rules constantly. This forces you to compensate by "playing 
 drunk" and doing sweeps of the control stick to maintain focus in the proper direction; this is 
 of course if you can determine what the proper direction IS when the camera frequently shifts to 
 deny you the ability to see the opponent you were attempting to block a spike from. Which way will 
 they spike? Where will they spike from? The only answer to those questions is just stand against 
 the center of the net and hit the block button when you hear one of your opponents' names being 
 called, then hope that you get lucky twice by both your character responding to the button press 
 and the game auto-compensating your character into the way of the ball.
  
  The "Tecmo hates their fans" theme carries over into ALL of the other aspects as well.
  -The 
 casino is a minefield. It will occasionally corrupt your save for no apparent reason. It also quicksaves 
 to prevent you from "cheating". Despite the fact that the main game can't be lost, and the only 
 objective is to collect rediculous amounts of money, you'll have to figure out another way to accomplish 
 that because apparently cheating in the casino to obtain it would cut too much into the volleyball 
 grind.
  -They released a patch removing the ability for players to not have to pay to rewrap a swimsuit 
 a dozen times before a girl would accept it. Oh the horror!
  -The credits aren't skippable on the first playthrough, forcing you to sit through the dev team 
 bragging that they managed to phone-in a game of this quality.
  
  Then there's the Collections Based Gaming portion of the game, which is just as dull and uninteresting 
 as last time. You spend countless hours grinding the volleyball game, which this time around is 
 actually insulting because of the mechanical difficulty, to save up and unlock various swimsuits, 
 with the clear intention of getting these girls as naked as possible (as all the most revealing 
 suits are the most expensive, as well as suits geared towards mainstream Japanese fetishes such 
 as aprons and schoolgirl outfits) . Cross-seeding of swimsuits (as each girl has their own collection) 
 is needlessly difficult, and relies entirely on the mockery of a dating sim they've constructed. 
 The accessory items are uniformly tacky, and there's no way to prevent a girl from wearing them 
 once in her collection except throwing them out; so completing a collection for a girl essentially 
 means providing her with a plethora of hockey helmets covered in flowers, old lady bonnets and 
 non-flexible, non-alpha-channeled shoes. They implemented a "favored suit" status from the dating 
 sim, but have still completely ignored the fact that the average gamer probably doesn't want the 
 girl taking things which they've sealed away in the collection and strutting around in them. Just 
 because I bought the 20 pallet swaps of that generic two-piece to complete the collection doesn't 
 mean I think they looked good, nor does it mean I actually wanted to see her in them. A toggle 
 to lock the NPC takeover of the girls to only whats in their inventory would've been nice.
  
  Speaking of the gamer achievements, they truly are achievements, but ones that I wouldn't want 
 associated with my gamercard, as they're monuments to the fact that you had to spend upwards of 
 hundreds of hours completing a softcore fanservice game with punishing controls and no redeeming 
 qualities before you even hit your first 20g milestone. Thankfully Microsoft's Indian customer 
 service team helped me out on this one, by refusing to transfer or delete my version1 account (original 
 Xbox) .
  
  Then there's the dating sim. Oh the dating sim! I say dating sim, but that's truly an overstatement 
 as you never date, or even interact, with the other girls outside of volleyball/minigames or the 
 reaction text spammed over their generic gravure scenes for whatever location they happen to be 
 in. That latter unflattering description is actually the "dating sim" aspect of the game; or more 
 properly, the gift giving one. The objective is to sucker girls of questionable age into putting 
 on revealing swimsuits through bribes such as "Chocolates" and "Ice Cream". It isn't quite as creepy 
 in reality as it is in that statement, because the girls are static and lifeless, and the objects 
 are simply placeholders chosen at random to fill the various "love" and "hate" categories. In reality, 
 it plays out very similar to a multiple choice math exam, but one where the problems are hidden: 
 you simply choose A, B, C or D, and then through trial and error figure out which answers happened 
 to be correct. In fact, this should be the most fanservicey portion of the game, but it's quite 
 possibly the least, as the girl's tastes are not only different from the last game (with the exception 
 of favorite colors and one specific food each) , but their favored objects of the lore aren't even 
 the items they respond best to! In addition to that, their responses are all muted. They're all 
 just pass/fail tests with stock responses, nothing has any story with it. In fact, there isn't 
 any kind of development over the course of the game from ANYTHING. The island never changes, the 
 girls never change, nothing new ever unlocks, you just mull about grinding the same repetitive 
 tasks until the missallocation of blood causes a stroke.
  
  Speaking of stroke, as a fanservice game, it's a stroke of genius to not write any of the lore 
 into the game, even if the game doesn't itself exists outside that lore. For example, I found myself 
 particularly witty for having Ayane give Helena some Sheet Music; knowing that Helena was brought 
 into the series through Ayane having killed her Opera singing mother during a performance while 
 shooting at Helena herself. I was unfortunately greeted with the generic response of "No need to 
 go to such great lengths for me", which is Helena's indifferent response. In fact, not only are 
 no items tagged to evoke a unique response from any characters (only love/hate categorical ones) , 
 but characters aren't even scripted to react uniquely to each other! Ayane and Kasumi's relationship, 
 as quarreling siblings with one trying to kill the other, is no different than Lisa and Tina's, 
 who are listed as best friends; this is doubly sad as in the original game the girls had such unique 
 interactions, if only for the "Guide" character's introduction when the vacation began. Now these 
 intricacies are reduced to a handful of unique "Be Friendly" gravure scenes, none of which are 
 remarkably different than the generic ones. What irks me is that because these unique scenes are 
 so generic (i. e.- Ayane gives Kasumi a five second backrub) , I see no reason why they wouldn't 
 have been mixed into the regular rotation which all characters had access to (which are only a 
 measly two scenes) .
  
  New to this iteration are a multitude of cloth swimsuits, such as various t-shirts and whatnot. 
 The opening scene lies to the consumer, and suggests that these suits are deformable, and that 
 they will become translucent, shimmer, cling to skin, etc. when they come into contact with water. 
 Unfortunately none of that happens, and the suits retain their dull textures and ribbon models, 
 even when the girl is submerged and swimming in the ocean. Cloth defomation isn't even a novel 
 mechanic, as Illusion's Sexy Beach franchise (which started in response to the popularity of the 
 original DOA: XBV) has already developed it.
  
  The Wave Rider game is essentially Tecmo trying to implement Wave Rider into XBV, but not doing 
 it that well, and they can't take it entirely in that direction because it subverts the "payoff" 
 of collecting the suits if you don't actually see the other girls in them.
  
  Tug-of-War and Butt Battle. Yeah, I can see where they're going with this, but considering the 
 payout on these games is abysmal, and that they're both only glorified Rock-Paper-Bigger Rock, 
 they're not really effective. Nor is Beach Flags, which is like NES Track-and-Field, but utilizing 
 only one button. Block-stomp is carry-over, and remains relatively easy despite the fact that it 
 often misinterprets how hard you've hit the buttons.
  
  Perhaps if they had implemented an EVENT or something in the game, let's say "The New Zack Island 
 Idol Tournament" or "The Queen of New Zack Island Competition", where you had to Butt Battle, Tug-of-War, 
 block-stomp and Capture the flag your way through the brackets with the other girls to face off 
 against Niki. 
  
  
  
  It totally cut my "What I want to see in XBV3" part in half, so I removed it entirely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 Review
  (Or as my friends and I have taken to calling this game  'No Man's Land  the DOA edition'.)
 
  
  Scores:
  Overall Score : 6.5
  Gameplay : 5
  Graphics : 10 Double +
  Sound : 5
  Replay Value : Moderate
  
  
  Let's be honest and up front about this game. The only purpose 
 for renting or owning this game is to enjoy the ultra high quality graphic design of Team Ninja's 
 female characters from its fighting series Dead or Alive. 
  
  Graphics:
  The video cut scenes are very well done graphicly, if a bit too much somethimes on the peep show/voyeuristic 
 side.
  
  Gameplay:
  The main focus is still to earn Zack dollars doing things on the island so you can buy all the 
 different swimsuits for the girls.
  
  The volleyball match is back with even more jiggling breasts! Yeah! Unfortunately the awkward offset 
 camera angle during game play is also back. Boo! (This one little design decision, made it seems, 
 so you can see all 4 girls' boobs at once while playing is the one major flaw that totally ruins 
 this as a decent playable game.)
  
  In the pool area we now have tug of war and butt battle added to the returning pool hop game. Although 
 a nice bit of eye candy to watch at first, the simplistic nature of the games (a basic form of 
 rock, paper, and scissors) quickly becomes boring.
  
  On the beach we have the arrival of the flag race. Even if you aren't trying to win in this button 
 mash race, you more than likely will.
  
  The one new event that has been added to the game, and increases its replay value somewhat, is 
 the Jet Ski races. In the races you'll compete against up to 3 other girls on a large and diverse 
 set of courses. You cannot select which course you'll race on. The course will be selected for 
 you based on the Day of your vacation and if you've won the previous race. As you win races the 
 courses become longer and speeding through the ocean waves becomes more and more challenging until 
 the waves literally move you where they are going and not where you want to go.
  
  There is a casino where you can play black jack, poker, roulette, and slot machines.
  
  There 
 is also an online mode for playing volleyball and the water races. Unfortunately the online play 
 of the volleyball is just as bad as the offline play. 
  
  Sound:
  Unfortunately the bubble gun tunes, which fit nicely with the game's theme, are limited and will 
 get annoying very quickly.
  
  The spoken dialog for all the girls is prefect.
  
  Achievements List:
  Horribly out of sink with the silly fun nature of the gameplay. One achievement, 
 getting all of one girl's swimsuits, will take several hours to complete. Point total = 20. You 
 will than have to repeat the hours for each of the other girls to get 20 points for each girl. 
 Then the achievements get complicated as you have to make friends with girls and give swimsuits 
 as gifts until each girl has the full collection from 6 other girls.
  
  
  Overall View:
  If you've never played any of the DOA fighting games because that's not your style, 
 rent this game at least and see what computer game animation can look like when someone puts the 
 time and effort into creating something beautiful.
  
  The Jet Ski race has the potential to bring players back. But the awkwardness of the volleyball 
 game and the simplicity of the other new additions will greatly hinder any real replay value in 
 this game.
  
  The re-viewing value of this game depends on your enjoyment of computer animation and scantily 
 clad girls bouncing around on the beach.
  
  BTW I own the game. ;-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoJJ
Rating: 2.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  In many of my reviews I have done I try to review the game as if I was being paid to review them 
 well this game is different from any game I have ever played. The one time my brother in law has 
 ever let me borrow a game and it had to be this bag of poop.
  
  This game is only good if you have way too much time on your hands and have yet to see your first 
 real life pair of hooters. Yeah, I may take alot of flack for saying that but come on people think 
 about it. A bunch of women that only wear bathing suits and after your first night on the island 
 what do they give you to play with?..... a camera... go figure. I got to a point that my only main 
 draw to the game was trying to take very classy and artistic shots of the girls and besides the 
 few great shots I got of kokoro over her shoulder looking off into the sunset it wasnt easy to 
 get anything besides a T&amp; A shot.
  
  If you want to see boobs... this game is for you. If you want a good engaging game with substance 
 and great game play.... umm dont they do paper rock scissors tournies these days? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The concept of this game is  even a concept. There is little to 
 no storyline &amp; there are women in bikinis. That is about it. Ok so maybe not but still, you 
 pick a character &amp; then play beach games to earn money to but bikinis &amp; other accessories 
 the most predominant game throughout being volleyball where all of the characters (all female) 
 can have a game in their bikinis &amp; needless to say certain things move often independently 
 which is a little disturbing but that is all there is to this game. Graphics yes are very good, 
 sound very good but that is to be expected from a game that is designed to excite . The soundtrack 
 will however drive you insane along with how mundane the game becomes as all it is is repetitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxdeadpeacexx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok Dead Or Alive Xtreme 2 AKA DOAX2. Team Ninja has done it again. A new Beach Vollyball game. 
 This game is really fun to play. Not too easy or hard its just fun. When im not on XBoxLive I whould 
 play this game. There 9 girls to pick from. You hang out in Zack island for 14 days or 2 weeks. 
 My favorite charter to use is Kokoro. Theres alot of new minigames. Jet-Skis, Butt Battle, Flag 
 Raceing, WaterSlide, Tug-o-War, theres a Casino in the game. Lot of swimsuites i can tell you that. 
 ALOT of new grevure secens. Team Ninja did a really good job. Im really looking forward for part 
 3 or if they are makeing a part 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bernard_Brennan
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 is the sequel to Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball. They have dropped 
 part of the title to reflect the extra activities involved in this game but don't get too excited, 
 there is not much in this game to hold you.
  
  I loved the original DoaX title and spend hundreds of hours collecting swimsuits and trying to 
 build relationships with my fellow island dwellers. I embraced the sequel hoping for tighter controls 
 and more content. I was both pleased and dismayed with this game. Let me explain.
  
  First the good. This game looks amazing. The girls are gorgeous (come on nobody REALLY plays it 
 JUST for the volleyball) and they animated wonderfully. The girls even have new 'bounce' physics 
 applied individually to each breast. Their swimsuits are well designed and make good use of fabric 
 physics. New Zack Island makes you feel like you are right there on the beach.
  
  The game does include some new activities. Water Sliding is great fun and Jet Ski racing is an 
 absolute blast. Around the pool you can now Butt Wreste and play the newly redesigned hopping game. 
 There are some other activities as well but apart from the Water Slide and the Jet Ski's they are 
 not really worth mentioning.
  
  Taking photo's is included in the new game. Zack will send you a camera early on and you can spend 
 as much time as you want taking photo's of yourself and your partner. These photos are then saved 
 to the Hard Disk for later use.
  
  Now the bad. The swimsuits look amazing alright but there are not many more than what was in the 
 first game and a large number of them are just renamed versions of the swimsuits from the original. 
 New Zack Island is also just a graphic re-design of the beaches from DOAX.
  
  Water Sliding and Jet Ski racing are awesome but the rest of the activities are just a joke. You 
 will play them once or twice and that'll about do it. Also if you wanted to play anything new in 
 the casino you can forget it. The same old options here.
  
  One of the more voyueristic parts of DoaX 1 was the ability to rotate the camera around your chosen 
 girl and zoom in and out to 'appreciate' their beauty. DoaX2 sports new camera controls which are 
 very awkward and hard to manipulate. Also the zoom function is gone.
  
  To sum it up Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 should have been a fun voyueristic romp around a carribean 
 island with a bunch of half naked hot chicks. Instead it is a game that is frustrating due to broken 
 controls and a haphazzard approach to mini game design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerNY1
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I just picked this game up for $16 today and that's the only reason I bought it. I figure I can 
 get some acievement points out of it before trading it in, selling it... somethihg. I have the 
 openig credits up now, they look good but, depth in this game I do not expect. The story, yes... 
 story, is silly. An island is resurrected and there might or might not be a DOA tourny 5... that's 
 the story.
  You can buy stuff, play games, hang out, listen to cheasy pop music. Oh yeah, there's an island 
 casino... I'll visit that in time, I'm sure.
  If you can find this game cheap, sure get it otherwise keep the money for another game or something 
 useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X5Terminator
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game can be fun, it has a good feel and mood to it, but the gameplay is just too plain. The 
 games graphics are pretty good, but the boob physics are a bit off and looks a bit weird. I haven't 
 gotten too far into the game, I have not yet finish the game, it feels like I'm doing the same 
 thing everyday, jet sking and buying a present for my partner. However there are more to do in 
 the game then this but none of it can hold your attention for long. There is a casino game in this 
 and it's pretty decent, the only problem I have with the casino game is in poker, I just hate it 
 when you lose automatically if someone puts a bet too high for you to accept, even if you have 
 a royal flush, you lose automatically all your money. Well overall this game was not a great game 
 but it also isn't a horrible game. There is fun to be had here but I wouldn't suggest paying top 
 dollar for it, if it's on sale and if you are into the DOA girls then sure pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weldonmann3
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 24, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  First of if you buy this game..... well you know what to expect. Good looking girls in bikinis. 
 but other than that there's nothing else. the graphics are good and at least there are more mini 
 games to play in this edition of DOAX.... but to me the control sceam on the mini games were a 
 little broken. the volley ball parts of the game were easy to beat and the controls where a lot 
 better though. there is not much more i could say about this game; its short, mini game conrtols 
 are broken, but at least it did what it was made to do ( to be a pervs game nothing more nothing 
 less) . so if you want a game were all you do is watch girls and feel dirty then go a head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaejas
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 13, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  In a word: ridiculous.
  
  GameSpot and other review sites in general are usually hard on gravure games, those Japanese stalwarts 
 that are meant for little more than titillation. It happened back in the day ('94) when Metal &amp; 
 Lace and Cobra Mission were offered to mainstream North American PC gamers, and the DOAX series 
 is the latest generation, being famously described as the best lesbian dating simulator out there.
 
  
  The first DOAXBV actually presented a very playable volleyball mechanic. I can still load it up 
 and have a fun relaxing game, since I'm no longer trying to build the bank. (Only Super Spike V'Ball 
 for the NES would captivate me otherwise.) For DOAX2, it has become a modern-day Wave Race 64. 
 (And I would still play Wave Race, though the bikinis do have a slight edge.) I should note that 
 I also played the fully unlocked version at TGS2006. I will not comment on the jiggle-physics, 
 since the effect can be changed noticeably by adjusting the player Age . I will say that they totally 
 botched the VGA output, like so many 360 titles. Seriously, how hard is it to imagine someone using 
 a 4:3 VGA monitor? Why is that not in the QA process?
  
  Like Rumble Roses, the gameplay itself is enjoyable enough, but the guilty pleasure comes from 
 the amount of time that must be, honestly, wasted. Itagaki-san stated in an interview, that the 
 goal was to improve investment vs. reward. Every couple of games you play, the game responds with 
 enough money to buy some new thing or fun to be had (get-get-get-lose) . Sadly, this promise wasn't 
 fulfilled overall. Yes there are more minigames and the bank fills faster, but the demands of time 
 and luck to actually accomplish any kind of goal (times EIGHT) are absurd. The Achievements list 
 is built with the otaku in mind, and I cannot imagine or appreciate the kind of person that would 
 come out with a full 1000 points. Not only do you need to buy several billion dollars worth of 
 swimwear, but you must coax the AI into accepting your gifts. Real life isn't this hard...
  
  The casino card games are much more interesting this time, and take more thought than before. 
 As a result they go slower. The slot machines are still insane, and still offer the most scandalous 
 of rewards. The roulette cheat is one of those things that makes you wonder... how could they not 
 intend this on purpose? The replayability of the Xbox version benefits greatly from cheats... not 
 having to worry about money lets you experience the game's fun without being a time sink. I would 
 be more amused if there was a pachinko game, at least that would have some Japanese appeal.
  
  The photographic camera control, something everyone wanted in the original, is overwhelming 
 and complicated. And the duration of the sequences is again, ridiculous. Using a video capture 
 solution would be more productive . As a trained and experienced photographer, I take it as an 
 affront when games get it wrong. Pokemon Snap was better than this.
  
  For a game so anticipated and with so much promise, DOAX2 falls flat in practicaly every way. If 
 you're like me and treat it as a saccharine respite from other games, and buy it for an incredibly 
 low price, it's almost possible to forget that the same team created Ninja Gaiden.. which you could 
 be playing instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 4, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Being a veteran to the DOAX series, I came into this one expecting better volleyball mechanics, 
 more minigames to get money in, and some really nice achievements. I wasn't rewarded with any of 
 those:
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  This game has probably the best engine for volleyball to date, but the transition from Xbox to 
 Xbox 360 left a few bumps in its game. The first thing you will notice is that the B button is 
 not as responsive as it was back in DOAX, leaving you missing the ball more than you should. However, 
 I found that this was evened out with a much easier spiking system, that allowed me to pull off 
 perfect spikes much more easier than before. Overall, the volleyball is still the same thing as 
 the last game. They also now have Jet Skiing as the alternative to volleyball in this title. This 
 works like an average Jet Ski game, showing no impressive innovations over other games like Nintendo's 
 Wave Race series. For minigames, the title has added a few. The king of minigames is once again 
 pool hopping, which is now a race that works very well. The new bonus system helps make it more 
 challenging to get extra credit in the game. All of the other minigames are unlockables, and none 
 of them are really worth it. butt battle is just a sleaze best with two girls bumping butts to 
 knock the other off the raft they are on. Tug of war is an easy minigame that rewards you with 
 very little cash. The water slide is a nice addition for the game, but I never actually finished 
 it to tell you how worth it is or not. Finally, the last addition is flag run, which is a game 
 played with another character and you run for the other flag. This one is difficult to figure out 
 how you tap the a button, but I'm sure many can figure it out. The casino is still there, and that 
 works the same as any other casino type game. Overall, this vacation hasn't changed that much.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics of DOAX2 are, with out a doubt, gorgeous. The title really shines with the girls bathing 
 suits being realistic and sometimes shiny. However, not everything is sunshine here. The bounce 
 factor of the game that is seen in trailer is still dangerously high, leaving some disgust at how 
 bouncy the girls are. The girls also have a shine to them, which makes the game look really nice, 
 but the shine also adds to their Barbie doll like looks. In the end, the game really makes you 
 feel like your playing Barbie gets half naked and goes to the beach. 
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The originals Caribbean theme returns, but loses some of the better tracks for some terrible ones. 
 The most noticeable is the lack of big names. Thankfully, the main theme is still intact for this 
 entry, making it feel like I'm playing DOAX thanks to that intro song being there. The voice acting 
 in this is better than the first game, but whoever casted Helena chose wrongly. The chick is too 
 heavy with her French accent, not suiting Helena at all. Anyways, Japanese voice acting is available 
 still, so just switch it to that. Besides that, the other sound effects work, so nothing is missing. 
 Value: 7/10
  
  The title will last you quite a long time, with each girl having over 30 swimsuits to buy. I would 
 say the total time to collect them all for every girl is about 40-50 hours. However, achievement 
 lovers will find themselves reaching for another title when they hear this: The achievements take 
 about 500 hours to get, and I'm not joking. I have only one achievement, and thats for getting 
 every single swimsuit with one character. Upon looking up the others, I find out that making a 
 girl your friend requires her to have EVERY SINGLE ONE of your girl's swimsuit in her collection 
 to make it happen, and you need 6 friends. This means purchasing all of your swimsuits 7 times 
 in total, including your own. This is rather ridiculous for a game such as this, since you should 
 be able to get 1000 in this rather quickly compared to other titles. *sigh* o well
  
  Tilt: 6/10
  
  I really like the DOA series, but I'm not a major fan. DOAX2 brings a good amount 
 of gameplay to the table, but most will find themselves disappointed or frustrated with the economic 
 system in the game. The developer still believes that everything should cost so much, when its 
 simply should not. This title is not for everyone and it shows in its visuals and such. As for 
 me, I will continue to own the game, despite my disappointment in the title.
  
  Overall: 6.3/10.0
  
  As my class clarifies, the game is a rental for those who rent. For those 
 who don't, the game is worth it in the $30 and under range, which it will be in this summer. Disappointment 
 all around, I was glad to pick it up. However, others will feel cheated. My recommendation is that 
 you look at other titles on the market before choosing this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 3, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I liked the first DOAX, and I would have liked this one as well, but the volleyball is unplayable, 
 buggy and terrible. Leaving racing the only way to make money, than using casino hack to get money 
 (if you didn't update that is) .
  
  Everything sucks bad, if you want to see anything you have to spend so much time to buy all the 
 junk (than hope with luck that they accept your lame gifts) . It's just hard to see how they can 
 sell this game for more than $5 dollars.
  
  DOA characters look so good and thats all this game has (and english voices which is nice as well) , 
 but the rest is completely dissapointing. It's only worth it if you like DOA and can get it for 
 very little money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 14, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  As should be common knowledge between all Xbox gamers nowadays, the Dead or Alive Xtreme series 
 is, at heart, a virtual peep show. With all those barely-there swimsuits, it's hard to view it 
 as anything else. This isn't all bad (If you're straight, of course) , but a game needs more than 
 swimsuits to entertain the more civilised gamer.
  
  I'll start with the storyline. After winning the DOA4 tournament, Zack and his girlfriend Nikki 
 set out to find the sunken Zack Island, naturally destroyed at the end of your vacation in DOAXVB. 
 With the revival of Zack Island, he once again invites all the girls, playing at their highest 
 agenda to get them to come. For example, Zack telling Hitomi that DOA5 will be held there. As in 
 the first game, they fall for it, and end up just staying for the good time. Obviously, this isn't 
 a fighting game.
  
  And now, we move onto Gameplay. This games gameplay revolves mainly around Volleyball, as the first 
 game did. However, this game also marks the addition of Jet Ski races, and a variety of fun-looking 
 mini-games to try and keep you entertained. However, in this game, the AI for volleyball did not 
 seem to get much thought.
  
  On your first vacation, with the tutorial, it all seems fairly easy, as you'll practically overpower 
 your opposing team for the rest of that vacation. However, on your second vacation, the opponents 
 get brutally stronger, to the point where they'll constantly be spiking so you can't save it. And 
 to top it off, your partners AI is usually so stupid that they hit the ball backwards. Getting 
 the right partner and keeping their relationships with gifts is vital to the game, in many other 
 ways as well, so remember to try giving your partner many things to find what they like.
  
  Jet Skiing is the main new addition to DOAX2. It allows a non-Volleyball or pool hopping way to 
 gain money, and is pretty fun. However, for the later tracks, it's vital to save your money and 
 purchase a new watercraft so you can get the upper hand on your competition. Pool Hopping is pretty 
 much the same, except you now face another girl to get to the other side first. The remainder of 
 the mini game all require a one-time fee of 15,000 Zack dollars for a ticket at the Sports Shop, 
 after which that girl has access to them on ANY vacation. However, they can be very difficult and 
 are nothing more than fun to watch in some cases.
  
  Graphics are the best part of this game. The girls look better than ever with these improved graphics, 
 yet there are flaws to the engine. For one, the girls breasts move individually now, and it looks 
 pretty shocking. Seeing a girl do a jump serve can sometimes get plain ridiculous with these physics, 
 yet it's but a minor setback. Also, the ribbon hair problem in DOA4 still rears its ugly head here, 
 and while it's another minor setback, it can get a little distracting on girls such as Kasumi and 
 Kokoro. Otherwise, these are top-notch graphics. The voyeur videos are also back for the relaxing 
 options in the areas, should you wish to view the girls, or even the beautiful scenery.
  
  The sound in this game is very similar to the last. The developers have brought the rights to various 
 pop and reggae songs to place in the game, from artists such as B*Witched, Hilary Duff and Bob 
 Marley. There's alot there, so there's sure to be something you like.
  
  Voices, however, can be downright shocking. You have some good ones in there on the English voice 
 track, but Tina's overly-southern accent and Helena's thick French accent sound appallingly poor. 
 The inclusion of the Japanese voice track, however, was a smart move for people who find the voices 
 on the English track too horrible to hear.
  
  While this game isn't completely horrible, it is definetely something you will want to rent before 
 buying. Only the most diehard DOA fans (Or possibly male adolescents) will be able to get the most 
 out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  What.. is the strategy, of completing DOA: X2?
  
  Basically, to sum it up, earning Zack points through a series of mini-games (some of which requires 
 the spending of Zack points to even play them, like the booty battle )
  Then using that oddly overused form of DOA currency to purchase gifts for the other girls on the 
 island.
  Should the gift adhere to their personality or favorite food, and be wrapped in gift wrapping paper 
 that suits their favorite color, they will accept the gift.
  If not, they'll send it back.
  
  I dunno how the programmers understand human interaction, but if someone sends me an limited-edition 
 blue DOA XBox, I'm not gonna care if it's not my color gift-wrapping.
  
  The DOA girls, apparently, are so self-centered, that if you give them something they don't like, 
 they'll just send it back.
  
  I mean, at least donate it to the Zack Foundation for Greater Programmer Education or something.
 
  
  The mini-games themselves, range from things like Jet Ski racing and Volleyball, both also available 
 online-that is, if you can actually find someone else who likes volleyball/watersports and texture-mapped 
 women that much.
  
  Even though most rental stores list the game under the genre Fighting , you'll be hard pressed 
 to find even the slightest hint of violence- if the game didn't have the option to photograph half-naked 
 women while they lie around (or pose) outdoors (alone, or with the girl you befriended) the game 
 probably wouldn't see anything close to an M+ rating.
  
  The flag-capture style mini-game involves two girls running for a pole (don't say it!) sticking 
 out from the ground, and involves mostly button-mashing and timing the eventual jump to grab it.
 
  
  Some games require that you purchase a card to play them-the starting money you have is enough 
 to get a ticket for the Tug-of-War, Water Slide, Pole Grab (*chuckles*) and Booty Battle (actually, 
 not as fun as you would think)
  
  When you befriend a girl, you will play whatever game you choose primarily with her, though you 
 can also play some mini-games, like water-hopping (press or hold the appropriate button to the 
 color of the next platform, depending on jump distance) or the waterslide, by yourself. Depending 
 on the game mode, the time of day will pass from playing it, and you will earn Zack points.
  Zack's store offers new merchandise everyday- don't waste your money on nostalgiac items like the 
 XBox Prototype, XBox 360, or the various musical accessories, unless you want the other island 
 girls to completely ignore you.
  
  The soundtrack contains some rather annoying songs (though it's more about taste, Loving you really 
 grows old after a while, especially if you saw the South Park episode that featured it enough times)
 
  Should you visit the DJ booth, you can replace the songs that play with your own custom ones, 
 and set them to the time of day, or location, that the songs play.
  
  You are given a choice in the beginning of the game between three hotels, and room service will 
 delivers gifts at the end of the day a lot of the time.
  
  The items are fun to experiment with to see what they do, and there is a nice assortment of them, 
 but it's not enough to save what becomes after a while a rather dull game, that ends rather abruptly 
 with a mediocre ending.
  Not to mention that the Achievements are nearly impossible to obtain due to the unclear nature 
 of the path to earn them.
  
  After you've tried all the hotels, befriended and plyed as a few of the girls, tried the various 
 Casino games, and seen most of the items, you'll probably decide to play something more interesting 
 instead (heck, if you rented it for the reason most ppl did you'd be better off with Playboy: The 
 Mansion, or just HBO for that matter. And if you like the Casino you'd be better off playing World 
 Series of Poker, or Texas Hold 'Em)
  
  As boring as this game can get, it was still worth the couple of days of fun I had with it, but 
 I can't see it being worthy of a purchase, only a rental.
  
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game definatly seems to be amied at male teenagers.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The DOA girls are taken to new zack island, being told that the dead or alive 5 tournament will 
 be held there. But it isnt, still they decide to stay build up a tan, have a good time stuff like 
 that. During your 14-day vacation you can be any of the DOA girls (no new additions) and take part 
 in around 8 games. From Volleyball and marine racing to butt battles and riding the water slide. 
 At nights you can go to the casino to play various card games and the roulette and slot machines. 
 The challenge of the game is to keep your partner (to play volleyball, you cant play on your own) 
 and get all the swimsuits for your girl. When the vacation is over you start with the choice again, 
 if you pick the same girl that you have alrady picked you will start with the same items, swimsuits 
 and money. You also have the items that the girl has been sent as a present. example-You are tina 
 and sent kasumi some sunglasses or other item, kasumi accepts the gift and doesn't send it back. 
 Your vacation as tina has finished and you start with kasumi when you look at the items you will 
 have those glasses that you got off tina.
  8/10 for gameplay
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Some of the best graphics for the 360. The character models are great and i have to admit pretty 
 nice to look at : ) . There is alot of complaints about the physics on the girls breasts. I dont 
 think it is too bad until the girl move quite vigourasly then it does go quite over the top.
  10/10 for graphics
  
  SOUND:
  The music gets quite annoying at times as thre isnt THAT many, 
 but you can put on custom sound tracks. DOAX2 has some good sound effects and you can change the 
 girls to speak in japanese.
  8/10 for spund
  
  OVERALL:
  A good game to play for short periods at a time but can get repetative. DOAX2 has some strong volleyball 
 games in it and the marine races are pretty good. DOAX2 is a great game and its strongest aspect 
 is the graphics the gameplay may seem doubting at first but is good when you get into it more and 
 get used to the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is a good fun game if you take it for what it is, a vacation from other deep and compelling 
 games like Gears Or War.
  
  The graphics of this game are really impressive in my book. They seem to be better than Dead Or 
 Alive 4 and i wouldn't of thought Team Ninja could out-do themselves on that game but i guess they've 
 suceeded. Everything looks really nice and clear and things look like they're supposed to (excluding 
 the girls breasts, lol) I'll get to that in a minute. The hair, although not perfect seems to be 
 done better this time around and it moves better than in Dead Or Alive 4. The water in this game 
 looks brilliant, especially when you're racing on the Jet Ski. Shadowing is good too although there 
 seems to be some missing sometimes like say if a girl is in shade under a palm tree she still looks 
 like she has full sun on her. The breast physics in this game are way over done, but i think it 
 kinda fits the games atmosphere. It's suprising the girls don't knock themselves out with 'em at 
 times! They just seem to bounce at the slightest movement which i guess if you like breasts or 
 even bouncy ones then this is fine.
  
  Okay, onto the game..
  
  You start the game by going to New Zack Island and choosing your character to play throughout the 
 14 day vacation. One thing i don't like about the vacation is how quick a day is over. It seems 
 like you're only able to have about 5 mins gaming before it's night time. Anyway... From beginning 
 the vacation you're able to play Beach Volleyball, Jet Ski Racing and Pool Hopping. You need to 
 purchase a ticket to unlock the other minigames.
  
  I've only just got this game on release (the 8th december) and i've had chance to play all the 
 minigames and believe it or not they're actually fun! Granted that you need to get to grips with 
 some of them for about 5 mins before you actually win, lol (or at least i did) I really like the 
 pool hopping game the most out of them all. Tug of war and But battle are basically guessing games 
 but when you manage to knock the girl into the water it's funny. It's actually funny just listening 
 to them make sounds while tugging the ropes etc. The hardest of the mini games has to be the Waterslide. 
 I've tried this about 6 times now and i cannot get past the first major bend. It's gonna take practice 
 but i doubt it's impossible to do.
  
  Once you've played a few of these and the day is coming to an end you'll go to your hotel were 
 you can either go to sleep or go to the casino were you can play Poker, Black Jack, Roulette and 
 Slot Machines. You can do other things while in the hotel like browse your collection, send a gift 
 or leave the Island.
  
  The two main games for earning money to buy all the goodies are Beach Volleyball and Jet Ski. Volleyball 
 requires good timing and fast reactions or else you'll lose the game. I'm still practicing with 
 this and i'm gradually getting better. Jet Ski is quite simple, race round the track and beat the 
 other girls! Ok, sounds easy, right? Well it is apart from the manic waves on the ocean top. The 
 wave physics are done really well in a way that when you hit them you bounce up and down, higher 
 depending on how big the wave is. Also if you hit a wave at an odd angle it'll send you flying 
 off your Jet Ski. I persoanlly prefer this for earning money depending on the course because one 
 can be quite difficult to turn the corners due to how small of a track you're riding through between 
 rocks, however Volleyball is more fun for me. I'm not really a racing game person but if you like 
 racing then you'll like this.
  
  You play the games/minigames to earn money to buy costumes, accesories, Jet Skis, mini games tickets 
 and other items. This game is about collecting and having fun while doing so. The Achievements 
 are all based on collecting things and depending on the Achievement it isn't going to be something 
 you complete within a few days
  
  Overall the game is good and was to me it is worth the 44.99 i payed for it. I payed the same price 
 for Viva Pinata and i'm bored of that now. DOAX2 is better in my opinion.
  
  If you do decide to buy the game then i hope you enjoy it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSorrows
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  OK. Let's set something straight. Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 is not for everyone. People with different 
 likings will either love or hate this game. If you think the DOA girls are hot and couldn't care 
 less about a game of volleyball, then DOAX2 is probably for you. If you think it would be neat 
 to play around as the DOA girls, but still expect decent gameplay, rent this game first. If you 
 really couldn't care less about the girls and expect an awesome volleyball game with extras, then 
 why are you reading this review? Go away. Just kidding.
  
  Anyway... overall, DOAX2 is a solid game. First off, the graphics are gorgeous. The only noticeable 
 flaw is that sometimes the girl's hair can strangely move through their own bodies... When it comes 
 to gameplay, the games you can play all lack one thing: fun. Volleyball is confusing and frustrating. 
 Your partner will decide not to help you at times, and the opponent AI is lacking a bit. Sometimes, 
 you can't even tell where the ball is going. The jet-skiing is average, but just gets boring after 
 awhile. All the other games are too short and just don't really offer anything cool. So anyone 
 looking for some fun gameplay may barely be able to squeeze some out of the jet-skiing. And anyone 
 looking to play the Butt Battle minigame locally on one Xbox 360: sorry. No local multiplayer. 
 So what else does DOAX2 have to offer? Well, for those of you who idolize the DOA girls, you can 
 take pictures of the girls. And the fun doesn't stop there... You can dress up your selected girl 
 in TONS of swimsuits. You can even accsessorize your girl with different hats, glasses, shoes, 
 nail polish, etc. Make your DOA girl whoever you want her to be. There's one exception: everything 
 costs money (Duh) . So you'll have to play through some volleyball matches or jet-ski a bit to get 
 enough money to get what you want. Or, you could take a trip to the casino, but unfortunately, 
 you can't see any of the girls there. So lets say you've got your film, your girl dressed up the 
 way you want: you're ready to take some pictures. Wait... hold the phone. A Hillary Duff song? 
 TURN IT OFF!!! Yeah... DOAX2 has a pretty bad soundtrack, but thankfully, you can play your own 
 custom playlists saved on your 360. Now back to picture taking... all you have to do is pick a destination, 
 and you're on your way. There are numerous places you can go to, and each girl will do different 
 things at different places. At first, the camera controls are confusing. But after the first few 
 photo shoots, you'll get the hang of it. So if collecting swimsuits and taking photos of your favorite 
 DOA girl is your kind of thing, DOAX2 will have you hooked on photography. I would only tell those 
 to buy this game if they are the kind of person using a Kasumi wallpaper for their PC (or at least 
 adore the DOA girls) . Anyone else will probably not enjoy this game. Me, well, let's just say I 
 have over 450 pictures on my hard drive. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdripper
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  DOAX2 resurrects (literally) the sunken Zack Island from the previous game, and once again the 
 lovely fighting femmes of Dead or Alive are tricked into coming to the tropical paradise for hours 
 of sunbathing, volleyball, climbing trees, lolling around and buying stuff. This time around, jetskiing 
 and several new mini-games are added to the activity list, thus the game's monicker changing from 
 'Xtreme Beach Volleyball' to just 'Xtreme'. With the increased horsepower from the Xbox360, DOAX2 
 promises to improve on pretty much every aspect of the previous game- more girls, sexier suits, 
 more addictive gameplay and hours of relaxing titillation for horny gamers all over. Gameplay: 
 5
  While the core gameplay mechanic of the volleyball game has been apparently tweaked to be a bit 
 harder and faster, there's still the tendency for characters to move off camera, making it difficult 
 to play. Enemy players become psychic at later points in the game, making the volleyball frustrating. 
 Add to this your CPU partner's fickle personality and you can find yourself tearing your hair out- 
 especially when you're trying to save up winnings to get that expensive floss bikini.
  
  The Jetskiiing is fine- perhaps the finest addition to the game. The water effects are eye-catching 
 and the controls responsive. The other mini-games however, and next to useless. Each one, from 
 the Beach Race (similar to Track and Field games) to Butt Battle and Tug of War, to the Water Slide, 
 are all good for one or two plays.
  
  After all these beach and pool activities however, the bulk of DOAX2 is made up of the voyeuristic 
 pleasure of ogling the girls as they pose, roll, cavort, climb and just hang out all over Zack 
 Island. Unfortunately, Team Ninja made it a point to make even this simple activity as tedious 
 and as awkward and counter-intuitive as can be, making even this supposedly relaxing bit an often 
 stressful exercise.
  
  With all that, if you want the most from DOAX2, you're going to have to work hard since getting 
 the best from the game will, without any cheats or exploits, take you many many hours of play, 
 and countless attempts at 'gifting' swimsuits to various other girls in the DOA cast- another frustrating 
 mechanic since success in it seems to be totally random.
  
  For a game that promises to be all about relaxation and enjoying beauty, DOAX2 works very hard 
 to make playing and enjoying the game a very difficult and tedious experience.
  
  Graphics: 9
  This game looks beautiful and sexy and hot- never have polygon princesses pranced 
 around hotter in skimpy swimwear hotter than in this game. It's a slight upgrade from the previous 
 game- the girls seem more lifelike and animate slightly better, though the trademark anime-esque 
 style of DOA makes it all look familiar. For lovers of CG babes, this is the cream of the voyeuristic 
 lot without descending into actual porn. Animations are, as expected, even more scandalous than 
 before with girl-on-girl massages and an eye-popping pole dance buried deep in the game.
  
  Sound: 8
  The music (which gets repetitive after a while) at least fits the game perfectly. Sound 
 effects are clear and really give a feel of a tropical paradise. The girls are voiced by very competent 
 voice actresses, both in the included Japanese and English tracks.
  
  Value: 6
  For fans of CG hotness, this is the ultimate. Gameplay though is limited and repetitive, with players 
 required to be patient and even a bit obsessive-compulsive to be able to uncover all that the title 
 has to offer. There's tons of stuff... you just have to get past how the game is so awkward and 
 unintuitive in places to get to the goodies.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:5
  I've been a fan of DOA since Game One, and I have to say I found DOAX2 to be incredibly irritating 
 as often as it is titillating. While the graphics rock and I love the DOA girls, I hate the camera 
 system, the tedious and arbritrary way gifting succeeds and the need to have every girl have EVERY 
 SINGLE SWIMSUIT just to unlock the game's more juicy rewards. It's a game with Ninja Gaiden's frustrating 
 difficulty without the gripping gameplay to back up the tedium. Relaxing was never this frustrating 
 and irritating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom_yean
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  team ninja made the mini games too hard! they totally screwed up the volleyball gameplay. and all 
 the gift nonsense makes it unbearable for a casual gamer. the jet Ski races are fun, and a good 
 way to earn cash. but despite all the mini games they have, the best way to earn the Zack dollars 
 is still by betting and trying ur luck in the casino. their still using the same soundtrack from 
 the 1st game, which is lazy. on the bright side, graphics are good eye candy, and the gurls are hot. its 
 great to play for like 1 to 2 hours a day, and not more than that. u will go crazy if u try to 
 unlock everything in such a short period. just like i said, this game is best for the DOA series 
 fans, just like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Graham
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game of many games and while none of them by themselves really stand out they all 
 combine to create and wonderful gaming experience.
  
  First of all you have the date sim influenced part of the game. Here you will try to win freinds 
 by buying them gifts. This may not sound like fun but it is. Each character in the game has different 
 likes and dislikes and the items on sale at the shops on any given day are completely random. At 
 the character select screen you get some basic info on each girl and you have to try to use this 
 information or simple trial and error to select the best gift available. This is at times harder 
 than it sounds and often I have lost my volleyball partner because bad gift buying decisions or 
 lack of gifts and bad performance on the volley ball court.
  
  The next major part of the game is the volley ball itself. I have been a fan of volley ball games 
 since I played the game Beach Volleyball on my Amiga 500 and this is the best one I have played 
 so far. There is nothing really special about the volleyball in this game and it's really what 
 you would expect from the genre. It's simple, fun and exciting. The environments in this game look 
 great and add to the feel of the volley ball games. The music is decent and goes with the action 
 well enough but I wish that Bob Marley song was playable outside the credits. A minor issue considering 
 you can play your own music on the 360.
  
  The new addition to the series is jet ski racing. This is surprisingly good but your not going 
 to want to buy the game for this alone. The graphics were my main issue here. Everything seems 
 to be too shiny and the water doesn't look anywhere near as realistic as it does when you see it 
 from the shore in volley ball games. Despite that it's fun and there is lots of courses and tricks 
 to learn. It's a good diversion when you don't feel like playing volleyball and by far the best 
 of the ones that have been added since the last game. The others besides the water slide are a 
 complete waste of time and the waterslide isn't all that great itself.
  
  After your pleasant day at the beach buying gifts, playing volley ball and riding jet skis is over 
 you can relax and loose or win some money at the casino. The casino features blackjack, roulette, 
 slot machines and poker. Out of these poker is my favorite followed by blackjack. The characters 
 all have English voice overs and comment on the state of the game as you play, it's a nice touch 
 and often contains mildly interesting dialogue. Like some other parts of the game it's not going 
 to measure up to a stand alone casino game but it's still very good and makes for another nice 
 diversion.
  
  You may think it was strange of me to write a Dead or Alive Extreme 2 review without mentioning 
 teh jiggles but to me that isn't really what this game is about. The game has a beach setting and 
 the characters fit into this setting really well. Making use of well known and designed characters 
 in a game themed on a beach vacation is a no brainer and it works well. In fact they seem more 
 at home on their beach vacation then they do in the DOA fighting series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintly
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive Xtreme 2 is actually a good game... IF you forget the idea of the game! ''Nine girls, 
 one island!'' ARRGGG!! This game is wrong against women from every origin!!! A ''FIGHTINGGAME'' 
 should have violence, and not 9 naked women! Me, as an intelligent young woman, is really against 
 this kinda games! How can you enjoy this? No woman (with brains) should agree with it that this 
 game is great! I don't owe this game, or a 360, but i have the right to say something about it! 
 I played it alot of times, and i owe Dead Or Alive 2 on the PS2 (DOA2 is not so bad as DOA Xtreme 
 2) , AND i saw the movie trailer - Which i don't like! But i can tell ya, why you wanna buy a game 
 with great graphics, gameplay, while it has the wrong idea? But thats my opinion! I hope some of 
 you (guys, mostly) agree with this! I know i'm right!!! It can be possible that you don't agree 
 with this... But don't hate me than... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive Xtreme 2 is the second outing of the DOA girls in all their bikini glory. However, 
 Team Ninja and more specifically Tomonobu Itigaki have turned this franchise in to a living nightmare, 
 leaving DOAX2 hardly playable.
  
  From the outset, DOAX2 is what you would come to expect from the last game, a beautiful island, 
 all the DOA girls and fun innocent gameplay. Unfortunately that has changed in the space of a sequel, 
 while the island is still beautiful and the all DOA girls are still there, the fun and innocent 
 gameplay that was key into making the original a classic is sadly no longer there. Instead DOAX2 
 takes a more challenging approach turning it into a true Team Ninja game: hard and ridiculous.
 
  
  The opening sequence in this instalment of the franchise takes the cake as being twice as raunchy 
 then ever before, so much to say its actually not worth watching, it really is a spectacle, the 
 innocence of the girls is almost stolen but luckily isnt and just ends up looking a little stupid. 
 At the main menu you might be disappointed to see that the only mode available is the vacation 
 mode, there is no more exhibition mode which was a great way to just jump in to the volleyball 
 action, its replaced with online play that I never got the chance to try out and quite frankly 
 I dont want to. You can also view the photos you take in the vacation mode in precious memories.
 
  
  In the vacation mode Zack is back and decides that he needs to bring back the island that was originally 
 destroyed in the first game, when he revives it, it appears to have brand new features and locations, 
 these do tie in to the game but not that much. You are greeted with an opening sequence that explains 
 this, and in true TN form, the opening looks fantastic. Just like the last the game you are then 
 given the choice of which girl to play as for two weeks, the new addition to this list is Kokoro, 
 the apprentice geisha from DOA4. Yet again the girls all fall for the same trick that Zack has 
 been playing for a long time, they believe that DOA5 is being held at the island, and initially 
 want to fight, but end up just playing volleyball, the novel idea is actually nice at heart but 
 it soon turns into a living nightmare with the new difficult approach. The layout is almost exactly 
 the same, you have the sports shop, the poolside and all the beaches, whats different about it 
 this time is the option layout at the shops for example in the sports shop, you have 3 different 
 tiers of items that consist of swimsuits, jet skis and sundries, these actually do change the gameplay, 
 a great example is at the Zack of all trades you can buy wrapping paper to re-wrap any of your 
 items which changes all gifting strategies and makes it a lot easier, and thats probably the only 
 thing that has gotten easier this time round.
  
  As far as everything else is concerned nothing has changed at all, which in some respects is a 
 good thing but the underlying gameplay has just got too hard. The activities you can try to enjoy 
 this time are volleyball, jet ski racing, pool hopping (a true classic) , butt battle, tug-of-war, 
 beach flags and water sliding, it seems the difficulty varies between activity, butt battle and 
 volleyball seem to be the hardest while jet skiing and beach flags seem to be the easiest. Starting 
 with the volleyball, the gameplay has just been taken to a new level of stress, the camera no longer 
 switches back and forth between each sides of the court, it now stays permanently on your side 
 which can be disorientating and easily cost you a few first matches but is easy to get used to. 
 But its the AI that has taken a dramatic change it seems, in all the volleyball games I played 
 I got the exact same few scores every time: 8-6 7-5 and 10-8 and those were the games that I rarely 
 won, as soon as I got 5-0 the AI picked up and went all the way up to 5-6, then I would deuce and 
 end up getting either 8-6 or 6-8, this happened 3 times in a row and similar patterns still follow, 
 its almost like your just watching the game and not playing it.
  
  However, the new marina racing is a high point of DOAX2, it looks beautiful and plays really well, 
 its very similar to wave race on the N64. At the sport shop you can purchase a welfare of jet skis, 
 there are only 3 basic models but tons of manufacturers (fake obviously) and colour changes, they 
 all vary in speed, cornering, acceleration and turbos but if havent guessed already, buying a 
 better jet ski, hardens the race difficulty and all the other girls will be using similar jet skis, 
 go Team Ninja. Sadly you cant choose the course before playing, its a random selection based on 
 how far into the vacation you are, in the race itself you have to abide by the buoys in the water 
 to get another turbo boost and increase your overall score, you can also perform tricks and stunts 
 in the race which is a really nice touch and it boosts the price money. Overall the racing has 
 enough challenge to make it very enjoyable indeed.
  
  The sub modes on the other hand are very hard, pool hopping isnt of course, pool hopping in the 
 last game was short but sweet, and this time you can play it solo if no one is at the pool or play 
 it with your partner or the person who is at the pool, the differences between single and competitive 
 play are in single its almost the same as last time but with colour co-ordinated blocks, pressing 
 the controllers buttons with the corresponding colour of the block will give a point bonus, but 
 purists can still just press A, in competitive mode, you only have one chance and have to race 
 with the other girl, its very easy if you have played pool hopping in the last game just to get 
 money, but newcomers may find it tricky. Butt battle and tug-of-war are loosely the same, butt 
 battle is composed of 2 girls on a floating circle in the pool, its a typical Japanese game mode 
 theres no doubt about that, but its far too hard to really get into, the AI just seems to take 
 you out at least 1-3, tug-of-war is a little easier, both girls are positioned the same way as 
 butt battle, it mainly consists of feinting the rope and tugging the rope, this is hard only for 
 the reason that your opponents strategy is very tricky to figure out, you can easily guess when 
 she will feint the rope, but when she is tugging the rope its a little harder to guess what she 
 will do next. Beach flags is a very easy way to earn money, its a race to the flag, you just tap 
 the A button as fast as you can as soon as your partner says go ,and press B to catch the flag 
 at the end of the beach. The water slide is tricky to master but once mastered its easy, you have 
 accelerate and decelerate at the right times otherwise you will go flying out to sea.
  
  Once the day is over you can choose which hotel you want to stay at, there are 3 choices available, 
 each girls has a preferred hotel choice, for example Helena would like to stay at the gemstone 
 suite more so over the sea breeze cottage, the hotels also play an important role in gifting. And 
 gifting you shall, Tomonobu Itigaki has decided that to get the virtual pictorial you have to get 
 every girls swimsuit for one particular girl to get the virtual pictorial, talk about time consuming, 
 if you have the time to do this then there is something wrong there, because this just a kick in 
 the teeth from Itigaki, however you can exploit it. You can visit the casino as always, the poker 
 has been improved, you now play with the other girls, same goes to the blackjack, but as always 
 the slot machines are ridiculous, its not luck, its all systematic and you will not win on the 
 risk-less machines, but the machines with risk, well they can go either way. The classic casino 
 tune is back and more snazzy than ever, it is easily the best song in the game.
  
  Thats because the music in DOAX2 is atrocious just like the last game, you really are going to 
 have use the custom soundtrack feature to get over it. The rest of the sound is great, but surprisingly 
 the voice overs for the girls are really good, you can switch back to the original Japanese which 
 is also good, but the English voice overs just add new depth to the characters, Kasumi sounds na&iuml; ve 
 as always, Christie sounds very British and cold and Helena will just get on your nerves, be that 
 as it may they are perfect and highly recommended.
  
  Graphically of course the game looks amazing, there is a slight constant slowness but you will 
 get used to that, and thankfully it rarely dips down in frames and the marina racing has no slowdown 
 at all, the girls look fantastic the swimsuits perfectly modelled and the island itself just looks 
 refreshingly warm, its great therapy you hate the winter time and just adore the spring and summer. 
 Some of the girls have very strange hair modelling, they are like ribbons attached to the head, 
 almost like extensions but apart from that the game looks just as good as the last game, if not 
 a little less smooth. If there is one huge complaint other than the difficulty its the swimsuits, 
 there seem to be less swimsuits this time round and Itigaki promised more originality but they 
 are mostly colour changes and the secret suits for the girls are the same in style but different 
 in colour
  
  Overall DOAX2 just isnt as fun as it used to be due to extreme difficulty changes, but the original 
 feel is still intact, if you are up to the challenge than DOAX2 will surely give it to you. the 
 marina racing is the highlight of this game and volleyball the downside to it. but overall its 
 still a good game.
  
  ~Death Burnout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I actually liked the first game, at least I liked the vollyball. The rest was ponce... Bikini shopping, 
 doing nothing while you move a camara around. For a guy who'd rather blast, destory and kill, lying 
 around on sunbed doing nothing is not my idea of fun. It's ok, I guess, if you can spend hours 
 upon hours just staring at a poloygon constructed woman.
  
  And so we come to the sequal. I'll admit, I looked forward to it at first. If the vollyball engine 
 was improved, I would of liked this. But is idenical. So what actually have Team Ninja done to 
 improve the game? Added ponce, a bucket load of extra ponce!
  
  More mini-games have been added, but no time or care has gone into making them very deep. Don't 
 get me wrong. The later Wave Race-like racing stages are pretty fun. But, like the vollyball, its 
 just not that deep, getting boring and repetertive very fast. And if your not tugging, or butt 
 battling, your going the old ponce... Shpping for bikini's, buying presents and doing nothing while 
 you move a camara around.
  
  The gamberling is still there, which'll keep you amused for about 40 extra minutes, but this game 
 proably won't last a week... Unless you like staring and polygon constructed women.
  
  This is why people say the Japanese are perverted... At least in Rumble Roses you can fight... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Alright, any guy that has played the Dead or Alive series at all knows that the girls are really 
 good looking. But, the shapes of most of the female characters are completely unrealistic and the 
 breasts are way, way too big. So, with that said, I will now review the actual game.
  
  DOAX2 is shameless. Utterly, completely shameless. There is no other reason to buy this game except 
 to look at the crazy breast physics and the gorgeous women. Right? Wrong. In all honesty, this 
 game is pretty fun. The volleyball is way to shallow (only A and B... please) , a few of the minigames 
 suck (read: pool hopping) , the casino is awful, the story is lackluster, and the whole relationship/gift 
 giving deal is kind of silly. On a final note, the achievements are poorly done and take way too 
 much time and effort for a game that is supposed to be this lighthearted. Now then, on to the positives. 
 The graphics for everything are great. Team Ninja is always on the cutting edge of graphical technology, 
 just in this case there is some ridiculous amount of polygons in a breast rather than in a shruiken. 
 Some of the minigames are quite fun- the butt bump is hilarious, the water slide is pretty challenging 
 (seriously) , and the beach flags is not half bad (I know its just button mashing, but I keep coming 
 back for more.) The highlight of the game is definitely the jet-ski races. This is the most fun 
 I have had with water sports since Wave Race for the Nintendo 64. Seriously. Finally, all immaturity 
 aside, it really is fun to play this type of game with gorgeous women much the same way playing 
 Tomb Raider with Lara Croft is infinitely more fun than it would be with Larry Croft. DOAX2 is 
 the perfect game to mellow out with in between your hardcore shooters and racing games. It is unlikely 
 that you will feel any sort of intense adrenaline rush at any point during this game.
  
  I have to be honest, this game really has a rather wide appeal. Its lighthearted, easy, simple, 
 and fun. You will definitely pick out a favorite character in no time and get wrapped up in gathering 
 all of her items (ahh Hitomi... :D) and suits. This game might not win any awards, and it definitely 
 is not revolutionary, but it is worthy of a place on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konochi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  In Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 the girls of DOA are back on Zack Island, and conveniently they are all 
 very good at volleyball. Considering how most of the DOA girls dont have an IQ of 23 it is highly 
 unbelievable that some of the more intelligent girls would fall for this trick TWICE! But despite 
 that, here they are on Zack Island for another 2-week vacation. DOAX2 is not a truly amazing game, 
 but while playing it you probably will be pretty entertained.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics in DOA games of course have always been beautiful. And again the graphics in this game 
 are spectacular. The whole 3-D somewhat realistic anime style of the characters looks very nice, 
 and the graphics will not disappoint any gamer who hasnt been playing DOA games. That being said, 
 the graphics have shown no improvement sense DOA4. The hair in the game unless it is worn up, looks 
 like ribbons coming off the girls heads. This hair problem is particularly noticeable with Kokoro, 
 Lei Fang, and Kasumi and in some cases Hitomi. The graphics used for hair have regressed from DOAU. 
 But despite that the girls look great and so do the environments. The graphics are good, but some 
 more improvement needed to be shown.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Half of the game reviewers say that the gameplay is non-existent. Truly, the gameplay is pretty 
 fun. The volleyball actually requires a degree of skill this time around. The machine doesnt do 
 everything for you and you need to aim more, and the action is much quicker. The volleyball has 
 improved. The improvements in volleyball however just arent enough; there should be more options 
 to how you play the game. Also, Team Ninja has produced some of the hardest games ever (Ninja Gaiden, 
 Dead or Alive 4) , but yet the AI in this game is terrible. Your partner and opponents practically 
 do nothing half the time. While the volleyball is harder, the AI is so easy you will still find 
 yourself pulling off an easy win most of the time. To top off all this there is NO OFFLINE MULTIPLAYER! 
 I was looking forward to playing 4-player volleyball (unlike in the original DOAX where you could 
 only play 2 players) . It is ridiculous that the multiplayer isnt here, games are supposed to IMPROVE 
 in the sequels. Despite all the disappointments, there is something DOAX2 did that was new and 
 well done. The wave racing is fun. Once you get past the lame first level of the racing amazing 
 levels with jumps and obstacles will become available. This is a great addition to DOAX2, and riding 
 the waves is a great part of the experience. But again, making the wave racing multiplayer seems 
 like a no-brainer, yet this is only multiplayer online. Its a shame racing on the water with 3 
 friends would have been fun. The mini games included are Tug of War, Beach Flags, The Water Slide, 
 The Butt Battle (lol) , and of course the Hopping Game. None of these are particularly great. The 
 water slide is not really fun, but the idea of going down that slide is cool, so a little entertainment 
 can be found. Beach Flags is just mindless button mashing. And Tug of War and Butt Battle end up 
 being like rock paper scissors, you just choose something at random and hope it beats them. Basically, 
 the gameplay is not as bad as everyone says it is, but its not going to win any awards.
  
  Sound:
  
  The soundtrack in DOAX2 is average. There is some pretty nice upbeat music here. 
 But there arent a lot of tracks, so you will either end up listening to the same songs over and 
 over again, or using the costume soundtracks. The Japanese voice actresses in this game are amazing. 
 They have been great as the voices of these girls. However, the new English voice actresses are 
 half good half bad. Some of the good English voice actresses are Christies, Ayanes, and Kasumi. 
 But some of the horrible ones are Helena, and Tinas. The rest are average. While the good voice 
 actresses capture the personality of their character well, the bad ones are annoyingly stereotypical. 
 Because Tina is American she has a STRONG southern accent, it is truly annoying how America is 
 characterized like this (Im not saying there is anything wrong with being southern, but Tina was 
 a clich&eacute; southern girl in this) . Also Helenas voice actress is so bad, she has a horribly 
 stereotypical French accent, and apparently cannot pronounce the letter T. Also some of the things 
 the girls say in volleyball can be voiced badly so it ends up sounding like something different, 
 for example:
  
  Ayane: true line all mine ends up sounding like oh my!
  
  Kokoro: true line give it some umph ends up sounding like give it to me, OH!
  
  Helena: 
 true line Just focus ends up sounding like juss f*ck it
  
  In the end the Japanese voices are good, the English ones not so much, and the soundtrack is average. 
 Interaction:
  
  Interacting with the other girls hasnt changed much, what you do is, you can relax with them (Be 
 Friendly, as the game so delightfully calls it) . Or you can give gifts to them, and wave race, 
 play volleyball, and play mini games with them. Not a whole big improvement, but the interactions 
 are interesting. There is something fun about befriending a DOA girl; you sort of get to know your 
 partner. Also in the interactions the girls keep their personalities from the DOA fighting games. 
 They all have their own unique personalities:
  
  Kasumi: the cute shy girl
  Tina: the narcissistic girl
  Lei Fang: the quirky genius
  Kokoro: the innocent virgin
  Helena: 
 the aloof rich girl
  Lisa: the girl who will be a great mother
  Christie: the loner
  Hitomi: the perky sweet girl
  Ayane: the b*tch
  
  And it is fun to need to deal with their 
 personalities and likes and dislikes. Also girls will no longer throw out gifts that that they 
 dont like, but they will send them back. The interaction hasnt shown much improvement, but it 
 wasnt bad to begin with. It is to bad that Kokoro was the only new character addition to DOAX2.
 
  
  Casino:
  
  There are no improvements in the casino really. But the casino still is fun, and it helps you learn 
 if you will have a gambling problem in the future (I will) . I personally went insane in the casino 
 and bet all my money on one section and won! I got like 10 million from it! One improvement that 
 has been made is now you actually play poker against others. 3 other girls will sit at the table 
 and play with you, and their personality has something to do with how they play poker. But yet 
 the girls are still represented my little icons. Shouldnt the girls be walking around the casino? 
 It just seems lazy to have like 20 different animations of the girls lying on the beach, but yet 
 they cant some up with 9 different sets of animations at the casino? The casino is fun, but not 
 amazing.
  
  Sexuality:
  
  DOA has always made most of their characters sexually appealing in every aspect (men included) 
 but this game is about the girls. While the sexuality of the game can be uncomfortable at times, 
 its not horrible. Some of the very sexy suits such as Venus or Diamond have a very artistic look 
 to them. While other of the sexy suits just look sleazy. Most people unless they are trying to 
 get off, will probably play in the more modest, but yet still sexy suits. Many of the suits are 
 also fashionable street clothes. The extra jiggle bosoms in the game areodd. They arent sexy, 
 they are disgusting. And I dont mean disgusting like OMG! That is so offensive to women! but 
 I mean disgusting as in OMG! Aliens are living in her boobs, and they are trying to break free! 
 It jiggles so much to the point where it isnt sexy. I understand that boobs bounce, I play volleyball 
 myself and I know that I get a little jiggle. But this is stupid. Sometime gravity takes effect 
 on only one boob, and the other waits a second to be effected, in order to see the boobs bounce 
 independently from each other. I have tried this in the mirror just to be sure, but unless you 
 jump at a huge angle and land awkwardly the boobs are never going to do that! But despite all the 
 sexuality there is a weird sense of innocence about the game. I didnt feel weird playing it, and 
 the point of the game is to build friendship, not such a bad moral. You wont feel to weird playing 
 the gameunless your parents or family see you. In my case I ended up having explain to my brother 
 for a half hour that I wasnt a lesbian.
  
  Appeal:
  
  The game appeals to more then you would expect. The game of course appeals to men whose girlfriends 
 are out of town for a while, and it also appeals to girls who like shopping. Truly the aspect of 
 the game is rather feminine, you but clothes and try them on and play volleyball and play around 
 with friends, this island is every girls dream (and every guys dream) . So is you are attracted 
 to women or like shopping, you will definitely find something to like about this game.
  
  Value:
  
  The game is not great, but will keep you entertained. But it is still nowhere near 
 worth $60, I suggest waiting until the price goes down if you are planning on buying this. Its 
 worth around $20, or at most $30.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is good, but not great, it is worth picking up if you are a DOA fan. And if you arent 
 a DOA fan you probably will get some enjoyment out of this title. This game really didnt need 
 to be made, and there is nothing amazing about it, yet it is just fun at the same time. I give 
 this game a 7.5, so its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Not owning or even being a player of the first one, I must say there is quite alot of content in 
 this game to warrant my purchase. For the most part the graphics are simply beautiful running on 
 a modified DOA4 engine, everything from the ocean's waves, to the sandy enviroments and of course... the 
 girls.
  
  Itagaki has always been known to make some of the most gorgeus anime style looking virtual girls 
 ever and here they don't disappoint. Although now they individual physics in each breast and they 
 can be a bit exaggerated in their movements. The girls are as beautiful as ever, now sporting tan 
 lines under certain conditions, which is a nice effect. Hair clipping is still an issue, a problem 
 thats been held over for too long. Other than that the game is beautiful.
  
  Ok first of all I had no idea what to do at first. I figured it was more of a dating sim, which 
 I had no idea how to work. All I knew it had to do with relationships, I was right until I realized 
 that I couldn't see any animations of the girl I chose opening a gift or trying on a new outfit. 
 I was a bit bummed then I got some help from a friend and found out that in order to see such animations 
 or do such things I needed to find a partner and get on their good side with my chosen girl. A 
 bit disappointed that I can't see the girl I chose accepting a gift or rejecting it, I befriended 
 another DOA girl and began showering her with gifts until my girl got on her good side. It was 
 a bit of a learning experience. Although most of the girls are very cute and playful, they each 
 have their own taste on what they like and what they dislike, they are unique in attitude towards 
 each other and the gifts you give them. Try to get Kasumi to change into a cute little swimsuit 
 right away and she will reject it in an instant. Yet if you shower her first with little gifts 
 like flowers, ribbons, shoes then the swimsuit then she'll change right in front of you, sailor 
 moon style. Its a very rewarding feeling.
  
  So far I can't find any other major gripes of the game. The mini games well atleast the ones I 
 tried are pretty fun altough a bit tough. Butt Battle (gotta love that name) , Tug-of-War, Pool 
 Hopping, and Beach Flag mini games so far are quite fun and entertaining in my opinion. But they 
 are a bit difficult to win at, these mini-games take more luck since there is hardly any skill 
 involved with them. The water slide is probably the hardest of them all, there always seems to 
 be a turn that I can't manuever through and my girl ends up flying off it, but they are used to 
 get thrown at such heights anyways.
  
  Volleyball which is still the main focus of the game was at first a bit frustrating. I couldn't 
 stop hitting the ball into my side of the net, but with a little practice I finally got the hang 
 of it, if you have the timing right... you should perform well. Just don't expect to own every match, 
 even I find myself losing matches still. Camera angles might be a little off but they are bearable, 
 just follow the shadow of the volley ball, and you should predict where it lands properly. The 
 volley ball is pretty fun and again I found it to be as entertaining as the minigames. So although 
 the camera can get a lil annoying, it might mess you up a few times, but if you let it get the 
 best of you, well then... thats your fault.
  
  Now for the jet ski mode, this is where I have been spending most of my time on. I absolutely love 
 this part of the game, its quite challenging trying to turn to get perfectly through the buoys 
 and turbo, but its very fun. I can see why it reminded so many of wave race, its probably the best 
 addition to the game.
  
  And of course there is a casino, where you can play poker, slot machines, black jack, and roulette. 
 So take that for all its worth, gambling is fun... only when you know how to play.
  
  Another negative with the game though is how quickly the vacation ends, I found it sad that all 
 my work was going to be lost with Hitomi and her relationship with Kokoro was going to be over. 
 But what really made it all the better was when I started over again with Hitomi, Kokoro seemed 
 to be waiting for Hitomi to return. So in the end it didn't seem much like a negative, I am still 
 unsure if this works with all the girls and their relationships though. My point seems to be proven 
 at times and others not so much.
  
  Atleast the items you've aquired in your previous vacations carries on over to the next vacation, 
 then to the next, etc. Camera work... here is a part I didn't find really enjoyable yet! I can't 
 say I'm a fan of the controls for this, I'm not used to having the FPS control scheme reverse this 
 time, an option to change it would have been nice. Also it would've been cooler if some scenes 
 lasted a little longer or atleast looped for a second time so I can review the scene the first 
 time, then snap my photos the second, I love taking classy photos though, so this was a little 
 upsetting. Framerate, now some have been complaining about this. Especially in the volleyball, 
 I remember another member posting about the volleyball being locked at 30 FPS? That maybe so but 
 honestly I didn't see any framerate hiccups, and if they were I didn't find them noticeable at 
 all. Theres alot of more time I wil be spending with the game as the weeks go on. I've tried to 
 play online, but they aren't enough people on. And usually the volleyball match I played in thats 
 for 2 people and 2 computer controlled characters, had frequent lag. Jet skis fared a little better 
 with 4 people.
  
  For better or for worst. I find this game to be very relaxing, which is what the developers intended 
 it to be. A great break from my average action, shooting, racing, and whatever chaotic genre in 
 video games there are in my collection. Although this may not be in agreement with some others 
 opinions its my opinion, I'd appreciate if you would all respect that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danaan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. I bought this game because of the girls in skimpy outifts. I encourage the gaming 
 industry to produce this kind of game because that's what I like to play. Anyway, on to the review:
 
  
  Gameplay: fairly simple, which is a plus when you are a casual gamer without a lot of gaming time. 
 I get home from work, pop it in, and I can pick up from anywhere. Seeing how the story is simple, 
 I don't have to remember trivial details from one day to the next. And the volleyball playing is 
 surprisingly good compared to other volleyball games I've played.
  
  Graphics:
  This is a given. They're the best animated girls graphics I've ever seen short of Final Fantasy 
 cutscenes, and I don't want to spend my whole life playing the game to enjoy viewing pretty graphics 
 (no offense to ff fans) . This game is beautiful from the start.
  
  Sound:
  While the music is not overly impressive, you can edit your playlist. Other sounds include the 
 voices, and they are great, including the Japanese voices gives the game diversity.
  
  Value:
  Just keep replaying to get all the stuff and for a very tight and simple volleyball game.
 
  
  Tilt:
  Like I said from the beginning, you buy this game for the girls, and you get the girls, but also 
 you get a good volleyball game. For the casual player, this is the ideal volleyball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brad2theBone237
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  reviewers must not be real men- I then proceeded to get this game and hang out with a group of 
 girls in a platonic way, shopping for cosmetics, and somehow knowing what color lip gloss each 
 one liked, because it went with their wardrobe. What was happening to me?! My overabundant testosterone 
 betrayed me once again. Even if you get this game JUST for the eye candy, knowing fully well that 
 it has little to no gameplay to speak of, you will be very disappointed when you realize that you 
 just spent $60 on this game when you could've just downloaded porn for free. First of all, seeing 
 all the swimsuits available is work. Hard work. Everytime you spend a cool $1 million on the skimpiest 
 swimsuit in the store, or any swimsuit for that matter, just know that it's probably money wasted, 
 because the girls in this game are pickier than in real life; and rude about it too. I don't think 
 any guy would be horny or desperate enough to buy the same freakin swimsuit over and over again 
 for a girl and ask her to wear it for him, only to be shot down, at least not without an eventual 
 restraining order. What's more, you're going to have to go through the same boring ritual of playing 
 monotonous minigames or gambling at a casino to get your money back. Before you criticize me for 
 just being lazy, ask yourself if it's worth it to suffer through this game multiple times just 
 to see something that you can find in any travel magazine.
  
  If you're getting this game for jet ski racing, try Splashdown or Waverace. If you like it for 
 the volleyball, then you're definitely in the minority, my friend, but there's probably better 
 volleyball games out there. The graphics are in fact decent, but real life graphics are better 
 if ya know what I mean. Even if this was a true game with a true ending with a purpose other than 
 collecting things and ogling females, the thought of it costing the same as the best games the 
 360 has to offer is ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Right of the bat I want to comment on the Gamespot statement, Your enjoyment of Dead or Alive Xtreme 
 2 will be directly proportional to your interest in lusting over ridiculously idealized polygonal 
 female models. This is 100% false. Being a straight, married female I have ZERO interest in jello-esque 
 bouncing chests. This flaw in the game is easily ignored. It's not as prevalent as you may expect. 
 In fact I question the need for an M rating.
  
  This is a Love it or hate it game. You're either going to agree with Gamespot's low score or my 
 high score depending on what you're looking for a game, and your gender... that's right, but when 
 I say gender I mean that you will probably enjoy the game more if you're a girl...
  
  I love DOA Xtreme 2. It's a relaxing chill-out game when you need a break from the action-packed, 
 concentration-requiring intensity of your average shooter or action game. For some people, that 
 spells B O R I N G. To others, like myself, it spells relief. I work hard at my job and I don't 
 always want to work hard when I turn on my 360. Sometimes I just want to chill.
  
  So what are these relaxing activities? Some fairly basic volleyball and jet skiing, a bare bones 
 casino, and lots of shopping, dressing up, and social interaction, as well as lounging around on 
 the beach feeling like you're on vacation. Wait a minute, you may be thinking, but this game is 
 marketed to guys.... Shopping? Dressing up? Social interaction? You read right. That's why I said 
 this game has an identity crisis.
  
  Now I am not saying guys won't like the game. I know a lot of guys out there also want a break 
 from all the hard work a lot of games out there these days require. However, if you're expecting 
 an amazing, immersive extreme sports game, or if you are expecting hardcore M rated content, forget 
 it. This is really a strategy and collecting game. Get the other girls on the island to like you 
 so they will accept your gifts of swimsuits, even ones they don't like, so you can fill all the 
 girls' collections - the object of the game. The strategy comes into play because you need to figure 
 out what gifts the girls will like. If you give them something they don't like you've taken a step 
 backward. There are clues in the game to help you figure out who would like what. Give them enough 
 gifts they love and they'll accept any swimsuit from you. The other way to get them to like you 
 is winning volleyball matches as their partner.
  
  If this all sounds good to you and you want a break from the high intensity games you'll love it. 
 Yes, even if (and I'd say especially if) you are a girl. But if all that sounds boring this game 
 will undoubtedly bore you. Personally, I've had more fun playing this game than most of the Xbox 
 360 games out so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KIM7813
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I admit I seem strange being a girl gamer and playing a game where big-breasted women in tiny bikinis 
 frolic in the sun. I am pretty much used to seeing things like that.
  
  Story: Zack and Niki raise Zack Island (which sank at the end of DOAXBV) and rename it Zack Island. 
 Zack also installs a water slide, a second pool and opens Zack of All Trades on day 1.
  
  The girls are, again, invited under the false pretense a DOA5 tournament would be held on the island.
 
  
  New things to do: Watersliding, jetskiing, tug-of-war, photography and battles in the pool.
  
 
  The new swimsuits put some of the old ones to shame. I don't mind Leifang's Grackle or Tina's redesigned 
 Sirius, but Tina's Mirfax and Lisa's Fortune make the Venus look like one of those old wool swimsuit 
 people would put on in those old wagons in the days of old.
  
  Also, with the XBOX 360's Music player on the dash, you can listen to any of your music without 
 going to the radio station (unless you have a playlist you want to use or even use the music provided) .
 
  
  If my words haven't persuaded you, my score of 9.6 might. It's rare when I give out a score above 
 9.0. So if you got $60, an XBOX360 and good music on your hard drive, then head on down to your 
 local game store and ask for a copy of Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForlonHope
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Addicting at the first impact of play, Dead or Alive Xtreme 2 is a party game that lets you handle 
 the DOA girls on a fun summer vacation. Objects of the game include interacting with other DOA 
 members, volleyball, wave races, and some monotonous pool games as well as a built in casino. Players 
 are able to customize the pop satiated soundtrack of the game as well. The casino is where a player 
 brings there money after a long hard day to wager around roulette, poker, blackjack, and slots 
 for the amusement of the night.
  
  The girls look amazing. Thats about it mostly. The voice acting is on average. The mini games are 
 a hit or miss (some find them monotonous, others find them quite riveting) . The soundtrack is also 
 to a players liking of whether pop summer vocals are for him/her.
  
  The game isn't at all bad in a sense. It's one of those games that a player can pop into his console 
 and play with a few friends for quite a few laughs or just for hanging out purposes. The downfall 
 is the game's achievement system that makes it seem nearly impossible just for a player to gain 
 one achievement. If you thought Rumble Roses XX was hard, DOAX2 takes the difficulty f the achievement 
 up 20 more notches. I could safely say, a perfect 1000 within the game itself is 99.5% impossible.
 
  
  If you can play the game not for achievements, but for what it really is, then you are bound to 
 have some good old fun. No pressure upon the player at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series is known for its beautiful women, and their large, bouncy breasts. Therefore 
 it would seem like a no-brainer to make a game featuring just these girls. Thats the idea behind 
 Dead or Alive Xtreme 2, although it does this with mixed results.
  
  The first DOAX was a decent hit on the Xbox, but not a lot has improved since then. The Gamespot 
 review says that there isnt a game inside DOAX2. I think the reviewer missed the point: the girls 
 are the game. Not to be rude, but if you arent playing DOAX2 with a hard-on, or at least a smile 
 on your face, then youre one of the ones that doesnt get it.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Like I said before, the girls are the whole point of this game. The volleyball, and other mini-games 
 are an after-thought. The object of this game is to just look at the sexy women, and enjoy the 
 wonders of gravity and motion working together.
  
  In DOAX2 you can play as one of the 9 girls from DOA4 vacationing on the New Zack Island. You have 
 14 days on the island before the game ends, and within that time there are many opportunities to 
 check out theummmmviews. You are partnered with Lisa at the start of the game, and the two of 
 you can partake in several mini-games, or just lay around in the most revealing swimwear you can 
 find.
  
  Back is the beach volleyball, but it plays almost exactly as the first DOAX game. The pool-hopping 
 game is also back, but this time you race against another girl. New in this installment are tug-of-war, 
 waterslide, butt-battle, a beach flag race, and marina racing. The mini-games are just a way to 
 make money to buy more swimsuits. The real attraction here is watching the girls in provocative 
 poses. In fact, if you just select an empty area of the island, youll be treated to a short cut 
 scene of your girl.
  
  The one thing I felt was missing was the ability to just walk around the island, or create your 
 own pictorial scenes. A lot of the animations are used from one scene to the next, so they do get 
 a little old. In order to keep your volleyball partner happy you need to win games, and give her 
 gifts. But the gift giving is a little abstract because you need to look in the manual to find 
 out what she likes, and even then she might not keep the gift. This also makes it hard to have 
 her wear a swimsuit you give her. Its not a bad idea, but it just could have been fleshed out 
 better.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This is the selling point for DOAX2. The visuals are outstanding, especially on an HD display. 
 The girls look even better than in DOA4. One of the features of DOAX is that the girls breasts 
 now bounce independently of each other. Sure, its over exaggerated, but isnt that the whole point?
 
  
  The backgrounds also look amazing, and even more life-like than DOA4. Youre constantly noticing 
 different things in the background. My only minor complaint about the graphics is that you wont 
 see any of the other girls, or any other people for that matter, in the background. But again, 
 thats a minor flaw considering how great everything looks.
  
  SOUND
  This is one area where DOAX2 hasnt improved a whole lot from the first game. Youll hear a lot 
 of the same music, but at least you can add your own custom soundtrack. You also wont hear much 
 in the way of sound effects. It would have been nice to hear the girls spike the ball, or just 
 hear the waves crashing on the shore. But the best feature about the sound is that finally all 
 the girls have English voices! Thats one thing that always made me mad about the DOA games: everyone 
 spoke Japanese. Now the girls are that much more attractive, and have deeper personalities.
  
  VALUE
  The lasting value in DOAX2 is highly dependent on how much you like looking at digital 
 half naked babes. If that sort of thing seems strange or perverted to you, then you arent the 
 target audience for this game. But if you like that, then you need to check this game out. It also 
 helps if youre a collector, and cant get enough of hidden features and items.
  
  Among the hidden things youll find is a pictorial mode, and even a pole dance with your favorite 
 girl. You can even take pictures of your favorite girls in sexy poses. Finding these will require 
 many hours, and further adds to the lasting value. The achievements are a little vague, though. 
 Some of them say, make 2 friends for the title, but the description says find as many swimsuits 
 as you can. Theres also an online mode where you can play other people in the various mini games, 
 but its not that well designed. It would have been better if there were actual 2 on 2 volleyball 
 matches, or mini-games designed just for online play.
  
  Overall, DOAX2 improves slightly on the first game, but it feels like more of an expansion pack 
 than a new game. Because of this, it likely wont attract many new fans. But DOAX2 has always appealed 
 to a small target audience. If you like to watch digital vixens prancing around almost completely 
 naked, this game is for you. Just dont expect a whole lot of new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Note about my Final Verdicts. They are not meant to be reviews on how you play the game and what 
 its all about. My verdicts always assumes that you know what the game is all about. I always recommend 
 reading GameSpots reviews before reading my own verdicts. Im not here to tell you how to play a 
 game. Im just telling you whats good and whats bad about a game you already know.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  + The Dead or 
 Alive girls look nothing short of amazing. They look amazing in their own DoA&acute; ish doll-like 
 way of course and thats whe way it should be. The amount of detail put into the girls bodies and 
 their animations are jaw-dropping and must be seen to be believed.
  
  + The Breastphysics. Exteme some might say, but set the age option in Options to minimum and those 
 extreme breastphysics will actually be toned down to somewhat realistic breastphysics (that is 
 of course assuming that the girls have some plastic implants in their breasts) . Anyway. High or 
 Low settings, the bouncing in this game is indeed very pleasant to the eye and adds to the smooth 
 animations for the girls. I think this is the first game I&acute; ve played where each of the breasts 
 are animated seperately wich is a huge step forward. I would have liked to see that they are pushed 
 together when pressed against something like a tree or the beach instead of going straight through 
 the object though..
  
  + The vacation feel of the game. The sun, the beach, the many many swimsuits, the half naked women, 
 the Pi&ntilde; a Coladas, the fruits, the summer-sports and the very inviting water. DoAx2 is a 
 game that will warm up the room you are playing it in. The game look fantastic in the pure tropical 
 holiday sense of the word. Its very relaxing to look at. Team Ninja has made a hands down incredible 
 job in capturing this sweet feeling where all the stress in the world is just forgotten in a minute.
 
  
  + Again, the work put into the girls and how they are integrated into the minigames. The minigames 
 are made so that you can study and drool over your fav. girls while you are playing it. The camera 
 angles and the way their bodies will interact with the minigame. You dont have to be Japanese and 
 into Hentai to enjoy it. People holding this AGAINST the game are just trying to be special. This 
 part of the game are supposed to be enjoyed and even people saying they&acute; re hating the game 
 because the amount of skin shown are deep down enjoying looking at Kasumi running as fast as she 
 can down the beach to grab a flag.
  
  + The game has a very guilty-pleasure feel to it. It is fun to buy sunglasses and hats and play 
 dress-up with your girls..... hey, dont look at me like that !
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  - The minigames 
 are nothing more than games made to show off the girls. When it comes to the actual fun of playing 
 the minigames only the wave race delivers. Every game except the wave race are over in 30 seconds 
 or less and they are hard to both learn and master. Not because they are hard but because you are 
 given no instructions how to play it good and the camera is as said before, set to watch the girls 
 and not to give a good overview of the minigame. Beach Volley are next to impossible to play. Its 
 all about luck and you have no idea whatsoever how to aim and control it. Tha AI is also a story 
 of its own. Its really not YOU that decide whether you win or lose. Its the AI that decides if 
 youre going to win. If you won the last flag sprint, the AI will be cranked up to impossible and 
 win the next one. There is no way to actually get good at this game, just play it and let the AI 
 decided your wins and losses.
  
  - The wierd friend and partner-system. To play partnergames you have to have a partner and to keep 
 your partner you have to buy her gifts that just takes money off your bathingsuit account. If you 
 dont keep her happy with gifts and by winning she will leave you. A very frustrating and boring 
 aspect of the game. The same goes for the friends system. You can, for no other reason than Achievement 
 Points, get friends on the island. You have to send them gifts and bathing suits and HOPE that 
 they accept them. Different girls like different things but there is no indicator as to what when 
 you are playing. And even if you send them the right stuff there is a chance they will not accept 
 it and hate you anyway. It all boils down to you not caring at all about either the partner or 
 the friend system because why bother? It gives you nothing and it dosent contribute to the game 
 expeience at all.
  
  - The gameidea are not meant to hold for very long. There is no goal with the game. You cant really 
 beat it. You complete your vacation in 14 days (a couple of hours) . Then you have to go back over 
 and over and over again with the same girl to get more money by playing the same boring minigames 
 you&acute; ve been playing for hours and hours already to get more swimsuits. The only actual GOAL 
 of this game is to get more swimsuits and it is only fun for so long.... Everything else just feels 
 like meaningless layers put onto this that you never care about. Its a relaxing vacationgame.. sure, 
 but still, it gets repetative and boring relatively quick.
  
  - The 360 Achievements. OK, so you do need a motivator to keep playing this game but sadly the 
 achievements are not that motivator. One single achievement in this game can take around 20 hours 
 to get.. and there are 46 achievements in total... Its all direcly tied to buying swimsuits. You 
 have to buy every single suit with every single girl and then send every single suit to all of 
 the other girls so that they can all have each others collections. Its a process that could surely 
 take THOUSANDS of gamehours in this game. If you&acute; re REALLY into this game you might finish 
 off 2 or 3 out of 46 achievements. You have to buy suits for millions of Zack-dollars for one single 
 DoA girl. To get that money you have to play wave race over and over and over and over again since 
 that is the only minigame that really gives any money. Sure, the others give you money to but not 
 nearly as much. Suffice to say, the achievements try to lenghten the game to insane lenghts.. Pointmaniacs 
 beware. Stay faaaaaar away from this game. Not even Rumble Roses XX were this bad.
  
  - No Single-console multiplayer. A thing that could have lenghtened a game like this alot would 
 have been Mario Party style hot-seat multiplayer. Playing Butt-battle with a friend could have 
 been really fun.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Final Score: 
 6.9
  
  This game is amazing to look at and there is so much love put into the girls, their animations 
 and their bodies that you can feel it spreading the love throughout the room. But when it comes 
 to actually deliviring a fun game, it falls a bit short after the initial vacationfeel has worn 
 off after about 10 hours tops. The game makes the best screensaver ever tho. Something you want 
 to leave on just to make your TV happy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdinBoy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  After hours of playing, I just realized that DOA: Xtreme 2 is all about sexy babes in bikinis. 
 The mini-games are great, some addition to it, but the controlling systems aren't helping us to 
 win at all. I don't know, maybe it's the way I play or is it a technical problem. Taking pictures 
 is the main issue as well. It's hard to take some while the girls are posing and relaxing, especially 
 when focusing and positioning the camera right. I missed many good shots of them and it sucks bad.
 
  
  What I really like, the mini-game that I only like, is the casino. It's great to gamble your money 
 and your heart out, you may win or lose it. I think the casino is the only way for me to gain some 
 money. It's impossible to earn it by playing mini-games. I kept losing all the time. And it's very 
 hard to buy the most expensive bikini ever.
  
  Overall, I just give a 6.7 / 10. I expect the next DOA beach game a bit better, if Tecmo is making 
 it anyway.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  DOA Xtreme 2 is the follow-up effort from Tecmo to one of the more debated games of the last few 
 years, DOA Xtreme Beach Volleyball. The plot premise for the series is largely irrelevant, however 
 the scant introductory cutscene involves fellow DOA combatant Zack magically excavating the sunken 
 island from the first game and thus attracting all of the DOA ladies back for one more island vacation. 
 Wrapped around this premise is the ability to obtain items and swimwear for your chosen participant, 
 and create friendship with the other inhabitants of the lusciously rendered Team Ninja island paradise 
 whilst playing volleyball and a variety of minigame activities.
  
  First things first, fans of the volleyball component of the first title will be pleased to hear 
 that this mode is largely unchanged, with the same simple play mechanic and only a slightly tweaked 
 level of control over your playing partner. Whilst it is still a lightweight simulation of the 
 sport, it can be a lot of fun in multiplayer and maintains the same relaxed pacing from the original. 
 The 'friendship' level of your partner still comes into play later into the vacation time, and 
 keeping your playing pal happy with gifts is always a good way of speeding success on the beach.
 
  
  The main addition to the formula this year is a new jetski mode, which is at the least fairly playable 
 and comes complete with some impressive water effects, although Wave Race this definately isnt. 
 Whilst the races are fun, and there is a little bit of depth on offer with new crafts to purchase 
 and a few different trick techniques to learn, you'll probably tire of the races after a few hours 
 of play.
  
  Evolution over the first game also comes in the form of several new lightweight minigame modes 
 such as 'waterslide' and 'butt battle', which are largely self-explanatory titles. Unfortunately 
 almost all of the new additions are largely unplayable, with extremely simple mechanics and generally 
 broken gameplay elements. They leave you with the sense that Team Ninja were really stretching 
 to come up with any genuine gameplay additions, and judging from these maybe they shouldnt have 
 tried. The casino mode is pretty much a carbon-copy of the original, with the same activities and 
 even the same camera angles. As it stands, this will likely be where you will spend the most amount 
 of actual gameplay time, as its easily the most fun of all the environments the island has to offer. 
 The fact this is the main redeeming feature of a full-price game however leaves a lot to be desired.
 
  
  Of course, most of the activities on offer are a simple backdrop for the usual Team Ninja focus 
 on upgraded breast physics and ever more revealing 'swimwear' for you to dress up the animated 
 dolls in front of you. The Xbox 360 does a fine job of rendering the island paradise and playful 
 inhabitants, with a fine-tuned version of the DOA4 engine providing enough visual quality to keep 
 it up there with the best that the platform has to offer.
  
  As you may have notice from any of the pre-release coverage or the Xbox live trailers, Xtreme 2 
 ratchets the level of voyeurism up several notches, this time including a fully fledged camera 
 system to record your 'intimate' moments with your character, and an expanded set of pre-canned 
 animations that even now involve your partner in some cases. If your buying the game purely to 
 view the 'artisitic' talents on show, you certainly wont be disappointed.
  
  The problem with all this is that Xtreme 2 seemingly takes things a step to far, certainly by most 
 western tastes anyway. The first game was relaxing and light-hearted fun, with titillating aspects 
 that were a part of the game but not driven by it. Xtreme 2 however takes far too much joy in presenting 
 the player with every opportunity to view its participants as objects, devoid of personality and 
 existing solely to fulfill the fantasy of the lonely male gamer without any real female contact. 
 As such some of the content and activities come across as borderline creepy at times, and certainly 
 made me feel uncomfortable to be playing at various points. Obviously your mileage will vary depending 
 on how you live your life and how you view women.
  
  Without the consistently relaxing atmosphere of the first game then, Xtreme 2 really shows its 
 flaws. The volleyball and Casino aspects are fun but not worthy of a full-price game, and the additional 
 content actually considerably lowers the tone for game that was already borderline unnaceptable 
 for a lot of people. Not really recommended on any level then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOMFG
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  It is what it is and it's meant to be adored. So, why the low rating? Doesn't anyone remember why 
 the game was made in the first place? I thinks it's safe to assume that no one bought the game 
 because of the challenging game play. Or the meaningful but anti climatic ending that's so redundant 
 in modern video games. It's not meant to be a game that does any thing else except aesthetically 
 please. It's just there for mindless fun and entertainment. The only thing I did find off putting 
 was the annoying poppy soundtrack! &gt;_&lt; It was certainly one if the titles I was looking forward 
 to on the XBox 360. I am not at all disappointed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sylocat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  One thing I've always admired about Tomonobu Itagaki is that he resists pressure from critics and 
 fanboys alike, and just makes the games that he wants to make. And one thing that DOAX2 cannot 
 be accused of is misrepresenting itself.
  This lack of pretentiousness is one of the things causing American game critics to balk at this 
 one (of course, it also has something to do with American society's obsession with prudery) , because 
 Serious Gamers are afraid of being seen as shallow by giving good marks to a game that doesn't 
 make pretensions of having a deep, intricate plot.
  
  Okay, that said, let me talk about the game. DOAX2 is less of a game than a large collection of 
 minigames. There are really two anchor games (the volleyball and the jetski racing) that the minigames 
 center around, which makes for a very interesting dynamic.
  Certainly it's less repetitive than the first game in this little sub-franchise (DOAXBV) , since 
 there are obviously plenty more games within this game. In fact, there are so many different modes 
 and minigames that it's really surprisingly hard to get bored.
  
  The play controls are solid and functional. The mechanics of the volleyball game have changed very 
 little from XBV, which is good, I liked the game play in the first game. The controls of the jetski 
 racing are fairly standard for a racing game, nothing special but they didn't try to work in any 
 convoluted gimmicks either. They did a surprisingly good job of capturing the low friction of water 
 vehicles without making the controls slip and slide all over the place.
  Of course, the real object of the game is to try and convince the girls to put on the most revealing 
 suits. This is a real challenge (especially Kasumi, the hottest and shyest one) , just like in the 
 first one, and one of the best things about this game is how it makes you really work for the REAL 
 rewards. Fan service is just not as fun unless you have to work for it.
  
  There are also a lot of nice little touches that I enjoy (sometimes, little touches are what makes 
 the difference between a good game and a mediocre one) . Uploading your own music, for instance, 
 is a personal fave of mine (one of the things that really got me hooked on XBV for a while) . Oh, 
 and I'm glad that the jetskis in the game aren't nearly as obnoxiously noisy as real ones (that's 
 one more fantasy that this game fulfills)
  
  Oh, and the graphics... well, not a whole lot needs to be said. The graphics are heavenly, and 
 not JUST the characters (although I admit I wasn't always paying a whole lot of attention to the 
 backgrounds) . The scene of a character floating in a boat down the stream under the cherry trees 
 is breathtaking. The beaches are  and the casino is, well, colorful.
 
  
  My advice: Wait 2 or 3 months for the price tag to go down a little, then pick this one up. You 
 might tire of it for a while after a few days, but on the next rainy Saturday you just might find 
 yourself digging it out of the pile and coming back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Love4MusicUK
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a good fun game if you take it for what it is, a vacation from other deep and compelling 
 games like Gears Or War.
  
  The graphics of this game are really impressive in my book. They seem to be better than Dead Or 
 Alive 4 and i wouldn't of thought Team Ninja could out-do themselves on that game but i guess they've 
 suceeded. Everything looks really nice and clear and things look like they're supposed to (excluding 
 the girls breasts, lol) I'll get to that in a minute. The hair, although not perfect seems to be 
 done better this time around and it moves better than in Dead Or Alive 4. The water in this game 
 looks brilliant, especially when you're racing on the Jet Ski. Shadowing is good too although there 
 seems to be some missing sometimes like say if a girl is in shade under a palm tree she still looks 
 like she has full sun on her. The breast physics in this game are way over done, but i think it 
 kinda fits the games atmosphere. It's suprising the girls don't knock themselves out with 'em at 
 times! They just seem to bounce at the slightest movement which i guess if you like breasts or 
 even bouncy ones then this is fine.
  
  Okay, onto the game..
  
  You start the game by going to New Zack Island and choosing your character to play throughout the 
 14 day vacation. One thing i don't like about the vacation is how quick a day is over. It seems 
 like you're only able to have about 5 mins gaming before it's night time. Anyway... From beginning 
 the vacation you're able to play Beach Volleyball, Jet Ski Racing and Pool Hopping. You need to 
 purchase a ticket to unlock the other minigames.
  
  I've only just got this game on release (the 8th december) and i've had chance to play all the 
 minigames and believe it or not they're actually fun! Granted that you need to get to grips with 
 some of them for about 5 mins before you actually win, lol (or at least i did) I really like the 
 pool hopping game the most out of them all. Tug of war and But battle are basically guessing games 
 but when you manage to knock the girl into the water it's funny. It's actually funny just listening 
 to them make sounds while tugging the ropes etc. The hardest of the mini games has to be the Waterslide. 
 I've tried this about 6 times now and i cannot get past the first major bend. It's gonna take practice 
 but i doubt it's impossible to do.
  
  Once you've played a few of these and the day is coming to an end you'll go to your hotel were 
 you can either go to sleep or go to the casino were you can play Poker, Black Jack, Roulette and 
 Slot Machines. You can do other things while in the hotel like browse your collection, send a gift 
 or leave the Island.
  
  The two main games for earning money to buy all the goodies are Beach Volleyball and Jet Ski. Volleyball 
 requires good timing and fast reactions or else you'll lose the game. I'm still practicing with 
 this and i'm gradually getting better. Jet Ski is quite simple, race round the track and beat the 
 other girls! Ok, sounds easy, right? Well it is apart from the manic waves on the ocean top. The 
 wave physics are done really well in a way that when you hit them you bounce up and down, higher 
 depending on how big the wave is. Also if you hit a wave at an odd angle it'll send you flying 
 off your Jet Ski. I persoanlly prefer this for earning money depending on the course because one 
 can be quite difficult to turn the corners due to how small of a track you're riding through between 
 rocks, however Volleyball is more fun for me. I'm not really a racing game person but if you like 
 racing then you'll like this.
  
  You play the games/minigames to earn money to buy costumes, accesories, Jet Skis, mini games tickets 
 and other items. This game is about collecting and having fun while doing so. The Achievements 
 are all based on collecting things and depending on the Achievement it isn't going to be something 
 you complete within a few days
  
  Overall the game is good and was to me it is worth the 44.99 i payed for it. I payed the same price 
 for Viva Pinata and i'm bored of that now. DOAX2 is better in my opinion.
  
  If you do decide to buy the game then i hope you enjoy it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I like dead or alive i have done since i played the first but i never played the first xtreme beach 
 volleyball but this game is pretty good. if there was more to do i would play it alot more but 
 your on Zack's island for 20 days thats 3 games you can play a day then spend the night at the 
 casino which then you get 4 games, blackjack, slot machine, roulette and poker which are pretty 
 fun but you dont get to see the girls pretty disappointing. The game isn't free rome which is a 
 little bit of a bad thing to me cause i would have liked to explore the island myself.
  The games on here are Marine Race where you on jet skis pretty fun can be hard at times, volleyball 
 not to bad can be hard camera work is a little bad, butt battle i think any male would like this 
 one yes its fun, Pool Hopping i really like this one i can play it alot jump on across the pool 
 its fun, Beach Flags where you have to try and get the flag before your opponent does, Tug-of-War 
 trying to push your opponent into the pool, Water Slide this can be hard at times you have to push 
 yourself slow and faster you can also push yourself faster aswell. The games are pretty good and 
 pretty fun it should keep you gaming for a while. Some of the games you have to buy in the sports 
 shop like Tug of War, Wter Slide, Beach Flags and Butt Battle. Also you buy presents for the other 
 girls on the island and buy clothes for your girl.
  What i do hate on this game is the music cause it can be annoying but if you have a hard drive 
 you can put your own on which is alot better.
  This offers quite alot i dont see why gamespot gave it a bad rating cause it should have got more 
 and why people say is a game for pervs i dont know cause here in england its 12+.
  Team Ninja great game Developers hope to see more great titles from them in the future.
  Also 
 if your looking for a game with just girls in it try rumble roses xx cause thats a really good 
 game. When i did buy this i was pretty scared to go to the till cause i thought the woman on there 
 was going to think i was a prev for buying this but she was fine about that. i dont know why im 
 putting that but yeah will will get some people people in a shop thinking your a perv for buying 
 this i guess.
  Also before i finish this i just forgot to add the graphics are brilliant to this thats why its 
 just so good but anyway check out the game you may like you will like it if your a real dead or 
 alive fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for quite a while, since it was announced formally. I have done 
 extensive research and analysis on this game, just like for every game I bought before. Everything 
 was even better than I expected to be, the laid-back atmosphere and the ample beauty of the women 
 had made it a worthwhile wait. At first, much of the game may seem repetitive, but because of the 
 enormous variety and uniqueness of each and every item available, its not repetitive at all. The 
 number of hotels is not much, but it is a wise choice as more hotels actually increases the complexity 
 of the game. To be able to accessorize you favourite girl and having the extensive suit giving 
 system just makes you want to play more and more. The addition of the camera adds an even better 
 incentive to play the game, many have wanted to not just admire the girls, but create and save 
 photographic memories of them for viewing pleasure. Also, new addition of mini games puts forth 
 the realistic activities on an actual vacation island. Earning money may sound difficult, but of 
 course, the casino makes everything much easier. One of the greatest aspects of the game is the 
 pole dancing, which requires much effort to view, but again it is worth it. The dance puts the 
 girls in an entirely new perspective, further exemplifying their beauty and grace.
  
  The music puts the mood up for the player, the tunes are adjustable in the game, to allow players 
 to be able to set different types of tunes for the tones and atmosphere of the environment. It 
 was clever how the music was arranged, how each song was chosen to perfectly blend with the time 
 of the day. The graphics were significantly improved, which was expected from the nex-gen console, 
 but it does have a unique twist. The lighting was done immaculately, it fits with the environment 
 of the game and much of the times of day were done quite nicely, it also magnified the girls' exquisite 
 curves and incomparable body.
  
  This game was put in the negative light too much, I do not think it is suggestive at all, this 
 is only a method to attract gamers, and it is marketing at its best. People may think that its 
 too mature, but it should be available to all audiences, this game provides relief to anyone who 
 needs it. To those who think that whomever plays this game has no life or is a virgin/loner. You're 
 incorrect, both logically and intellectually, DOAX2 is the ultimate stress relief, it is not only 
 addicting but you can actually imagine yourself in the island, which is a thing that not many games 
 can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jizohnrobertson
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the biggest waste of time, development, and money from a company who brought 
 us Ninja Gaiden. What were you thinking Itagaki?
  In other words, this game is abysmal. This is the worst case of misapporopriated funds for any 
 type of entertainment that I have ever seen. Although the visuals are gorgeous, like any other 
 game this company does, who in the hell would want to play this game? Do not get me wrong, I did 
 not buy this game, (I know better than to buy a game that is being touted as a vacation game ) , 
 yet my buddy who bought it (I won't say his name to save his embarassment) , was dumb enough to. 
 Bottom line - Waste of Time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothSyZtem
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  youve seen the ads on your tv. youve seen the game in stores, you see your loney self in the mirrior.
 
  
  Can this game help you in anyway?
  
  no.
  
  This game really only has bad points and ill start by nit-picking them out.
  
  It looks like 
 an x-box game from the ground-up
  
  This is a super soft-core hentai game with no nudity to avoid any conflict with the press.
  
 
  Mini-games are.... super mini and not alot of fun.
  
  this game leaves you with 1 good note and that note  just pefect 
 woman bodys.
  
  If your into hentai then youd be better off skipping this game and just looking for some on the 
 vast internets.
  
  DOA to me is a cash on on gorgeous wemon..... and DOAX2 just proves my point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Well to sum it up, the graphics are awesome, but thats about it. Lots of eye candy, but no depth 
 to the game play. The swim suits and tan lines are cool and thiers a lot to buy, but playing the 
 same games over and over and over is extremely harsh. You go into the game not even knowing what 
 to do. It feels like a very short version of Mario party without the fun. (If you just want to 
 see the girls in action, Id buy Rumble Roses instead.) Volley ball still needs improvement and 
 jet skiing is cool for about ten minutes. And those two are the games high selling points. I was 
 just not impressed at all! It will be worth it to rent this first, but dont make the mistake I 
 did and buy it for that nice 360 price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martialbullet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  So why are there so many people rating Xtreme 2 so low? Because they're reviewing it as a game 
 which Xtreme 2 really isnt. It's more like a relaxing experience for those are looking for a change. 
 This is totally the opposite of Gears of war in which everything is intense while this game is 
 soothing. The game has more things to do than the original but the menus still feel consrtained. 
 If there was any game that needed a sandbox style gameplay it would be this game. It's actually 
 easier to make money than before which is a good thing for those who almost died tring to get the 
 venus suit in the original. Graphics are still great but those looking for a huge leap shouldnt 
 expect much. Overall this game delivers a great experience for those who havent played the original. 
 But is this game thats not really a game worth 60 smacks? maybe for the fans (counting me) but 
 regulars should check this out . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchimie3d
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  DOAX2 is a fun game that does'nt take itself seriously. Let me remind you that Itagaki was drinking 
 while producing this title. As a DOA fan, this game is a chill game, that's enjoyed after a hardcore 
 online DOA4 session. It takes you to a virtual paradise where all the girls have perfect - yet 
 unrealistic- proportions. Plus the concept of talking characters form a straight fighting game 
 into something totally different gives more dept to the franchise, and I would like to see more 
 producers take characters form their franchise to other genres. It might be just a little too similar 
 to DOAX1 but it's still a very fun game, with state of the art graphics and an emphasis on the 
 girls from a series that fans love. I think the press missed the point of the game, which make 
 Dead Or Alive Xtreme-ly underated (again) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasagot
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  DOA X2 is just simple mindless fun, plus looking at pretty girls doesn't hurt. A good diversion 
 from killing stuff on Gears of War, Call of Duty 3 or Rainbow 6 (games you MUST own!) .
  I don't get it..... DOA Xtreme volleyball got good reviews in the past and this game is even better. 
 For those who have played it before, I can understand the more of the same mentality, but for those 
 who loved the PS2 and now love the XBOX 360, this may be new to them. To those who haven't played 
 this game before, I give it a 9.0. For those who played version 1 on the Xbox, I give it an 8.0. 
 Think of is as an interactive Man-show with mini-games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hollaback_Girl
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  It's the sequel to the popular Volleyball game- which was mainly bought for the racks of the ladies.... 
 I don't agree with this but right now with the new game- it seems that what Itagikis? is trying 
 to sell.
  This game is making sales purely out of sex appeal and the Pole Dancing scene. I for one love this 
 game and the first addition. I don't love it for the bouncing assets, i love it because it deserves 
 to be known as a good game. I'm saying this because i'm a DOA fan, and really wanted this game- 
 but i was embarrassed playing it in front of my parents :|. It's overall a good game but the english 
 voices are to squeky, and to much bounce, which is needed. Love the clothes the girls wear and 
 yes very good game if u are a fanboi of DOA or just a plain sports fan... or if ur a perv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckarus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  DOA Extreme 2 isn't meant to change your life as a gamer, its just made to have fun while taking 
 on simple gameplay elements. No doubt, the catch here is the sex-appeal of the DOA girls, and they 
 have never looked better than in this game. The game improves in every aspect compared to the first 
 one. There are more activities and all of them are very fun to take on, including the simple but 
 addictive jet-ski races. As a gamer I would never dare to call a Team Ninja game simple, because 
 I know that if this game is simple it is because thats what they meant it to be. I personally love 
 this game, its not groundbreaking but it is fun.
  Things to be improved in this part of this series that I believe won't end soon: Coop-play, VS. 
 (local) matches, more depth gameplay in the volleyball segment. I think that Team Ninja will keep 
 on making this series enjoyable. If you want a break from the insane-perfect action of the 360 
 game of the year Gears of War go buy this one, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original this is nothing more than an enhancement to the older DOAX. Some of the 
 nicer improvements are more are the tube ride, the jet ski race, and the enhanced extras shops. 
 The flaws are readily apparent especially in the volleyball. Its still as simple as ever, but they 
 didn't fix any of the old bugs either. In fact, some seem to be worse on this version compared 
 to the last. All in all this is a game of collecting money to buy swim suits. Its good for about 
 30 - 40 hours of fun and is sort of mindless after that. (After 30 -40 hours of this game you will 
 defintely want to put it down for an extended break.) . Best for players who have limited time to 
 actually sit down and play a game, but have a 30 - 60 minute block where they can play something 
 simple. Over all Not bad for what it is, just don't go in expecting a masterpiece and you will 
 be satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I rented DoA xtreme 2. Why? Because I don't believe a compilation of mini games with pretty girls 
 would justify a $60 purchase. I have played the first DoA xtreme beach volleyball and is it just 
 me or does the same volleyball courts carried over to this sequel? The wave racing game has very 
 nice water effects, but the controls are clunky, especially if you do a quick turn and go the opposite 
 way. The english voice actors are a nice feature. The casino games are plain and nothing really 
 special or exciting. It could have been flashier. To increase replay value, instead of trying to 
 get those tedious achievments, perhaps each character could have some sort of a cinematic ending? 
 That would have been appreciated. The background scenes are nice to look at, but usually can be 
 boring . . .not much is going on the island. It seems so empty and lifeless at times. Playing each 
 character to a 14 day period seems really fast, so it can be difficult to earn enough money to 
 spend on swim suits and the like. This game relied on visuals only, which is a shame . . .it needed 
 lots more content and not just the different amounts of swimsuits either. If you like to look at 
 pretty gaming girls, you have a tough choice between this game and Rumble Roses XX. The similar 
 thing between the 2 games is that it is really repetitive and not really that fun. Rent it first 
 if you want to save money or just curious on how this game plays out. You'd be much better off 
 playing Gears of War! Now there is a smart purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beniah
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  I sell video games for a living, and I've seen lots of people pick up games that the reviewers 
 blasted to shreds. Often times, they enjoy the game immensely. Over the years I have come to realize 
 that reviewers don't have all the answers. Should games be revolutionary experiences that change 
 your worldview and keep you up late at night, or should they be fun and relaxing?
  
  Well, a bit of both is actually pretty good. Do you want a volleyball game that is unlike any other 
 volleyball game in the history of mankind, or would you like a volleyball game that is kind of 
 like the last one you had a blast playing? I think DOAX2 is a blast. It is relaxing, funny, and 
 engaging enough to keep me glued to the screen for a couple of hours at a time. I have never played 
 a game that makes me accumulate wealth just so I can buy a $550,000 (Zack Dollars) bathing suit, 
 and I'm not sure how it works in DOAX but it does. Just like it did on the last game.
  
  I haven't heard the word fun associated with this game in any of the reviews I've read. I'm not 
 really sure why... did no reviewer have any fun with this game? I have a hard time believing that, 
 because I have had so much fun with the game. The Gamespot reviewer made some comment about your 
 enjoyment of the game being proportional to your desire to see boobies or some such thing, but 
 I contend that there are much more efficient ways to see boobies, and real ones at that (sorry 
 kiddos, I won't be exploring that topic in this post) . There must be something else going on in 
 the game, right?
  
  The fun of the game comes from a few different sources. One is the volleyball. Did you enjoy super 
 dodgeball on the NES? Have you played it on GBA? If you enjoy that for 15 to 20 minutes at a time 
 why the hell wouldn't you enjoy it being played by attractive martial artists decked out in gear 
 that you labored to purchase for them? I know that dodgeball and volleyball are different games, 
 but beach spikers wasn't as fun as super dodgeball so get off my back.
  
  Another source is the interactions between the girls. Finding a partner is often challenging, and 
 some partners are so elusive that you will want to poison that cherry pie that you buy for them 
 just so you get SOME reaction out of them. I find myself buying all kinds of crap just so I can 
 give gifts left and right. It is fun trying to find a partner in the game, but even better when 
 you get a partner.
  
  Another source of fun are the other games in this collection. The casino is a lot of fun, and a 
 good way to supplement or decimate your stack 'o cash. The jet skiing is a good diversion. It ain't 
 no wave racer, but it is fun. The pool side games are fun as well. I have a lot of fun taking photos, 
 but I'm a nerd like that. All told, the other mini games go a long way to flesh out this game to 
 give you other sources of income.
  
  I usually don't write these reviews because I like to read other's opinions rather than blather 
 on about mine, but a lot of people are writing that this game is laborious and boring, when it 
 is really light, fun, and has some funny social dynamics. I am puzzled that Madden can get props 
 for making minor tweaks here and there, but DOAX is slighted for not making enough changes. If 
 all I did was play games for a living, I might find myself being overly critical of games as well, 
 but I play games to have fun, and DOAX2 is no dissapointment in that category.
  
  Peace,
  beniah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILikeGames001
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Anyone familiar with DOAX for the xbox system will immediately see that DOAX 2 isnt that much 
 of an improvement from the first. To anyone not familiar with the first game, the story follows 
 an island that Zack created as a vacation spot. Zack invited all of the women from the DOA games 
 to the island. The main focus of the game is volleyball, with some other minor options.
  
  To sum it up: DOAX2 is the same game as DOAX with a few new ladies, improved graphics, and some 
 additional mini games.
  
  Graphics (9/10) ~ The graphics is basically the same as DOAX for the xbox. It is extremely beautiful 
 and the girls look gorgeous. You can add new swimsuits, accessory, nail polish, and various other 
 things to customize your favorite character. Also, there is a pretty cool addition to where you 
 can see tan lines on the girls after a while, which is always cool.
  
  Aside from the girls looking great, there are some great locales you can play in. From exotic beaches 
 to a cool jungle setting.
  
  To be honest, after a while youll realize that there isnt all that much the environments can 
 offer.
  
  Sounds (7/10) ~ The biggest change between DOAX1 and DOAX2 is that the girls now speak English 
 as opposed to Japanese with English subtitles. You can call it a blessing or curse, but I feel 
 that the English voice is a good improvement.
  Another thing about the game is that you can select all types of music to play on your radio 
 thats in the game. Its pretty cool to listen to music while playing volleyball or race. You can 
 also pick music you want and music you dont want at the radio station in the game.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) ~ Im going to talk about each type of mini-game you can play throughout the game.
 
  
  Volleyball ~ The main piece of the game. You really dont get much out of volleyball except for 
 the fact that you can win some money in which you can use to buy stuff available throughout the 
 island. The controls in the game are very simple. You just either pass the ball, or you can hit 
 it. You can do some cools things like spike, or do a special serve. All in all, the game is extremely 
 simple and very easy to get used to. Pool games ~ You can play various pool games from skipping 
 to something weird where you have to bump the girl off of a pad by pushing her off with your butt. 
 Kinda weird, but its kinda fun when you play it. The skipping game is free to play and you can 
 win money, however, the other mini-games you have to buy at the shop with money you made from playing 
 volleyball or something.
  
  Jet Ski ~ This is a pretty cool game. Rather easy but it is very good to play with. Personally, 
 I see this as the biggest improvement between DOAX1 and DOAX2. You start the game with one ski, 
 but you can buy other jet ski later in the game once you earned the money. The mini-game consists 
 of you riding the jet ski against other girls. The controls are very basic and it can be somewhat 
 fun to play with.
  
  Casino Game ~ The main game consists of a morning, day, and night system. During the morning and 
 day, you can play volleyball, jet ski, or pool games, but at nights, you can either go to sleep, 
 give gifts, or go to the casino. The casino consists of the standard games you see at the casino. 
 You can earn money and its very fun to play with.
  
  Bikini Game ~ Well this isnt really a game, but it is something that you can play around with. 
 You can buy various swimsuits, accessory, and gifts to earn the trust of other girls. You start 
 the game off with Lisa, but you can buy gifts to win the trust of other girls to replace Lisa with 
 someone more better at volleyball. Overall, the amount of swimsuits you get can be described in 
 itself as a minigame because you can go into various relax scenes where you can then take pictures 
 of the girls. Sounds a little perverted, but the camera can be something to get used to with all 
 the fine tuning and not to mention you can get the perfect shot of your favorite girl.
  
  Overall Game play (8/10) ~ The overall game is awesome. However, you cant really play it all day 
 and the game isnt really challenging enough to where you can safely say that it is the best of 
 the year. It looks good and playing around with the game can be somewhat fun if you want to kill 
 some hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixcos
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  DOAX2 improved the volleyball, gifting, mini-games, and casino. There are some problems such as 
 longer than usual load times. Most of the stages are recycled along with the music. The graphics 
 are quite nice, but it's not a giant leap. Some of the mini-games require too much luck and it's 
 not very rewarding. The game does not have enough cut scenes and the relax scenes are too short. 
 Relationship AI can be quite confusing at times. Online play is weak. Off line multi player is 
 nonexistent. The music gets old fast. It's best to bring your own custom tracks. The game has both 
 English and Japanese voices, which is really nice, but Tina's voice is almost unbearable in English. 
 The game lacks innovation in many areas. You still can't walk around the beach, you can't see other 
 girls in the casino, your girl can't be seen inside the hotel, no free roaming jet ski, and there's 
 only vacation and online mode. I wish the game or the manual would at least explain in detail how 
 the AI works and the way items affect the girls. At least the manual is 50 pages and in color. 
 The casino is very addicting and fun. The poker involves other girls and makes it much more exciting. 
 Overall I enjoyed the game, and I plan to play the game for many many more hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judith40
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, with not being any nudity on this one i thought this game is goin to blow ---. But this game 
 is fun on its own ways. The graphics are beautiful, the ladys look better then ever and the gameplay 
 still gives for a great expirience. Sometimes is good to play something different an this game 
 is that thing (Volleyball) have you ever seen a game about volleyball, yeah there that playstation 
 game but thats not really important, what is important is the beautiful backround and atmosphere 
 of the game, it almost feels like your on a beutiful island smelling and breathing the air of a 
 gorgeo...... HOLLY MOTHER ----- IS THAT KASUMI NUDE!!!!!!!! oh wait thats not in this game. The 
 game is respective and fun but if it had nudity like in the previous game it would've been better, 
 thats why i give this game an 8.2 out of ten. I dont care about lawsuits i want nudity im going 
 to make a protest. Tobunobu when are you going to make a sequel for ninja gaiden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingchunstudent
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  DOAX2 is a much more solid game than its predecessor. The volleyball mechanic has been tweaked 
 to allow better procission set-ups and strikes. New this year is an addition of a wave race game 
 that can be played with up to four characters. Early on this game is a bit difficult as your default 
 wave runner is a tad on the wild side, but as your progress and earn money newer vehicles can be 
 purchased which make turns easier and recovery quicker.
  
  Also as mention there are about half a dozen mini-games in which the DOA girls compete in games 
 like Butt-Battle and Tug-of-War in bikinis of course. These are fun additions, but loose their 
 charm after a few times through.
  
  Plus at night you can visit the casino and play, Blackjack, Poker, Roulett or Slots. There is a 
 slot machine for each girl with its own theme and designs, but they play almost identically. The 
 casino is a nice way to make money and break up the day to day life of volleyball, wave racing 
 and mini-games. All in all, if you're a fan of DOA, bikini clad girl, water sports, or volleyball 
 or any combination of the four this game is a must play. But I would only recommend buying this 
 game if you are a fan of all four of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotengoku
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Hmm. ill tell u how i think about this game. Me and my friend were sleeping over and my friend 
 wanted to buy this game to entertain our selfs for a night. lol when we were finally playing it, 
 It did entertain us. but this game really is boring.
  
  Gameplay: its nice to look at. BUT the cameria angle, and the brests are bouncing a little too much?. the 
 volley ball thing is UNaccurite. Its a little funny but more irritating.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are gorgeous the creater did a nice job at there legs.
  *cough*
  
 
  sound: Ahhh not bad and not good. some of the songs are good i guess.
  
  Value: spending $60.00 dollers on a perverted/boring game is not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CC914
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong the game looks great but to me it's not any different than the old Xbox version. 
 No one plays the DOAX games for the mini-games anyway. Sure there may be a few to say they are 
 being honest and decide to argue but i play DOAX because of the graphics and the girls. I was amazed 
 by the first one but there comes a point where some physics need to get real. My girl is a D-cup 
 and there is no way that she bounces around as much as these girls do. I understand it's just a 
 game but it's also Xbox 360 so what exactly has improved if not the realism of the physics? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfella411
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  After playing though somewhere between 10 - 20 hours of this game all I can say is there is enough 
 wrong with it to drown out the enjoyable gameplay.
  
  First the good. The game at first look is incredible. Like was mentioned in the forums, you do 
 get tan lines in the game, which is a nice realistic touch, unlike the constant hypnotic bouncing 
 of the girls breasts. Volleyball and jetski games are really easy to pick up, although truly getting 
 the hang of it will take a couple of rounds. Just be careful to play volleyball with a person that 
 likes you, otherwise the VB portion can be frustrating as hell when you watch an easy to get ball 
 fly right by your partner. From my experience you gifts aren't thrown away like the first one, 
 rather returned to you, so you can rewrap and try to send it back to them when they like you more. 
 Some of the bad points. Game feels unfinished in a lot of respects. First thing you will probably 
 notice is the hair on the models, as it goes right through the characters. With the collision detection 
 system in most games you would think this would have been very easy to fix. Second is that there 
 is no local multiplayer, which is a huge over sight by Team Ninja. If some of you are like me I 
 bought this game mainly so I could play with my brother, but can't. Although I haven't expierenced 
 online play, most people have complained about latency issues and the inability to use swim suits 
 that you have purchased. Part of the fun is showing people what you have accomplished by wearing 
 the expensive swimsuits. There are also glitches the crop up that may force you to give up a winning 
 game. I have the game glitch on volleyball where the ball disappears and the only way to continue 
 is to quit. The basics of the game are quite fun, but the little glitches and nuansance (spelling 
 check) really hold this game back from shining like it can. If team ninja releases some patches 
 to fix certain aspects of the game it would definately be worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuya_mishima
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  first of all i dont really think this is a game.... are you one of the guys who hunt for the pictures 
 of dead or alive girls all day.... then this is your god sent game... there is nothing to play here.... all 
 you can do is look at the boobs and butt in motion and in rest. itagaki has mastered the breast 
 movement in this one. infact the boobs of real life girls must watch and learn from this game on 
 how to move .a major break through in this game is the overhauled soft physics (i. e the boobs move 
 in different directions) ...
  i will tell you one thing.... if you play this game then it is less likely that any other female 
 character outside doax2 will appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sophieschoice
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  I have to begin this review by saying I am a true fan of all DOA. I appreciate and admire it for 
 what it is: a well-done fighting game with personable and fun characters all with a tongue-in-cheek 
 campiness that makes DOA and it's spin-offs, the fun games they are. That being said, I have to 
 say I found myself disappointed in the game. It was truly more DOAX for the orininal Xbox given 
 Xbox360 capabilities. What made the first game so fun for me was the orininality of it. This game 
 is really nothing new. Not that that is bad, per-say, but I did expect more than what the game 
 offered. The mini-games are fun, but are a far-cry from the grand new addition to DOAX2 they are 
 advertised to be. The core of the game, in short, is good. I liked the first, this is just like 
 the first with some cool extras, therefore I like the core game of DOAX2.
  
  What I find truly disappointing to the degree it almost makes me angry is the lack of 2 player 
 mode. My friend and I had great times playing DOAX in my living room verses each other instead 
 of vacation mode. That is now something of the past and I couldn't be more upset. Granted there 
 is on-line mode, but it's just not the same and it costs extra. I also have to express my displeasure 
 with the swimsuit selection. Most are rehashed versions of the original wardrobe, which is unfortunate. 
 A lot more could have been done here. And to be honest, the jiggle thing is fun, but it comes off 
 a little xtreme ... pun intended.
  
  It's still fun, it plays and looks like the old game, so if you liked the original you will like 
 this, but don't expect to be blown away... you won't be. I would be a very satisfied and happy 
 camper if they included verses play in addition to Zack Island Mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitomi6x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  I dont care what you say. this game ruless. it very fun i hate that all you game guys hate it just 
 cause it has pretty women in it. stop acting like you dont like it and all you care about is gameplay. 
 looking at pretty girls is fine i could say the same about killing guys with guns and knifes that 
 bad and not good. But in the rnd its up to the gamer and i love this game. so please make more 
 i dont care what other loser say this game is fun. so take it for what it is.. its all about haveing 
 fun staring at the most beautful women known to man. geeks hate to admite they love it because 
 they think its makes them look lamer. but admit it were guys we love looking at lovely girls. we 
 all look at porn so whats wrong with this. and if you dont look at porn the open your mind and 
 stop being a prude step out of the box. this game is nice looking. So if you like girls buy this 
 game stare at them but if you want real good gameplay dont whatever you want but i like it i want 
 more games in the xtreme series...... p. s... you guys buy this game so they make more please.. i 
 love these girls.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberwez
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Dont listen to ign or game spots reviews this game is pure entertainment while not having harcore 
 gameplay it allows for easy relaxing fun. The Beautiful girls make a come back in this game with 
 even more outfits. while you cant play with a friend on your local system you can do so over live. 
 Game play: 10/10 works just right the entire game is game play photoshoot is gameplay and its just 
 plain fun
  
  Graphics: 10/10 O my god is this gorgous a huge step over other games like rumble roses in beauty 
 factor all the dead or alive girls are just magnificent
  
  Sound: 10/10 nice soft sound track goes nice with game cute voices all work together nicley
  
 
  Value 10/10 it will tkae you some time befor you get all the suits and discover all the surprises 
 of zack island
  
  Overall 10/10 perfect game for the genre it was chosen if you like beautiful girls and simple fun 
 gameplay look no further 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Anyone remember Dead or Alive Xtreme 1? It was a great game featuring volleyball, pool hopping and 
 addictive collecting. O yeah it also has something else, great looking girls in bikinis.
  
  Zack some how manages to trick the lovely ladies of DOA into coming to a restored Zack Island yet 
 again. But this time around its pumped with steroids and tons of fun, even if the game is generally 
 basic. All the girls return to the Island including the addition of Kokoro from DOA4.
  
  You have a lot to choose from now which was one thing critics complained about a lot in the last 
 game. There is Vacation Mode and the main games there are Jet Skii Racing and Volleyball. The Volleyball 
 is pretty basic but its a challenge this time and more lovely to watch. B and A are gonna be your 
 main buttons so its not all that complex, but like I said before it is indeed fun. Jet Ski is another 
 mode which is completely new, and that is also a lot of fun. It plays a lot like wave race but you 
 can do a lot of entertaining tricks and you get extra speed boosts if you manage to stay between 
 the lines perfectly, so no crashing! And there are other things to do on the Island as well such 
 as but bumping, tug-of-war, water sliding and races, which are all very basic but fun games to play 
 around with. There is also another casino in this one, which is yet again basic.
  
  This game clearly looks amazing. The girls look wild, there boobs indeed do jiggle frequently, but 
 none of that is bad right? Some people are gonna complain about the hair, but thats just the way 
 it is now so people need to get over that. The Island looks amazing, the water is very pretty and 
 everything thing else you see in this game looks spot on.
  
  The game has a good soundtrack that fits the game well, but some of the songs really suck. So its 
 a blessing that you can make out your own custom tracks to fit the game to your liking.
  
  There is a ton to do in this game. Lots of addictive collecting yet again. Loads of swimsuits and 
 tons of gifts to give girls to. The achievements in this game are hard to unlock and take dedication. But 
 if you are an insane player you will get points and a nice pictorial mode for each swimsuit set 
 you collect.
  
  Overall DOAX2 is a fun relaxing game that DOAXVB could have been. So its nice to see the series 
 pump itself up with lots more to do. If your into DOA or the games girls, go out an buy it don't 
 let the critics make you think differently, this game is better than what people are going to say. Other 
 people who are not all that interested in DOA should maybe just stick with a rent. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
