-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead Space
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/deadspace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deeply engrossing story.
 Breathtaking visuals and nerve-wracking audio.
 Strategic dismemberment adds an entirely new, satisfying dimension to combat.
 Truly terrifying gameplay keeps you on the edge of your seat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission objectives.
 Close-quarters combat is troublesome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 4,917 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Oct 13, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An incredibly atmospheric and disturbingly gruesome deep-space adventure that will haunt your dreams 
 and leave you begging for more. 

  The survival horror genre is rife with games in which you are isolated in a hostile environment 
 full of monsters, and Dead Space is no exception. But from the moment you're thrown into the middle 
 of the fray in the heart-pounding introduction until the bone-chilling conclusion, it's clear that 
 this is something quite unique. With its disturbingly twisted visuals, its deeply engrossing story, 
 and innovative strategic dismemberment combat system, Dead Space is a best-in-its-class game that 
 surpasses other entries in its venerable genre in nearly every way and will be the standard by 
 which they are judged for years to come.  

  When the Concordance Extraction Corporation loses radio contact with its Planet Cracker-class mining 
 ship, the USG  Ishimura , engineer Isaac Clarke is dispatched on a routine mission to repair its 
 communications array. However, Clarke is also on a mission of his own, having recently received 
 a cryptic message from Nicole Brennan, a medical officer serving aboard the  Ishimura . While on 
 board he intends to reunite with her and learn the meaning behind her strange broadcast. Unfortunately, 
 the moment you set foot on the derelict ship, it's obvious that something terrible has happened. 

           Meet the Necromorph. This is one lady you don't want to dance with.      

  As Isaac, you are separated almost immediately from the rest of your team by the former crew of 
 the  Ishimura , which has been transformed into horrifying monsters called Necromorphs. Forced 
 to fight for his survival, Isaac makes do with the tools at hand to defend himself with, which 
 are for the most part repurposed mining instruments like plasma welding guns or buzz saws. These 
 improvised weapons are put to graphic, gruesome work as bodily damage and even severe head trauma 
 isn't enough to kill a Necromorph -- only by severing their limbs can you put them down for good. 
 This nuance, referred to as strategic dismemberment, vastly alters the way combat is approached 
 in Dead Space from the typical "aim for the head"-style gameplay seen in most action games and 
 zombie apocalypse scenarios.  

  Every class of Necromorph requires a different strategy to handle, and knowing how to combat multiple 
 types simultaneously is an essential skill if you want to survive for long. Though dismemberment 
 is ultimately the key to victory, failing to finish off a monster properly will only send it into 
 a berserker rage and force it to adapt to its new, partially appendageless situation so that it 
 can continue trying to eat your face. Even more alarming than their ghastly appearances and uncouth 
 manners is the fact that they are quite intelligent. Necromorphs attack in packs using loose team 
 tactics, and are capable of traversing the ship's extensive ventilation system to sneak around 
 for outflanking or ambushing. They feign death among the corpses of their peers to rise up and 
 attack when you least expect it, and they often come in waves, leaving you wondering if it's truly 
 over or if they're simply toying with you.  

  The most basic Necromorphs are humanoid monsters that attack in a frenzy. Horribly mutated undead 
 babies also make an appearance, and they run along the walls and ceilings sprouting tentacles from 
 their backs capable of throwing organic projectiles. Others still are heavily armored but vulnerable 
 from behind, are bloated with dozens of spiderlike parasites that are released upon their host's 
 death, or shriek madly as they carry explosive pods toward you in a suicidal charge. In one fully 
 interactive gameplay sequence that comprises some of the more amazing moments to be experienced 
 in Dead Space, you're assaulted by the gigantic tentacle of an even larger, unseen beast that drags 
 you to a gruesome and bloody death as you struggle to shoot yourself free.  

  Finally, at several key points in the story, Isaac stumbles upon some of the most incredible and 
 truly terrifying boss monsters to be seen in the survival horror genre. Though revealing the circumstances 
 around which you confront these nightmares would do much to spoil them, it is safe to say that 
 these epic encounters are easily some of the most remarkable seen in years.  

           Having all the traditional HUD elements built into your suit makes grisly scenes like 
 this that much more immersive.      

  One of the first things to notice in Dead Space is that it features a complete lack of a traditional 
 heads-up display; instead, pertinent information is integrated directly into Isaac's RIG uniform. 
 To see his current health you need only glance at the iridescent meter built into the RIG's spine 
 (or pay attention to his physical cues) , and to see how much ammo is left in your current weapon, 
 simply check the display readout visible whenever you raise it into the ready position. If you 
 ever find yourself wondering where you need to be next, you need only press in the right analog 
 stick for Isaac's RIG to temporarily trace a beam of light on the ground toward your next objective. 
 When called up, menus are holographically projected ahead of you in real time, producing a sense 
 of urgency as you remain vulnerable to attack. These simple yet ingenious systems ensure that you 
 remain firmly within the realm of the gameworld at all times, preserving the horror experience. 

  Your ultimate goal aboard the  Ishimura  is to escape from it, hopefully along with Nicole; but 
 to get to that point you must first accomplish a series of dependent tasks. Guided remotely or 
 in person by the remaining survivors of your doomed repair operation, your missions take you from 
 deck to deck in a logical chain of events. For example, early on you discover that the ship's orbit 
 is decaying because its engines are offline, so you must travel to engineering to refuel and restore 
 them. Once they're back online and the  Ishimura  begins to correct its course, you realize that 
 you're about to pass through an asteroid belt and that the automated defense systems are down, 
 so it's off to do something about that.     

  Each deck is a self-contained environment in which you run around putting out fires while moving 
 closer to escape, and while your team will remain in frequent contact, you are almost always alone -- and 
 most of the few survivors you do encounter have been driven insane by their ordeals. This sense 
 of isolation in such a hostile environment, coupled with bloody visuals and a brilliant sound design, 
 has you constantly questioning your own sanity and wondering when the next attack is coming. Further 
 enhancing this effect are the bone-chilling logs you find left behind by the crew in which their 
 final thoughts and moments are recorded. Though audio logs are nothing new to this type of game 
 and are in fact often used to flesh out the backstory, these are exceptionally well done, and are 
 accompanied by full video logs and text reports, which all together make for a much more compelling 
 narrative.  

  As you explore the many decks of the  Ishimura , you will come across two utilities that will prove 
 to be of endless use: stasis and kinesis. Stasis, a finite resource that must be replenished at 
 recharge stations across the ship or with booster packs, allows you to temporarily slow down fast-moving 
 objects, while kinesis gives you the ability to lift, move, and throw objects in the environment 
 at no cost. Each can be used independently or in tandem to solve puzzles or navigate the ship, 
 and each has useful battle applications as well. For instance, stasis can be used to virtually 
 stop incredibly fast-moving Necromorphs and give you the time to tear them limb from limb, and 
 kinesis can be used to throw explosive canisters or even severed extremities to conserve ammunition. 

           Strategic dismemberment works both ways. Don't let this happen to you.       

  During 
 your travels, you will find a number of areas that do not have functional gravity. In these situations, 
 Isaac's magnetic boots will keep him grounded and allow you to perform zero-gravity jumps and attach 
 to nearly any surface. Suddenly having a full 360-degree range of movement is a mind-bending experience, 
 but once you get the hang of it, few experiences are as enjoyable as leaping from the floor to 
 the ceiling to dodge an attack and then finishing off your assailant, sending its body, blood, 
 and limbs floating off in different directions realistically. Many of these zero-g situations are 
 also performed within a vacuum, making oxygen, in addition to your health, a scarce commodity. 

  Between searching for Nicole, trying to escape, and fighting for your survival, you've got your 
 hands pretty full, but this is not to say that there aren't other things for Isaac to do. As the 
 monsters you are killing were once people, they will occasionally drop credits that can be spent 
 in the automated stores you will come across. RIG upgrades, health items, new weapons, and additional 
 ammunition can all be purchased, and if you happen to find a new item schematic and take it to 
 a store, you'll be able to buy that as well. Inventory management is a key element as you can only 
 carry around so many medical kits or plasma cartridges. In the event that you find yourself overburdened, 
 you can sell off your unneeded goods or toss them into the safe for pickup later at any other store 
 location, but you may also find yourself constantly low or out of ammo if you simply go into every 
 enemy encounter guns blazing -- sometimes it's better to run and conserve ammo.  

  As an engineer, Isaac can make use of the numerous nanotech workbenches onboard the  Ishimura  
 to upgrade his weapons and equipment. Each upgradeable item has a circuit board arranged like a 
 skill tree, and by soldering in power nodes (typically found in fuse boxes or purchased at the 
 store) down a set of branching paths, functionality can be greatly increased. For example, weapons 
 can have their damage and clip size upped, and Isaac can even increase his RIG's maximum health 
 or the duration of his stasis ability. Fuses can also be used to override certain optional door 
 locks, though, so if you want to be ready for potential secret-item caches, make sure you don't 
 use up all of your power nodes.  

           The way that blood and bodies drift about in zero-g is disturbing yet eerily elegant. 

  From engineering to hydroponics and beyond, Dead Space never fails to impress with its visuals. 
 Whether you're watching the torrential rainfall of asteroids across the hull of the  Ishimura  
 from the bridge atrium or witnessing the way a corpse spins serenely in a zero-g vacuum, the haunting 
 yet beautiful graphics of Dead Space have a way of sticking in your mind long after you've quit 
 playing. Semi-interactive cutscenes such as the one in which your team's rescue ship explodes within 
 the  Ishimura  docking bay simply must be seen firsthand, and the tremendous lighting and environmental 
 effects lay the groundwork for an intense horror adventure.  

  What really rounds out the entire experience, however, is the incredible sound design. Throughout 
 the halls of the  Ishimura , you are stalked mercilessly by the Necromorphs, and while you can't 
 always see them, you are constantly surrounded by the menacing noises they produce or the eerie 
 pitter-patter they make as they crawl through the ventilation shafts. You'll occasionally hear 
 the distant screams of Necromorph victims or the creepy singing of a mentally unbalanced survivor, 
 and environmental effects such as those generated by the sudden release of a burst of steam will 
 keep you on the edge of your seat. Perhaps the most impressive use of audio in Dead Space takes 
 place in a vacuum: any sounds that originate outside of Isaac's helmet are muffled and barely audible, 
 while those from the inside, including his breathing and grunts of pain, are amplified.  

  Dead Space is a remarkable game from a well-tread genre that manages to stand out from its competitors 
 in almost every way, from visual presentation to engaging story, innovative combat mechanics to 
 fright factor. Whether you're looking for a terrifying horror experience or a deeply story-driven 
 adventure that will keep you engaged for 15-20 hours, Dead Space is a fantastic game that you should 
 not pass on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (410 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  
  The player takes the role of Isaac Clarke (named after science fiction writers Isaac Asimov and 
 Arthur C. Clarke,? an engineer who must fight his way through a stricken mining ship infested with 
 hostile, grotesque monstrosities called Necromorphs, which are human corpses transformed and reanimated 
 by an unknown alien species. He also must battle a religious and a government conspiracy that will 
 destroy the entire universe. The game features an 'over the shoulder' third-person perspective, 
 similar to the gameplay in Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War.
  Story-wise, the game bears several similarities to System Shock 2. The game also includes a number 
 of RPG elements. These include the use of upgrade modules (cyber-modules in System Shock 2) , suit 
 upgrade for greater inventory (strength upgrade in System Shock 2) . Audio logs scattered throughout 
 the ship reveal a great deal of the plot.
  
  The interface of Dead Space is unique in that it does not feature a traditional head-up display. 
 Instead, all information is relayed to the player via holographic projections and the features 
 on the suit and the weapons themselves. For example, a small display on the weapon shows the ammo 
 count; also, the 'health meter' that indicates Isaac's condition is integrated into the spine of 
 Isaac's armor and ranges from red (low/critical) , yellow (half) , to blue (full or near-full) .
 
  Via floating holograms projected in front of Isaac, the player can check the current objectives 
 and the 3D map, or access the inventory screen to manage items. Meanwhile, however, the game still 
 progresses through time, and the player is always in danger of being attacked.
  The only menu in which the game is not still in progress is the pause menu and the save console 
 menu.
  
  Combat in Dead Space becomes complicated when Necromorphs do not simply "die" after receiving a 
 certain number of gun rounds. In fact, depending on how they are wounded, Necromorphs can adopt 
 new stances and tactics, even sprouting new limbs or giving birth in the process.
  To defeat the Necromorphs, Isaac must use "strategic dismemberment," the methodical severance of 
 specific limbs or sections of the Necromorphs.
  A prime example of this is when fighting the Necromorph nicknamed "Pregnant". Shooting this Necromorph 
 in the stomach will release a swarm of small parasite-like aliens or other forms of Necromorphs, 
 but it is less cumbersome to carefully shoot off its large arms and killing it while leaving its 
 stomach intact.
  
  In keeping with Isaac's profession as an engineer rather than a soldier, the weapons in Dead Space 
 are mostly improvised from mining tools [6] such as a plasma cutter, a hydrazine torch used as a 
 flamethrower, and a force cannon emitting powerful shock waves. However, a triple-barreled automatic 
 military rifle is also available. All weapons feature a unique secondary-fire mode; for example, 
 the plasma cutter can be rotated 90 degrees for an optimal angle, and the flamethrower can set 
 fire traps. Like in many survival-horror video games, the player must scavenge for ammunition and 
 other various items, which are found throughout the ship or dropped by Necromorphs when killed. 
 Automated stores throughout the ship can be accessed to buy and sell items or store them for later 
 use. Also, the player can use work benches and spend "power nodes" to upgrade Isaac's suit and 
 weapons.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raping_Angus213
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is perhaps the only true video game thriller I have had the opportunity to experience.
 
  In a disturbing and unsettling fashion it is quite possibly one of the very best games I have 
 played.
  Its original, creative, and spooky which makes it unique in a way that most games can't match.
 
  Not many games are as original and have great game play. The controls confused me at first but 
 I made quick work of figuring them out and was amazed by the many things you can do. The campaign 
 is long and there is lots to explore and many items to find. To often are main campaigns short 
 and boring but this campaign will keep you on the edge of your couch! thrilling, exciting, fresh, 
 and disturbing are a few among many description's that this game can be titled with. This game 
 is truly great and I look forward to any prequel or sequels to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poorisaac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  When Dead Space was first announced I was actually not very impressed. Maybe it was the fact that 
 it looked like any other run-of-the-mill sci-fi horror game that was out there, maybe because I 
 loved the movie The Thing, and thought that it was just an uninspired knock off. When I finally 
 got to take a look at the game play videos my opinion started waning. I actually started to like 
 what I saw. When I finally saw the "Twinkle Twinkle" trailer, my mind had pulled a complete 180. 
 This chilling feeling ran down my spine as that twisted song played over and over in my mind. When 
 Dead Space finally released, it was absolutely everything that I wanted it to be. And more.
  
  The game begins with the protagonist, Isaac, heading to the USG Ishimura for a general recon 
 mission after the ship went quiet. What started as routine, regardless of how cliche this sentence 
 is, became something more gut-wrenching-ly horrifying than anything I have ever seen in my many 
 years of playing horror games. From the outset the atmosphere just wreaks of this dark sense of 
 foreboding, like in a way, you already know how this is going to end. After being stranded on this 
 planet cracker, you quickly begin to find what happened to the crew of the Ishimura. Turning into 
 what can only be dubbed as abominations, the games fantastic combat system comes into play. Strategic 
 Dismemberment. A lot of games boast being able to remove limbs, but they have always come up short. 
 With the combat in Dead Space, everything feels perfect when it comes to aiming and shooting. With 
 the over the shoulder view that was made popular through Resident Evil 4, it helps the player really 
 feel like they are with Isaac. And with the lack of a hud except the hologram telling you how much 
 ammo you have, and the life gauge running up your spine it makes you truly feel alone. The blood 
 everywhere, random messages scrawled everywhere, and the ever present distant sounds of horrifying 
 occurrences make this one of the most terrifying games ever made.
  
  Visually the game is of amazing quality, from the detail of your totally awesome deep space welders 
 suit, to the grotesque features of the wretched Necromorphs, this game pulled no punches. The lighting 
 of your make shift mining weapons reflects perfectly off of the environment around you as you slowly 
 move forward to what is probably your imminent doom. The Zero-G sequences are also done incredibly 
 well as you navigate the outside of the ship. The debris floating through space, the cold pale 
 light and the harrowing sound of Isaac's labored breathing as he starts running low on oxygen, 
 everything fits.
  
  Isaac is an engineer. That means he has little to no combat experience. So, without the knowledge 
 of a soldier he has to rely on one thing he does know. A mining tool, when modified, can probably 
 be a pretty good gun. Or at least enough to take off an arm or a leg. The basic and probably most 
 useful gun you will find yourself using is the plasma cutter which is practically a pistol that 
 rips things apart. Some of the other weapons (i. e. Plasma Rifle, Ripper) are cool weapons but are 
 really useless when it comes to combat, so they feel really tacked on and unnecessary. Whether 
 you end up liking some of these other weapons or not, you will most stick to two of them and rely 
 on those in terms of combat and whether or not you want upgrade the others. The upgrade system 
 for the weapons is pretty standard, you find "nodes" around the ship, bring them to a work bench 
 and Isaac will modify certain aspects of them, whether its more ammo, faster rate of fire, or faster 
 reload. 
  Along with your weapons your suit also can be upgraded by finding schematics much like you find 
 nodes. Upgrading the suit leads to higher defense, more health, and more places to store your stuff 
 you find. Plus the suits start looking more and more awesome as you progress through the game. 
 
  
  Isaac also has a melee attack, which is probably my favorite maneuver to use. The most forceful, 
 labored, and absolutely devastating stomp I have ever seen. This moves makes short work of mutated 
 babies, crawling monstrosities, and of course boxes, crates, and ammo boxes.
  
  Wether it's the absolutely horrifying atmosphere, the ridiculously high amount of blood and gore, 
 or the awesome visuals and combat you can't really go wrong with Dead Space. It isn't a perfect 
 game but when it comes to sci-fi horror there really is no competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: URSpaztic
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  You play as Isaac Clark, an engineer sent to help fix a spaceship called the USG Ishumora. He finds 
 out that all the crew on the ship were suspiciously turned into aliens and predictably separated 
 from the rest of his team. 
  This game will scare you or not, (it did for me!!!) , but this game will for no doubt keep you on 
 your feet. The game play is in third person, which I think is more appropriate, because you can 
 see the creepy environment better and you can see all the things you're character can't see. It 
 just feels like it was meant to be together, horror and third person shooting. 
  
  You are also an engineer, not the Governater ready to blow someone's head off. Speaking of blowing 
 heads off, Dead Space is not like the rest of the zombie games, which only requires head shots. 
 You will have to dismember your enemy with your gun or curb stomping them. 
  
  As I was saying, since you play as an engineer, all your weapons are mining tools, such as mineral 
 cutters, a flame torch, a slicer. He is not some buff dude ready for war. The only real weapon 
 in the game is an assault rifle you buy at a store. 
  
  What is also very significant about this game is that there is no cut scenes and stopping. Everything 
 is shown on your personal hologram that everything such as your map, inventory, and objectives. 
 When I mean stopping, I mean for instance you are checking your inventory, you can still be attacked. 
 When you are buying something at a store, you still can be attacked. The only things that you cannot 
 be attacked is when you are saving or the pause menu. 
  
  If you are a fan of movies such as Alien and Aliens with Sigourney Weaver such as I am, you will 
 find the story pretty familiar. After the 4th chapter of the game, the story will become so engrossing 
 that you cannot put your controller down. Also, I believe that what this game has that makes it 
 so addicting is the suspense and horror as well. It is so suspenseful that you can't stop playing.
 
  
  This game is seriously one of the better thriller/horror games out yet, so I completely recommend 
 it. But I must warn you, do not finish the game in one sitting. You will then have to pay 200 bucks 
 for therapy and no one wants that to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tannerislegend
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that you have to stand back and look at and just say, "Wow, this is the game I've 
 been waiting for." If you are any sort of fan of being scared then this game with certainly float 
 your boat. There's enough shooting involved to keep any shooter fan on their toes, and a story 
 line that will keep you guessing till the very end.
  The game is a bit challenging, but that only adds to the fun and horror of the game. You're not 
 sure whether you should buy that item or sell that item because you're never sure of what's around 
 the corner, and what you may need in that situation. I put surprisingly good as the classification 
 because I thought that this game would be just another survival horror only this time in space. 
 I was wrong. This game is stunning. The graphics are one of the best to date on the 360. There 
 are a wide variety of weapons to choose from, all of them with their own unique primary and secondary 
 fire, as well as advantages and flaws. To follow along with the story-line, (that being, an abandoned 
 mining ship in the middle of space gets boarded by the main character Isaac and his crew) most 
 of the weapons are not really weapons at all, but mining tools. There's really only one real gun, 
 and that's the pulse rifle. Not to say that the other weapons aren't like guns, but this is the 
 only one made for shooting people to death. Again very uniquely you have to shoot off the enemies 
 limbs in this game, instead of the usual head shot extravaganza of most shooter type games. This 
 add another strategy element to the game. 
  Getting to the game play now, which is just about revolutionary. There is no HUD in this game. 
 All the player needs to know is represented by the back of Isaac suit, which is a freaking sweet 
 suit by the way (full body armor with a distinctive mask) . Everything from health to stasis bar 
 to oxygen is shown simply by looking at your own back. That gets me to the powers. There are two 
 unique and interesting powers in this game. They are more mining tools, being stasis and telekinesis. 
 
  In the end there is almost nothing wrong with this game, you simply have to play it yourself. It 
 doesn't get a higher score than a 9 because it is a little short on the easier difficulties, but 
 still just as awesome and scary. A must have for any shooter/horror fan, and a must have for anyone 
 who likes good games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I finally broke down and bought this game after the many good reviews on it. The game is fairly 
 pretty and the story was interesting, but nothing really jumped out at me.
  
  Overall the graphics are pretty good with nice looking environments and good character models but 
 I felt that the enemies were looking a little lack luster. They kind of end up looking like pointy, 
 fleshy blobs running at you, and the ones that are supposed to be really fast have a weird animation 
 where they kind of twitch toward you. This may have been intended but imo it doesnt look good.
 
  
  The audio is great and does a good job of adding to the ominous atmosphere and stress levels during 
 major fights. The voice acting was very good as well.
  
  You won't find yourself wrestling with the controls as they seem to work rather well and moving 
 your avatar around is a snap.
  
  The game took about 12 hours to play through the first time... some users may find a reason to go 
 back to the game but for me, that is probably all the play it will get, so depending on the person, 
 the value may not be there. Personally I would have preferred if I had just rented, it is easy 
 to finish it within the week you get to keep the game.
  
  Either way whether you rent or buy, you will probably get your money's worth out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Why a roller coaster? Because it is scary, it is intense, and most importantly, it is fun. EA dont 
 usually make good games, as many of us already know... Unexpectedly, with its great graphics, audio, 
 story, gameplay, Dead Space is no doubt the most successful project developed by EA in recent years.
 
  
  I am not really a survival horror fan, never interested in any horror subjects, to be honest, I 
 am even scared of watching a horror movie. I remember the old Resident Evil series scared the crap 
 out of me and I gave up just in the beginning. The only game I finished that is close to a survival 
 horror is Bioshock. So now you get the idea. But since I heard Dead Space was so achieving, I decided 
 to give it a try.
  
  From inside to outside, from the gloomy views of the interior of the ship to the magnificent views 
 of space, the game has gorgeous graphics. Not only this graphics make Dead Space scary, there is 
 no HUD in this game. You only see yourself in a third person view, a green health meter called 
 "RIG" attached on the spine of your suit, a blue energy meter that serves the "Statis Module". 
 Statis, is a skill which is used to slow time in a small area, in other words, it freezes a small 
 area. Kinesis, which is pretty self explanatory, is the other skill you have that can pick up, 
 move, throw stuff in distance. These are the only 2 skills you have in Dead Space, though Kinesis 
 does not use the blue energy meter. Once you are in a vacuum, there will be a air supply timer 
 displaying on your right shoulder. The game does not have a crosshair, but when you zoom in with 
 a weapon, it will shoot out a blue laser to aim, and the ammo count of your gun. Health and energy 
 will never regenerate by itself in Dead Space, you can only use health kits, stasis packs to restore 
 them. Air cans can be used to boost up some air.
  
  No HUD is really a good thing in this game, although it makes this game a little bit harder, but 
 that just adds the intensity, and of course the atmospheric tension. Another thing that makes this 
 game challenging is that everything is in real-time. When you open up your inventory, map, mission 
 objectives, and the recordings that you found throughout the game, it calls up a holographic screen, 
 but it does not pause the game. When you go to a shop to buy or sell things, or when you upgrade 
 your guns, skills, and RIG on a workbench, you can still get attacked by Necromorphs if they are 
 nearby, everything happens in real time. The game pauses only when you press start, or saving the 
 game.
  
  Necromorphs, are not zombies, its not like "you gotta shoot 'em in the head!" Instead, it is a 
 lot more effective if you cut off their limbs, which is quite different since we all played FPS, 
 and we already got used to aiming towards the head by first instinct. Unlearning headshots can 
 be a challenge, but it creates the unique gameplay of the game. It is not bad at all, and you will 
 get used to it very quickly.
  
  Dead Space with no HUD, complete real time atmosphere, strong violence, blood, and gore is pretty 
 dreadful. However, I, who is scared of horror, was able to finish this game. It is really not that 
 scary, its not like Doom 3 that things often pop out randomly to give you a big surprise, its not 
 like the old Resident Evil or the Silent Hill series that creates psychological horrors that make 
 you scared of sleeping or taking a shower, it is just like Bioshock but with gore. Only the atmosphere 
 is what makes the game scary, you will often hear noises that sounds like something are crawling, 
 some steel pipe falling on the ground, or your own breathing when you run. If you are scared, just 
 keep in mind, you will encounter necromorphs only when a dangerous music is playing. Everything 
 else are just effects. So if you are cautious, and you understand the pattern, it is not that scary. 
 But nonetheless, your heartbeat will be as strong as riding a roller coaster throughout the entire 
 game.
  
  If you are not extremely sensitive to horrors or gore, you should definitely play Dead Space. It 
 is one of the few best games I have ever played. If you know about the animated film Dead Space: 
 Downfall, I recommend you finish the game first then watch it. It explains the story more thoroughly, 
 and it brings more fear...
  
  Goods:
  Superb audio, it is truly "nerve-wracking"
  Superb voice acting
  Gorgeous visuals, the space never looked so huge and beautiful...
  Gruesome 
 atmosphere
  Great start
  Great boss fights
  Good story
  Good concept
  Shooting at their limbs adds a unique gameplay
  Great variety of guns
  
  Bads:
  Short, 
 even I collected everything, I was still able to finish it in about 10 hours
  Melee is troublesome and almost useless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandOfHonor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, for a game I'd only heard of a few days before I bought it, Dead Space really outdid 
 my expectations. I was thinking it would be a good, but somewhat regular space game, with not to 
 much new... I was wrong for sure.
  
  Dead Space put bluntly revolutionizes killing. I don't think I've seen a game like this before, 
 the dismemberment system is just so pleasurable. Cutting your opponent apart, or watching him explode 
 is one thing, but actually shooting off his arm, and having him still persist? That goes from good 
 to better. I couldn't get over seeing my legless foe try desperately to kill me, even though the 
 odds were hopeless, these creatures would not stop at anything.
  
  Sure it's neat seeing the Necromorphs cut into pieces, but it's also bone chilling. Watching them 
 limp with fire struck in their eye's really sends a shiver down your spine. The way it executes 
 creepiness is very surprising, it's something I haven't seen a game do since Doom 3. One fine example 
 of horror is an elevator instance, as you ride up you think for sure something is going to happen, 
 when you reach the top, nothing. as you walk out of the elevator a sigh of relief comes, but then 
 you turn around, and already hacking at you is a Necromorph that has broken through the back of 
 the elevator.
  
  The weapon selection is pretty interesting, but definitely a drawback of this good game. There 
 are a lot of unanswered questions, and only a few of the already limited amounts of weapons are 
 really useful. Also, you'd think something that futuristic would have a better heat tool than a 
 flamethrower.
  
  The story is very original, and quickly sucks you in, discovering what really went wrong on the 
 "Ishimura" is both interesting and entertaining. The one thing I will say is although the story 
 is original, most of the objectives feel very similar and repetitive (Go here, get this, come back.) 
 but the boss fights clear that up a bit.
  
  Dead space has a lot of original content, and a very good combat system, apart from the missions, 
 it is a great game that will definitely be talked about for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adar_g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a masterpiece of the horror genre of games. Nothing comes close to those first moments 
 when Isaac is confronted with a dark, twisting hallway and several dead and mutated former crew 
 member hot on his tail, ready to tear him into pieces. Until, that is, the fear ramps up to a terrifying 
 apex, and just when you think you've gotten past it, it returns in force.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Space is similar to Resident Evil 4 meets Gears of War. There is no cover 
 system, but you use a two-stick control scheme to strafe and look/aim. The weapon sight is brought 
 up with a shoulder button, and fired with the other shoulder button while up. Isaac can also use 
 melee attacks, he is able to swing his weapon, and stomp down with his boots. All the weapons in 
 Dead Space have a secondary firing option, allowing for a wider variety of attacks and strategies. 
 Combine all these options with Isaac's two other abilities, the stasis and telekinesis modules, 
 and you have about as many ways to kill the necromorphs as they have to kill you.
  
  Another interesting feature in this game is dismemberment. Head shots and body shots are not encouraged 
 in this game. In fact, doing so can make the necromorphs go into a rage, or in some cases release 
 more necromorphs. Blasting, slicing, and shooting off an enemy's limbs will take them down much 
 faster and save on ammo. Which limbs to remove is as important to consider as aiming for them in 
 the first place. Shooting off arms does the most damage, but it's much more difficult to do. Taking 
 out legs slows down enemies, making the arms easier to remove. It's not all that easy though, the 
 necromorphs are fairly intelligent, and will tuck their claws in while they run, use ventilation 
 shafts as a means to sneak up on you, and use loose team tactics. The enemy designs and behaviors 
 make them some of the most disturbing and challenging foes in horror games to date.
  
  Dead Space's environments and audio are what really make the game shine though. The darkness and 
 deafening vacuum of space are so well represented in this game, it's amazing. Corridors are plastered 
 with pulsating organic mass. Lights and power outages occur, leaving you with only your flashlight 
 to guide the way. Malfunctioning doors slam shut in front of you repeatedly. But it's not only 
 about the darkness and visuals. The vacuum of space is deafening, and you'll need to enter it several 
 times. Since you can hear nothing but strained breathing as Isaac runs low on oxygen, you'll never 
 know if an otherworldly terror is about to sneak up on you.
  
  Dead Space is an instant classic. The game's environments and creatures are so well done it has 
 earned itself a place as one of the definitive horror games of not only this generation, but previous 
 generations as well. If you liked Resident Evil or Silent Hill, you owe it yourself to give this 
 a try. You'll be watching the ventilation in your home for weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biozhock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an absolute masterpiece, with great, original scares that left me paranoid throughout 
 the whole game, which I thought incredible, since it was EA's first attempt at an M-rated horror. 
 Adding on to a great plot are mind-blowing graphics, and an incredible physics engine, especially 
 in Zero Gravity areas, in which debris and dead bodies eerily and realistically drift about. The 
 story, told by the creepy audio, text, and video logs found about the ship, as well as the spine-tingling 
 messages written in blood on the walls by dead victims to the Ishimura's fate help to immerse you 
 deeply in the game's world. For those looking for a blood-bath, Dead Space gives you a good variety 
 of weapons to be used in twisted ways to remove the limbs of your enemies. By the chilling end, 
 Dead Space had grown on me so much that I would now go as far as to say that it beats out games 
 like Bio-Shock and FEAR as my all-time favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Connormarlor
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  Dead space is an exiting adventure and horror game as you fight the mutated humans which are named 
 Necromorphs. You will notice there is a bar going down your spine that is your health make sure 
 not to lose it. As you walk down the creepy corridors and rooms you'll see fans on the walls and 
 ceilings be aware that the necro's jump out the fans which you would not expect. Dead space is 
 a terrifieng game but its that which keeps you playing. Dead space is not the usaul zombie shoot 
 em up head shots dont do a thing instead you'll have to use a thing called Strategic dismemberment 
 A. K. A you will have to shoot of there limbs. In other words shoot of a leg and as you will see 
 there still alive so then shoot of an arm and you'll find they should be dead.
  
  In Dead space you will notice you can curb stomp and it is useful for cracking open boxes which 
 will have supplies stashed in them also the curb stomp will be usefull for necromorphs without 
 legs. When necro's dont have legs they'll craul towards you so if your going to curb stomp a necro 
 make sure its crawling. There are many different necromorphs in the game the regular necro which 
 is just normal people the leaper which is a scorpian based mutant and the Lerker which is a baby 
 and is a whole lot dangerous than you would think. There are also other necro's like the Brute 
 which is a boss necro you will encounter a fair amount of times and there is the super necro which 
 used to be miners wearing there suits and when the miners became necros the suit gave them speed 
 and when I say speed I mean it they also have super strength and the ability to flank you easily 
 and then there is the necro that cant die it may sound stupid but **** he's tuff. Now as a normal 
 necro you would shoot the legs off then the arms in this case that will only slow him down for 
 a short time when he has no limbs he will grow them back and then your ****. He will also climb 
 into the airvents and pop out at any time so be aware. The last two necros are the necro's whith 
 a big bomb as an arm and if they get to close they will hit you and they will exlode, there is 
 also a necro which dosent have a name but here are the details its tall very tall very long arms 
 and legs and deadly but there also fairly slow so cut if there legs quickly and if they get close 
 your in for alot of pain.
  
  The campain in Dead space is a long fourteen levels and there are regular save points so don't 
 worry there are powers your player has which are stasis module which will slow down your enemy 
 basily your freezing them for a short period of time which would allow you to either take him out 
 or to get your distance from him. There is also the telekinesis module which will allow you to 
 elevate objects and limbs, unfortunately you can not pick up your enemy and throw in into walls 
 but you can pick up objects to launch at your enemy or if you shoot of a limb you can pick that 
 up. Ammo in this game is a critical part of the game whithout ammo your dead so think twice before 
 you sell your ammo ow yeah there are also shops in which you can by ammo health and upgrades and 
 you probably notices that when you bring up your inventory or map you are still in the game which 
 makes the amosphere a hell lot creepier. Unfortunately there is no co-op and no Xbox live but there 
 are downloadable content which can help you through the game which would give Dead space an overall 
 of 9/10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The first moment that I set eyes on Dead Space I fell in love. A third person shooter with no HUD 
 and all the necessary readouts ON the character! My attention was drawn. In addition, a horror 
 game that plays like a horror movie? Oh, I was hooked. Dead Space doesn't fail to deliver and will 
 very likely meet and exceed your expectations if you are dawn to the genre. The stage is set for 
 a horror experience that will grow you a set of eyes in the back of Isac's head in no time at all. 
 My advice is to always remain ready. The game delivers it's horror shooter joy through a very cinematic 
 nature playing all the videos, voice recordings, and text records in real time. You can be attacked 
 while listening to a voice recording you just picked up, while looking through your inventory, 
 while upgrading your weapons, or while shopping. The gameplay is seamless through every chapter. 
 The only safe place is the pause menu.
  
  The plot takes plenty of twists to keep you guessing and keeps you horrified enough to forget that 
 some missions can be a little repetitive. I didn't even notice the repetitive nature of the missions 
 during my first play through, I was too busy checking all the corners and vents for monsters! I 
 also played this game only at night and in the complete darkness with the sound turned up. Oh man, 
 it was great!
  
  The weapons are highly creative and unconventional, as if they were real tools you might use to 
 save your life and protect yourself. Each weapon is kinda of like a futuristic version of tools 
 you might find at a mechanics or with a carpenter. The plasma gun is really just a futuristic nail 
 gun and there's a circular saw, a torch, a giant lazer gun.... yeah everything you would find in 
 the real world. Each of these weapons has a very particular use in strategic dismemberment, which 
 beats the hell out of one shot to the skull tactic other games employ, and each can be VERY effective. 
 In fact, the most ineffective weapon in in the game is the military pulse rifle. Go figure, right?
 
  
  The game also includes a workbench where you can upgrade all your gear AND carry it over to your 
 next play through. This is highly fun and maxing out weapons is a bit addictive. Once they all 
 are maxed, which might take two plays, you may be ready to take on the hardest difficulty which 
 is unlocked after your first play through. One of the best parts of this game is that it is truly 
 frightening. To me at least, but to you... i would guess yeah probably. You never really know when 
 you're gonna get jumped, grabbed, ambushed, knocked down, or when someone will loudly interrupt 
 your one moment of peaceful silence to get in contact with you. It's nerve racking! Again, I salute 
 this game for its ability to make a GREAT third person game without a traditional HUD. Though it 
 has been grumbled that the camera gets in the way of the action in close combat, i think it works 
 FOR the game creating a closed in feeling as enemies creep up where you can't manage them and basically 
 rip you to pieces.
  
  Death is worthwhile in this game. I realize that means you would have to die in the game to understand 
 what I'm saying here, but if you have a spare afternoon, try getting killed by all the different 
 monsters just to see the animations. It's horrifyingly awesome.
  
  And that brings me to the graphics. They are, by far, some of the best I have seen on the XBOX360 
 and that opinion has been replicated by many of my peers who have also seen the game. I truly applaud 
 the developers, including EA. But that's not where it ends, because they've done a phenomenal job 
 on the sound and voice acting as well. Not only is it terrifying to SEE things running around invents 
 and coming at you with all due hate, but it's really creepy when you're simply standing still and 
 you HEAR things moving around... but can never find them until it's too late. 
  
  Always be ready while playing this game, and never trust the horror to end when the music stops. 
 It's only just begun. Speaking of which, I am already VERY interesting in picking up a copy of 
 prequel, Extraction. It's on the Wii, which I have HAHA, but it looks pretty solid. 
  
  Adding onto the plot that is already in Dead Space would not be a bad thing at all. Even though 
 you can figure out how things got the way they are in the game by picking up recordings and reading 
 text logs, there are some holes that would cover little things worth knowing to get a full picture. 
 Many times the blanks can be filled in by the hidden audio logs that require power nodes to gain 
 access to, but if you weren't looking for them you might not understand everything in its entirety. 
 
  
  This game is worth it and one of the best of the year, if not the best so far. Pick it up and become 
 a believer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  The survival horror genre have always been overlooked, sure some games happen to emerge every now 
 and then, but I find that the theme could be a lot more well explored. With the advancement of 
 graphical capabilities, lightning and sound effects the tools for creating creepy atmospheres and 
 gruesome stories also advance. This game is not exactly your average horror game, but does the 
 job nicely in constructing and maintaining a continuous atmosphere of solitude and suspense.
  
  In this game you play as a guy named Isaac Clarke, who's an engineer, in a mission to investigate 
 a ship named USG Ishimura after receiving a distress signal from it. When he and his crew get to 
 the ship a problem happens and their ship gets badly damaged, they find themselves trapped in the 
 Ishimura, but none of them are yet sure of what happened with Ishimura for them to send the distress 
 signal, so they start searching the ship only to find that the ship is infested with monsters and 
 various strange fearsome creatures. Isaac is separated from the group at the very beginning and 
 so the adventure begins.
  
  A must have for this kind of game is a chaotic location with you feeling alone and unprotected. 
 You can find it in this game, the locations aren't exactly a lesson in chaos and destruction, but 
 that doesn't stop the rooms from being extremely well-designed in a futuristic mess kind of way. 
 After all, I believe that wasn't even the focus of the producers and designers, and perhaps if 
 the locations were to be more chaotic the game wouldn't be so good. Being trapped in a ship with 
 no place else to run also spices up the experience greatly.
  
  You control your character from a third-person perspective and the aim is similar to what you can 
 find in Resident Evil 4, a laser aim. The guns aren't your average guns either, the main focus 
 are the common with a pistol, a machine gun and all that. But you also find some different kinds 
 of weapons along the way, with even average weapons functioning in a singular way, like the pistol 
 with a three location shot.
  
  The menace to your survival are monsters of all kinds, it is said in the beginning of the game 
 that you should use a especial method for killing them, instead of the usual "aim for the head" 
 kind of monster, you should now focus on the limbs, so first dismember them and to receive the 
 bonus of damage, it's the best way because it slows them down immensely, with no legs to move they 
 will have to crawl to get you, and your job in exterminating them will be much easier.
  
  Another improvement is the interface in which you control your health and items, they are all in-game 
 and tridimensional, you press the menu and a display will appear in front of your character, the 
 manu won't stop the action and if an enemy is around he will surely attack you, also the health 
 is measured in your character, as well as other measured techniques, the display in in the back 
 of the character, and the screen doesn't have any indicator of anything, it's just the cam behind 
 the character and no outside display. That's a nice improvement and especially for a horror game, 
 you get to think you're really into the Ishimura with no much help and not playing a game, pretty 
 immersive.
  
  The game could be almost perfect if wasn't for little details, like in the middle of the adventure 
 you're asked to defend the ship from asteroids, and you should control a cannon to do that, and 
 I must say that this little moment jeopardized a hell of an experience, the controls for the cannon 
 are loose and imprecise, and certainly doesn't fit the game. The game is broken in chapters and 
 each one of them you need to fix or do something for you survival and, ultimately, return home 
 safely. The job won't be easy with enemies demanding different ways to exterminate, and colossal 
 bosses that will make you shiver.
  
  Another gameplay mechanism are the zero-gravity rooms, places with no gravity that you can hover 
 in the air and reach the opposite extremity of a room by simply aiming and jumping. You also have 
 a limited time to stay in these areas, which can be increase by upgrading you equipment.
  
  The sound effects play a major role in this game, if you have a respectable audio system you'll 
 feel in heaven as the sound effects are so real and amazingly well-constructed. The music itself 
 is non-existent since would be a shame to have music, even creepy composition, in a game made to 
 make you feel lonely and unprotected. The eminent silence will keep you wishing there was music 
 to break the sinister atmosphere, never letting you presage a future jump off the chair.
  
  If you're a fan of survival horror games this is a must play, especially knowing that the genre 
 doesn't receive the attention it deserves and it's hard to find a game that manages to reinvent 
 the genre in such a meaningful way, and still create an outstanding creepy atmosphere resulting 
 in a game that exceeds any expectation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredmc
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  I loved this game and it scared the crap outta me on more than one instance.
  
  I know that there are a lot of people playing RE5 right now, myself included that may have watched 
 the video review and are expecting that game to be 'scary', well it is nothing like this game.
 
  
  I played this game naturally with the Plasma Cutter all the way through - just because it was the 
 'Dirty Harry' of the weapons in the lot - once fully upgraded.
  
  This game is right up there with Doom 3 and BioSHock in the atmosphere creation. 
  
  RE5 falls 
 way short of this and is a lot less fluid, and I guess technically it is not the same 'type' of 
 game. 
  
  This game is likely on sale right now and I traded it a long time ago and I normally keep the best 
 games (IMO) and I will pick this one up again when the price is right.
  
  You HAVE to have a 5 or 6.1 surround system with a sub to get the atmosphere out of these types 
 of games.
  
  Get it you will not be dissappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keetoo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Visually it is top notch, very sharp looking at all times. Extremely violent too, enemies bleed 
 almost gratuitously, and the various ways that they kill you are downright brutal to watch, and 
 almost rewarding. Having to dismember enemies makes for an interesting challenge - you can't just 
 blast your way through them. The weapons are interesting, particularly the buzz saw shooting ripper 
 gun. A lot to do, many safes, lockers, etc. to ransack for all kinds of ammo, upgrades, credits, 
 and other crucial items. The enemies perhaps could have been more varied, but they're effective 
 in any case. Some battles are downright epic. A lot of cool variations in the game play, such as 
 vacuum zones (amazing sound effect details) , anti-gravity zones where you can launch yourself from 
 wall to wall (and so do the enemies) , and environmental hazards galore. Telekinetic abilities also 
 flesh out the experience nicely for some light puzzle solving and extra combat strategy. The sound 
 effects as a whole are phenomenal, and I find made the game seem so vivid and intense. The voice 
 acting is top notch. My only gripe with the story was the text logs, I found the text very difficult 
 to read clearly. Nonetheless, the addition of said logs, as well as video and audio logs made the 
 experience that much more immersive. The length of the game is also more than satisfying no matter 
 who you are. Though a replay is largely unnecessary, I've gone through it again just because the 
 game is extremely fun to play. 
  
  The Bad: 
  
  I'm at a loss. The game isn't perfect, I guess despite the engaging experience, it can become just 
 a TAD repetitive, and maybe the weapons could have been more "wild" or imaginative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The survival horror genre is constantly evolving and changing. From Resident Evil to System Shock 
 to Eternal Darkness, it seems every other year developers find new ways to scare the s*** out of 
 gamers. The latest addition to the horror game craze is EA's Dead Space. It's not an altogether 
 original game; rather, it takes many elements from past games and fuses them into a seamless whole. 
 Dead Space may not be the best horror game ever, but it's nonetheless the scariest, most fun one 
 released in recent memory.
  
  If you've seen Alien, Sunshine, or any likeminded sci-fi movie, Dead Space's setup should feel 
 instantly familiar. You play as Isaac Clark, part of a small crew responding to a distress beacon 
 from the USG Ishimura, a massive mining ship. They soon find the ship is overrun by Necromorphs, 
 aliens which mutate and control dead humans. Predictably, Isaac gets cut off from the rest of his 
 crew and is forced to go it alone. It sounds very generic, and it is - until about the halfway 
 point. Then, the story really comes into its own. You'd have to be a psychic to guess some of the 
 later twists it throws at you.
  
  Like the story, the gameplay might seem a bit derivative at first. Dead Space is a third-person 
 shooter, playing very much like Gears of War or Resident Evil 4. However, the controls are where 
 the similarities end. The Necromorphs aren't your average enemies - for one thing, they can survive 
 without their heads. Those hours you spent learning the perfect headshot? They won't do much for 
 you here. To survive, you're going to have to dismember the baddies.
  
  It's a fresh new approach to the stale shooter genre. You're going to have to think a bit more 
 during combat, and you're going to have to think fast. Deciding whether to cut off an enemy's arms 
 or its legs could be a life-or-death decision. Your strategies are going to be always changing, 
 because there are constantly new enemy types being introduced. The generic humanoids are complemented 
 by flying bats, smaller, beetle-like creatures, and ridiculously fast monsters. If I learned anything 
 from Dead Space it's to expect the unexpected, which made sure I was always on my toes.
  
  But don't worry - Dead Space gives players lots of great tools to fight the Necromorphs. The controls, 
 for one thing, are dead-on. Unlike Resident Evil 4, you're able to move while shooting, which is 
 greatly appreciated. Both movement and aiming are very tight and responsive. I never died once 
 because of bad controls; it was always just me. The arsenal is also amazing. You won't find any 
 generic shotguns or pistols here - every weapon is wholly imaginative and fun to use. Your first 
 gun, the Plasma Cutter, will quickly become your best friend. Shots can be fired either vertically 
 or horizontally to help pick off the limbs of your choice. The other star is the Ripper, which 
 shoots out a spinning sawblade which then hovers in midair. It's tailor-made for fighting the Necromorphs. 
 There are a huge number of weapons and each has a great alternate fire, encouraging experiment.
 
  
  The other two big parts of your armory are not wholly original, but they are fun to use. First 
 off is Stasis, which will slow down most enemies and environmental hazards. It helps with tougher 
 enemies, though it definitely lessens the game's scares. The other addition is called Kinesis - 
 think Half-Life 2's Gravity Gun. Unlike the Gravity Gun, though, Kinesis doesn't feel like a real 
 important part of gameplay. There aren't any good puzzles using Kinesis and more often than not, 
 it feels tacked-on; or in the case of the final level, a way to artificially lengthen gameplay. 
 Unfortunately at only ten hours long (less if you don't care about achievements or collectables) , 
 that's definitely something Dead Space needs. 
  
  Though gameplay isn't always perfect, Dead Space's atmosphere is. The Necromorphs prefer to be 
 heard rather than seen. You'll constantly hear scuttling and scraping in the walls, and you'll 
 never be able to tell where the enemies are going to come from next. Every so often a shadow will 
 duck off-screen, or a monster will crawl into a vent. You never know where or when the 'morphs 
 will attack next. Great lighting effects and really unnerving enemy animation add to the fright 
 factor. Except to the most hardened, desensitized horror buff, Dead Space will provide an ample 
 number of scares.
  
  The parts of Dead Space might be familiar, but the final product is definitely one greater than 
 the sum of its parts. Though it's not too long and doesn't offer much incentive to be replayed, 
 this is a game that everyone should try out at least once. It's not a game as much as it is an 
 experience. And what an experience it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is probably, by far, the most interesting survival-horror game I've ever played. I've 
 never played a game where shooting an enemy doesn't kill them. Not to say it's a bad thing, just 
 an interesting aspect. And the fact that it's set on a ship, almost like an Alien type game... without 
 the tongue/mouth thingy.
  
  The Good
  1. Interesting Storyline: It's probably what makes me play the game after I've finished it. Interesting 
 twists and surprises that you might find funny, creepy or just downright unexpected.
  2. Different Gameplay: As I have said, I have never played a game where shooting at an enemy doesn't 
 work often. Dismembering them, it makes for interesting strategy, but it's kind of cumbersome and 
 hard to aim in tense situations.
  3. Plenty Of Scares: I wasn't bored by this game at all. Plenty of horror for some people to get 
 scared in. And if you listen closely, you can hear the whispers of survivors... or maybe the dead, 
 who knows?
  
  The Bad
  1. Low Replay Value: After completing the story, you pretty much know the odds and ends, twists 
 and turns, and nooks and cranys in the game. Not to say the game isn't replayable, just some people 
 might sell it back without playing it a second time.
  2. DLC not worth the cost: I've looked at the description of the Downloads you can get for Dead 
 Space, but none of them change the game in a significant way. Mostly, just a new look to your character 
 and guns. Almost like a fighters game.
  3. Dismemberment: While this does make for interesting gameplay to throw you off a little, it seems 
 to me that it's just a little too specific to shoot off an aliens arms or legs to kill them.
  
  Overall, this is a good game to at least rent. If your a hardcore survival horror fanatic, 
 then you probably won't really be disappointed by this game. However, you may not play it as much 
 as you'd like, so think about that if you plan to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpareTire
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy science fiction and horror, look no farther than Dead Space for a solid few evenings 
 of enjoyment. The story has enough twists to keep things interesting as you progress through the 
 12 chapters. I found myself pouring over each text log to pick up snippets of the back-story. The 
 graphics are top shelf and the dark dimly lit corridors of the environment do a nice job of creating 
 a sense of dread. I have only 2 minor complaints with the game. 1. The store was a bit of a pain 
 to navigate as the hyper-sensitive control pad would shift me between my inventory and the shopping 
 tab. 2. I was so wrapped up in the story, sometimes I would be drumming my fingers in annoyance 
 as I waited to be jumped by more monsters between plot segments. Those minor nits aside, I highly 
 recommend this title... and I'm looking forward to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomtaraz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I picked dead space up for $60 aus dollars thinking I might get round to playing it eventually. 
 I played it and couldn't stop playing it. It is a great game that has a good combat system; good 
 controls and you get a good feeling when you survive a boss fight. The gore is legendary and the 
 new strategic dismemberment worked really well and especially on the harder difficulties although 
 I thought it could have been improved on. The storyline is spectacular and sets the game up for 
 a sequel as well as other games set in the same universe. Overall I believe this game was under 
 hyped as I didn't really hear about it that much. I also believe it is a fantastic game that any 
 survival horror fan should not miss out on and gore seekers will greatly enjoy this game. And remember 
 no one can hear you scream in space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrobvi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  I'm kind of late with this game, so chances are you know enough about it that I don't need to go 
 into describing the game to you.
  
  All I'll say is this: Dead Space has the best sound design of any game, ever. I give the highest 
 recommendation that you play the entirety of the game with a good pair of headphones, because that's 
 what I did. There's so many little touches that you would simply miss them playing on a TV or whatever. 
 I give props to the sound design team because, unlike any other game, I could never tell which 
 sounds were simply atmospheric for the sake of it, and which ones foretold actual danger. The monster 
 sounds were insane and made me feel like these things were just dying to kill me.
  
  The limb-cutting gameplay is an interesting change, and while it could be frustrating when dealing 
 with certain monsters, it just made all the stressful situations in the game all that more intense.
 
  
  So, yes. Dead Space was the best game I've played in a while. I only spent about 12 hours on it 
 but it seemed about 3 times as long as that. Most definitely a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicForce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  One word review: PHENOMENAL There is no need to discuss the graphics, sound, voice work and gameplay... because 
 they are the best on the system and as of today, no game has matched this games quality in those 
 areas. It's a survival - horror title, but could be labeled "action - adventure" or "third-person 
 shooter.... but whatever you call it, IT IS INTENSE. You cannot mind blood and gore and still enjoy 
 this game. Part of the games allure is the over-the-top killings and dismemberments that you witness. 
 ACCEPT THE GROTESQUE AND YOU WILL FLOURISH IN THE HALLWAYS OF THE ISHIMURA.
  
  Length of the game start to finish....... it's perfect as well. Not short, fairly long.... but it 
 won't take you a month. You can see the end coming and it keeps you working to get there. Story...... is 
 fantastic (I'm running out of superlatives) . The story is engrossing, believable, has some twists 
 and yet can be easily followed.
  
  If there is one thing I wish this game had, it would be some sort of bonus rewards that could be 
 bestowed upon the player as you progressed from chapter to chapter. In my book that keeps this 
 game from being the most perfect video game experience ever. Oh... did I mention.... the way that 
 the games vital pieces of information are relayed to the player is also the best in gaming..... through 
 video accounts, written transcripts, real-time on-line tele-communications from fellow crew members..... all 
 is accomplished perfectly. 
  
  This game gives action game players the same thing that GRID gave to racing gamers. Both games 
 give gamers the experience of what next-gen video gaming was supposed be.... FINALLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, at times scary, but above all impressive. It leaves an impression on you that 
 says "scary games can be fun". For a guy like me who hates these types of games, stuck my head 
 out and tried it, it was well worth it.
  The story is good, even though you can see some of the crap coming. The beauty lies, however, in 
 the gameplay.
  Controls are slick and alot like RE 4. You can either shoot one of many upgradable, style varying 
 weapons, or use a heafty melee or ole-faithful (your leg) . Stomping on enimies is really cool, 
 especially with the volume up. I found myself steping on many dead aliens. The camera is set up 
 -heck. Just look at a damm screen shot. haha 
  Shooting limbs off of things is cool, and this game proves it. If i wasn't sane, I would have a 
 new hobby. And, when your hero dies, it is often freakish or sweet. Like, not to spoil, when you 
 have to go out side to this bridge, space junk will come and go. Well, if you just happen to let 
 the junk hit your dude, his head or somthing will pop off. It is super cool.
  So, rent definitly, no multiplayer, super good time. Let the Girlfriend take a spin. Scare the 
 hell out of her. 
  lmao 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PradJ
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  At first, I didn't expect this game to be as good as it turned out to be, which is why I've not 
 played it until my brother bought it a few days ago. After he had had his fill of a weekend full 
 of Dead Space, Now, I have seen the animated comics available on xbox live, and that did intrigue 
 me but not enough to buy the game. That aside, I put it off until mid-week. I turned the lights 
 out, turned the volume up, and yes, it has to be said, "This game is amazing".
  
  It claims to be a survival horror, and it is, with more. It has a good storyline (instantly beating 
 99% of the competition) , some innovative gameplay ideas that WORK (that really must be stressed) . 
 the graphics are brilliant, the lighting is fabulously creepy and the sound effects coupled with 
 the eerie music is intense and very satisfying when you're running for your life or battling it 
 out with some scary monsters!
  
  There are a few issues with some of the writing being hard to read on a normal non-HD tv, and the 
 gravity jumping can get annoying at times (like when you're desperately trying to gravity jump 
 somewhere and you can't for some stupid reason like there's a hint of alien matter on it, but you 
 can't see because you're too far away) , but otherwise this game is really a great thrill-ride. 
 First playthrough took me around 15 hours, but that's because I like exploring. There are reasons 
 to play it through a second and possibly a third time, as you unlock cool things, including an 
 'impossible' mode, which I have yet to try out!
  
  If you like your scary movies (and games) then this game is DEFINITELY for you!
  
  'Alien' 
 got it right when they said "In space, no one can hear you scream!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroLukeDX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was very mind controlling as you progress through the campaign you start to 
 hear screaming banging on walls and voices,
  This became my only fear, every time i heard a scream I had to check behind me just to check that 
 there was no mutated alien creature.
  
  The fighting system is superb because the physics engine works well this means when you fire you 
 gun for e. g. it looks real, sounds really, the flash is real and as you fire your body might just 
 jolt back because of the force of the gun that's the physics engine and that's what makes this 
 game feel real.
  
  I love dismembering the arms and heads of the creatures it's just so fun, when you think there 
 dead they still come for more. The game doesn't really have a story line but that's what makes 
 dead space good. As you go through the game you have to get off the ship not only that you have 
 to save two of your crew and find your missing girlfriend after you do that some ancient artefact 
 comes into place and that's what kills the aliens at the end of the game.
  
  The game can keep you busy to up to 12-18hr of game play I recommend that you play the game on 
 hard first because one it feels real two it's a challenge. I gave this game a rating of a 10 because 
 the physics engine the fighting, graphics, idea and the plot.
  
  If you are sci-fi fan you have to give this game a try Thank you for reading
  If you want to 
 talk to me my Xbox gamer tag is Nitro Luke DX.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mycatisromeo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of survival horror games since I first played Resident Evil on Playstation 
 over 10 years ago. This game ranks up with RE4 for Gamecube. It is the next gen console survival 
 horror game that every horror game will be measured against.
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen for the 360. They are loaded with detail. The lighting effects 
 are incredible. Many of the rooms are very large and all look different from one another, creating 
 a unique and realistic atmosphere. The large open rooms are actually more scary than the cramped 
 halls, as creatures can come at you from any direction. You really feel a sense of fragility and 
 exposure to the 360 degrees of terror from the 3rd person perspective. 
  
  The ability to run a good pace sideways, angled, and straight forward and backward adds to the 
 excellent responsive gameplay. Compared to Resident Evil 4, the character movement is much more 
 fluid, responsive, realistic, and easy to control. I was very suprised at how great the play control 
 was. 
  
  Everything that went into making this game was done with intricate detail. The menu, the storyline 
 delivered "on-the-fly" through audio and visual cues on your visor. The idea of having only your 
 character displayed on screen without traditional HUD display is ingenious and really makes it 
 feel as if you are playing a movie.
  
  The sound was equally amazing as the graphics. If you have a good 5.1 surround system with bass, 
 prepared to bring a change of diapers. The sound effects are crisp and clear, they all represent 
 the environments which you are in. 
  
  The difficulty was just right. About anybody could beat the game on Easy, as it truly is a "very" 
 easy difficulty (plenty of ammo and health) . I look forward to going back and playing on Normal 
 and enjoying more of a challenge.
  
  Dead Space is one of the best games of 2008 and luckily, my patience allowed me to enjoy it at 
 half-price by getting it used after a short 4 month wait.
  
  Dead Space is polished, well executed, and beautifully designed. I really was suprised EA could 
 pull off a game this well and I look forward to them bringing other "NON-SPORTS" type games to 
 us.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  There is all to much to be said about this game, and i dont really think i want to say it all so 
 i will cut it a bit short and spear you the little things. For a game that had a short add campaign, 
 was under most magz and web sights radar, and was made by the king of disappointment in video games 
 (EA) , this is one of 08s best games, if not my personal favorite. Let me ask a few questions to 
 the the person that might be reading this review (you fool! go to a different review, what the 
 hell are you doing?! NO!!!) Have you ever played a game where in space you actually cant hear anything, 
 like it should be? No. Have you ever played a game that actually plays out like a movie? (With 
 the exception of left 4 dead.) No. Have you ever played a game so brutal, so evil, that they dare 
 to have you kill evil mutant babies by throwing them at the ground and kicking off their heads? 
 I didn't think so. Dead space dears to do what few games have done before, get you deeply involved 
 in the space of the game as you search for you love on a dealict space ship infested by evil mutant 
 zombies. What? did you think i was going to talk about killing babies? your all sick. But anyways, 
 dead space achieves a connection to the mute character Issac like few games have. (Halo-Master 
 Chief, Kotor-Reven, and a few others) This is the kind of story telling that you would expect from 
 a developer like Bungie or Bioware, hell even Bethesda and Lion Head, but not EA! A game so gripping 
 an innovative that the moment you finish you will start again, hell i did, i played it through 
 five times in a row with out playing anything else. This game has done for horror video games what 
 the Shining did for horror movies, keeps you on the edge of your seat and guessing on what will 
 happen next in the story. The plot is solid and ties everything up well and leaves you sitting 
 on your couch gasping for more. Good thing they are making three. Now this game gets a 10 by me, 
 but there still are some issues all though they are so minor that they are totally overlapped and 
 shadowed by the game itself. First being the lack of a quick turn, but its ok if you turn up your 
 sensitivity a few clicks, this game involves no sniping so you will do fine. Also the fact that 
 you cant carry over your things to the hardest level made me mad, esspecaly when i played the harder 
 level and thought they should rename it to "WTF, this is F***ing Impossible!". But its Ok after 
 the first few hours of play when you finnaly get some AMMO! That leads me to my last bad comment, 
 the fact that in the game it throws to much at you to carry at any one time, making you leave behind 
 what may be essetial for latter on. But once again, they do provide a safe to store things in, 
 and a store to buy things in. 
  
  All in all, this is a must play for fans of horror games, over the shoulder shooters, and interactive 
 story telling. If you like life and own a PC, 360, or PS3 you must play this game to truly know 
 that there is a god out there, and he gives us games like this to help us through the constant 
 crap storm of games now coming out of japan ( No offense japan, but pick up your act. I mean common 
 you guys made Zelda, and Final Fantasy 7. What the hell is going on!) So stop reading this review, 
 i mean you should have stopped back the first time i said to at the beginning. What the hell are 
 you doing still reading this man?! Go to a F***ing Store and buy dead space before you make god 
 cry!
  
  Graphics- 9.5/10
  Game Play- 10/10
  Originality- 9.2/10
  Storyline and Plot- 10/10
  Voice Acting- 9/10
  Replay Value 10/10
  Memorable Moments- 10/10
 
  Total Presentation (That is both camera and sound) - 10/10
  And because i really like a good Ending. Ending- 10/10
  
  Peace out brotha mon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damodar_thade
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:38 am PT
Review:  Never been a fan of survival horror after trying resident evil and silent hill on the ps2 i gave 
 up on the genre till Dead space.
  
  It has a bit more third person shooter in it than survival but does both sides very well i hated 
 the demo but the full game intro explains the interface and controls ALOT better and lets you ease 
 into the game a little better.
  
  The weapons are great fun and a good variety of them there is i found the ripper saw to be the 
 most fun but the basic cutter seems to be both the most simple and effective weapon to use. The 
 assault rifle become pretty fierce after you invest some upgrades into it but really does cew through 
 ammunition.
  
  The thing i loved most was the interface/inventory/map system i have never seen anything so innovative 
 and smooth in a game in a long time it really is just awsome to see this holographic system spawn 
 infront of your char and watch him look at what you selecting but that could just be the geek in 
 me lol.
  
  Gameplay was great fun and the story was very well done with good V/O acting all round but my only 
 fault in this game was no V/O on player char which i really think there is no reason not to have 
 since it is pretty much standard in todays video games even RPGS with countless lines of dialogue 
 and variations of it have player char voice over a game like dead space could have done a few for 
 the amount of time the NPCs spend talking to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdboyxx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game can be described in a couple of words: biggest can of kickass to ever hit the survival-horror 
 genre.
  
  This game displays wonderful graphics, sounds, and storyline to bring you a gorey horrorfest with 
 no end in sight. You can cut your way through hundreds of enemies with different weapons from a 
 basic cutter designed to cut through metal bars to a military assault rifle. 
  
  The game's horror does wear off after the first 4 chapters as you face enemies that make themselves 
 more apparent and monotonous, the fun never seems to stop as you slice and dice and crush your 
 way through a horde of reanimated corpses.
  
  Good:
  -Excellent level design
  -Graphics are wonderful
  -The enemies are horrifying and beautifully designed; they are basically 
 a human with body parts and the like all mashed up into a killing machine
  -Sound effects are awesome
  -Zero-gravity, the vacuum of space, and stasis all allow a mixture 
 of challange, fun, and even more wonderful design.
  
  Bad:
  -The enemies quickly become repetitive as you fight your way through the ship. It feels like you 
 are facing the same enemy over and over.
  -The scare factor is quickly lost as the bigger necromorphs are introduced (they cant fit in a 
 vent so they wander around in a room making a lot of noise; not very scary) .
  -The missions are repetitive to the point of you just fight your way to one side of the ship, press 
 a button, go back to the other end, press a button, etc.
  
  With all the spunk, eye-candy and horror goodness this game provides, it is definitely going to 
 raise the bar for survival horror games for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechTrooper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  A good horrific story with a good meaning and purpose to it it leaves u wondring wats on the other 
 side of each door and wanting to shred it to pieces..
  
  Weapons are good although not much to choose from although each has unique purposes and are very 
 useful in their own special way the characters are good to especially the creatures that u battle 
 against very gorey looking and make you wonder `Was that Human once` so yeh very goodm allies to 
 for example the graphics are good and the attention between each of them is amazing
  very good game leaving u wanting more 
  
  the gameplay is pretty good aswell for example some 
 parts of the maps are pitch black and some are bone chillingly claustrophobic which brings us to 
 the battling which is usually up close and personal if u dont have a long distance weapon although 
 when needed you can smack em with a saw and send em on their way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  - Amazing graphics
  - Spine chillingly atmospheric and tense
  - Spine tingling soundtrack and great sfx
  - Well designed and well animated monsters are chilling 
 and the AI is very good, with enemies swarming you its easy to find yourself cornered
  - Great combat mechanic, dismemberment idea is well implemented and there is a good mix between 
 precision and frenzy. This creates some truly epic and tense firefights
  - Good length at around 13 hours
  - Immersive story keeps you hooked, with a great sci-fi plot 
 and well scripted dialogue
  - Well designed upgrade system for weapons
  - Acheivements and new difficulties add replay value
  - Well balanced difficulty, game never 
 feels to simple or difficult
  - Excellent boss fights
  
  The Bad:
  - The "scare factor" wears off quickly
  - Puzzles aren't exactly taxing
  - Co-op would have 
 been a nice addition
  
  Dead Space is the game horror/action fans have been waiting for since Resident Evil 4. It brings 
 together the two most important elements for any horror/action game (atmosphere and action) and 
 implements them flawlessly. This is all wrapped up in a well polished package and this makes it 
 my game of 2008. Whether your looking for a great action game or just something to fill in the 
 time until the release of resident evil 5, you should definitely give this game some serious consideration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightning-Angel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  Dead Space Is This game that just sucks you in it's Environment, Exploring the Derelict Ship USG 
 Ishimura and Discovering the Horrors that lie Ahead hell you will be Scared Each time you Open 
 a new door, Dead Space introduces us to a Great new Franchise and a great new idea and a great 
 new game, trust if you have not played it then what are you waiting for by all means you have to 
 try it, on the PS3 or the XBOX 360 or the PC no matter you must try it, such a game should not 
 be missed by horror and action fans alike, the Atmosphere just sucks you in the game and it's world, 
 my say is that if you have not tried the game by all means buy it now, and if you have I'm sure 
 you have Experienced the Greatness of such an Ambitious game, Seriously the Atomsphere and the 
 thought of what is behind each door is what really makes this game one of the greatest yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFA1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  For all anyone into Sci-Fi, Horror, or Suspense, this game will please.
  
  At first I was skeptical, especially after seeing is guy's suit. The first thing to come to mind 
 was "That is the ugliest suit I have ever seen!". I thought that this guy's suit would be the death 
 of this game. But Dead Space proves that just because the character you play looks like an Easy 
 Bake Oven, doesn't mean you won't enjoy baking brownies, or undead mutations of your fellow crew 
 members. You actually won't be looking much at your character because you gotta keep your eye moving, 
 as you never know when or where something will jump at you!
  
  Something this game does from the beginning is draw you in. Not just with AMAZING graphics and 
 visuals, but with an in-depth story and a "want" to know whats going on. The opening cut-scene 
 into the game got my attention.
  
  Each level has been designed and put together very well. Even in an science fictional game/setting 
 I could believe I was on a real ship with real areas that would make a space ship like this operate. 
 From the engineering and barracks, to the life support area which housed numerous oxygen generating 
 plant life and food sources. This further took you away from the "It's just a video game" feel.
 
  
  After beating this game, I had the feeling of accomplishment. Not because it was difficult or hard, 
 but because the story was so good, and I was sucked right into the middle of it, almost relating 
 to the character himself. It was like finishing an incredibly good book (do they makes those anymore?) 
 or the end of the Lord of the Rings movies. 
  
  It's one flaw of having a goofy looking character suit was quickly overlooked by a great story, 
 immersing gameplay, and realistic graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimTimmons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the Alien (s) or Event Horizon, this will feel very much similar to those films as 
 far as creepy atmosphere and suspense goes. The atmosphere is definately one of the big stars of 
 this game and it sucks you into the experience right off the bat. The music helps really build 
 a lot of the tension during the action sequences and the noises, screams, and clattering of things 
 in the dark definately make you nervous and jumpy - as they would if you were alone on a derelict 
 space ship. It all has a very organic feel to it, you never really feel like you're leaving the 
 experience. The inventory is accessible through a HUD in the action of the game - no escape to 
 "pause" menu while trying to use a med pack. Upgrade and save stations are all part of the environment 
 and the pickups (health, ammo, etc.) all make sense. 
  
  The game play is pretty solid, with most of the controls being fairly intuitive. I found myself 
 hitting the occasional wrong button, but after a short time of playing the game, it was no longer 
 a problem. Navigating the inventory can be a little annoying, but part of that is because you don't 
 know if you're going to get mauled while checking how many statis packs you have left - Hurry!
 
  
  I was quick to grab the Elite suite that was offered for free for two weeks after the release, 
 and that eased the experience for me. I didn't have to spend credits and power nodes as much on 
 my RiG because I started with the equivelent of a level 6 suit. This allowed me to spend extra 
 credits on ammo and weapon upgrades, which definately made the game a bit easier than it would've 
 been. It seems like they throw ammo at you because you can pick up so much of it - but each one 
 you pick up carries only a few (sometimes 1 or 2) shells. 
  
  The weapons are another star of Dead Space. I only ended up using two of them, one being the plasma 
 cutter you're given right off the bat. They do a really good job "teaching" you how to use it by 
 putting you in a few different situations with some fairly slow enemies and focusing on what you 
 should do. The other weapon I used was the line gun, which is like a bigger, badder version of 
 the pulse cutter - it has a wider, more powerful beam, as well as the ability to shoot a timed 
 mine (very handy against certain enemies) . You also have kenesis and statis abilities which you 
 will learn to rely on heavily if you're going to make it through this game. Kenesis is mostly used 
 for "solving" puzzles (moving blocks around, pulling levers, etc.) , although you can use it to 
 grab items that are out of reach or throwing dismembered enemy body parts as projectile weapons! 
 
  
  Speaking of dismemberment - wow. They refer to it as strategic dismemberment, and that it is. It 
 is best to slice the enemy limb from limb, rather than shoot it in the chest til it finally croaks, 
 otherwise you'll find yourself very short on ammo. You'll find that certain enemies have weak spots 
 to even further conserve your ammo - and credits!
  
  The story is solid, with a lot of audio/text logs around to fill out what eventually becomes a 
 twisting story, with a little religious twinge. The characters that you meet are fairly good - 
 better in general than Fallout 3, but not quite up to par with Half Life. There is limited interaction, 
 but it definately adds to the experience. 
  
  There were a couple sections of the game that hurt the immersion of the story, but overall Dead 
 Space does a great job of delivering an intense, sci-fi horror experience, that will definitely 
 be remembered - and probably sequeled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwithrow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, Dead Space was a lot of fun, but its not what its cracked up to be. It doesnt 
 deserve the fame that it gets. When you first start off, I jumped at everything and Im pretty sure 
 I wasnt the only one that ended up shoting all the bodies that where laying on the ground. That 
 gets old, the monsters always do that, so it lost its fear factor for me. I think the surviors 
 where creeper than the monster. They where so messed up from the experience. I felt like I was 
 cheating when my suit always told me where to go, I didnt feel like I could explore and figure 
 things out on my own. I also didnt like how when the monster got harder to kill all the developers 
 did was change their skin color and made their eyes red. The game has no replay valve since you 
 can go through the game again with everything you had before and mess the living crap out of everything 
 (Not saying I did that, because I did it with RE 4 and loved every minute of it) . All in all, the 
 game is good but once you beat it trade it in for something, no need to hold onto it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanmcg_23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The new standard for survival horror has arrived. Any fan of this genre, myself included, needs 
 to experience this game. As a working professional, I have little time for video games or the attention 
 span that I used to have for them. This game changed that. I was thoroughly gripped from beginning 
 to end. The pacing, story, voice acting, ambiance, game-play, and art are nothing short of extraordinary. 
 This is the type of stuff that would make a wonderful book. Isaac Clarke is an engaging, tortured, 
 strong, but tragic protagonist and it's a pleasure to tread alongside him in his brutal journey. 
 As my headline states, Dead Space has amazing atmosphere and I am always a fan of atmospheric immersion 
 in video games. I really felt like I was on the blood stained Ishimura the whole time - I was thankfully 
 and willingly affixed to my television and controller. I recommend this game to everyone with a 
 penchant for the macabre and science fiction - all rolled into a lovely package called Dead Space. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enfroy10
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought this game just because I saw that it got an awesome review on here, and I really 
 had no idea what it was about or what I was in for. But man was I glad when I purchased this thriller! 
 All of the chapters are quite difficult, when played on one of the harder difficulties.
  
  Graphics: The best I've seen in any video game ever!
  
  Gameplay: It's pretty dark in some 
 parts of the game so you either want to play it in a dark room or turn up the brightness so you 
 can see this masterpiece. Also, I loved how the health bar wasn't on the screen, it was on the 
 main character (this made it a lot easier to see how truly beautiful these graphics were!)
  
  Overall: This is one of my favorite games that I have ever played to date. You won't be dissappointed 
 with this zombie/alien shooter. This is a must have for all horror-action gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I have endured the likes of games like Bioshock and Resident Evil 4 I have been waiting 
 for the next big Action/Horror game to take its place. Although Dead Space doesn't blow these two 
 titles out of proportion, its a great horrifying experience that shouldn't be missed. Its a perfect 
 blend of both titles, it has the same meloncholy atmosphere of Bioshock and it has those jump of 
 your seat moments of Resident Evil 4 galore. Even though Dead Space "borrows" innovative concepts 
 it adds its own innovation in its features, and its safe to say that Dead Space has a lot of its 
 own highlights that other Action/Horror games might reflect off of. The game is downright scary, 
 and its Action Sequences blend in so seamlessly with its cinematic presentation that its one of 
 those frightening experiences you won't soon forget. But to be honest, it's not going to leave 
 you in bedtime scares causing horrific nightmares or what not. 
  
  Dead Space is simply shocking at times that you never will know what will happen next, or when 
 a creature will pop out the shadows and scare the living crap out of you. It's the same wonderous 
 feeling of adventure that Bioshock offered, but its the Action oriented sequences and encounters 
 that make the game special. The Adversaries you encounter are quick, fierce and deadly. They come 
 in all shapes and sizes, from all types of nasty appearances, the game rarely lets up in making 
 you fight new enemies in each chapter. Even the smallest creature can be a destructive force and 
 its things like that, that can suprise you or scare the hell out of you. Because even when you 
 aren't actually controlling Isaac (the game's main protaganist.) the game is still rewarding. The 
 death sequences are just so godly Brutal that its sick how you get dismembered and beaten down 
 to a bloody pulp, but its very fun to watch. Dead Space is Ultra-Bloody and insanely violent, everything 
 and everyone will get F*cked up in a chunky mess. From the nasty take down sequences, from the 
 smashmouth melee attacks, from the clever shooting tactics, Dead Space is just Brutal. I don't 
 know how many times I had this much fun yelling at my TV screen. The game plays out heavily similiar 
 to RE4, The game is broadcasted through an over the shoulder camera, and its zoomed in so you can 
 see all the terrific details that the game offers, but sadly its not as that functional. The Camera 
 is cut up like a Widescreen movie and its a bit nausiating to get used to, unless you have a HDTV. 
 Which in most cases, that answer is no. But luckily you can adjust to it in time to actually the 
 game, its a tadbit annoying but it can be overlooked. But the camera isn't the thing annoying about 
 the controls. The controls in general is a bit "New", you have to hold down the Left Bumper to 
 Run, and its bad when you got enemies chasing after you because the camera moves at a sluggish 
 pace. This would work in a standard Japanese Role-Playing game but even that concept has been left 
 in last generation, and note to self, this is a Action oriented title. The inventory menu is just 
 plain ruined because when you have to deal with camera problems, and creatures preying for you, 
 you never get time to press Select and enter the Inventory, and when you get stocked up and you 
 need to swap a item on a floor its just a giant mess, because you rarely get ammunition. So for 
 half of the game, I wasn't entering my inventory until after I dealt with my enemies. Its also 
 annoying how slow Isaac moves, if I was being chased by giant mutant aliens I would be running 
 like that Jamaician Track Star, Usain Bolt. But instead Isaac would rather move like a turtle. Switching 
 weapons on the fly is a pain and as well as reloading empty weapons. In the end, the controls are 
 barely adjustable.
  
  On the greener side, Dead Space's visual department is top notch. Its phenomonly great Technically 
 and Artistically, the creature designs are a little more creative that the game's human inhabitants, 
 but both are evenly eye catching as well as the game's backgrounds. The Framerate is often smooth 
 but there is that occasional slowdown at times, but in what I have seen on my 360 copy as well 
 as Ps3 screenshots is that the shadows and anti-aliasing could use some work, as they appear a 
 bit jaggy. Although I hear the PC version has a little to no flaws, but honestly its evenly the 
 same. The game's animations are sluggish, but good and the lighting and textures are Beautifully 
 Rendered.
  
  Dead Space's graphics may be execptionally good but the real treat is the game's unbelieveable 
 sound design. The game's musical tone is just right at the right moment and adds on to the thrills. 
 You'd be shocked by the sounds you hear coming from these creatures, they are disturbing and intimadating 
 that it makes the experience scary as hell. The voicework on its audiologs and voiceovers are solid 
 but when you are talking to human npcs in the game, its not really captivating. Other than that, 
 the sound is Grade A.
  
  The story has its perks from bioshock entirely, you are left stranded in mysterious place seeking 
 for answers and unlocking the mystery of the Dystopia, and you travel from chapter to chapter froma 
 Tram Station, Sans Bioshock's Pods. The Plot is original, you are Isaac, a average engineer that 
 is over his head but won't go down without a fight and is caught up in a dead spaceship that needs 
 repairs, everything goes bongo and things get really messy, the crew died and you and your buddies 
 got to fix the ship and uncover the mystery of Ishima. In the begining events, you see the back 
 of Isaac's head, but you never get to see his face or hear him talk, but you get the usual grunts 
 and aches of any main character. His personality is unknown so Isaac is a far cry from your standard 
 "Gotta Save the World" hero. But he's cool enough by his actions to attach to him. Honestly, the 
 beginning events aren't as what other say, it can be disasterous because of the game's controls 
 but thanks to its well oriented sequences it holds on to pull of a great story. Its filled with 
 suprises and the usual plot elements, but overall its something that shouldn't be missed.
  
  Ultimately Dead Space can breathe off its own air, but because its borrows many concepts from 
 Bioshock and Resident Evil 4 its watered down with that "been there done that" feeling, and its 
 not as groundbreaking as it should be. But it does add its own flavor. For instance the display 
 of a Standard Hud seen in most games, is cleverly tied with gameplay. Your' health bar is displayed 
 on Isaac's back, and your ammo is displayed on the weapon. Its satisfying to know that there is 
 nothing intervening with whats going on screen, but then again theres that banged up camera. Dead 
 Space doesn't earn a 10 because its rough around the edges, the combat is a bit clunky but its 
 tolerable, and its controls has it problems as well. The story isn't as groundbreaking as Bioshock 
 was, and the game has its graphical flaws sans Jaggy edges. There is also a ton of nitpicky stuff 
 but its not a big deal. But all flaws be damned, Dead Space shouldn't be missed and its worth playing. 
 I just don't know if the $60 dollar pricetag would justify for all gamers, but Dead Space is a 
 game that comes out rarely and its remarkable enough to get my good word for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:55 am PT
Review:  A game that will have most people begging for more, the violence level is through the roof, reminded 
 me a little of fatal frame although this time instead of a camera youve got some bassass weaponry, 
 the format is perfect, the the weapons and monsters with a good variety. Although the game is actually 
 quiet short, the simple fact of cutting up alien monsters to bits and the nice little challenging 
 achievements kept me playing it all over again. The plot was a little 2d, go over there fix that 
 kill monsters, something else needs fixing go over and fix it, kill monsters, but the graphics 
 and the tension keeps you on the edge of your seat. Good ending but the last boss was a tad boring 
 in factr most of the bosses were a little on the similar side all the way through the game. The 
 upgrading and buying of weaponry and armour has in my opinion always been essential for a good 
 game and dead space doesn't disapoint. Money buys you new weapons ammo and armour and spheres get 
 you upgrades on your weapons. I wouldve however liked to have actually seen the changes in the 
 weaponary when you upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a scary game, filled with an atmosphere full of creepiness, then look no further. 
 Dead Space contains everything you need in a great horror game. But there's one error, which can 
 be a problem. Simplicity. As you progress throughout the game in the beginning, you'll enjoy every 
 minute of it, but as you get to the end, you realize it's not that scary anymore, and you just 
 want to end the nightmare once and for all. 
  
  Story - [8/10]
  You are Isaac Clarke, a simple mining engineer on board your ship with your crew members, and you 
 receive a distress call from a nearby ship called the USSG Ishimura. The USSG Ishimura is a Planet 
 Cracker class ship, which are ships that gather minerals from planets. There's more to it than 
 that. As you enter the deserted ship, you find no trace of human life. It seems there's something 
 amiss here, and you get to encounter your first necromorphs as you enter a room. I can't spoil 
 anything more than that, but the story is pretty good, and I liked it. What made the story even 
 better were these text logs and audio logs that contains valuable information on what happened 
 on the USSG Ishimura. In conclusion, I thought that the story was written pretty well, and it never 
 bored me. 
  
  Gameplay - [7/10]
  The gameplay by far has some strategic points in it. To start it off, your not supposed to target 
 your enemies body and shoot at it. You gotta dismember them. That's the only way to kill them faster, 
 and by doing them, you can save more ammo and get yourself out of harms way. It's not like the 
 normal every day shooter you see nowadays. The weapons you have at your disposal are pretty neat, 
 and have some originality in to them. They're mostly for mining, so it makes sense. At the start, 
 you start out with a plasma cutter, a basic tool for space miners. As you progress throughout the 
 Ishimura, you'll encounter schematics for blueprints on new weapons. Such weapons include the Pulse 
 Rifle, which can be treated as an assault rife, and the Ripper, which projects a saw blade that 
 hovers and cuts through your enemies limbs. There are more weapons than I listed, but those were 
 just some examples. Now, before, I told you about schematics. You can use these to unlock more 
 items in the shops you buy in. Such can be suits, which improve your armor, or other various items, 
 such as medpacks and other stuff you'd need to survive. You can also use some melee, such as flailing 
 your weapon, or stomping. I found that the melee were that useful, but whatever. There are plenty 
 of gameplay elements found in this survival horror game which makes it shine. They relate to space, 
 such as the Zero G areas, and areas that are exposed to outer space. For the Zero G areas, there 
 are no gravities at all, and you can jump across landable platforms by flying through the air. 
 For outer space areas, they use up your oxygen supply, which is important. All of these elements 
 are a neat addition to ramp up the gameplay. The major flaw I thought about the gameplay, which 
 made me rate the overall score a 7, was that as you get to the end of the game, you find that it 
 wasn't so great after all, and that it wasn't that scary. The enemies behavior were all the same, 
 and all they did was fly towards your bullets. You find that everything you did was pretty simple, 
 but, it's rewarded with a great ending to a good game. To be honest, don't let my review keep you 
 from trying out this game. (One thing I forgot to mention was that you get these power nodes scattered 
 throughout these containers on the walls. You use them on benches to upgrade your weapons and other 
 stuff.) Wait a minute, I missed two other things. I'll explain them right now. For one, there are 
 these two powers you can use to help you throughout the grisly Ishimura ship. Stasis, a mysterious 
 projectile that slows down your enemies when hit. Kinetic, where you can use it to move objects, 
 or launch them at your enemies. These two things help you fairly well, but I think they make the 
 game easier.
  
  Graphics - [8/10]
  The graphics are fantastic. Not eye-popping, to be honest, but they do capture the feel of space, 
 and how it's so dead. The characters are brought to life with great textures, and the environments, 
 while repeated, capture the feel of a Science Fiction ship. The necromorphs are so well designed 
 that they scare you as soon as you see them. Overall, I have nothing more to say about the graphics, 
 other than that I didn't have any problems with them.
  
  Sound - [9/10]
  Uh oh, the highlight of the game. It's the sound which makes the game oh so creepy. Ranging from 
 the footsteps from the vents, all the way to the roar of a tall necromorph. Every time you hear 
 a sound, you brace yourself with your trusty weapon. The sound captures the mood of the game, and 
 pulls you in. Even better, turn your lights off, put the volume up, and you have yourself a very 
 scary game. In conclusion, the sound was what made the game what it is.
  
  Final Word -
  Dead Space is a game that starts out great, but goes a little downhill towards the end of the game. 
 Even so, try the game out. You won't be disappointed. It's definately one of the scariest games 
 I've played in the past.
  
  Hint: Play on the hardest difficulty.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tml605
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:39 am PT
Review:  Graphics - great.
  Sound - WOW!
  Atmosphere - have never been so real!
  
  Exploring locations and finding items have never been so interesting. Ability to upgrade your weapons 
 (tools) and armor combined with buy/sell ability gives you a lot of choices: sell ammo and upgrade 
 you weapon or sell health packs and upgrade you armor, or may be I should leave more ammo and health 
 to me.... who knows what can happen in the next room - never thought this process can be so interesting.
 
  Killing monster very fun too, cutting their limbs with you tools makes the process more thoughtful 
 - should I cant it`s legs or arms or I just do not have time to aim and I should shoot where ever 
 I can :)
  
  I dont have time for a long review but thre two things you should know about this game:
  first 
 - it is really great game - as for me it is the best on xbox360 for now.
  second - it will really make you afraid, so you better play demo before buying - it can be too 
 scary for someone and I dont recommend this for people with hear problems.
  
  I`ve played lot of games - but this one is really masterpiece! It scares me very hard, but I love 
 it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staeksauce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I first saw a video for this game by accident while browsing on gamespot and I am glad i saw it. 
 When i first saw it i was just thinking how good the graphics were and how fun it could be to play. 
 The reviews over it convinced me to buy it and see if it was as good as it looked. It was. It was 
 amazing! The graphics are fantastic and the zero G parts were absolutely incredible, just watching 
 the necromorphs slowly drifting through space, blood trailing behind them. I mentioned this game 
 to friends and when they played it they couldn't stop talking about how great it was! It really 
 just is plain fun to play with the many different weapons and strategicalIy dismember necromorphs. 
 In my opinion this is probably the best horror game out there! If you enjoy horror games or adventure/action 
 games in general, this game should not be overlooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drec0nis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:55 pm PT
Review:  So I just beat the game, with a time of 16 hours and 10 minutes, and it was a blast. I saw it all, 
 collected it all, killed it all, but never found whoever was singing twinkle little star, oh well 
 maybe next time (or was it, no i wont ruin it for you) . The game had very few "oh crap this is 
 bad" moments, but they were there, mostly in the last 1/4 of the game. I personally do not like 
 scary movies (or games) so this was something new for me. Sorry to say, its just not scary. Even 
 when things jump out at you or appear out of nowhere its very rarely scary, let alone surprising. 
 That might be because the combat and the alien's methods are so predictable, but its still fun.
 
  
  Graphics and sound are flawless and top notch and the environments always look amazing. Fighting 
 for your life all over a massive ship is very cool as you get to explore every deck of the ship 
 and see all the neat details and inner workings (although nothing actually works on the thing, 
 its always something) .
  
  The story is chilling and keeps you wanting more, and the environments really tell a gruesome tale 
 at every turn. As you may know you can collect credits for upgrading your equipment called power 
 nodes. You can find and buy these, and using them on your rig and weapons is fun and satisfying. 
 You can also buy new suits (rigs) , which was one of my personal favorites, i wont tell you why, 
 see for yourself. 
  
  The ending is a twist that makes no sense, in more ways than one, but whatever. I recommend renting 
 this one, its too short to own unless you have plenty of money, unlike me. It has no multiplayer 
 and some replay value, im about to start my second play through, right.... now. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Not since Resident Evil 4 has there been such a horror masterpeice! This game combines several 
 of the greatest horror elements including: Resident Evil style gameplay, Bioshock-esque story telling, 
 the twisted and grotesque corpses comparable to the monsters from THE THING, and enviroments reminiscent 
 of Doom3 and EVENT HORIZON. These all combine to make the scariest horror game experience of all 
 time. These categories will explain:
  
  Gameplay: This title's gameplay is absolutely PHENOMINAL!!! It has the camera angle of RE4 which 
 rocks. The controls are very tight, precise and they are original. The best part that basically 
 defines Dead Space is its dismemberment system. Unlike most survival horror games, shooting an 
 enemy in the head can be a fatal mistake that can send Necromorphs into a berserk. The proper way 
 to kill an enemy is shooting its weak spots. The upgrade system is very great and will keep you 
 coming back for more.
  
  Graphics: These are some of the most realistic graphics i have ever seen. Every enemy has a distortion 
 of broken bone, twisted limbs, and blood soaken clothing which makes every enemy look great. The 
 enviroments are highly detailed. 
  
  Sound: This is amazing!!! Every corner you turn you will hear bone chilling growls and footsteps 
 that will keep you scared and alert to everything you hear and see. With surround Sound, it will 
 sound like you are in the game, and trust me its creepy as hell!!!!
  
  Story: I will leave this breif because I don't want to ruin the excellent experience for you. This 
 game starts you off as Isaac Clarke on a mission to board the USG Ishumura which lost contact with 
 the CEC, the company you work for. When you board, you find out that there's an unkown alien infection 
 that has taken control over the ship. The story is triple-A and the best story I've heard in a 
 while. I reccomend watching DEAD SPACE: DOWNFALL and reading the Dead Space comic series after 
 beating the game to fully understand this amazing story.
  
  
  Because this game is so good, i'm giving Dead Space a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icemael
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Good stuff:
  
  The sound design is brilliant. While walking through the dark corridors you'll hear the distant 
 roars of monsters, eerie singing and ominous crying. The screaming of a Necromorph jumping out 
 of a nearby air vent is accompanied by a suitable crescendo, only to be replaced by an unpleasant 
 silence when you've reduced it to a pile of bloody limbs. The roars Isaac let out while desperately 
 flailing his arms, to fend off bloodthirsty monsters are really believable, and the screams in 
 the brutal death animations make you feel his pain. When in vacuum you'll hear nothing but the 
 deepest sounds, and enemies will silently sneak up on you from behind. The sound design in Dead 
 Space is flawless, and playing the game with surround sound or headphones is a must.
  
  The game looks great. The graphics are really good on the technical side. The absence of a HUD 
 and the fact that the few cutscenes are viewed from the same position the camera is when playing 
 greatly enhances the immersion. The game is dark, and extremely bloody. Recently cut limbs are 
 accompanied by spurting blood that leaves realistic stains. The animations are also very good and 
 believable - Isaac moves look just like you'd imagine a real human would, and when he's hurt he 
 desperately stumbles away from enemies more than runs from them.
  
  The gameplay is fun. If the game had a quick-turn, the controls wouldn't be able to get better. 
 Cutting off limbs with the varied weapons (ranging from a remote saw blade to an military pulse 
 rifle) never gets old, and the time-slow and telekinesis devices are fun to use. You could slow 
 an enemy down, cut off it's talon while it jumps at you in slo-mo, and the fire the talon at it 
 using telekinesis. You'll fight enemies while jumping around in zero-gravity tunnels and while 
 keeping check on your air meter in vacuum. The huge bosses are fun to fight, and the game culminates 
 in a final boss fight where scale, sound, looks come together to form possibly the most epic final 
 boss ever.
  
  
  Bad stuff:
  
  11 of the game's 12 chapters are spent on the same ship, so the environments are quite monotone. 
 The fact that enemy variety isn't big doesn't really help - most of the enemies you fight later 
 on are just stronger versions of the ones you fought in the beginning.
  
  The game is short, and while there are several difficulty settings the game doesn't really have 
 much replay value. If you're like me you'll play through it several times just because it's so 
 fun, but if you don't love it to death this could be a problem.
  
  While the boss fights are excellent, there aren't exactly plentiful. There are 4 bosses, two of 
 which I wouldn't really count as true bosses.
  
  
  Final verdict:
  
  Except monotony, there isn't really anything to complain about (I has a hard time coming up with 
 bad points) . The game delivers some truly awesome sequences, and the stuff between them is extremely 
 solid. If you want innovation, Dead Space isn't the place to look - if you're looking for a game 
 with excellent sound design, gruesome visuals and fun combat, you should go buy this right now.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly one of the gems from 2008, and should be experienced by everyone looking for 
 a good game to play for a while. The only real draw-back is how long the experience lasts. At around 
 11 hours, it's about average length for a single-player game, and without multi-player , the only 
 thing left to be done with the game is to play through once more if you so choose.
  
  In just about every other aspect, the game shines. Great graphics, voice acting, and sound effects; 
 alright music; very good lighting; a great selection of weapons; and everything, from all the necromorphs 
 to Isaac's armor to the ship itself, was designed well. The character of Isaac himself, is a little 
 too blank, however. An apparent a mute who wears a mask the whole game, except for about 1 minute 
 at the beginning and 25 seconds at the end of the game, really distances the player from the character, 
 who doesn't show any emotion (though admittedly that's rather hard because of the reasons listed 
 above) . The game's story isn't anything new, original, ground breaking, etc., but it is alright. 
 About what one would expect if they were to see a sci-fi horror movie. The game is an over-all 
 great experience, and should at least be rented by everyone who doesn't mind a little extra gore 
 in their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMTHEJOKER88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  A superb single player experience, with great graphics and brilliant level design this is by far 
 my favorite survival horror game to date. Enemies are fast and deadly and look stunningly grotesque. 
 With almost no HUD implements make it feel all the more realistic. The combat is varied and extremely 
 intense, with a multitude of weapons available at your disposal, gameplay is fun and you rarely 
 feel too familiar with fighting the hundreds of monsters. The story is well written with frequent 
 plot twisters and engrossing characters. The continuity of almost-theres can at sometimes put the 
 player in a mood of frustration but when you finally reach the ending, it is well worth the wait. 
 With great vocal acting, superb graphics, intriguing game-play, formidable AI opponents and a story 
 that draws you in, this is by far one of the better games that EA has released to date. A good 
 flow of downloadable content offering even more weapons and armor provides a sturdy amount of dlc 
 as well as adding plenty of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2009 4:21 am PT
Review:  As I neared the end of Dead Space, I kept finding myself wishing that the rest of the game lived 
 up to Dead Space's carefully-crafted, meticulously detailed visuals.
  
  The environments aboard the corporate starship Ishimura carry a lived-in detail that most game 
 developers never bother to aim for, much less achieve. While one must allow for certain concessions 
 to the reality of game design, the Ishimura looks like a place where people actually lived before 
 they died. Signage, magazines -- details great and small -- give a sense of place that most games 
 (especially shooter games) never see.
  
  So darkly beautiful and well-conceived are Dead Space's visuals that they end up making the _rest_ 
 of the game look even weaker than it actually is.
  
  Simply put, Dead Space's story is so bland, and so shamelessly derivative, it doesn't deserve the 
 art, design, music and voice acting used to tell it.
  
  Yes, I know all about homages, but Dead Space isn't homaging here -- they're stealing plot points 
 whole.
  
  Rent and watch the movies "Aliens", "Event Horizon", and "The Ring" and you will have seen basically 
 every plot element in this game.
  
  Worse, Dead Space doesn't even use the ideas it steals well. You can see the "shocking" plot twists 
 coming from light years away, and yet the game acts as though these predictable reveals weren't 
 as obvious as the nose on your face (especially if you've seen the movies I cited above) .
  
  Sometimes, Dead Space's story plays out like a pastiche put together by enthusiastic grade 
 schoolers over a lunch hour -- everything here you've already seen elsewhere, often done better.
 
  
  The scares (such as they are) are woefully predictable. By game's end, I was able to anticipate 
 when I would be attacked with alarming accuracy. 
  
  And the game isn't actually creepy, either, for all the supernatural overtones it plays with (yet 
 never explains enough to make interesting) . The scares here are only shocks -- of the "Rawr! Eek!" 
 variety. It's a monster-shooter game. The plot promises more than it ever delivers.
  
  The last great sin of Dead Space is that you play on rails. By the end of the game (at the very 
 latest) you should definitely know that something's hinky -- but the game decides for you that 
 you're a moron who hasn't figured anything out, and forces you to a conclusion many gamers wouldn't 
 choose if they could choose.
  
  And the "shock ending?" I won't spoiler, but it's a straight-up steal from another source as well. 
 And true to Dead Space, it makes no sense, either. It's obvious somebody thought it would make 
 a good "shock" moment and just threw it in, story be damned.
  
  If all you want is a horror shooter, there are better options out there already (the FEAR series, 
 for one) , and if you want any kind of engaging story to go with Dead Space's lovely visuals, forget 
 it.
  
  A rental, at best. Save your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an excellent survival horror space adventure. The graphics are crisp and the entire 
 game looks good. the sound is fantastic, and at times will give you chills as odd screams and the 
 skittering of creatures emenates from your surround sound. The game has some very memorable jump 
 scenes that will have you scraping yourself off of the ceiling, especially early in the game. the 
 same scares lose their impact after you've seen them a few times however. You're character is somewhat 
 one dimensional and you never really feel that much in touch with him, but he's still better than 
 many. There's a pretty good story line with a few actual plot twists. You are afforded a nice array 
 of weapons, an excellent inventory system, a good upgrade system and a very generous save system. 
 The game has no glaring major frustrations. I encountered no glitches while playing. If you want 
 a gory, creepy good time, get this game and commence with the limb removal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fall_of_Reach
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  It's quite a rare occasion when a video game comes along and really pulls you into its atmosphere 
 and sinks it's hooks into your sides and refuses to let go.
  Dead Space came out of seemingly nowhere to offer up one of the best gaming experiences of 2008.
 
  From the opening scene Dead Space immerses into its world with stunning graphics, well acted dialogue 
 and atmospheric sound. Its not long until you feel as if you are in the main characters boots, 
 alone, with nothing but the sound of your own breathing against the inside of your suit, bravely 
 walking the corridors of a derelict mining ship to your destination to try to get the thing up 
 and running again.
  
  This is what you spend the bulk of your time doing within Dead Space, traversing the ships eerie 
 interiors to fix the various things that have broken down whilst coming under attack from creatures 
 that have taken up residence inside the mining vessel.
  While this sounds like a repetitive task, the function rarely seems to tire and all the locations 
 look fantastic... and really, what else would you expect to be doing whilst aboard a broken vessel 
 where you have been sent, as an engineer, to investigate.
  
  Two of the coolest functions within Dead Space are areas that you will come across that are Anti-Gravity 
 and Anti-Atmosphere.
  
  In the Anti-Gravity sections you are allowed to leap around all of the surfaces of a room. Some 
 times this admittedly doesn't happen as fluid as possible... On occasion you may have to take a 
 few steps back when jumping from a wall you would like to jump to that may be a bit too close. 
 And on occasion you just be unable to jump to a particular spot from where you are currently standing.
 
  But despite this the concept and the actual are quite neat.
  
  The Anti-Atmosphere sections are where you have to go through a room where the ship's armor has 
 been breached, or in one spot, where you have to go out on the hull of the ship.
  When you step out into a place of Anti-Atmosphere the sound and lighting change relative to the 
 condition. The sound becoming dull and heavy, and the light becoming brighter and awash with shades 
 of grey.
  Whilst in these sections your suits oxygen tanks kick into gear, giving you a limited amount of 
 time in which you can still breath comfortably. The length of time, indicated on your suit... or 
 by the troubled breathing of your character, Isaac.
  
  With no HUD to speak of, everything is displayed on or through your characters suit. Your health 
 level is displayed on a pipe system on your back and weapon ammunition displayed on the weapon 
 itself.
  You also have an inventory that is displayed as a holographic image in front of Issac when toggled 
 on.
  
  The weaponry of Dead Space is fairly unique. All of the weapon acquired throughout the game are 
 scavenged and modified mining equipment. The first of which you are given being a Plasma Cutter 
 which fires 'blades' of plasma energy either vertically or horizontally, depending on you need 
 or preference.
  
  I could not recommend this game enough to anyone who is yet to play it. As a whole, Dead Space 
 is an amazing gaming experience and is by far my favourite game of 2008, with gorgeous graphics 
 and fantastic sound it creates a genuinely creepy, claustrophobic and immersive atmosphere and 
 a story that will keep you hooked and guessing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowfox417
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  There is no denying Dead Space is a (to say the least) good game. The reason I am talking about 
 it is because, it is not often you run across a truly remarkable game anymore. I am sort of nit 
 picky about games (wanting to be a video game designer myself) so it is hard for me to say a game 
 is amazing or give it a 10. I have to admit after games such as Kingdom Hearts 2, Final Fantasy 
 8 and the original Halo blew me away (along with others that I cannot think of right now) , I was 
 losing hope a next gen game could keep up. 
  Then something amazing happened EA, who I never expected, made Dead Space. This game IS truly remarkable. 
 From the get go I was very impressed with the cinematic approach. Instead of making the screen 
 jump from great CGI graphics to normal old game play, Dead Space flows seamlessly from cinema to 
 game and there is no CGI. This to me was a good idea on their part, because they managed to show 
 what graphics power is capable of today. Environments in the game were beautifully designed and 
 characters were smooth. At times you really felt you were aboard the USG Ishimora and felt connected 
 to the well articulated environment. Dead Space took all that could be creepy and terrifying about 
 a ship ad put it in this game. 
  It can be said that this game is repetitive of other games but, I just do not see it. By tweaking 
 even the smallest aspects of this game, EA created something completely new and fresh. No HUD was 
 a welcome relief, especially when you feel disconnect from games that have maps floating over the 
 cornea of the eyes you are looking through. Without all of the artificial pieces of information 
 about the character cluttering the screen, you have time to really enjoy all of the finer aspects 
 of the game (plus now those pesky small enemies don't get lost behind your health bar) . They also 
 kept the scare factor alive by putting everything that would be in a HUD into a nice little floating 
 hologram that does not interrupt game play, keeping the scares alive. 
  Strategic Dismemberment got a lot of negative response from many people and I have to ask why? 
 Do you fear change? Does it depress you that you cannot run in guns blazing, pulling off head shot 
 after head shot as you single handedly triumph, where hundreds before obviously failed as their 
 bodies lye lifeless on the floor? Quite frankly I enjoy a game were I have to focus on what I am 
 shooting at, as opposed to holding down my trigger finger and letting the AI navigate their way 
 into my line of fire. Not to mention there was something sinister about lopping off enemies limbs 
 that tied in perfectly to the natural creepiness of the game. However, I do not wish to see this 
 strategy applied to other EA games in the future (other than Dead Space 2) . Instead I hope EA can 
 crank out another "different" game, I have pretty high hopes for Dante's Inferno. 
  Isaac Clarke is a true hero. Anyone can make a story where the main character is a bada**, where 
 he, as mentioned above, triumphs where millions before him have failed merely because, he is bio-enhanced 
 or some sort of super soldier or in some cases a nameless warrior. Isaac Clarke however, is a character 
 we can relate to, he is just a simple engineer in way over his head. He really draws you into the 
 story and he does it without a single line of dialogue throughout the entire game. I heard talk 
 about using a new character for Dead Space 2... I see why this could be a good idea, using someone 
 new keeps that feeling of relation to the character. Yet, while playing the game you become very 
 attached to Isaac and well frankly want to know more about him. 
  The story in itself is fantastic I felt guilty beating the game quickly because, I wanted to get 
 to the end of the story but, it is just so good I could not help it. I think a perfect amount of 
 foreshadowing went into the twist that unfolded (don't worry no spoilers if you haven't played 
 the game I want you to still be surprised and if you have you know which point I am talking about) . 
 
  As I mentioned before I am nit picky about games. I will admit there were certain flaws with the 
 game but, they were so small the were insignificant. The first one I noticed was Isaac's uncanny 
 ability to glide away from a stationary object if he swung his arm at it. If EA had simply made 
 it so that his arm bounced off of walls when he swung at them, this problem could have been resolved. 
 The only other problem I noticed as far as a design flaw goes was the way Isaac jumps into position 
 when doing an animation. During the one point in the game he shows emotion his arm kind of jumps 
 into the animation, I just feel it should have been more seamless. As far as game play goes the 
 only thing I did not like were the cannon portions of the game. Veterans of this game will know 
 how tedious and relentlessly difficult this section of the game was. Finally I was indifferent 
 about bosses in this game, two of them (Leviathan and Slug) were lacking. However, bosses were 
 redeemed for me when I fought the big bad Regenerator. Also, portions of the Hive Mind battle are 
 fairly interesting. All this aside Dead Space was amazing and if EA read this and took to mind 
 the things I noticed, Dead Space 2 could be even better. Oh, and if EA does read this PLEASE! make 
 the next one longer! 
  All I can say is Kudos to EA you have created an amazing game and I am sad it has not joined the 
 ranks of games such as Halo in popularity. I encourage anyone who has not bought or is skeptical 
 about this game to get it and try it. Trust me you will not be sorry it is well worth it's retail 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  this game surprised mw at all. resident evil was the only survival horror game that i liked.. after 
 playing this. it simply has it all. amazing graphics, outstanding boss fights, reckless weapons, 
 absorbing story, and the ending...
  the only thing that i think was the "bad part" (and i put it between "" because it is not even bad 
 it's just a little bit boring) were the mision wich were just going somewhere and push a button 
 or kill something (yes.. something :) ) . after you start playing this game you just cannot stop 
 playing. it's the story that you can't wait to unfold, keep you nervous a attached to the control 
 for hours without rest. it can also be the variety of weapons that allowing to kill your enemies 
 in many ways: freezing them with stasis and slowly killing them or just burst them with with your 
 just upgraded pulse cannon. even if this game had those repetitive mision you need to keep moving, 
 surprising you with the constant surprises that the game offers you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrei912
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Dead Space - a revolution
  
  Though the idea seems classic , stranded in unknown space skinned by aliens , Dead Space is one 
 of the most horrifying games this addict has ever played. 
  Even if many horror games have appeared these years , how many have brought fresh ideas , I dare 
 ask you ? Franchises such as F. E. A. R or Silent Hill , though very good (F. E. A. R = one of my favorites 
 ) they lack new ideas , from the ,, Horror Elementspoint of view , are CLASSICS , from old horror 
 movies ( how many times have we seen little girls in horror movies ? - this is one of the best 
 examples but there are more ) . Yet Dead Space is fresh , as I said b4 not the idea is new but 
 the playing. 
  When saying Dead Space , for those who have played it , you say blood , sick , pure evil and dark 
 environments . During the game you are separated from your mates and , the main char being the 
 only engineer of the crew , you are being sent of on apparent suicide runs in the desperate attempt 
 to repair the ship. What at first seems to be an alien invasion later reveals as being a religious 
 mission , thus complicating the game and the understanding of the real message and story , and 
 ofc making it more scary , for man fears what he can't understand and even if you know this is 
 just a game the strange religious messages play your subconscious. 
  
  I have found the game pretty hard because on later difficulty modes the speed of the enemy prevents 
 you from targeting his limbs with the targeting systems , and combining that with the big number 
 of enemies that attack you on later chapters creates this complication. The game is not that long 
 , at first play , ( my first was on medium ) it might take you 12 hours ... or longer depending 
 on how you face the horror parts ( some might charge ahead while others prefer to wait or be careful 
 ) yet on second play you might even finish it in 5 - 6 hours , still there are achievements to 
 be done ( if you played it on Xbox 360 ) and why not it's a grate game worth playing more than 
 once. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  At first I wasn't so sure whether to get Dead Space or not when it came out, and after I played 
 it I wasn't sure I should review it, specifically because I'd never gotten into the survival-horror 
 genre... or played Resident Evil 4. There, I said it. Well, after having played through it twice 
 already I came to the conclusion that Dead Space is absolutely mind-blowing and grimly satisfying. 
 It wasn't as scary or difficult as I thought it would be, but maybe that was a good thing in my 
 case, seeing as I lacked experience with horror games outside of Doom 3.
  
  You play as Isaac Clarke, a deep space mining engineer called into action when the "planet cracker" 
 ship, the USG Ishimura, sends out a distress signal. You aren't given any backstory about Isaac, 
 which is somewhat disappointing, but all you need to know is that he signed up for the job because 
 his wife was on the ship. The game opens up with an unnerving pre-recorded video of Isaac's wife 
 trying to say something particularly difficult to him, setting the scene that not everything is 
 as it seems on the USG Ishimura. The problem is believed to be a communications malfunction, but 
 before your repair vessel even reaches the monstrous planet-cracking ship problems and mysteries 
 begin to arise. Your ship is forced to crash land in the Ishimura's docking bay, stranding everyone 
 there for the time being. Unsurprisingly, you're almost immediately separated from the rest of 
 your team and chased down a hallway by an enormous, loud, a simply horrifying abomination.
  
  Lemme tell you, this moment in the game got my blood pumping like nothing else, thanks in part 
 to Dead Space's unrivaled sense of immersion. Every conceivable HUD element and important information 
 pop-up is rendered withing the game world; there's absolutely no menus or indicators that appear 
 outside of gameplay, unless you count the pause menu, but even that casts a subtle blue glow on 
 the game's environment behind it. THAT is awesome... As I was saying, your health bar is displayed 
 on the back of Isaac's armored uniform, the ammunition in your currently equipped weapon's magazine 
 is displayed on the weapon when you hold it up to aim and fire it, and things like videos and your 
 inventory screen are displayed as a hologram in front of Isaac in real-time. It may not seem like 
 much at first glance, but what this all means is that Dead Space does absolutely nothing to disconnect 
 the player from the game world, sucking you in and holding you down with big, slimy, pulsing, barbed 
 tentacles that you swear you didn't notice when you first walked into the room.
  
  Dead Space consists of 12 chapters, each one a whole level that almost always ends with you boarding 
 a tram unit and riding it to your next destination. Your two most important crew members survive 
 the first encounter with the Necromorph threat and come to an agreement that they need to diagnose 
 and fix the Ishimura's many, many problems in order to get her operational again. You spend each 
 chapter fixing problem after problem without uttering a single word to your superiors, as well 
 as getting involved in trying to identify just what this exotic alien species is, and hopefully 
 how to kill it so that it doesn't spread any further than it already has. Not to mention, you're 
 also looking for your wife... It's disappointing that some of the chapters have you running back 
 through areas you've already been to with a few new doors open, but the environments and objectives 
 are still a lot more varied than I imagined they would be on a huge mining ship.
  
  Despite the spine-tingling first encounter you have with the Necromorphs when you don't have a 
 weapon, the game is never really scary. It always tries to startle you whenever it can, and it 
 does a good job enough to make Doom 3 proud, but really there's nothing oppressive or psychological 
 about it. The most terrifying cases come from the actual engagements with these unpredictable enemies. 
 You'll dread the moments when, after having killed several Necromorphs that came from one linear 
 direction, you turn around to see if anything is coming from behind you, and you already have an 
 enemy drooling all over your face and gutting you at the same time. Yes, the game is intense, and 
 the atmosphere feels so thick that you could cut it with a knife, but it doesn't devote specific 
 moments in the game to extremely well done horror like F. E. A. R. does, or have the entire gameplay 
 revolving around being alone in the dark with guns you would never trust your life with. Dead Space 
 definitely tries to be scary and disturbing with glimpses of Isaac's wife, but they're cliche and 
 blatantly out-of-place, and will never once convince you she's alive, or make you care for Isaac 
 and her's relationship more. It ends up feeling like it's trying too hard to be a horror game and 
 comes up a little short. Still, you'll get a few jolts throughout the experience thanks to the 
 Necromorphs being particularly horrifying looking, even if they are just cheap scares.
  
  The combat in Dead Space is visceral and satisfying, to say the least. The focus is on using your 
 weapons to dismember the enemy and keep them as far away from you as you can. Cutting off their 
 head does absolutely nothing every time, so removing their legs to slow their pace is almost always 
 your first move, and then proceeding to cut off their arms to finish them off. Although, there 
 are different types of Necromorphs than the garden variety that still maintain their human shape, 
 so you have to constantly adjust your combat tactics on the fly to address this sort of unique 
 threat. Even though your routine for killing each type of enemy can get rather repetitive, the 
 game keeps things interesting enough with being just generally intense. In such engagements where 
 you're faced with many different types of Necromorphs converging on you, it really becomes a battle 
 for survival as you assess the situation and struggle to impair and kill each Necromorph accordingly. 
 Doing all this in some of the zero gravity and vacuum areas is a whole different story, though, 
 because it's a lot more complicated, frustrating, and unpredictable. The zero-g mechanic is still 
 very well done, if a bit finicky to maneuver around in.
  
  Isaac has quite a unique arsenal at his disposal; it's just a shame that half of the available 
 weapons are utterly useless. You start with a plasma cutter, a type of mining tool that's semi-automatic 
 and fires in either a vertical or horizontal pattern that you can switch with incredible ease. 
 This isn't the most powerful weapon in the game, but it's just the most useful and accessible. 
 There's a God-awful flamethrower, a functional but unimpressive pulse rifle, a line gun that's 
 basically like a really large plasma cutter, an over-compensatory and incredibly effective saw 
 tool called the ripper, a close-range force gun that can blow all the limbs off an enemy with one 
 or two shots, and the hard to describe contact beam that you get next to no ammo for. Aside from 
 these makeshift weapons you also get a stasis module and kinesis module early on. The statis module 
 lets you drastically slow down objects in the environment for a short time, and the kinesis module 
 works just like the gravity gun and lets you pick up and toss around smaller objects, and drag 
 very heavy objects around on the floor. They're both used well in various puzzle sequences, but 
 they're multifunctional in that they're also invaluable tools in combat, especially the stasis 
 module.
  
  You'll be absolutely bogged down with tons of supplies that you'll find in containers everywhere, 
 and as drops from your felled enemies, and you don't get more inventory slots until you upgrade 
 to new and better suits of armor. It's worth noting that an excess of supplies doesn't necessarily 
 make the game easier, but it hurts the sense that you're struggling to survive in a hostile environment, 
 because you'll pretty much always have medkits and ammo on hand. You get plenty of money in the 
 game in the form of credits, too, which can be used at stores to purchase new weapons and armor 
 (ammo and medkits too if the need arises) , as long as you collect the schematics scattered everywhere 
 that unlock all the store items. These stores can be used to stow away all the excess items and 
 weapons you get (you can only carry 4 weapons at a time) , and being a pack rat like myself, creating 
 a huge stockpile of medkits and ammo can even further kill any feelings of survival. You'll also 
 find and buy power nodes that are used to upgrade all your weapons, your armor, and even your stasis 
 and kinesis modules. They're used for opening some doors here and there too, making you think about 
 whether you should use your last power node or hold on to it and reap the benefits of whatever 
 is behind these locked doors. Anyway, you can upgrade your equipment on the occasional workbenches 
 you find, and upgrading everything has great benefits. You can get more health and oxygen capacity, 
 make your weapons more powerful and reload faster, and even make your stasis module more energy 
 efficient, all of this giving you a strong feeling of progression as you play.
  
  Dead Space's visuals are just fantastic, both from a technological and artistic standpoint. I honestly 
 never thought futuristic metal corridors filled with mutated humans and flickering lights could 
 be used to such an amazing looking effect. There's one truly jaw-dropping moment where light from 
 the nearby star reflecting off the cracked planet shines through the huge, open bridge of the Ishimura 
 while asteroids thump and clatter against the hull of the ship as we ascend through the planet's 
 debris field. It's as much a spectacle as it is blindingly bright. The Necromorphs design and animations 
 are worthy of praise, too, for being so genuinely horrifying and believable looking. The sound 
 design holds up equally well, with sharp and distinct ambient effects, and menacing gurgles and 
 squeals from the Necromorphs that'll make your hair stand up on end. Even cooler is that when you're 
 in the vacuum of space all you can hear is Isaac's labored breathing, making these moments in the 
 game extremely tense and immersive.
  
  One could argue that Dead Space doesn't do survival horror right, because the horror isn't really 
 scary and the gameplay doesn't actually involve enough surviving, and I wouldn't be in a position 
 to argue back. Even so, I can't see how any survival horror or sci-fi shooter fan could honestly 
 be disappointed with playing Dead Space, unless they were to nit-pick about the game being too 
 much like the other genre. It's just that it does everything its trying to do so incredibly well, 
 and coupled with some of the most amazing and immersive "Holy crap!" moments I've ever seen in 
 a game, it's an experience that's unlike anything I've ever played before. I have played it through 
 twice now, and I'm already playing it through again a third time, to put its lasting value into 
 perspective. Dead Space is an excellent start for EA's new Redwood Shores studio, and a promising 
 new IP for EA in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The first survival horror game I played this in 2008 was Alone in the Dark. This game had really 
 weird controls and was not scary what so ever. Now the next survival horror game I have played 
 in 2008 was Dead Space, and Dead Space is one great game.
  
  The story behind Dead Space is that you are an engineer, named Isaac Clarke. You get a call from 
 a ship that needs to be fixed or has some problems. Isaac has a girlfriend that is on this ship 
 so Isaac really wants to get to the ship to find her. But when he gets there, all he finds are 
 a bunch of Aliens, called Necromorphs. Oh yeah, Isaac does not come alone. He comes with 4 other 
 people I believe. Two of them will be with you in the game, and the other are Necromorph bait.
 
  
  How do you kill these Necromorphs? Well you have to cut off their limbs. In Dead Space, it is useless 
 to try and just shoot the enemies in the body, you have to cut off their limbs in order to kill 
 them. It can be tricky at first, especially since the enemies are not a bunch of dumb zombies. 
 They will charge at you, come out of the walls, and sometimes when hey get really close, you will 
 have to mash buttons in order to push them away. If you want to make sure they will not come up 
 again, then you will have to stomp them into pieces. The first hour of the game will have you stomping 
 the Necromorphs until they are a bunch limbs and sections of body parts. Yes the game is really, 
 really, really bloody and gory.
  
  The controls in Dead Space are really good. They are similar o how a game like Resident Evil 4 
 would be like. Which works really well, but also makes it easier to get scared.
  
  Now the first 30 minutes of Dead Space are kind of scary. But after awhile, the game destroys its 
 own spooks. Constant enemies will come at you, and every time you activate an objective, there 
 will be a lock down, and you will have to fight a ton of enemies, every single flippin time. It 
 gets old really fast.
  
  One mission I really hated in Dead Space was the one where you have to grab hold of a turret and 
 shoot meteors before they hit the ship. This mission can get really hard, because, the controls 
 are funky in these parts, and you know that I really hate these defend missions. This is a survival 
 horror game, why do I want to shoot at space rocks. When the last time in Resident Evil 4 when 
 I had to shoot at a rock, besides blowing it up to move it out of the way or running away from 
 it. I don't know if you had to blow up a rock to move it out of a passage in RE 4, but you do have 
 to run away from a giant rock.
  
  The graphics in Dead Space are really good looking. There is a lot od detail in the environments, 
 and in everything. What more can I say.
  
  The sound is also really good. If you have surround sound, then prepare for a delicious feast for 
 your ears.
  
  Dead Space is a great survival horror game, and should be played by anyone who is a fan of the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  Survival horror is the most pervasive and frightening gaming genre. Ever since Resident Evil shocked 
 and scared the living daylights out of its patrons with Cerberus dogs smashing through windows, 
 many developers have tried (and failed) to emulate the unique style that has become so famous. 
 Not to say some developers did not find their own niche, take Silent Hill. Eschewing schlock horror 
 scares for disturbingly twisted ideas and images that sent a cold shiver up your spine. Silent 
 Hill found its own fan base to terrify. So when some brave soul decides to capitalize on an already 
 strong genre, fans are rattled by the fear that their already loved genre is going to be once again 
 raped by lesser material.
  
  Dead Space is not one of these dreaded titles. Every once in a while, a game comes along that is 
 so freshly polished and refined, taking so many ideas and styles from a plethora of other games 
 and blending them together so uniquely that what is born is a masterpiece of masterpieces. Take 
 Lost Odyssey for example. When Resident Evil rebooted the series with brand new game play and a 
 fresh new outlook on the genre it had gave birth to, it also gave birth to a new surge amongst 
 gamers. A surge that is felt reverberating into other genres as well as affecting newer projects.
 
  
  Dead Space for all its worth is a wonderful blend of Resident Evil 4 style game play, Silent Hill 
 style imagery, Alien inspired atmosphere and Gears of War style action. Within its core is clearly 
 the inspiration of other games but Dead Space polishes them all so expertly and dyes them with 
 its own style that the experience is fresh and rewarding.
  
  The Ishimura mining ship, or planet cracker, has lost communication with the space corporation 
 that has commissioned it. Sending a distress signal across space the Kellian repair vessel is dispatched 
 to routinely repair the massive mining ship. You are Isaac. A first class engineer and man with 
 balls of solid steel, or so he is about to find out. Upon arriving at the Ishimura, it is plainly 
 obvious that something terrible has happened and the small crew of the Kellian are about to face 
 the fight of their lives to survive. This is where Dead Space begins to work its own type of magic, 
 the amazing visuals and smoothly rendered graphics are evident from the very beginning of the game 
 as the Ishimura first comes into view amidst an asteroid field. The character models too benefit 
 from masterful graphics. The game plunges the player right into the centre of a shocking and deeply 
 unsettling situation, thankfully not without direction. The game will take its time to explain 
 how to play as you move along by the help of the welcome voice of the main computer. This does 
 not mean that the game makes life easy for you. The opening sequence and your first encounter with 
 the harrowing Necromorphs are utterly terrifying. Especially seeing as you are weapon less. 
  
  It won't be long until Isaac is given his first weapon and assignment then sets out in true 
 horror style to save the day. As mentioned before Dead Space always looks fantastic. Whether it 
 is the swirling miasma of space debris out of a nearby view port or the stunningly sickening results 
 of a Necromorph attack, the game always looks its best. This is twofold however, as the great look 
 compliments the atmosphere found in Dead Space and it is this that makes the game so addictive. 
 You are always kept on your toes with echoing sounds, haunting melodies and disturbing shrieks. 
 The entire Ishimura looks and feels chilling. There is no scene or corridor that is dull or lacks 
 effort. The effort that maintains the games unique feel is tremendous and is why the game is so 
 good.
  
  The fact that Isaacs's weaponry is all based upon his forte of engineering is true genius.
  
 
  The game plays like Resident Evil 4, Gears of War and Silent Hill altogether. Mixing together 
 ingenious puzzles that make use of Isaacs's tools in order to solve them. Most notably being the 
 Stasis and Kinesis tools that allow Isaac to freeze fast moving objects or move environment pieces 
 around at no cost. The zero-G sections are also a joy of mechanics and physics as entire rooms 
 are turned around to reflect the changing centre of gravity as Isaac bounds from roof to wall to 
 floor. Even the use of weapons has been streamlined with simple upgrade systems using Power Nodes 
 and visible read outs of how much ammo you have left on the weapon. The menu system is geared towards 
 maintaining atmosphere as it works in real time. You cannot stop the game to see your inventory 
 or maps leaving you constantly with the fear of being mauled. Which brings me to the gore, Dead 
 Space is not cheap with its gore, but instead stays within the realms of gut wrenching breaks, 
 slashes, rips and tears. You are going to have to play the game to see for yourself, this is also 
 why I've kept quiet about one of the games more unique gore mechanics.
  
  On the whole, despite Dead Space borrowing from other titles to adapt its own style of game, your 
 entire experience is going to be a thoroughly enjoyable one. The game does not feel like a rip 
 off but more an ode, one genre fans will love. This title should not be missed by ANY fan who played 
 (and loved) Resident Evil 4 or the Gears of War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  "Dead Space" is a masterfully executed, freakishly thrilling survival horror action game that looks, 
 plays and feels like your worst nightmare (in a good way) .
  
  Suffice it to say I had no idea what I was in for when I started this game. I assumed it'd be a 
 cheap rip-off of "Resident Evil 4," based on the similarity of its camera system and the fact that 
 it was created by EA. My assumption couldn't have been more wrong. Instead of a rip-off, "Dead 
 Space" is an incredibly innovative title that in many ways surpasses "RE4."
  
  Perhaps the most important gameplay innovation of "Dead Space" is the addition of "strategic dismemberment." 
 In most action games, players learn to aim straight for the head. But in "Dead Space," players 
 have to try to cut off the limbs of alien foes, because that is where they are most vulnerable. 
 Thankfully, there are a wealth of different weapons to use, all of which are really creatively 
 designed and inflict brutal damage in their own ways.
  
  The enemies in "Dead Space" are equally varied and well-designed, from demonic baby aliens to pregnant 
 ones that latch on to walls and shoot progeny from their bellies. All the different alien types 
 animate, look and sound demented, but maintain resemblances to the human experiments they embody. 
 Equally impressive was the AI for the aliens. Sometimes an enemy would flash across the screen, 
 but just when I thought I was safe, the enemy would bust through the hole in the wall behind me 
 or above me, causing me to wet myself in a sudden fit of panic.
  
  But more than just spontaneous thrills, "Dead Space" delivers a continuous sense of tension that 
 exists whenever there's a break between the action. The developers achieved this by making optimal 
 use of dark environments, sparse lighting and subtle sound effects to never allow the player a 
 chance to relax. And that's what makes "Dead Space" great -- the consistent attention to detail 
 for all the different elements that contribute to the player's immersion.
  
  That attention to detail carries over to storytelling as well. Unlike cutscenes in most video games, 
 the cinematics in "Dead Space" are genuinely comparable to a Hollywood movie due to the superb 
 voice performances, solid writing and fluid character animations. These qualities add up to an 
 overall package that oozes high production values.
  
  About the only complaint I have about "Dead Space" is the repetitive feel of many parts of the 
 game. Chapters start and end with a subway sequence, and some backtracking is involved. I also 
 wish there was more diversity in terms of environments to explore. But the shortcomings of "Dead 
 Space" pale in comparison with the virtues. I'm excited to see where the developers take the franchise 
 from here, and I really hope EA continues to invest in innovative titles like "Dead Space" in the 
 future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space centers around the most unlucky engineer in the universe, Isaac Clarke. You were sent 
 to repair a ship named 'USG Ishimura'. Of course being as it's in space, you're going to run into 
 aliens hell bent on destroying you.
  
  The story is solid, even if most of it is explained in kinda of annoying text, audio and video 
 logs (think Bioshock) . A few twists, a thought-provoking moment or two where you just say "Welldamn." 
 A few touches, like your girlfriend saying she loves you or when you see a supporting character 
 die late in the game, Isaac looks away from the video in horror.
  Moments that help try to put you inside Isaac's rig (rig=suit of armor) and provide a little attachment 
 to your character. 
  
  The graphics are clean, and by that, I mean bloody as all possible hell. Limbs litter the ship. 
 Graffiti adorns blood soaked walls. Bodies of the fallen sit in corners as a sign of the conflict. 
 Suffers just a tiny bit from Gears Of War syndrome (little bit too much gray) , but not even a problem.
 
  
  Most importantly, the gameplay is pretty good. The controls take a little getting used to ('A' 
 to reload? Huh?) , and using the inventory in a fight is more realistic, but hard as hell to pull 
 off. I do like how some Necromorphs (Necromorph-very uninspired enemy name. But that's nitpicking.) 
 have their own kind of quirks. Besides the much encouraged dismemberment tactic. That means that 
 each gun has its own uses (except the flamethrower, I hate that thing) . There is a diverse amount 
 of enemies, so learn quickly. And each weapon has an alternate attack.
  
  Dismembering is fun, as is the rest of the game for the most part. Little mini-games like Zero 
 Gravity Basketball and Shooting Gallery are small distractions from the "get this thing, kill aliens, 
 take that thing and put it here to proceed" style of mission the game likes adhering to. Too bad 
 that there aren't more little side games in this.
  
  Well, there are some puzzles. You have Kinesis (short for telekinesis-moving objects with your 
 mind) and Stasis (bullet time, but applied to a specific object rather than everything) . You use 
 Stasis and Kinesis to solve little puzzles. Use Kinesis to move an object where you need it (like 
 putting giant batteries in slots for an elevator to work) or Stasis to slow down rotating fan blades 
 (otherwise, you're shredded into a fine man-cheese) . Along with your magic Anti-Grav boots. Your 
 boots allow you to walk in zero gravity enviroments. You can walk on ceilings and walls with this, 
 making interesting puzzles.
  
  Stores and Work Benches are spread out perfectly. Far enough that you don't trip over them, but 
 close enough that when you're low on ammo you can go "Come oncome oncome-HEY!" Credits (IE, money) 
 and ammo are pretty much spread out well too (mind you, I think it's spread out well for Medium, 
 Impossible might change a little)
  
  The user interface and interaction iswell, non existent. You barely have any options to change. 
 No reticle sensitivity, etc Just inversion options and vibration, I think. That and a lack of 
 heavy replay value keeps this game from a higher score. After you complete the game once, it's 
 just achievements. You'd have to a HUGE fan in order to really play this through more than two 
 or three times. After the surprise factor wears off, it almost seems like you're grind through.
 
  
  Still, this is a great game to play. No annoying vehicle sections. No tough to learn multiplayer. 
 No glitches. Just some good clean alien dissection. Eight and a half out of ten, play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Breakdown:
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  Gameplay: 9.0/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Story: 8.0/10
  
  Length (1 playthrough) : ~12 hours on Normal
  Length (1000 gamerscore) : ~30 hours
  
  Overall: 
 9.0/10
  
  Dead Space is definitely one of the best survival horror games that I have ever played, ranking 
 up there with classics like Resident Evil 4. Everything about the game is extremely atmospheric 
 and intense, and is best played at night with the lights out while you are home alone.
  
  The game plays similar to Resident Evil 4 but in a futuristic, space setting, and with alien mutants 
 instead of zombies (or whatever those things in RE4 were called) . Alot of the enemies are really 
 cool and some are simply brutal. One of my complains would be that there should have been more 
 boss battles, I think I can count 2 (*maybe* 3) in total. Still, the game manages to remain extremely 
 fun through the entire experience because of the sheer number of enemies that will run at you and 
 try to take you down.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game are absolutely stunning as well. Played in 5.1 surround sound, 
 you will jump out of your seat when an enemy runs up behind you, it fits the game so well! The 
 graphics look STUNNING as well, all of the blood and fire effects look amazing and when you shoot 
 an enemy's limbs off they will go flying as blood shoots out and the enemy falls to the floor. 
 It's brutal, it's blood, and it's awesome.
  
  The story is good as well, and has some crazy twists near the end as well. It's definitely a very 
 above average storyline for a title like this. The story also has a very Bioshock-like presentation 
 as well as you rarely come into contact with actual people but rather you are told the story through 
 transmissions with other people on the ship as well as through "Audio Logs" which are like diaries 
 from Bioshock.
  
  In terms of length and replayability, the game will definitely keep you playing for quite a while. 
 My first playthrough was 12 hours (on Normal) , and my second playthrough was 8 hours (also on Normal) . 
 It's cool because you can play through the game using all of the weapons/upgrades that you earned 
 on your first playthrough, and there are some achievements to give you incentive to fully upgrade 
 your character among other things. There's also an achievement for beating the game on Impossible 
 mode, so if you like achievements, you will need 3 playthroughs to get everything, meaning the 
 game will stay in your system for quite a while after you're done with it.
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a must play and definitely one of 2008's biggest surprises. The gameplay 
 is like Resident Evil 4, while the story is presented like Bioshock (audio diaries and transmissions) . 
 If you're looking for a game that's going to freak you out, or even if you're just looking for 
 a great action game, Dead Space delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm going to show one of the most effective money printing horror franchises of all. This one 
 is called:
  
  "In Space No One Can Hear You Scream, WAIT! I've seen this before!"
  
  otherwise know as Dead Space. Now for this recipe you'll need:
  
  Dead Space Pie
  
  Ingredients:
 
  
  Gaming Mixture
  
  Resident Evil 4  200g plain (base of pastry)
  Doom 3  60g to add repetitive dark environments
  System Shock 2  45g for richness in plot and 
 character via audio logs
  2001: A Space Odyssey  Pinch for seasoning
  Event Horizon to bind it together
  
  Game Structure Mixture
  
  500g of solid Aliens style 
 action
  1 large section of Solaris to fill in the holes left by Event Horizon
  1 stock cube of Sunshine for dramatic space opera visuals
  Granules of Evil Dead for gross out 
 gore
  Blade Runner technology to aid seasoning
  28 Days Later violence
  1 tsp of The Thing for bizarre monsters
  
  Method
  
  Trim any gristle off the Aliens and 
 dice into bit sized chunks. Don't fry, keep it nice and rare, bloodier the better, then place in 
 an EA development studio covered in controlling project managers, then add Sunshine, Solaris, 28 
 Days Later violence, Blade Runner and The Thing. Leave to seep and get some famous comic and animation 
 artists involved.
  
  Cook at 160 degrees c for about 1 year then stir in a tbsp of Evil Dead until it thickens then 
 allow to cool for few months or until just warm.
  
  Meanwhile, mince the Doom 3 (it's hard to mix) and System Shock 2 (get rid of the best bits) and 
 rub into RE4 and the 2001 with your fingertips until it resembles a playable game. Rub the Event 
 Horizon in then add enough other horror ideas to bind the mixture. Cut in half and roll out on 
 an office surface (to make the game at least 12hrs rather than 6) then place in a greased console, 
 trimming the excess story and puzzles to keep things simple.
  
  Add gaming mixture then use the other half of the gaming structure to make a lid. Brush with Event 
 Horizon then put in an oven pre heated to 190 degrees c.
  
  Bake for 1 month or until the game is fluid and original elements are less recognisable.
  
 
  Leave to cool for 2 weeks before serving with an animated film and comic series.
  
  Fini
  
  Ok, despite the numerous elements borrowed for this title, after having had Dead Space 
 on my plate I must say it has much to offer in terms of gameplay and for the better half of the 
 game spades of atmosphere. The more original flavours of the game including the super smooth controls, 
 sleekly integrated holographic projection HUD and the majority of the creature design will tickle 
 the taste buds for hours. The sound and music are exceptionally well done, everything sounds solid 
 and fits in with the gameworld. Issac's boots stomping on the bulkheads, the dull whine of air 
 filtration units and the organic squishing of bone on flesh as you tear or are torn apart by the 
 Necromorphs. To experience the eerie decks of the Ishimura I highly recommend good headphones or 
 a surround setup if you can, this game sounds fantastic and the team responsible deserve fudge, 
 if not crumb fudge. Mmmmmm.
  
  You'd be licking the plate clean if it were not for some of the more repetitive flavours coming 
 through and spoiling the overall experience. While combat is generally fast, gory and satisfying 
 throughout, the puzzles and story are weaker in comparison. Puzzles are generally completed through 
 use of the Statis (slow-mo) and Telekinesis (gravity-gun) tools and are very straight forward. 
 There are some better sequences later in the game that require precise positioning, speed and timing 
 but these are not mentally taxing and are far and few between. Most of the more interesting sections 
 occur in zero-g (which can be said of most of the game) as the area suddenly becomes vastly larger 
 and more difficult to navigate. The zero-g areas are very eerie with dust particles clumping and 
 floating around, the muffled sound of weapons firing and Isaac's heavy breathing as the air runs 
 out all making this portion of the pie exceptionally tasty. There are brilliant sections were bulkheads 
 are broken and you're confronted with endless space, spooky light from the systems sun pouring 
 in and an odd sense of vertigo.
  
  Combat in these zero-g sections is fantastic, with enemies being able to sneak up on from any direction 
 before you dance with them from surface to surface slicing limbs as you go, watching the body parts 
 float off with blood trailing after them. It's beautiful to be honest.
  
  The story however is the bit that I had the most difficultly chewing. While the narrative is nicely 
 laid out out via real time in-engine sequences between characters both in the flesh and through 
 holographic videos, it just doesn't bite the way it wants to. Sure, I'll give it a big thumbs up 
 for the opening, definitely one to be remembered and the tension continues for hours, but it just 
 doesn't know how to keep it up. It repeats its scares too often leading you to expect specific 
 patterns and rarely diverging from these.
  
  Wooden acting from your allies and enemies alike and constant errands taking you round the ship 
 (multiple times) also wear thin. There is no interaction to be had with the other characters even 
 when you are face to face with them and Isaac is mute throughout. The only aspect of the story 
 that works is the System Shock style audio and text logs filling you in on the background and giving 
 some insight to the situation and people involved. These are well written and voice acted, serving 
 up the better side of the richness in Dead Space. It's a real shame because the game so desperately 
 wants to hit you emotionally as hard as Silent Hill 2 did and scare the living day lights out of 
 you in the way System Shock 2 did. I think this is mostly down to the lack of connection to your 
 mute hero, and hence your involvement in the game.
  
  1st person titles such as Half-Life 2 work by having a mute character because you are the character. 
 You know what they're saying in response to characters and events because it's in your head, you 
 are the hero. However, in Dead Space, it's all about Isaac and he might as well be a floating pile 
 of dog meat in a suit for all you care. He is subjected to some truly horrific events throughout 
 the duration of the game which don't phase him in the slightest, and it's not until the very end 
 that he does, but by then it's too late. You just don't care.
  
  Dead Space as a main course, will satisfy a hungry person looking for survival horror with a deep 
 space twist. It is a well produced, artistically prominent, polished title and does its major ingredients 
 proud, well the movie parts anyway. To expect a cog studio under the watchful gaze of the meat 
 grinder that is EA to actually produce anything truly original is pure lunacy. However, this beautifully 
 conceived and expertly constructed homage to deep space horror is a marvel despite its weaknesses. 
 If you liked the look of the recipe for this money making stint and don't have too many qualms 
 about encouraging the corporate giant then get out there, and do some screaming. Just remember, 
 some people like to sleep so keep the noise down ok?
  
  Oh, and don't forgot about the comic, animated movie and official Necromorph soft toy! It's so 
 cute!
  
  
  
  8/10
  
  - Niall Macdonald 27/01/09 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 for the original xbox succeeded in delivering a futuristic horror game within the confines 
 of a space vessel filled with dark corridors. It offered nerve-wracking gameplay with enemies that 
 intimidated you to step through the next door and see what lay ahead. Doom 3 received critical 
 acclaim for its chilling atmosphere, superb sound design, astounding graphics, and tried and true 
 quality gameplay. Dead Space has arrived to fulfill the needs of those people who have been eagerly 
 anticipating the next truly great action horror game, and without question, Dead Space ascends 
 above Doom 3 in many ways.
  
  In fact, Dead Space's premise is nearly identical to that of Doom 3. You're stranded on a futuristic 
 spaceship called the Ishimura where things have gone horribly wrong. Isaac, the protagonist, utilizes 
 deep space mining equipment to dismember the limbs off his enemies, which are previously sane crew 
 members that have now been transformed into flesh eating monstrosities. There is a decent assortment 
 of weaponry, each with an alternate fire, yet the entire game could easily be defeated using your 
 primary starting gun alone. 
  
  The story within Dead Space is told through written documents, voice transmissions, and video transmissions 
 viewed via your in-game, on-screen hud which is where your inventory and map can also be located. 
 Occasionally, an in-game cut scene will occur, but they are often very short and do little to progress 
 the story, which, for the most part, takes a back seat for 80% of the game. Unfortunately, Dead 
 Space's story isn't as strong as it could have or should have been. It's a story nonetheless but 
 doesn't necessarily keep you wanting to play on.
  
  Fortunately however, Dead Space's exceptionally strong gameplay will appease your gaming needs, 
 and keep you seated with your eyes glued to the tv. The beginning of Dead Space will surely have 
 your hair raising, yet as you progress, you will soon become desensitized to the frights thrown 
 your way. This is in part because there is a lack of variation between enemies. You will encounter 
 the same three basic enemies, small, medium, and large in size, for arguably 90% of the game, and 
 in the latter half of Dead Space, you'll encounter these exact same enemies just in a darker, more 
 difficult to beat form. Eventhough the repetition in enemies may seem like a negative aspect, it 
 also acts as a positive aspect for Dead Space. When presented with boss battles, or even semi-bosses, 
 Dead Space is thrilling and a breath of fresh air.
  
  Graphically, everything on board the Ishimura looks spectacular. Isaac's suit is highly detailed, 
 enemies look fearsome, and each room has been handled with a little tender love and care from the 
 design artists and game creators. The high quality in graphics truly adds to the feel and overall 
 atmosphere Dead Space has going, which is certainly its greatest strength. Complimenting the solid 
 graphics is the well done voice acting which rivals games like grand theft auto 4 and the darkness.
 
  
  Upgrading your weaponry, purchasing items, and solving puzzles help break up the pacing, and detracts 
 from the repetition the game otherwise would have been afflicted by.
  
  When all is said and done, Dead Space is a fantastic horror action game that is without a doubt 
 this generations version of Doom 3. The 12 hour single player campaign consumes you within its 
 nail-biting, edge-of-your-seat atmospheric ride, but afterward I can only hope for a sequel that 
 will return to deliver the definitive horror experience. Still, Dead Space earns its well deserved 
 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenmon666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  When I heard about this, I didn't take much notice. 
  
  Then I played it at games expo... and loved it.
  
  Pros:
  
  Graphics, they are anything 
 new... but put together so well that sometimes you feel like your actually in the game.
  
  Sound, its perfect, every gun, every enemy, every sound of something crawling around behind. Play 
 on 5.1 sound for the most terrifying experience.
  
  Balance, the weapons... feel right, they can't mow down waves of enemies, but they deal JUST enough 
 damage to get you through the fights. 
  
  Simply scary, it just is, from the freaky enemies, or the excellent use of lighting changes, I 
 gurantee that at some point you will be terrified.
  
  So much blood!, the deaths and decapitations in this game are realistic, you will get torn in half, 
 have your head ripped off, and splattered against a wall... and you'll be amazed at the level of 
 detail every time.
  
  Replayability, despite having no multiplayer, it makes you want to play it again, and so you do.
 
  
  Supply and Demand, you will always be scrounging for ammo and health, yet you will never not have 
 enough just to scrape through if you play well, its quite an experience as you watch your last 
 plasma clip go dry as a slowly moving necromorph stumbles towards you.
  
  Cons:
  
  Story, its fairly generic, Backstory -  Problem -  Solution -  Confrontation -  End, we've seen 
 it before, but we still love it. Im only docking half a mark for that.
  
  Length, at the end, although it is satisfying, it just feels like it should have gone for longer.
 
  
  Immersion killers, and random parts throughout the game, a puzzle or problem will interrupt the 
 game flow, and its annoying. Im docking an entire mark just for that reason. 
  
  
  Verdict:
  A fantastic take on the survival horror genre that I think everyone should atleast 
 try. Backed by great graphics and sound, with the only bad parts being a generic story and a few 
 rough edges.. every 360 junkie should have this game somewhere in their collection.
  
  Cons: 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmullen666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Why should you play Dead Space? I will give you 3 reasons.
  
  First: there really isnt a game quite like it from a sound standpoint. No matter where you are 
 in the game, the developers took great pains to ensure that you are scared. It works. Whether it 
 is a pipe hitting the ground somewhere or the far away screeching of an Necromorph, you will be 
 on edge. Even if you are playing with the lights on, which no true fan of the horror genre shoudl 
 do, you will still have more than your fair share of jumps. Words cant do the audio of this game 
 justice, it must be seen/heard to be appreciated.
  
  Second: the weapons are a lot of fun and tie in perfectly to the combat system. Depending on what 
 kind of player you are, you can come up with many different ways to take down an enemy. you can 
 use the "force gun" to knock and enemy to their back, and then charge up a shot on your "contact 
 beam" to blow them away. Or, you can take out their legs with your "plasma cutter", and while they 
 are down you can barbecue them with your flamethrower. the strategic dismemberment system forces 
 you to think about combat differently. You have to be a tactician. I find that because of this 
 unique feature, killing enemies becomes much more satisfying. It is as visceral as it is brilliant.
 
  
  Third: the game looks great and the environment is a believable one. I cant overstate this. Not 
 enough games give the kind of attention to detail that you see in Dead Space. The USG Ishimura 
 is well realized as a derelict "planet cracking" ship and every corridor and room you enter is 
 presented with care. Whether it is a well lit, massacred cafeteria, or a dank and flithy storage 
 room, it all looks and feels authentic. The zero-g and space vaccuum environments are also superbly 
 crafted and the sensory deprivation you experience there is a great addition to the game.
  
  All in all, Dead Space has a lot to offer. There aren't any glaring negatives that I could 
 find. If I were to make a small complaint, it would only be that backtracking takes place a lot, 
 and maybe there could ahve been a few more boss battles. But I was having such a good time with 
 the game that I didnt really care about these things. Backtracking has been a staple of the genre 
 since the early silent Hill and Resident evil games. Dead Space is a tense thriller that will keep 
 you on edge until the final scare. You won't regret forking 40 quid for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game when a freind on myspace told me about it, and at first i thought 
 it was a game on myspace LOL
  
  
  But enough of my life. This game is definitely worth the 60$. I was truely scared at some points. 
 It's amazing how much time must've been put into this. Theres parts were i was walking down some 
 dark hall and could barely see.... and then a can or something would roll over or i'd see a shadow 
 on the wall in front of me, but i would'nt even encounter an enemy. And when i did i would totally 
 jump and swear once or twice. This game is a horror masterpiece.
  Theres other part where you will actaully encounter members of the ship's crew that are alive, 
 but often insane. I don't want to spoil too much, but here's a little taste of what you can expect.
 
  On the 2nd chapter i was in the medical area of the ship, and i get into this room, THERES BLOOD 
 EVERYWHERE. On the walls, mutilated bodies on gurneys, and then i see this lady, drenched in blood, 
 operateing on a already dead person with saw, and she doesn't even notice me, then she laughs and 
 slits her own throat O. o
  The story is very immersing obviously, the graphics are crystal clear, and i JUST CAN'T STOP PLAYING! 
 It's like im all scared and i wanna stop, but i just can't!!!
  You may get mentally traumatized by this game, but believe me, you need this game if you have a 
 360 or ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a terrifying game. The best way to describe this sci-fi survival horror title is 
 part Resident Evil, part Silent Hill placed in a setting straight out of the sci-fi horror film 
 Event Horizon. The plot involves a massive ship named the USG Ishimura, a mining ship in orbit 
 over an alien planet in deep space. Something has gone wrong, and Isaac Clarke and his crew set 
 out to assist the ship. Crash landing inside the ship, horrific events transpire and now those 
 who came to help will have to end up helping each other to survive, because no one else is coming.
 
  
  If you've played a number of survival horror games, you might be familiar with tank controls, a 
 term that describes slow suspenseful movement of the character. You'll also be familiar with such 
 things as health packs, ammo containers and safes. Limited inventory slots also force you to plan 
 ahead to make sure you bring with you the proper items to hold out until the next safe. Just about 
 every element that defines the survival horror genre is present in this game.
  
  What sets this game apart from the rest of the games in the genre is the incredibly slick presentation. 
 For starters there's no menu that takes you out of the game. Instead, all menus are rendered in 
 real time via holograms that are projected by your suit. They move with you, and are semi transparent, 
 and disappear when you draw your weapon so as to not impeed your vision. Holograms also pop up 
 when you walk by things you can collect, as well as text, audio and video journals and they can 
 be played all while still moving around and exploring. To say this game is immersive is an understandment.
 
  
  The combat is similiar to Resident Evil 4 in that it has free-aim. Unlike Resident Evil 4, however, 
 you're able to move while shooting. Each weapon has a laser sight, but you'll notice that the weapon 
 you start out with, the Plasma Cutter, actually has three sights that can be adjusted either horizontally 
 or vertically. There's a reason for this.
  
  Very early on in the game, you'll be told that the best way to fight the monostrosities of Dead 
 Space is to dismember them. Your Plasma Cutter is the perfect tool for the job, so that's why you 
 want to pay attention to how your site is aligned. You want it posititioned correctly to completely 
 sever a limb when you fire. It's best to take down the legs first to stop them dead in their tracks, 
 and then finish up with their arms and heads. Head shots might have helped you in other survival 
 horrors, but the enemies will keep coming at you, head or no head. The game revolves around this 
 system of dismemberment and even incorporates it into the boss battles, so it's not a matter of 
 having a ton of ammo to shoot, but knowing just where to shoot it.
  
  In order to assist you in combat, you'll come across a stasis module early on in the game. Stasis 
 will slow down the progress of time on an enemy you freeze it with. This gives you much needed 
 time to shoot off the limbs and finish the enemies with a well placed curb stomp, or time to escape 
 if you get cornered or don't want to fight a particular enemy. Stasis can also be used on objects 
 to slow them down, such as malfunctioning doors, and there will be several puzzles throughout the 
 game that will require its use.
  
  To also assist you in combat is telekinesis. Just like in Bioshock, you can pick up bodies and 
 fling them like weapons. Also, some of the enemies have blade like appendages. If you cut them 
 off, you can use them as flying projectiles to eviscerate your enemies. You'll also come across 
 exploding canisters to use in combat. Just as with stasis, you'll be using telekinesis to solve 
 some of the game's puzzles, many of them in conjunction with stasis.
  
  There are stores that are found through the game's 12 chapters. As you collect credits you come 
 across in boxes or on the carcasses of enemies, you can spend them at these stores. They start 
 off with a very limited selection, and if you want a new weapon or item to purchase from the store, 
 you'll have to find its corresponding schematic. Once you find the schematic, you have to go back 
 to the store and download it in order to buy the weapon or item Your suit can also be upgraded 
 via schematics, which will increase your inventory slots, armor and air capacity.
  
  Speaking of upgrades, every weapon you purchase can be upgraded to increase its ammo capacity, 
 reload speed and damage output. You can also upgrade your stasis and telekinesis modules. Upgrading 
 takes a lot of effort, though. You'll come across power nodes that are found either in boxes, or 
 off the bodies of really powerful enemies or from the store for 10,000 credits. In order to upgrade 
 a piece of equipement, you need to find a work bench and then apply the power nodes accordingly. 
 Think of Final Fantasy X's Sphere Grid leveling system, where the attributes are spread along a 
 grid and can only be activated when the previous slot has been filled. It allows you to select 
 what you want to upgrade first, but it takes many nodes to really get the most out of your equipment. 
 
  
  One of the most impressive features of Dead Space are the zero gravity segments. When you enter 
 one of these areas, you can spring from the ground to fly towards walls or ceilings. It can be 
 a little disorientating as the rooms get flipped upside down and around, but it's also incredibly 
 cool at the same time because of all the floating objects around you. When you cut up enemies, 
 even their carcasses will begin floating in space. You'll even see bodies squirt blood and float 
 around. It's a really impressive effect.
  
  There are also areas in the game that are either exposed to space or are sucked dry of air. These 
 vacuums will trigger a timer on your suit that will count down the amount of oxygen you have left 
 to breath. You can either replinish it with air canisters, or with an oxygen station. What's cool 
 about the vacuum stages is that the sound is almost completely mute. You'll hear thumps instead 
 of blasts when you fire your gun, and your footsteps will be muffled. It really makes you feel 
 like you're in a vacuum, and when combined with zero gravity, it makes for an unnerving experience. 
 
  
  The selling point of Dead Space is most certainly its atmosphere. The ship is broken up into different 
 areas all accessible by a tram system, and each area has been designed with tension in mind. Whether 
 it's a work station covered in blood, an engine room full of noisey machinery, or a corridor completly 
 covered in alien orgranic matter, the USG Ishimura clearly is not an enviting capsule. 
  
  And what's a disturbing atmosphere if it's not filled with even more disturbing denizens? The creatures 
 can be pretty creepy, but they're not as creepy as some in the Silent Hill series. Still, they 
 can catch you by surprise, and the game's very proficient in having enemies pop up in areas you 
 wouldn't expect. There aren't many bosses, though, but the ones that are there are massive. 
  
  This is a graphically impressive game from both technical and artistic standpoints. The excellent 
 use of lighting, the masterful rending of textures, the visceral use of blood and gore. The aforementioned 
 holograms really help to give this game a style all its own, and it has to be said that it's the 
 best looking game of its genre. 
  
  You simply cannot have a terrifying experience without effective audio, and the audio in the game 
 is more than effective. The screams are frightening. The subtlies will spook you making you wonder, 
 "What was that?" The sound effects in general all around are very well done. The soundtrack compliments 
 the game's atmosphere spectacularly, very fitting for a sci-fi game. One character in particular 
 isn't voice acted all too well, but the rest of the cast is top notch.
  
  This has been one of 2008's best surpises. It was a game that came out of nowhere and caught everyone's 
 attention, and for good reason. It's very hard to make an impressive intellectual property, and 
 Electronics Arts has done just that by telling a gripping story loaded with twists and things going 
 very wrong. It will most certainly appeal to action and survival horror gamers alike, and should 
 be considered a must-play, in the dark preferably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_jojohn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  Dead Space brings some pretty solid graphics and sound. Although I did not find this game particularly 
 creepy, the atmosphere does present an interesting, eerie vibe. It reminds me of Doom3 for the 
 original XBOX. 
  
  While the game has some innovative qualities, it does suffer from some repetitive aspects. You 
 will have to go back to some of the same levels you previously cleared in order to finish your 
 objectives. Also, it suffers from weird camera angles at times, which can be frustrating, and some 
 some-what complicated controls.
  
  The enemies in Dead Space are very interesting. Some move very fast, some shoot rockets, most stab 
 you with protrusions coming out of their arms, some jump on your head, and some will smash you 
 flat. In my opinion, none should be taken lightly. While battling some foes, you will need to use 
 your Stasis, which slows them down while you flank them, shoot them, do what you need. There are 
 also a few Boss fights which can test your skills, depending on the difficulty you play. 
  
  The weapons are NOT the traditional mini-gun, chainsaw, rocket launcher you might find in other 
 games, but some of them are still fun. The Line Gun is very effective in close quarters fighting, 
 the Pulse Rifle and Plasma Cutter are good for fast moving objects, and the Force Gun is good in 
 a variety of settings (with secondary firing) . You also get the chance to upgrade your weapons 
 and suit; which can be a good thing, or a bad thing, since you have to pay for the upgrades. Ammo 
 can be purchased or found throughout the game, but it is easily consumed since enemies require 
 a lot of fire power to bring them down. You also have the option to kill your enemies with a melee 
 attack, allowing you to save ammo; Just make sure the enemy you decide to melee is alone, or others 
 will attack from other sides.
  
  While Dead Space suffers from some repetitive motions, they are easily forgotten with good graphics, 
 interesting story, great gameplay, long campaign, and worthy foes. I definitely recommend this 
 game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaehosser
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  DOOM 4? (which is a good thing, for me.)
  
  I'll post a couple of gripes first.
  
  Overused story, scare tactics, and objectives - but I really don't expect much better from entertainment 
 these days. Gotta keep it simple and familiar.
  
  The abs cannon levels were lame. Could have tried something different or tuned them better for 
 a pace breaker.
  
  The good:
  
  Visceral experience - everything looks and sounds wonderful. I've had non-gamers watch me play 
 this and comment on how much they love the sound. 
  
  I love horror movies, especially Alien and Aliens. The first time through the game kept me on edge 
 like I haven't been since DOOM 3. After playing through twice, I had to watch Aliens again. Ha-ha.
 
  
  I really liked the way the inventories, maps, audio, text and video logs are projected into the 
 game instead of pulling you out into a menu. It kept the intensity through some tough areas when 
 I needed to pull up and recharge stasis ( but thank god for the healing pack hotkey) . I sincerely 
 hope more games will integrate this feature in the future.
  
  The combat - aiming controls were super tight and responsive. (with the exception of the ABS areas) 
 The joy of taking enemies apart in such a brutal fashion after they try to jump out and ambush 
 you is a thrill that many games try for, but this one DELIVERS. I get a rush mowing down some enemies 
 from a distance and realizing I hadn't payed enough attention to the two Necromorphs sneaking up 
 to attack me from behind. Things like that really keep me keyed up wanting to play the game even 
 more.
  
  While I personally wasn't the most graceful in Zero-G areas or vacuums, I really loved the looks 
 and use of them. I thought they had just enough of the areas for a unique experience without it 
 becoming stale too quickly.
  
  Replay value is decent too. When you finish your first run-through, you immediately want to jump 
 into New Game + to punish all those sneaky Necromorphs with your upgraded equipment. I did the 
 same thing with DOOM. Even if the enemies always spawn in the same place, it makes for a kind of 
 fun like the old Nintendo days to see how much faster or better you can run through.
  
  Sure it isn't perfect, but I loved this game and I hope for an even better sequel. Maybe we could 
 get the Bioshock writing staff to help these guys with the story and mission objectives for the 
 next one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed opinions about Dead Space. 
  
  First, I want to take up the good ones: 
  
  1. Really good music and sound effects. It might be the most scaring thing in the whole game. You 
 will never stop thinking of what will come next as long as you listen to the music :)
  
  2. Graphic was good, I can't complain. Well mixing up of shadows and lights. 
  
  3. Pressing 
 the right analog stick on your controller shows a shining line on the ground pointing towards your 
 next goal. Very good if you lost yourself.
  
  4. The light bars on the back of your suit indicate how much health and stasis you have left. Much 
 better than putting some health bar at the top of the screen.
  
  5. Ability to store unnecessary items at the store for later use.
  
  6. Well done with letting 
 someone sing "Twinkle twinkle little star" in the opening movie. :) It really made you feel: "Damn, 
 this game is sick, I like it ^^" But it would have been way better if they had a little girl singing 
 the song than a woman.
  
  7. Satisfying ending. It may want you to play the game once again, but...
  
  
  The things 
 I didn't like: 
  
  1. First of all, I have to say this much (I already told that line to a friend of mine who was 
 going to buy the game) : "If you have played FEAR, Resident Evil 4 and Aliens vs. Predator 2 and 
 watched the movies Event Horizon and The Thing, this game will bore you!" 
  
  The shifting plot between "monsters  story, monsters  story, monsters  story" reminded me of 
 FEAR and I can say as much as I don't like it when games are like that. I want more variety : ( 
 
  
  If you played RE4, you will have no problems playing that game, as you will recognize that the 
 way you are shooting, walking/running and gathering items is exactly as in RE4!!! You find health 
 kits in boxes and closets scattered all over the ship, enemies drop ammunition, credits (money) 
 and stuff (very realistic XD) and you are able to upgrade your weapons in time (FFX-style) and 
 buy new weapons and items with the credits you have earned. It couldn't have been more like RE4! 
 : (
  
  You recognize the thrills from Aliens vs. Predator 2, when you come into a dark room and see some 
 monsters quickly creeping along the wall before you continued walking. It always gives you the 
 chills in games, but it isn't anything new. In some rooms which have been infected by the aliens, 
 you can see some green/red gross morphic formed flesh on the walls. That you also find in the AvsP 
 game. Also, both games are set in the future space. 
  
  The story totally reminds me of the plot in Event Horizon (a lone abandoned ship in the middle 
 of the darkest place in space, filled with only slaughter and mayhem) . 
  
  The monsters reminded me of the ones in the movie The Thing. And here I don't say: "They kinda 
 look a little like the ones in the movie. I really mean: When trying to come up with creepy enemies 
 for Dead Space, the producers of the game must have watched that movie and said: "Oh yeah, let's 
 copy that idea for our cool new game. Nobody will notice that we are stealing an idea from a movie 
 from the 80's!"
  
  2. Dismembering. YAY! It's SOOOO cool. And it's SOOOO new. And it totally makes this game revolutionary 
 (I am being ironic) . Maybe its a new feature, okay. And I also admit that just shooting enemies 
 in the head all the time becomes quite boring, too. But on the other hand: Hello?? Instead of the 
 head, I shoot that monsters arms and legs off and that's why it dies??? That doesn't even apply 
 to real humans! Or another thing I discovered: Why can something that doesn't have its head left 
 still live?? I am shooting its head right off, but it still knows where I am and where I go? Without 
 any eyes, ears and nose? HOW?? And how can it still move towards me without any brain to think 
 with?? Where is the logic in this game??? :/
  
  3. Weapons/tools: When I first watched the game interview on gamespot, I liked when the producers 
 said: "We didn't want to add weapons in this game, because all FPS games always have weapons. We 
 wanted to let Isaac use mining tools to dismember his enemies." 
  So I thought: Yay, that would be kinda fun using different things to defeat the enemy this time 
 :) I thought for example with the "Plasma Cutter" you are able to "cut off" your enemies limbs 
 like a laser sable or something ^^ 
  But again, that was only what I thought : ( With your plasma "cutter", you actually "shoot" off 
 your opponents limbs!!! Oh yeah, that's EXACTLY as different from any other FPS game I have ever 
 played!!! : ( There is no "tool" on board of this ship that DOESN'T look like anything other than 
 a common weapon. Where is this "new dismemberment revolution" that EA praised, if you dont really 
 "cut" off their limbs in the end anyway? : ( Not even "The ripper" (a medium range saw blade) is 
 something related to a common saw. Instead it is just like a shotgun, only that you shoot saw blades 
 at your enemies (???) !
  
  I really wanted to have some kind of permanent laser saw or something. Like the tools they are 
 using in the actual movie to the game ("Dead Space  Downfall") ! That really disappointed me. : (
 
  
  4. Menu system: One thing I don't like about most of the games is when the game isnt paused if 
 you want to access your menu to get to your items, weapons, map and quests. For example, in Resident 
 Evil 4, you got access to all that by simply pressing the start button (like in most of the games) . 
 That would pause the game in an instant (0.5 sec.) and give you time to look at your stats and 
 think over the new situation. 
  In Dead Space however, they thought it to be really "professional" to be able to open your menu 
 "in game", that is to say without pausing the game. Why they found it to be so necessary is beyond 
 me. For it only brings extreme frustration. That can lead to moments where you think: "Okay, I 
 have to take a look on the map!", or "I REALLY need to heal myself now, but these ****ing monsters 
 are chasing me, so HOW TO DO THAT WITHOUT STOP RUNNING???" That would actually not be a problem 
 if there had been added short keys in the game where you are able to lay your most needed items 
 on, so you had access to them in the game when you needed them. But these short keys are NOT existent. 
 Furthermore you would at least assume that it is quite easy to quickly open the menu and get to 
 your items in an emergency situation. Once again, that is not the case. I press start or Y and 
 it takes about 1 second opening the menu, but where am I? In the item section of my menu, just 
 as I want it to be? NO. Instead I have gotten to the map, quest or database section, forcing me 
 to quickly browse between the pages to get to the item section. Depending on your navigation skill 
 and coolness in a harsh situation, that may take 2-5 seconds. Finally reaching your item section, 
 you have to go up or down with your cursor to find the next health can and use it (or realising 
 that you have no one left) . That may also take some time. So all in all, you may have something 
 about 2-6 seconds upon you JUST TO FIND SOMETHING YOU CAN USE IN BATTLE!!! In that time EVERY monster 
 on that ship will already have caught up to you and severed your neck from your body (Editors note: 
 I discovered later on that you can heal yourself by pressing the X-button XP) . 
  
  To quickly summarize that problem: I dont' like when game producers just complicate things that 
 could be so simple and easy in other games. I got killed many times just because of that ****ed 
 up menu system!
  
  5. Replayability level is about 5%. The only thing you get when clearing the game is the background 
 story logs you already found in the game and nobody ever really cared about, 10 nodes (for upgrading) 
 and 50,000 credits plus a military suit that will give you 30% more armor, but for some inexplicable 
 reason is unbelievable cheap for being the best thing in the game (99,000 credits was more than 
 easy fore me getting together already in the first level of the game) . But what is the meaning 
 of replaying the entire game once again if you are able to buy the only best thing in the game 
 already in the beginning? It just felt awfully unnecessary for me, so I quit playing it after I 
 bought the military suit. 
  
  I just wondered: If they really had to make a copy of Resident Evil 4, but set it in space and 
 changed the name to Dead Space, why couldn't they at least copy the rest that made RE4 so popular? 
 I am talking about the huge replayability in RE4. Once you completed the game, you got access to 
 videos, side stories, arcade games, new costumes and new super-weapons with infinite ammo and unspeakable 
 high prices on them, so it was hard to get them. That made me replay RE4 at least 5 times on all 
 difficulty settings. It never became boring. 
  Dead Space would surely have gotten a higher rating if they had added the same thing that is almost 
 most important in games: High replayability. 
  
  All in all Dead Space is a very exciting and interesting game to play, adds a few good features, 
 has nice sound and graphics, interesting story and feels like a "must play" for all who have played 
 RE4 and liked it. 
  But I personally see too many copies from other games and movies and too many flaws that shouldn't 
 have been necessary and made the game frustrating sometimes. And the fact that you aren't getting 
 so much out of the game after clearing it made it just worth renting it instead of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davolir
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  The game is excellent, everything you want in a "horror" game! Play this game in the dark and you 
 probably won't come back with a clean pair of underwear! Nice mix of guns, love that you can use 
 2 different ways of firing, original guns. An innovative way of making dialogue in game, with a 
 little window as a projector from your suit, makes you go on while listening to the chatter that 
 is sometimes just plain lame. That is the only thing that is bad about this game: the story. It's 
 too cliche... Graphics great, Sounds awesome, control good.
  The gore is an important part of the game, you have to aim for limbs (the weak point) on the aliens 
 which makes it great when your chop off legs with the chainsaw and you see your opponent ramping 
 towards you, to finish them off you can stomp their face in which makes all the more satisfying! 
 Who ever created the achievement for dismembering limbs had a great idea for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdrummer89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a work of art. Not only does this game effectively immerse you into the USG 
 Ishimura, this game creates more spooks and scares than any game I've ever experienced. The gameplay 
 is tight, fun, and pretty easy to learn and use. The storyline is reminiscent of Alien and Metroid: 
 Fusion, but with something original to make it look so much different. The storytelling is very 
 similar to that of Bioshock, as you pick of audio logs similar to the audio diaries in Bioshock. 
 This gorefest of a game will disturb your mind even after putting the contoller down. This is a 
 mustplay game for anyone into a game that is full of substance. Also, it should be noted that this 
 game is best played in the dark, with your speakers and volume up to a good level. Go into this 
 game expecting to get the living crap scared out of you. The plot has severald twists and turns 
 that allow for things to stay interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charleswbrown
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  From the start DEAD SPACE is very immersive. The score is one of the best I've heard on any medium, 
 forget movies having the best soundtracks. DEAD SPACE will kick their ass'. If you're looking for 
 an adrenaline rush, a scare and an amazing story all in one, look no further. Zero Gravity Basketball 
 is also a nice touch - Its better than any NBA game! The story is non like no other, the comics 
 to go with the game and the prequel story make for some interesting pre-reading. I can't wait to 
 dismember more monstrosities! RUN FOR YOUR LIFE!! ... but don't forget to pickup the goodies along 
 the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollingMeatball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  When we think EA, we immediatey think sport. Or if it's not sport, it's unsatisfying, maybe even 
 disastrous action games. Then when we all claimed they should stick to soccer, they confirm that 
 they will be releasing a third person survival horror set in space. That's when we thought EA was 
 no more.
  
  But in actuality, the one game of 2008 everyone thought would be disapointing, ended up being the 
 most underappreciated title of the year. The game is not only a great game, but an experience so 
 phenomenal, that it urges you to playthrough one more time... than another... than maybe one more. 
 
  
  You play Isaac Clarke, a specialised engineer who must investigate and repair the mining ship 'USG 
 Ishimura'. Accomponied by a small crew, you aboard the huge ship, and thats when the cliche occurs. 
 All isn't what it seems, and soon you realise it's infested by a swarm of Necromorphs, many types 
 of enemies in which were once human corpses, reanimated into grotesque and monstrous creatures. 
 As your crew is picked off one by one, and even more bizarre happenings follow, you are required 
 to fight for your survival, tracing back and forth to get your corrupted ship repaired. 
  
  Escorted with a mind blowing storyline and remarkable character designs, lies Dead Space's ultimate 
 highlight: sound. Never has a game entertained us so much through it's sound ability, but hearing 
 a Slasher scream at you from behind, or even the most minor things such as the hissing of an opening 
 door, adds a large slice for a unique and fufilling game. Wether you appreciate sound design or 
 not, this game will change your mind. And the music adds to the atmosphere, always appearing at 
 the right time. Silent are the hallways, until you reach the end of it, and out comes the Slasher, 
 backed up with a haunting, high tempo music clip.
  
  A delightful addition to the survival factor is the unique HUD display, in which all plays real 
 time. It gives a great sense of the whole 'doom' feeling, for example, if you were to use an item 
 of your choice, the inventory menu is featured in a hologram, thus being alert at all times as 
 a Necromorph could jump out from nowhere. Also, another satisfying feature includes your health 
 bar along your spine. This somewhat gives a more realistic feeling for there are no random bars 
 placed on the screen, although it does take away from the fear factor due to you focusing on the 
 protagonist's model the majority of the time, so you barely have to move your eyes to see where 
 your current health lies. 
  
  The game features a brilliant and possibly influential combat system in which you are forced to 
 shoot at the enemies limbs and not the typical torso or headshot routine. Infact, headshots would 
 anger them. This gives off a more challenging vibe, as aiming for each limb is a risk strategy, 
 as by time you have your crosshair on the last leg, it could be right at your face prepared to 
 execute you. The whole dismembering system also adds to the gorefest, as gallons of blood will 
 be seen throughout the playthrough. And as if the dismemberent system wasnt enough, wait till you 
 view some of the executions for poor Isaac. It may be a joy to see, but if you're disturbed easily, 
 this is the last game on your list. 
  
  Along with the challenging limb blasting structure, requires various thinking cap moments. Puzzles 
 are not dedicated to literally put your brain to test, but some will take time and patience to 
 accompish.
  
  The weapons in this game are some of my favourite in any other, and are not your typical shotgun 
 and machine gun fest. It includes an original arsenal of guns, from the line gun, in which shoots 
 a straight ray cutting the limbs off anything in it's way, the force gun in which blasts a field, 
 knocking over any enemy within feets of distance. And the ripper, which sends a razor blade for 
 a limited number of time, and disguised as a melee gun. And did I miss out that all 7 weapons have 
 an alternative fire mode, all of whice include mines, 190 degrees angle, and fireballs. But the 
 real focus is the plasma cutter: possibly the greatest default weapon in any game. Literally, you 
 only really need this weapon to complete this game. 
  
  Dead Space even has it's RPG moments, in which you are required to upgrade every element to your 
 disposel. These include enhancing the damage and capacity of your guns, boosting your health bar 
 to a higher limitation and advancing the duration and range of your kenesis and stasis module. 
 Each of these are available by acquiring 'power nodes', which are scattered amongst the ship, some 
 hidden and others made obvious for story issues. 
  
  The enemies in this game are incredibly gritty and morbid. Even the simpliest of enemies will give 
 you the chills ten hours into story mode. The are countless styles of antogonists, so you won't 
 get bored of facing the same 5 enemies. The boss battles, although I won't reveal anything about 
 their role in the story, are pretty much boring and are little in difficulty when compared to certain 
 points in the game. Although I must admit, the design of them are epic, and utterly spellbinding.
 
  
  The game also has it's other unique functions, such as Stasis, in which you freeze objects if they 
 are too fast or dangerous to pass. Obviously, enemies will become a little too challenging that 
 you will begin to realise you should use this against main threats. Zero gravity is where gravity 
 becomes minimum, and because of this able to jump across the room. We mean up side down, along 
 the walls, whatever. Although it's an original and unique idea, I found it useless and often tedious. 
 Kenisis also makes it role in this game, which actually becomes useful in certain puzzles and when 
 you are limited in ammo. 
  
  My favourite feature of the whole game is the amazing storyline. Although it's slow in progression, 
 the last 3 chapters are where it truly shines, and include numerous twists that you must be lying 
 if you say you expected it. There are likable characters throughout the whole game, wether it be 
 hero or villain, and the voice acting is spot on. The climax of the game is truly magnificent, 
 will you literally be gobsmacked. Adding to the horror elements are 'audio logs', in which listening 
 to these are real treat, and a satisfying extra to the game. This will make the game much scarier, 
 in which you discover the member's last few days as a human being. Both heart breaking and foreboding.
 
  
  The game will take roughly 11-13 hours if you take your time and treat this as an experience, and 
 explore every part of the ship for power nodes and audio logs. It should take around 7-9 hours 
 to complete if you're simply ready to get the game over. Achievement wise, it dosen't take long 
 to get, and for harder and more time consuming achievements, you are rewarded fairly. It should 
 take no more than 2 playthroughs, excluding completing it on hardest difficulty, to gain 1000 gamerscore.
 
  
  Overall, I don't know if it's the whole action horror RPG games taht I have a softspot to, but 
 this new breed of genre is becoming my favourite. If you liked BioShock (which is my obvious refrence) , 
 then get this game. They both have amazing storylines, incredibly combat systems, immersive gameplay, 
 unbelievable twists and terrifying moments. This game is targeted mainly towards both shooter fans, 
 and survival horror fans. If you're a casual gamer, expect a bit of a challenge, but if you are 
 dedicated to them, this shoudl be completed with ease. It should only take a couple of hours to 
 fully master. Never has a game terrified me so much. Not just the whole eerie and gritty atmosphere, 
 but the story itself, being near enough alone in space, with no one to help, basically thrown in 
 as bait surrounded by hundreds of ruthless and bloodthirsty freaks. Put yourself in Isaac's position, 
 and let this game disturb you than no other. This isn't your typical horror. Prepared to be jumped 
 a thousand times, even when you're expecting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  In the game you are up in space and your crew and you are going to this space station but then 
 you crash there and everyone is all right for now. But when you get out and go to this room then 
 it starts turning bad. Two of your guys dies by these aliens and the other two are somewhere in 
 the Space station. You explore the space station and doing missions to get the place up and running 
 again and you also will have to versus against alot of those freaky alien enimies. In each chapter 
 you will also see people that are still alive and they are killing themselves so you don't need 
 to panic with them cause they are not that important in the game. The game is a third person shooter 
 game and the controls will have to get use to just a bit. There are shops that you can buy items 
 and guns. You can also get money after killing aliens so you can buy things at the shop. You can 
 get a better armor level. You can also get a gino that makes whatever gun you use stronger but 
 you need to be near a bench to upgrade your weapon. The achievements in the game are easy to get. 
 When you are killing the aliens you have a few targets to shoot at. You have the head of course, 
 the arms because the aliens get right back up and attack you with all there might no matter what 
 they have, or their legs but do not shoot them at the chest cause it will not help at all. The 
 game turns from a horror game to a action puzzle game. The game has amazing graphics. Good camera 
 and great controls. Overall this game is really fun to play in and I rate this game 10 outta 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  I recently wrote a blog detailed my long-standing, tumultuous gaming relationship with EA. I threatened 
 to cut off ties with the franchise forever, should Dead Space disappoint like many of their titles 
 of late. Well, here I stand with egg on my face, and offering my sincerest apologizes, as Dead 
 Space is the scariest, most amazing gaming experience in recent memory. 
  
  The story, which takes roughly 10-12 hours to experience, lacks the punch of great epic (ala God 
 of War or Metal Gear) , but it is what you would come to expect from the horror genre  The Concordance 
 Extraction Corporation loses all contact with its mining ship, the USG Ishimura, and Isaac Clarke 
 is sent on a routine repair call; unfortunately, once on board he realizes things are far from 
 routine as the staff on board the ship have turned into monstrous abominations. Isaac, now separated 
 from his team and armed only with repurposed mining tools, must try to stay alive while searching 
 high and low on the space ship, completing mostly repetitive missions and searching for his lady-friend, 
 Nicole. 
  
  Standing is Isaac's way are the Necromorphs, the Isimura  These 
 brilliantly designed abominations traverse through the ventilation ducks, and will attacked through 
 the fans in the walls and ceilings. Often you might step over a dead one, only to have it spring 
 up to life and attack you. These crafty, powerful monsters can only be killed by shooting their 
 limbs, or strategic dismemberment as they like to call it. Even if you kill one, they might split 
 open and have little ones spring out alien-style and continue the assault on you. Combine these 
 tough enemies in an ammo sparse environment, and you have a frighten ride, in which careful precise 
 shooting and running often out way bursting in guns-a-blazing. Think these monsters are a cakewalk? 
 Try taking on a giant Leviathan, whose tentacles will drag you to certain death if your aim is 
 not perfect  one of many of the amazing and grandiose boss battles you will take part in.
  
  EA Redwood Shores has done a great job of scaring the pants off a player. The first thing you'll 
 notice is the lack of HUD. They have brilliant mapped all vitals and stasis energy (the ability 
 to freeze objects and enemies) to the RIG uniform, keeping your action on the player at all times. 
 Long, winding hallways keep the feeling of claustrophobia and constant alert that an alien might 
 be around the corner, although combat in this area is particularly difficult and frustrating. The 
 over the shoulder 3rd person allows for a better viewpoint, but keeps your sight limited, so sharpness 
 is always a necessity. In addition, EA has brilliantly and affectively implemented all the sight 
 and sound gags synonymous with the horror genre. Players will enter a room only to be grabbed by 
 an enormous tentacle, which can drag you to your death, unless you blow it up. You will enter a 
 room and see a necromorph scamper in front of you and duck away in to a ventilation duck. Often 
 times you'll hear necromorphs running along the walls and overhead, and hear barely living victims 
 scream and babble hysterically with their last dying breaths.
  
  Dead Space is a perfect example of how the horror game genre should be. The visuals are amazing, 
 and the sound is arguably the best in any video game to date. EA has crafted a beautifully terrifying 
 world, which is inhibited with powerful, crafty aliens, and puts you in the middle. This game encourages 
 the age-old theme of running from the bad guys, which is essential in a horror genre. This game 
 should be revered and studied for any developer, as it is the epitome of what horror games should 
 be. Pick up Dead Space, turn off the lights, and be ready to scream!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space : EA's brand new Survival-Horror franchise. That statement feels like a lie. 
  
  Story : Dumb.
  
  Okay the story of Dead Space is that you're on some kind of mission to go 
 to this spaceship. You and your dim-witted crew discover that everyone's been slaughtered by some 
 kind of monstrous species and now must find a means to survive. The first thing I noticed about 
 Dead Space is that the voice-acting is bad (and not in that Resident Evil hilariously bad way but 
 just bad) , the characters are unlikable and couldn't die soon enough, and the whole story is predictable, 
 lame, cheesy, a dud. 
  
  The second thing I noticed about Dead Space is that the developers are really proud of their limb 
 disembowelment gameplay mechanics and are fixated on making sure gamers know this too. It's like 
 the very soul of Dead Space is found from severing appendages. As you begin exploring the ship, 
 you will run into at least two messages written on walls in blood "Cut off their limbs!" before 
 you even know what exactly "their" refers to. Then, your crew members will be sure to tell you 
 point blank that in order to defeat your enemies, you must attempt to sever their body parts. After 
 that, a green message will pop-up telling you to your face that you must dismember limbs to kill 
 these monstrosities. And just in case you didn't pick it up the first five times, the loading screens 
 will frequently tell you to aim for the limbs to kill enemies faster. And isn't the box art making 
 it apparent enough that the very essence of this game is to slice off limbs? Was this game designed 
 for the pirate crowd of people who downloaded the game without reading the box at the video game 
 store? 
  
  The third thing I noticed about Dead Space was a feeling that crept up on me; I did this all before! 
 Dead Space seems to be an amalgamation of many other gameplay clichs combined into one very unoriginal 
 piece. To be specific, you have the third person camera, inventory/store system, movement and shooting 
 controls of Resident Evil 4, but in the Aliens-esque infested spaceship setting seen in Doom 3, 
 among MANY other games. The basic gameplay in any given chapter involves going from one part of 
 an area to another, dealing with enemies that pop up and separating them from their arms and legs. 
 
  
  For what it's worth, you'll face a hearty variety of grotesque enemies and the action will stay 
 fresh. Only in the end-game levels did I get annoyed at the sheer quantity of enemies being thrust 
 at me. What these enemies aren't, however, is remotely frightening. I wonder if it can be considered 
 some kind of accomplishment that a game can have flesh-eating monsters with fangs growing out of 
 weird appendages and make them less terrifying than Spanish peasants with pitchforks. Oh they try 
 to scare you, appear out of nowhere as an orchestra shouts loud and proud to proclaim their presence, 
 but I never felt startled or unnerved. Throughout the entire 9 hour experience, only the cheap-scare 
 ending was able to elicit an emotion out of me that wasn't contempt at the ordinary action/non-horror 
 game I was playing. 
  
  The game does have two original bones in its body. I mentioned the limb-cutting mechanic earlier 
 (though I didn't mention it as much as the game will) and as biologically illogical it is to kill 
 enemies faster by aiming for some stray tentacle instead of say, their head or vital organs, it 
 does make for some interesting battles. There's also a select few areas in the game where there 
 is no gravity, and because of such, you can hop directly from one area to another with your magnetic 
 boots. I won't give anything away, but these segments make for some unique set-piece sequences 
 that ask for some outside-the-box thinking. 
  
  But then there are the other 204 unoriginal bones in the game's body. Like the Half-Life 2-esque 
 gravity gun that you use to manipulate items in the game world for puzzles. Or the ability to slow 
 down enemies or fast-moving machines. Or the obligatory gun turret sequences! 
  
  All things considered, I should at least give the game credit for managing to extract 9 hours of 
 gameplay without excessively spamming enemies (well, except for the end) and repeating too many 
 areas over again. But try as I might, the feeling of dj vu was too strong. I hated the storyline, 
 couldn't care less about my surroundings, certainly never felt terrified, and all and all it was 
 just an action game that I was playing for the sake of playing it. 
  
  If you were to assess Dead Space on technical merits, and have a separate review score for graphics 
 or sound or presentation, then you would have gold-medal caliber scores across the board, as this 
 really is one of the most visually impressive games on the market. But what Dead Space lacks is 
 emotion. The game feels heartless, just another futuristic sci-fi shooter but with nay all of the 
 gameplay extracted from Resident Evil 4, and not the sense of atmosphere or dread. I hate it when 
 people call Dead Space an exciting new franchise that needs new installments; it sends the message 
 that it's only okay to create new franchises if they're exactly like the old ones. 
  
  Pros : The ability to curb stomp. For people that hate HUDs and things that remind them that they're 
 only playing a game, health bars and all pertinent information are integrated on your weapons or 
 the back of your suit, and all messages, pop-up displays and menus are presented in the form of 
 Minority Report style hologram windows that pop up in front of the character's eyes instead of 
 yours.
  
  Cons : Because of this, these pop-ups are SD DEFICIENT and thus hard to read if you've got an ordinary 
 television set. 
  
  3  stars. 
  
  Oh, and the name of the game sucks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbn1989
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  To begin with, this was'nt a game high up my shopping list, in fact had it not come to me as a 
 Christmas present i doubt i'd be playing this game at all. 
  But oh'boy am i glad i got to play it because this  
 game is just one of the very best there is out there.
  
  Dead space is just one of the rare horror shooters which hits the nail on the head with fine visuals, 
 intense plot, no over the top game mechanics, scary sequences (vital in all horror games) as well 
 as believable characters. Some horror games aint scary at all, while others are just plain disturbing, 
 a couple on the other hand, start scary but the scare factor quickly erodes with time, Dead space 
 is not like that. This game keeps you tight at the edge of your seat constantly glancing over your 
 shoulder to see if you're being stalked by one of the dreaded necromorphs -- amazing, thrilling, 
 and frightening.
  
  One of the game's strong points is the variety it boasts, not every level is a shoot to kill mission 
 which is great because that would be dead boring! I absolutely enjoyed the mini games, and that 
 sometimes you're jumping around in zero-g's or pulverising alien ass via bad-ass cannons when not 
 shooting asteroids out of space. The game was of adequate difficulty and a difficulty slider means 
 that it'll please both the hardcore gamers as well as the casualists. The many save stations scattered 
 all around ishimura was another positive, the rolling checkpoints between doors' another thing 
 which the designers got right.
  
  In all, this' a game worth buying. If you're not too jumpy, dont mind horror, or am an absolute 
 sucker for over the shoulder shooters, buy this game -- or you're dead stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devonne13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Dead Space for sometime now and I'm so impress with the way this game was design 
 the graphic is so mind-blowing , the storyline remarkable. Dead space is the most greatest game 
 I've ever played in my whole life. Never have I encounter a game with such a remarkable graphic 
 design nor have i encounter such an amazing story. I know there will design game that are far better 
 than Dead Space, but even if Dead Space will not be forgotten so easily. No it will live on, I 
 only hope there is a sequel to this game will have the same enjoying as it predecessor. But for 
 no Dead Space was amazing and I would just like to compliment those that design this game, and 
 those that wrote the storyline.... I just want to say a job will done.. And that I have enjoy your 
 game..... '...' the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin973
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  To begin with this game so far is addicting. Some parts scared me because i'll randomly be walking 
 through the ship and a alien will fall right through the ceiling. But i like how you can slow the 
 enemies and it is easy to shoot their limbs off. The campaign has a great story along it. I haven't 
 beat it all the way but it's great. The weapons are great in this game, the plasma cutter is cool 
 because one shot in the limb and they fall off. If you like gory bloody, shooter games, this is 
 for you. it is addicting. I like the thinking of a certain power that lets you pick stuff up and 
 you have to move it to a certain spot to get across a bridge, or open a door. Whatever but it is 
 great thinking. The time i've been playing this i'm always like ok i'll stop at the next save, well 
 i never do. It is so addicting i don't stop. This game is a great game. If you don't like shooters, 
 i would rent it first, but if you like shooters buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martis7991
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is by far the best horror game to date. Its a third person shooter that doesn't follow 
 any of the rules of conventional shooters. In most shooters a quick kill means head shots. Not 
 in Dead Space. In order to kill the creatures in Dead Space you must dismember their limbs. This 
 is a unique idea that makes the game stand out.
  
  Graphically it is just as amazing. There is so much detail in your surroundings that it feels real. 
 The atmosphere is dark and ominous which gives it that feeling of dread for whats around the corner. 
 The Story is the best by far for any horror game to date. There are many twists and turns and it 
 is all wrapped up with a triumphant ending.
  
  If you like Horror and Shooters, this game is definately worth the $60 price tag, but even if you 
 do not normaly like them, rent it and give it a shot, I garuntee you will be hooked on its originality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fish0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:38 am PT
Review:  An instant classic, mind boggling graphics, easy gameplay and a rollercoaster of a storyline. The 
 games amazing features have been well thought out. zero gravity combat is fantastic the couple 
 of minigames make the game more mixed up. The thought of having the players status not as a HUD 
 but as intergrated in the game appearing as if its ment to be is an already used idea amazingley 
 thought over with the use of the rig. The story line has many twists and turns and the result is 
 fantastic. Then there is the graphics, the environment is very well done with good attention to 
 detail unlike those bungie folk, nah just joking they're alright. Definentley a game worth getting 
 and playing over and over again. I wonder if they have this game on space stations, hmm..., i ll 
 have to look into that.
  
  Have fun playing
  
  ~B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionary
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  It's within our human nature to seek out the adrenalin rush that comes from fright. It's that certain 
 uneasiness of the unknown but the anticipation of an eventual scare that seems so alluring to so 
 many people. Video games have flirted with the concepts of survival horror since the early 90's 
 but very few titles manage to utilize the clever nuances of what helps an interactive medium provide 
 scares while still retaining all the essentials of what makes a video game at its core fun. Like 
 many others before it, Dead space tries to brand itself as a survival horror game to the best of 
 its ability through the use of murky environments, grotesque imagery along with excellent pacing 
 and sound design. In the end it actually manages provide an identity for itself in various distinct 
 and positive ways. 
  
  Dead Space's method of storytelling follows similar tactics used in the film Event Horizon or The 
 Thing. You're an engineer named Isaac set in the future who is assigned to go investigate a stricken 
 interstellar mining ship named the USG Ishimura. While other members have been issued the same 
 orders, Isaac's reasons are also selfish in nature since someone special to him still resides on 
 the ship. Like a lop sided mission gone bad your crew ends up crash landing on the vessel and you're 
 pretty much left stranded. Without any prior knowledge of what occurred to the previous crew you 
 begin to unravel the horrors that took place on the abandoned colony and your ultimate goal alters 
 from a simple investigation to an attempt at survival. There isn't really a whole lot of originality 
 in this concept but for a video game it still feels fresh especially in the current state of games. 
 
  
  These horrors, the infected humans directed by the parasitic beings known as the Necromorph, have 
 a sole purpose like any hostile alien race. Infect and multiply. As typical with any engineer that 
 suddenly decides to quit his day job in favor of slicing up a few aliens on the side, you're tasked 
 with beating the living snot out of anything that roars in your general direction with the tools 
 you have at your disposal. This ends up meaning that the mining instrument known as the plasma 
 cutter, once used by Isaac for cutting chip pieces off of boulders can now be used in a most inventive 
 yet bloody fashion. 
  
  Due to Isaac's own familiarity with these mining tools, the gear can be modified to deal more damage, 
 something the game lets you do occasionally on work benches with the help of power nodes. Upgrades 
 aren't simply limited to hand weapons either. Isaac sports a suit designed to endure the harsh 
 environments of space which can be improved in much the same fashion.
  
  By now you must realize that Isaac is no ordinary engineer and his skills don't stop there. His 
 telekinesis gun used to move large objects and his stasis ability, ala a Matrix bullet time event 
 can be implemented in both puzzle form or through the use of defense. 
  
  With all these tools and weapons at hand you'd think as the player you'd feel safer but you'd be 
 mistaken. Claustrophobic environments, a frequent shroud of darkness amid the flickering lights, 
 the sounds of distant cries, corridors with sharp corners just waiting to surprise you with a new 
 enemy, these are the types of fear you'll have to face and despite the weapons you have, there's 
 always a moment when you feel vulnerable. This is definitely a game that urges you to turn off 
 those lights, turn the volume way up so you can fully immerse yourself in the visual and aural 
 experience. 
  
  Dead Space's visual presentation is truly something to be admired not only from an artistic standpoint 
 but from the choices made in an effort to further engross the player. The game rarely provides 
 you with a break in the action; with a total lack of a heads up display (HUD) , storyline sequences 
 such as video or audio messages take place via a holographic screen projected from Isaac's own 
 suit allowing freedom of movement as the game goes on. Menu systems and inventory items are handled 
 in much the same fashion during game play. 
  
  Lastly your health bar is a clearly identifiable glowing meter located on the spine of your suit. 
 Sure you may not think a choice as simplistic as an accessible menu system during real time game 
 play would be such a big deal but try retrieving a health pack in the middle of an encounter with 
 two Necromorph's and you'll know what tension means. Since this is a survival horror game, it's 
 a choice that can be both frustrating and satisfying at the same time. It would have been nice 
 to have the option of hot keys for important items such as health though to make it slightly easier 
 in certain situations. With all these choices in mind you have to wonder why a genre that thrives 
 on atmosphere neglected trying the no HUD approach before this game. 
  
  It also goes without saying that from a technical standpoint, Dead Space is ace. From the life 
 like character and enemy animations, to the interesting yet disturbing design choices on the Necramorphs, 
 it all comes together to provide a fitting visual style suited for a horror title. The unnatural 
 and unsettling nature of your enemies is truly a sight to behold. They crawl, leap, and stagger 
 in a variety of ways but never cease to remind you that they were once human. 
  
  The assortment of animations that you'll witness is also represented by the diverse ways in which 
 you can take an adversary down and in the case of Dead Space, it's called strategic dismemberment. 
 A phrase coined by the creators that stresses the unproductive tactic of the head shot. In this 
 title unlike your typical Zombie affair you're encouraged to go for the limbs as a more successful 
 alternative. Failing to do so can cause the precious waste of ammo and transform a slow two legged 
 walking creature into a fast crawling, hard to target leaper. 
  
  It all makes you wish that there was a greater variation of enemy types to try this unique strategy 
 on however as you'll come across the same sorts throughout the game but it can easily be overlooked. 
 The visual touches don't stop there, even the very unique Zero Gravity interludes display sequences 
 that are truly one of a kind in the video game world. Once you see the first floating bodies drift 
 through that quiet, desolate and airless space you'll know what I mean.
  
  Visual presentations aside, sound design must always play a vital role in drawing in the player 
 and Dead Space makes sure not to take this fact for granted. You'll hear the subtle instrumentals 
 that accompany you as you traverse the halls of the Ishimura, the vague yet disturbingly twisted 
 lullabies that echo in the distance, the far-off shriek's of enemies that await you around the 
 corners, cries of victims being slaughtered beyond your vision. Even the attention to detail demonstrated 
 during the various oxygen deficient vacuum sequences, where every distinct sound is muffled except 
 for the echos of Isaac's own grunts shows the amount of effort and care directed towards the audio 
 in this game. 
  
  Dead Space is a title that borrows a lot from various different mediums but never ceases to give 
 just as much back. It rests all its design and game play choices around the term "atmosphere" and 
 comes out with a winning game that manages to breathe new life in a genre dominated by a select 
 few. If you're looking for a title that'll provide you with the occasional scare packaged with 
 solid game play mechanics and an engrossing atmosphere then Dead Space is definitely a game worthy 
 of your time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  While playing it you compare it to another GREAT GAME.
  
  The entire time I played Dead Space I found myself comparing it to Bioshock. I did this for several 
 reasons. Both games are great at creating a world and an atmosphere you can allow yourself to get 
 lost in. 
  
  Both games have RPG elements and strategies.
  
  Both games have immersive stories.
  
  The only reason I refuse to give Dead Space a score of 
 10 is because I keep coming to the same conclusion. Dead Space would not be what it IS, if it were 
 not for Bioshock.
  
  It borrows too many elements. (I'm not saying that is a 100 percent bad thing) .
  
  and the 
 replay value simply is not as high.
  
  On my 2nd playthru of Dead Space... The original magic of the first playthru was simply long gone, 
 (This due to scripted events) and the game had become predictable.... With Bioshock I found myself 
 playing 3, 4 and 5 times thru...
  
  All that being said... Dead Space is great... Its just hard to same a game is genius is such a golden 
 age of gaming.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:28 pm PT
Review:  EA has suddenly learnt that the majority of the gaming population have had enough of the constant 
 yearly iterations that do not offer much innovation ( except for the FIFA series) but that has 
 changed with the release dead space is a totally original IP that does borrow some ideas off other 
 horror games (and movies) but does not duplicate these ideas fully. Imagine your on red dwarf but 
 this time it isn't funny for some reason there's creepy aliens stalking the bowels of the USG Ishimura 
 and along with the eye candy and deeply spooky audio. Dead Space also fits in a credible story 
 along with a protagonist that isn't your run of the mill hero, Issac Clarke is just an ordinary 
 guy in the wrong place at the wrong time.
  
  Weapons in Dead Space are not your usual submachine guns seen in other horrors they are simply 
 mining tools which is where one of the more innovative features comes in. Strategic dismemberment 
 is where you must blast off the limbs off those pesky Necromorphs (aliens) sure you can shoot the 
 bastards in the head but that won't stop them completely ripping you apart. Also there is a variety 
 in enemies aswell such as baby necromorphs with tentacles sprouting out of their backs and scorpion 
 type creatures which are a real pain in the arse.
  
  With a great variety of enemies and weapons come with the eye candy of the graphics which are excellent 
 mixed with the nerve shredding audio which creates a dark, foreboding, chilling and hostile atmosphere. 
 there are moments where you may be walking down a lit corridor when all of a sudden it blacks out 
 and completley surrounded by darkness you can hear growling and gurgling the vents above you are 
 creaking while the machinery of the Ishimura are going about thier pace the lights suddenly go 
 back on and you see a Necromorph charging ready too rip you apart. The resident evil style over 
 the shoulder view helps in creating a hostile atmosphere which will make you think there is always 
 something or someone stalking you also add to the fact that the Necromorphs will usually pop up 
 at some of the most unexpected and inoppurtune times which will keep you on your toes.
  
  In reality every game is not perfect and Dead Space is no exception with alotof backtracking through 
 levels just to find a nav card and some of the objectives are so mundane and pointless.
  But these flaws do not seriously dampenthe experience so all good news.
  It was one of the best 
 games of 2008 and any horror junkie should at least play it. 
  
  In space no one can hear you scream
  You are so screwed
  
  +Superb graphics and nerve shredding 
 audio
  +Dark and chilling atmosphere
  +strong storyline keeps the game flowing
  +lots of twists and shocks
  +Strategic dismemberment
  
  -Pointless objectives
  -lots of 
 backtracking
  
  After playing the game you should check out the animated movie Dead Space: Downfall while the animation 
 is not as good and the dialogue may turn some off it adds to the storyof dead space and will show 
 you how all the carnage unfolded.
  
  Also have a friend along and take turns and seewho craps themselves the most and also try playing 
 it at night in pitch black.
  
  Highlight: There are lots of great moments in Dead Space but it was at the start where i was walking 
 down a corridor and the light from the previous room illuminated the door at the end of the corridor 
 i kept walking along when a shadow from the other room zoomed past i turnt around to see nothing 
 then turned around again and there was a Necromorph looking right at me ready to kill and tear 
 me apart. From this moment on i knew i was in for a tense time, hell you might say words you thought 
 you would never say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  I spent 18 hours on this game. It took me about three days to beat it. And basically, there is 
 one thing that I have realized. All other typical survivol horror action adventures, Resident Evil, 
 Silent Hill, House of the Dead... every other survivol horror game seems lame when compared to 
 this game. Dead Space is different than all other games in its genre. EA has combined Sci-fi, shooting, 
 horror survivol, and action adventure all in one single masterpiece and they have done it so successfully 
 that.. well, I dont have enough words to describe it. All I can say is that Dead Spae sets the 
 standard for more upcoming games in that genre to follow. 
  
  The game features a deadly, immersive, compelling and an inmnovative story that sucks you in from 
 the very beginning and forces you to play through the entire campaign, no matter how much you pee 
 in your pants. And the story is made even more masterful when it is conveyed via beautifully crafted 
 cutscenes. 
  
  This game features Isaac as the protagonist. Isaac is an engineer. He is on a ship that is overloaded 
 with deadly mutated monsters called Necromorphs and has to do several things at once- save his 
 butt. Re-unite with Nicole, and fix athe ship as it travels through space. 
  
  The sound of the game, horrifying yet beautiful, is the most bone chilling, blood curdling sound 
 I have ever heard in a long time. The shrieks of the victimc of the Necromorphs, the distant haunting 
 songs of the mentally unballanced survivors, the clanging inside the ventelation shafts, which 
 the Necromorphs use as a travelling system and from where they attack at us and catch us unawares, 
 the muffled voices and our high pitched breathing and groaning in vaccum, the distant shrieks of 
 the Necromorphs.... always, throughout the game, there is a horrifying sound to be heard... the 
 sound is done so beautifully, that Resident Evil's sound sounds lame (but, well, I have made that 
 point clear, haven't I?) .
  
  The graphics of the game too are terrifying yet brilliantly crafted. From engineering to hydroponics 
 and beyond, Dead Space never fails to impress with its visuals. Whether you're watching the torrential 
 rainfall of asteroids across the hull of the Ishimura from the bridge atrium or witnessing the 
 way a corpse spins serenely in a zero-g vacuum, the haunting yet beautiful graphics of Dead Space 
 have a way of sticking in your mind long after you've quit playing. 
  
  Semi-interactive cutscenes such as the one in which your team's rescue ship explodes within the 
 Ishimura docking bay simply must be seen firsthand, and the tremendous lighting and environmental 
 effects lay the groundwork for an intense horror adventure. 
  
  You know this game is different when you see that there is no health bar or ammo bar o be founf 
 on the screen. All you have to do to have a look at the health bar is look at the spine of your 
 character. The health bar is to be found there. And to have a look at the ammo bar, all you gotta 
 do is simply check the display readout visible whenever you raise it into the ready position. 
 
  
  Throughout the game you find health upgrades, ammo upgrades, many new weapons and a lot more. Two 
 new weapons in this game that will always deserve a mention anywhere are the kinesis and stasis. 
 
  
  Stasis, a finite resource that must be replenished at recharge stations across the ship or with 
 booster packs, allows you to temporarily slow down fast-moving objects, while kinesis gives you 
 the ability to lift, move, and throw objects in the environment at no cost. Each can be used independently 
 or in tandem to solve puzzles or navigate the ship, and each has useful battle applications as 
 well. 
  
  For instance, stasis can be used to virtually stop incredibly fast-moving Necromorphs and give 
 you the time to tear them limb from limb, and kinesis can be used to throw explosive canisters 
 or even severed extremities to conserve ammunition. 
  
  Ultimately, it boils down to this: Dead Space is a spectacular game and a lot of work and labour 
 has been put in to masterfully craft this game- and it shows. Dead Space is the best Horror game 
 I've ever played and is probably oneof the best games one can find on his PS3 or X360. If you haven't 
 bought this game, go out there and buy it right now. If you dont, you're missing out on one heck 
 of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead space is fun and scary just thinking about playing it creeps me out. It's better that you 
 rent it first since the campaign is only 10 to 12 hours long if you really like it that much go 
 ahead and buy it but it's honestly doesn't have enough content to make it worth 60$. The weapons 
 made up were really cool but some were underpowered and useless for example the flamethrower, force 
 gun and the pulse rifle they weren't even strong if you fully upgraded them. The pulse rifle is 
 good on easier difficulties but screw it on harder ones.
  
  Upgrading your weapons is always fun and fooling around with stasis and telekinesis is cool. The 
 story is scary and weird. It's new and refreshing it's not your average horror game. It doesn't 
 have much replayability because you know where all the enemies are and you know what to do so it 
 doesn't scare you as much second time around. There is no multiplayer i'm not sure how you could've 
 made multiplayer out of it. Now every game has it cons so here they are slow movement, short campaign, 
 no multiplayer, a few annoying parts and dark areas that can be a challenege to move through.
 
  
  Rent it before buying thats all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro_tech9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  dead space is genious and i know a good game when i play one. dead space starts you out as issac, 
 a mechanic, sent to repair the mining ship ishimora only to find a bloodbath. things go worse for 
 there as you are stranded on the ship with no hope of rescue. to keep the this thrill classified 
 ill say no more about the story. this game though will trick you into being scared. the aliens 
 pop out at expected times at first making the predictable, but as you explore they begin to hunt 
 you and stalk you. then they jump at you from unexpected angles and areas. i can tell you that 
 you are going to die several times while playing. get ready for a gruesome death. This game kept 
 my heart racing for the time i played it. and living in an old creaky house it was tough to sleep 
 also. this game will get to you and I garentee you will like it. (best played at night) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  There are plenty of titles out there that get so much publicity before they are launched that they 
 just don't have a chance to live up to the hype. But that makes it that much sweeter that titles 
 like this seemingly appear on store shelves unheard of and blow us away. Dead Space goes beyond 
 achieving things that all games set to achieve at the highest level, like graphics etc., and presses 
 on to offer some of the most innovative gameplay mechanics to date. Mark my words, you will see 
 future games stealing some of the new ideas that appeared in this benchmark title. There are a 
 lot of aspects of Dead Space that are worthy of extensive accolades, but I will just sum it up 
 by saying that there are several facets of this game that receive a perfect 10 (in my book, that 
 is saying that it is better than anything done before it) , and here they are:
  
  -Graphics
  -Sound design
  -Lighting effects
  -Seamless gameplay
  -Level design
  -Replay 
 value
  
  Many other features in Dead Space are close to the top as well, like voice acting and story, but 
 the previous list, let me emphasize again, are the best I have seen in a game. Ever.
  
  No gamer who rents or buys this game will, at any point during playing it have a feeling that they 
 got burned by poor design or programming. Everything works flawlessly from object interaction to 
 character control.
  
  The plot for Dead Space is really nothing new. You are a space engineer called to repair a ship, 
 and upon arrival discover something gone terribly wrong. Naturally, you end up stuck on the ship 
 trying to figure out how to escape the nasties inhabiting it. Bioshock or the movie Alien should 
 be coming to mind here, so like I said, nothing new. But the plot's presentation, not its originality 
 is the hook (not to mention, it puts a fantastic story to this rehearsed template anyway.) The 
 premise of the game offers an environment upon which the most creative aspects of this game thrive.
 
  
  The gameplay is really a combination of things you have never seen in a game, and things you have 
 seen before, done the best they have ever been done. One of my favorite mechanics in this game 
 is when your character leaves a gravity-induced room of the ship into an antigravity room, or a 
 brief venture into space where the 2D floor is no longer your only path, and you can jump freely 
 from floor to wall to ceiling, and must do so to solve one of many creative puzzles. And the puzzles 
 themselves are always new, and make great employment out of your powers that you pick up along 
 the way to temporarily slow an object, or to kinetically control an inanimate item like Syndrome 
 in The Incredibles. Every moment where this ability is called upon feels new (not like moving blocks 
 in Tomb Raider for the last 10 years) , and each situation comes naturally like "Hmm I could cross 
 here if only I could pull that tram hanging above the void over to me somehow... OH I CAN!" Moments 
 like this make you immersed in a game world that is so real, not like another trite puzzle popped 
 up and you were expecting it.
  
  Like a true survival horror, you will cherish ammo and health packs in this game. You are able 
 to upgrade your armor or guns at stores spread throughout, but money found only goes so far, and 
 you find yourself using it more often on ammo than upgrades. Enemies must be killed with precision 
 by dismembering them, or else you will waste more ammo on them than they will ever drop, but on 
 medium setting the ammo shortage feels just right, and makes you work hard to survive. But here 
 is where the beauty of complete replay value comes in. After beating the game, it unlocks new armor, 
 and gives you a load of money for a second play through, making your second round feel like a run 
 'n' gun action game rather than survival horror. It genuinely feels like an entirely new, and very 
 fun game, not to mention that the intriguing plot revealed in this game makes you want to play 
 it again to understand the beginning with the knowledge gained at the end.
  
  One more thing has to be mentioned, and that is the remarkable player immersion in this game. First 
 of all, the sound design here is epic, and is one of the key elements in my opinion for making 
 a game feel real. Second, you could play through it, go to save screens, watch videos that you 
 find, open menus to sort your items, and you will never feel like your character wasn't standing 
 right there. That is because your character uses glowing projected HUD's for all of these things. 
 If you watch a video log, your character projects it in front of him, never leaving the actual 
 game. You can move about, open doors, search for objects, and it will just follow you and play 
 until it is over or until you stop it. You can even rotate the camera around it and it will skew 
 appropriately, or you can watch it backwards if you like. But, you will NEVER leave the actual 
 game with these things, making you feel like you are truly inside this forbidden ship.
  
  I am beyond impressed with Dead Space. I remember being so disappointed with Bioshock's gameplay, 
 but Dead Space has delivered all of the horror, all of the brilliant plot, all of the  
 environment of Bioshock and followed it up with creativity and functionality unmatched by almost 
 any game. You have to look very hard to notice any flaws in this masterpiece, and as for me, after 
 a 10 hour completion of this satisfying game, I just wanted more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleanPlayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a combination of scientific horror movies such as Alien and John Carpenter's the 
 Thing. But what I love about this game is it's atmosphere and original story. 
  
  You play as Isaac, a mechanic boarding a abandoned ship with no signal. Your first encounter of 
 what happened to the crew members on the abandoned ship goes awry, so you run like Forest and get 
 the hell out of there. That's when the Survival horror begins. Separation from your teammates really 
 electrifies the experience. The sound is top notch, graphics top notch, and story are top notch. 
 Unraveling the mystery truly shows this series is going places. I'm intrigued where the sequel 
 will take place, but I won't spoil anything to newcomers of the story.
  
  So What could exactly did go wrong? My main issue with the game is the backtracking. It makes the 
 ship your on feel smaller, taking away from the experience. Repetitive game-play can also be an 
 issue, but at times I enjoyed killing the Necromorphs. I found the game a tad short as well. 
 
  
  Final Word: Dead Space is worth playing, download the demo on Xbox Live/PSN to see if it's for 
 you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokeydabear076
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I have seen countless horror movies and almost all of them share at least one element, they are 
 not scary. The same can be said about horror-based videogames. Sure, there are moments that freak 
 me out in both, but I rarely find a movie or game that is overall scary and nightmare inducing. 
 Unfortunately, Dead Space follows this trend and it is not very scary; however, despite the lack 
 of truly terrifying moments, Dead Space is a hell of a lot of fun to play.
  
  Dead Space mimics two of the greatest Sci-Fi horror movies, "Alien" and "John Carpenter's The Thing". 
 Since I am a huge fan of both, I welcomed this influence with an open heart and an empty stomach. 
 Anyone who has seen these movies knows why my stomach was empty. Although Dead Space is not as 
 twisted and gory as The Thing, it is close and the developers were certainly not afraid to hold 
 anything back. I would say that The Thing influences the horror in this game more than Alien does 
 because the focus is on action and freaking you out by exposing the player to disturbing images 
 of blood and gore. However, it is obvious that Alien inspires the environmental horror in Dead 
 Space. 
  
  Both of these movies may influence Dead Space, but overall, Dead Space manages to create something 
 fresh and unique. Perhaps the only downfall to this game is the story, which is not very special, 
 at least not with my current understanding. You take the role of Isaac Clarke, an engineer whom 
 the C. E. C. assigns to help fix the Ishimura, a mining ship. Your wife (I think) , Nicole, is also 
 on the ship, so you have more than one reason to be there. Long story short, the rescue mission 
 fails and you must fix the ship and find your wife in the process with the help of two of your 
 surviving colleagues. As the story unfolds, you discover that an alien artifact was found on the 
 planet being mined and some people on the ship were followers of a religion who praised this artifact. 
 Many of these people were crazy and you gain a deeper understanding of their insanity through various 
 audio logs scattered throughout the ship. I will be honest, I did not take the time to read every 
 single text log nor did I pay much attention to the fanatical element of the story. Instead, I 
 focused on the survival element. So, I cannot flat-out say that the story was generic. However, 
 the part of the story I focused on was not particularly special. If you have seen a few horror 
 movies, then you could probably figure out how the survival portion of the story was going to unfold. 
 I have read that in order to understand the story in Dead Space completely, you must replay it 
 a few times. This must be true because after completing Dead Space, I felt that a lot was missing 
 from the story. This mystery certainly adds a lot of replay value to the game because I am willing 
 to go through it again in order to gain a greater understanding of what happened. However, for 
 my first time playing the game, I cannot say that the story was amazing.
  
  Throughout the epic, close-quarters adventure through the Ishimura, Isaac encounters some of the 
 most gruesome and disturbing enemies in videogame history. These encounters helped me get through 
 the game's somewhat dull story. No, I did not die a whole lot in Dead Space, in fact, I only started 
 to die towards the end, but the game was challenging regardless. The challenge came from the well-designed 
 enemies. The aliens in this game could easily slice your frail body into little cubes of flesh 
 if they got close enough to strike you. This put the intensity of each encounter on steroids because 
 I did not want them anywhere near me and I would try my hardest to avoid contact. Most of these 
 monsters are deformed humans, with extra strings attached (sometimes literally, strings of flesh) . 
 There are creepy looking babies that crawl around the ceilings and have bloody protrusions that 
 pop out of their backs and launch projectiles at you. There are giant, almost crustacean-like beasts 
 whose only weakness is in their back. There are deformed humans who are glued to the walls of the 
 ship by an alien substance, their ribcages bust open, lunching out their squid-like arms as they 
 continuously give birth to smaller enemies in the process. Simply put, this game has some ****** 
 up stuff in it.
  
  Surprisingly, the "****** up" design of the enemies is not there just for show. This is not a generic 
 shootem up game with aliens; there is a fair amount of thought involved with the shooting. Each 
 enemy has certain weaknesses that you must discover and exploit. If you do not exploit these weaknesses 
 then the chances of loosing your head are greater. I believe the developers labeled this element 
 of the game, tactical dismemberment. Whatever its name is, it makes shooting big ugly things a 
 lot of fun! The most common weakness is in the limbs of the aliens. Shoot a few limbs off and the 
 alien will go down, but the tactical aspect is not as simple as it sounds and each enemy provides 
 a unique challenge. It is also worth noting that not all of the weapons are useful against every 
 enemy. With the exception of the Plasma Cutter, which is an overall fantastic weapon, the rest 
 of the weapons are proficient in some circumstances, but not others. For example, the Pulse Rifle 
 was great against small, fast moving enemies, but not as good for destroying larger enemies' limbs. 
 I found myself only using three of the game's seven weapons. I used the Plasma Cutter, the Line 
 Gun, and the Pulse Rifle. The next time I play through Dead Space, I intend to test some of the 
 other weapons in addition to the ones I used. Anyway, the game also features plenty of customization. 
 Throughout the Ishimura you will find power nodes which can be used to upgrade your weapons and 
 your suit. I fully upgraded my suit first because protecting my hide was my first priority and 
 eventually moved on to upgrading my weapons. All of the upgrades are useful. For the suit, you 
 gain health and air; depending on the weapon, you can upgrade the reload time, damage, rate of 
 fire, etc. The upgrade system is not extremely deep, but it adds a nice layer to the gameplay and 
 helps to set the game apart from other more basic third person shooters such as Gears of War. One 
 of my favorite elements of the combat is that after each battle the enemies drop items. This resembles 
 Diablo in a way, but there are no unique items, just med kits, money, and ammo. It is very rewarding 
 to go through a challenging battle and pick up the loot afterwards. The loot that drops also depends 
 on the items you have in your inventory. So if I do not have a flamethrower in my inventory then 
 I will not find flamethrower ammo. Some might say that this makes the game too easy, but I believe 
 it makes the game more entertaining. Instead of forcing the player into the tedious task of scrounging 
 around for items, this feature keeps you in the action. The money that drops is also very useful 
 in purchasing ammo, items, and upgrades for your suit at the ship's store. 
  
  In addition to the basic weapons, the player's suit has a few tools to use. These tools can help 
 in combative situations, one of them freezes enemies for a short time, another allows you to launch 
 objects such as explosive barrels at the vile creatures, and the final function allows you to "jump" 
 around in zero gravity environments. I rarely found myself using these tools as weapons, but they 
 do serve a purpose outside of combat. Dead Space gives the player numerous tasks, which require 
 movement of heavy objects, slowing down the movement of objects, and moving around more effectively 
 in zero-g areas. These normally slow down the action a bit, but it is a very natural transition 
 and the "puzzles" are not challenging so you never feel like giving up. As I mentioned before, 
 throughout the course of the game your colleagues give you various tasks to complete. These tasks 
 make up the twelve missions of Dead Space. Most of these tasks involve finding a part to the ship 
 and or pressing a button. Of course, these tasks are never easy to complete and they typically 
 required the disposal of numerous aliens before completion. Pressing buttons or picking up parts 
 was never particularly exciting; however, getting to the objective was always entertaining and 
 interesting.
  
  If there is one thing that Dead Space does best, it is atmosphere. Other games such as Bioshock 
 attempted to create a creepy atmosphere, but flat-out failed. The atmosphere in Dead Space is by 
 no means cheesy and it is entirely believable. The freaky music in combination with the brilliant 
 use of lighting, which takes me back to the movie Alien, creates something truly fantastic. I had 
 not experienced an atmospheric game of this magnitude for a long time, so Dead Space was refreshing 
 and exciting to play through from beginning to end. The design of the levels also helped create 
 a wonderful experience. The moments where Dead Space places the player in an extremely claustrophobic 
 corridor with aliens coming at you on both sides are countless, but the developers made the experience 
 flow perfectly by balancing the claustrophobic battles with big alien encounters in wide-spaced 
 areas.
  
  I have a hard time finding problems with Dead Space. Yes, the story was stale to me, but Dead Space 
 did so many things right. The atmosphere is perfect and chilling, the sound is great, the visuals 
 are amazing, and the gameplay is unique and entertaining. There is never a dull moment in Dead 
 Space and it is easily one of the best Xbox 360 games I have ever played. If you are searching 
 for a game with adrenaline-pumping, Sci-Fi Horror action, then Dead Space is the perfect game for 
 you! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duo-Maxwell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is amazing if your into scary games. This game will have you playing for 15 minutes, 
 then you'll have to put it down and take a 5 minute brake. They story is solid and you really fell 
 like your in a helpless situation with no means of escape. The music... simply put will scare the 
 crap out of you. The music is what gives Dead Space a lot of its creepy atmosphere. Graphics are 
 top notch and the lighting is dim and scary. Now here is when it gets good. The map and your inventory 
 are all in real time. So you can be attacked while looking at your map/inventory. Only problem (If 
 you can call it that) is that the puzzles are simple. That's it. Besides that this game is awesome. 
 If your a sci-fi/horror fan this is the game for you. Resident Evil now has competition for supremacy 
 of the survival horror genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has played the Doom games -- especially Doom 3, or just enjoy a game where suspense and 
 horror are the main themes, then you'll definitely enjoy Dead Space. This isn't your ordinary shooter 
 and action game, and you'll realize that once you start playing it.
  
  In Dead Space, you play the role of Isaac, an engineer sent along with a crew to find and repair 
 a science ship called the Ishhimura. Things turn deadly and twisted in an instance, though, and 
 you're now forced to fight your way to deal with the problems that caused the demise of the ship's 
 crew. This one is full of suspense and a matrix of twists and turns, so prepared to be surprised 
 as you go along.
  
  The graphics are very solid and goes with the theme of the game. You'll have to watch every vent, 
 every duct, as a monster will try to come out and turn you into freshmeat anywhere, anytime (any 
 Doom 3 veterans knows this very well) . Unlike any standard shooters, head shots don't work here. 
 You'll have to dismember them by going for the limbs or tentacles, which is easier said than done, 
 considering the different kinds of foes you'll face. There are also the hazards of the ship to 
 deal with, adding more danger into the mix, but they can also be used to kill certain foes too, 
 as you'll soon find out. Other than that, it suits the sci-fi theme very well.
  
  The audio is very solid, too, as you'll hear Isaac's heartbeats, the sudden sound of a BGM as a 
 monster emerges and tries to impale you, and the background audio of the ship's central computer. 
 As this is a horror game, be prepared to hear lots, and lots, of screaming.
  
  Although this game has no multiplayer, there are plenty of achievements to do in this game, so 
 you'll find yourselves playing this game multiple times for 'em. Most of them you can do on the 
 first run, but the rest you'll have to do in repeat runs. With fairly limited amounts of nodes, 
 though, even though you can buy some at the store, and limited inventory, you'll have to decide 
 how to enhance your rig suit and modules, and which weaponry to fully upgrade.
  
  Other than that, this games has its solid strengths, with the only real weakness being the repetitive 
 shooting and puzzling objectives. There are a few difficult points throughout the game, but fairly 
 consistent with the game's relative difficulty. So if you dig sci-fi horror, or just want a change 
 of pace from your standard shooters, then Dead Space is a very solid game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldude007
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Despite some short comings such as repetitive mission objectives and cut scenes, this game was 
 simply amazing. In fact, the aforementioned are the only complaints I have about the game. The 
 story is engrossing and makes for one of the most terrifying, yet satisfactory experiences ever 
 in a game. The combination of ambiance and nerve-wracking audio intensifies every second of the 
 campaign. In fact, I noticed at times that Isaac's heart palpitations were at times synchronizes 
 with my own. The different classes of Necromorph enhances the intensity of the game. Although the 
 key to all their demise is their dismembering, each of them have their own weaknesses and need 
 to be attacked accordingly. The dismembering of the Necromorph enriches the gameplay. It is something 
 that hasn't been done and provides a unique layer of gameplay that adds to the intensity of the 
 game. Gamers of the Survivor-horror genre have been condition to shoot monsters without any significant 
 strategy, but Dead Space has changed that and we will see this new gameplay added to future survivor-horror 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connoro0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  although some people insist it is not scary or creepy.
  once you get around to chapter 6 things just get seriously creepy, whether it be sounds or sights 
 you will be on high alert wondering where that necromorgh is coming from and waiting several minutes 
 turning around at the slightest gurgle
  although 2 player coop via Xbox live would have been outstanding and could have boosted the rating 
 to a 9.5 and mine to a 9.0
  also I should make it aware to people that the gameplay feels like a rip off from resident evil 
 series, although a completely different storyline
  but still a game all of us must play once in our lives
  the game is actually quite hard, even 
 on easy you can get caught out without any medipacks to save you and the fact that you dont pause 
 the game while looking into your inventory 
  
  overall the game is just plain creepy, fun and addictive
  I give this a 8.5 dew to the lack of 
 Xbox live coop
  and the fact that the game sometimes gets repetitive
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAAVV-O
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is an entirely new IP from EA, a company with very little experience in the survival 
 horror genre. In spite of this, they have delivered a polished game that simply must be played.
 
  
  The story centres round an engineer named Isaac Clarke, sent along with a small team of rescuers 
 to investigate a distress call from a planet mining ship, the USG Ishimura. Upon arriving, you 
 quickly learn that things have gone completely pear shaped, and the battle begins to get off the 
 ship and away to safety.
  
  The gameplay features the Resident Evil 4 over-the-shoulder viewpoint, which has been implemented 
 perfectly. For the most part, you will be plodding around the ship performing various errands and 
 fighting monsters as you would expect from a game of this ilk, but what Dead Space does differently, 
 is that it also offers sections of zero-G and vacuum based combat. In zero-G, you can propel yourself 
 through space by aiming at the surface on which you wish to land, and pressing a single button. 
 While occasionally disorientating, this is a worthwhile, and luckily not overused, game mechanic. 
 However, the tension in the game really ramps up once vacuum environments are thrown into the mix. 
 The experience of being in a vacuum is very realistic, and you can only hear your own breathing 
 and footsteps. Monsters can simply walk up to you, or hide round a corner, and you have no idea 
 they are there until you see them. 
  
  The combat in the game can be occasionally samey, but nevertheless satisfying. The typical enemy 
 encounter involves freezing the enemy by using your stasis power on it, the hacking off its limbs 
 using various mining equipment that is made available as weapons. The system generally works well, 
 but can occasionally spiral into a horrific cluster-fudge when more than three enemies are involved.
 
  
  The graphic design of the game is overall well done, though many who I have spoken to say that 
 they feel bored of the setting by the mid point of the game. The textures look crisp, and pop-up 
 and texture loading are never seen. One slight complaint is the amount of time it takes for doors 
 to open, as these are used to disguise loading times, though this can be negated by installing 
 the game onto the 360's hard drive. 
  
  Sound design is where the game really wins big. The orchestral score is implemented ingeniously, 
 and keeps the game tense at all times. Sounds effects are suitably industrial, and in some ways 
 remind me of the supernatural segments in Fear in the way they have been used.
  
  The difficulty curve is well managed in the game, and levelling up of armour and weapons is conducted 
 using power nodes. These can be added to your equipment at work benches found scattered around 
 the ship. The power nodes themselves are dotted around the ship in small wall cupboards, or can 
 be purchased, along with ammo, weapons, and medical supplies, at the ships stores. The currency 
 used is credits, which are obtained from the bodies of defeated enemies.
  
  Overall, this game is a must-play, and a sure fire hit for EA. One thing I would recommend is that 
 the game is not bought for kids, as the violence is extremely graphic, and the atmosphere rather 
 scary. Otherwise, get out and buy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:22 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is another kind of shooter instead of just running in shooter people/monsters heads 
 off. This is a shooter that you have to be smart about because there is not that much ammo around 
 and just shooting the monsters head will just piss them off so you have to shoot parts of them 
 off and when they come crawling to you, you can rather keep shooting different parts of them off 
 just to see what they will do and how that will change there trying to get to you style. Or you 
 can just stomp their f*cking head in and watch the blood gush and your size 12 goes through their 
 stupid damn skull. Dead Space is a game that you will spend around average of 11-12 hours on but 
 if you look around and make sure that you check everything out and go and kill every living thing 
 on that space craft and that will most likely get you another 1.5-3 hours more play time. You won't 
 really get bored of the game until you get around two thirds of the way through it and if you weren't 
 shooting of limb witch is so cool you would probably get bored of it half way through because it 
 is just not that interesting of a game there also isn't enough things for you to kill. But the 
 bottom line is that Dead Space is one of the most scariest games ever made and probably more scarier 
 that some movies but you should try it out but rent it first and if you like it buy it because 
 you can just play the story over again with a higher difficulty. A good 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca_boy69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Picked up this game due to other reviews like this. I was expecting to get a straight third person 
 shooter, but instead found that there's not much standard about this game.
  
  The graphics are great. I'll admit, I'm not the most critical when it comes to graphics, but when 
 they are so good that you at times stop and say to yourself, "wow," then in my opinion, they're 
 pretty dang good.
  
  Even though the graphics are great, they are nothing compared to the sound. The score immerses 
 you into the game, while you can hear shrill cries or shrieks coming from everywhere. They don't 
 get cheesy with the sound effects either. They place the effects within the game so well that if 
 you're not playing the game with the hairs on the back of your neck standing up, you may already 
 be dead. When they say this is one of the scariest games in a while, they aren't kidding. It's 
 pure freaky!
  
  Your character isn't the most agile guy out there. He can't really jump and the movement takes 
 both joysticks to accomplish. At first, I thought this was going to be a real drag on the action, 
 but after a few hours it's easy to realize how intuitive it is and how important it becomes to 
 the game itself. It just adds to the hair-raising excitement.
  
  I could go on, but that would just take away from more playing time. Go get this game if you like 
 shooters - even if you're a first-person shooter snob like me. If you love horror or sci-fi, you 
 have to have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pieman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:38 am PT
Review:  My favourite type of game... wandering around a broken spaceship! I loved System Shock in the past 
 and this game has a similar setting.
  I am mainly a PC player but I chose the XBOX 360 version as reviews said that the images and sound 
 were spectacular so I decided to make use of my 42" plasma and surround sound. The visuals and 
 sound are good and I am pleased to say the controls are easy for me to use despite preferring the 
 mouse and keyboard!
  The enemies are scary and I have a real feeling of being in the film Event Horizon which I think 
 says it all. Like the film it is not perfect and in truth I have only been playing for 4 hours 
 but that is good for me! I usually only dip into games and hardly ever finish them.
  I am only playing on easy but it is still a nice challenge and fun for a part time gamer. Thoroughly 
 recommended!! 
  I am tempted to buy the PC version as a comparison. They are both rated at 9 on Gamespot so I assume 
 the PC version is just as good - I would be interested to play the game with my preferred control 
 option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneX5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The name even has a certain creepy aura around it. If you're like me and like to play close attention 
 to a game the first play through then this game will really grab your attention, hell it you might 
 still soil your pants even if you don't listen to the story. The graphics are about a nine, but 
 it's really the sound and effects that give this game a ten in my books. If you listen closely 
 you can listen to the protagonist of the story pant, grunt, and even breathe. The way the inventory 
 and map is set up gives the player a feeling of uncertainty, as if you're always paying attention 
 to the back-round because you're never safe. The suspense and action of the game is great the first 
 time around, but the feature of upgradable weapons and equipment allow you to continue to play 
 the game over and over. The achievements are simple yet you still have to give some time to get 
 them. This game is a must for those who love a good scare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanPan26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Among all the GoW's and GTA's of this world, who would have thought that a game that goes by the 
 name of "Dead Space", made up mostly of past great game ideas (Doom III, Bioshock among others) 
 will in the end make you think the very reason you are a gamer. Is it just for the fun out of it 
 or is it something different this time around? Something that throws words like "Entertainment" 
 out of the window and lets you concentrate on one thing and one thing only: To SURVIVE ! ! 
  
  You see the trouble with a game like Dead Space is that although you have so much to say the 
 bottom line is that not a lot of things can be said. What I mean is the following:
  
  GRAPHICS - Great
  SOUND - Great 
  ATMOSPHERE - Great
  STORY - Great
  GAMEPLAY - Great
 
  
  So are we talking about a great game here? No, not great in the sense that a lot of games achieve 
 the same in every aspect as Dead Space but fall short in one thing. That "extra little thing" lets 
 just call it that distinguishes the game from the rest. What exactly I'm I talking about? I don't 
 have the slightest idea and if you play the game eventually you'll feel the same way too. "Dead 
 Space is a great game" feels more like an understatement than anything else.
  
  To make a long story short either buy the game, rent it or I don't know borrow it or something, 
 whichever the case one thing is certain: 
  
  When somebody asks you 'Have you played this game?' your answer will be something like this: 'No... no 
 I haven't' and this is just because you don't actually play games like Dead Space, you experience 
 them instead !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Dead space
  
  Introduction
  
  Dead Space has been one of the best games ive played all year. Its story is a familiar one but 
 its delivery was one of the best ive ever played through. We are talking Resident Evil vs Darkness 
 vs Dino Crisis vs Half Life vs Doom 3 vs insert your favourite real time game here. All of the 
 game is in game is in game if you get my meaning including the plot device, scripted sequences 
 and all of your needed eye candy treats to p [lace games like this in their specific genre and this 
 genre to me is A*. There are very few games that ive played of this style which have come close 
 to the quality of Dead Space.
  
  Games its most like are the ones mentioned above. Too many people are touting this as being like 
 resident evil and all I say to that is . . have you played resident evil and have you played deadspace? 
 
  
  The only link they have at the moment is that they are survival horrors and they adapt the over 
 the shoulder view to control your character and at some point you shoot things. So what is the 
 difference? A slight peak of quality sets dead space apart. As an audio composer for a game company 
 my main focus when I play games is the score. Without music and good sound effects you create no 
 emotion and atmosphere. Most games include what you need to get the job done but dead space has 
 gone in my opinion is the best sound design ive ever heard in a game. Yes. The best sound ive ever 
 heard in a game. While Dead Space doesn't have a catchy melody which you can hum down the street 
 it's the way the game makes use of sound to convey how much danger, suspense and where you are. 
 Literally if your fighting in a small room it sounds like you are fighting in a small room. If 
 you are in space . . well there should be no sound in space as there are no air molecules to make 
 it but DS does a damn good job at adapting the sound to keep the atmosphere going. Atmosphere? 
 Did I say this is the most atmosphereic game ive ever played. Yes. It overtook Doom 3. Well if 
 you are into reading these things, sit back, read and when finished send some of your opinions 
 of my opinions. 
  
  Story  8 / 10
  
  This review isn't a spoiler. Im not going to spoil the story past the opening sequence of the game 
 lets just say its kind of like doom and Event Horizon, if you ever saw that film. A mining ship 
 has gone dark while mining a planet and you and a team have been called out to fix or sort out 
 a problem. When you find the ship you realise there are no lights on and there is noone hailing 
 to your comms. Pretty standard stuff really. Soon in you get to see a beasty and you pick up a 
 few audio logs that give you a brief sense that everythings gone mad. With all that said the story 
 is at times quite the driving force, you want to read the text logs and stand still while you watch 
 video and scripted sequences. It is a redone story that you've seen a million time before in movies 
 and other games but the way in which you play trough and discover it is one of the best methods 
 ive seen.
  
  
  
  Game Play - 8 / 10
  
  Its not a run and gun. The control style is like resident evil, you cant move too fast and your 
 look spring is pivoted off your third person shoulder. The game is very linear with very little 
 for you to do off the story mode path but this is a good thing. EA have done a great job here in 
 slowing you down while the sound effects, action and environment draw you in. You find yourself 
 going from one point to another getting key cards and all kinds to get you to advance the story. 
 It has to be said that in some points you tread on familiar ground but things are thrown at you 
 whether it be in the sound design, action or environment which always seems to be fresh.
  
  When I said there aren't many sandboxy things to do, there are some things what might make you 
 to want to revisit the game. One is to collect all of the text and data logs on each level and 
 the other is to upgrade your weapons and suits to the max. Not much but ive started to play the 
 game through for a second time and that's extremely rare for me. The only games that have ever 
 had that from me are Halo 1 2 3, Zelda 3, Secret of Mana, FF7, X and Resident Evil 4.
  
  This game isn't a run and gun as I said, in this game they added a very cool twist where you have 
 to dismember limbs from aliens to slow and kill them. Even when you think you've killed them, they 
 sometimes run on their innards you didn't perceive as legs . .even if they don't do this you are 
 so $%^ scared to take a close look anyway as you start to pull the fire trigger like a moron wasting 
 ammo which the game donates quite well. In some cases you face that inevitable point where when 
 you are using a slot based inventory system where you run out of ammo. Well in dead space there 
 is constant supply of it. The problem is you have up to 4 guns and they take different ammo. Whats 
 the problem? Well depending on your playing style you may want to stock up on stasis, health packs 
 and air packs taking away precious slots. Then EA come along and mix it all up by putting some 
 cash drops around the place which also take up slots. The mix is just right. Over time you can 
 update your bag space but god . . . it doesn't come quick enough. Even with the mxed out suit, 
 you feel you need just a couple more slots. It's a great mechanic in the game and adds a sense 
 of tactical play to your game.
  
  Graphics  9 / 10
  
  Just Excellent. The visuals on this game are top notch. You can see individual veins (providing 
 you have a 50" TV with HDMI connection) . Theres not much more to be said here only that they are 
 definitely next Gen and what you expect in a game released in 2008.
  
  Sound  10 / 10
  
  Now if you want a full in detail description of this from me ill provide. Ive said it before. 
 It's the best ive ever heard in a game. Its scary, its right on Que, its extremely high quality 
 and I wouldn't be surprised if this element was higher up in the development chain than it normally 
 exists. Sound in my games industry experience is the first to be sacrificed. When I saw EA on the 
 box and read the blurb (btw I don't read too much into reviews on games, I like them to come out 
 and im all surprised when I see new games on the shelves . .trust me as a hard core gamer and developer 
 it's the best way to be!) I was like . .that sound like a good idea. The thing what made me get 
 it was the 50% price cut and the 91% sticker on the front of the box. Usually I avoid EA games 
 and I nearly put this down . . . .i am soooo glad I didn't. EA for me always neglected the sound 
 design (my opinion of course) and left their games missing something. Now, This could be a one 
 in a million game from EA, lets hope not. Anyway back to the sound. Its something you need to experience 
 really, the game is only ever silent when it needs to be as it builds up the tention, the monsters 
 screech, you hear metal creaking bending under gravitational strain. Ambient noise from the massive 
 ship you are stranded on, fires blaze. You literally are on the edge of your seat and in my opinion 
 it's the sound that does this to you.
  
  Controls  8 / 10
  
  Extremely well done. 1 button for everything and there is no need to keep going into the inventory 
 like in some games. The game keeps you in the game for 95% of the time, no messing around. The 
 UI designer, yes one designer in the credits is a god damn genius. Everything is displayed on the 
 character of what you need to know.
  
  Good points
  
  Sound, graphics, story and overall atmosphere. There are a lot of carefully thought through game 
 mechanics and plot devices that gel perfectly to give you a seamless start to finish game expereice.
 
  
  Bad points
  
  HARD and the mode above it is HARD and spoils the game if you selected this for your first play 
 through. Dead Space is story and all about the story. When I played it on insane mode I felt I 
 was just shooting like an idiot and gaining nothing. It took more shots to kill the enemy, which 
 in some games isn't a bad thing but in dead space you really do run out of ammo and I hate that. 
 It just becomes frustrating more than hard. I would have traded more enemys to come at you . . 
 .gulp, hmm would i? Hmmmm. The game is a bit too linear and you do see a lot of things coming but 
 that could be me having played too many games and in some way or another seen it all before. 
 
  
  No online at all. For money grabbing purposes i dont see why these companys dont let graduates 
 or 3rd parties develop additional content, even if it is a couple of levels which take you back 
 a couple of chapters and have you hunt for something or repair something which was a pivotal moment 
 in the game. Its what the fans want i suppose. I know am lot more goes into it than meets the eye 
 but if the engine is sat there and i know there will be parts they took out, nothing gets deleted, 
 this could get redeveloped. There is a massive part of the game i was kind of following but it 
 fizzled out before 3/4 way through. I would have redeveloped this.
  
  Overall  9 / 10
  
  One of the best games ive ever played. If you are into your 8  15 hr epic story games then 
 this is a definite addition to your collection. If you rent games for the weekend then this is 
 perfect. A great story, great graphics, great atmosphere and a well presented game from a company 
 that will not be on my avoid list any longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I can take or leave games in this genre. I am not a person that gets scared anymore so I play them 
 for fun really. And really I have not found such a amazing game in this genre for a long time. 
 I was not expecting much from this at all.
  
  Lets start with the cons first of all and get that out of the way. Well at times you may be a little 
 annoyed with running back and forth because sometimes everything feels like your doing the same 
 basic stuff... but thats really how it is in alot of games. Some other issues are the fact that 
 if you really want to play well you will need to use certain guns or specific enemies. You don't 
 have to but it makes things ALOT easier.
  
  Alot of the weapons or USELESS. Or there just for kicks like the flamethrower. Sure its cool but 
 its not for this game. Don't bother using it. Lastly another problem is since your always finding 
 out new things to upgrade this means you need more Power Nodes which sadly you can't sell things 
 or UNupgrade items so the first time around unless you know what you want to use you can spend 
 your nodes wrong and screw yourself over for the rest of the game with underpowered items.
  
  So those are the cons... but they are at the least minimal and may not even bother some.
  
 
  The game itself feel likes your typical horror survival genre but in space. But there is alot about 
 this game that separates its from the others. It has new ideas that make it some much better. No 
 HUD to some extent... not in the traditional sense. Moving around in some points that you'd never 
 think of. Bosses that are just kick-butt and some other things that when you see them you'll go 
 "Holy crap thats wicked!".
  
  The graphics in the game are great but I can tell you already some tvs will have a problem such 
 as Plasmas which tend to display darker. This game isn't overly "scary" if your into scary games. 
 But it isn't boring either. But this is just one mans opinion. 
  
  The controls are very easy. AT first you'll be thrown off by them and what they do but in no time 
 they will be second nature.
  
  The audio of course with any horror game is a key aspect of the game. The music wasn't that amazing 
 to me in some cases but the sound was excellent. You very much felt like you were on a abandoned 
 ship and then.... well you can play to see the rest.
  
  Overall the game is worth a rental... its for sure one of the best horror games I played. Is it 
 worth buying? Not really. You can't really do much diffrent. You can do things out of order but 
 it won't change anything. The only reason to play again would be to choose diffrent upgrades and 
 frankly most everything in the game is useless so don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tito_DBM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game for Christmas 2008 (for 360) and I just beat it today on the 30th of December. 
 This game makes me crave more time with it and I want to play it even more. So... here's what I 
 think.
  
  Storyline/Plot
  The story that is portrayed while running back and forth through the USG Ishimura is a great one. 
 You are constantly wanting more and more from this game and it is sure to give it to you. 
  
  Graphics
  With necro-morph creatures running around, things can get to be very scary. The 
 game also offers great beauty with the art put into each scene. Floating in space -- alone -- can 
 feel intense by itself, but add to that the visuals thrown at you in dark, damp rooms that you 
 would never want to enter and this gives you a heightened sense of fear. Stunning graphics leave 
 you shaking in your boots.
  
  (Side note: I highly, HIGHLY recommend playing this game in the dark with no more than 2 people 
 (including you) in the room.) 
  
  Gameplay
  The controls take less than 10 minutes to get used to and the system set up for those controls 
 is easy to use that virtually any gamer can play. In dark rooms, your various "tools" or "weapons" 
 leave you with a small amount of light which makes any room very creepy. This is a very good addition 
 in the game. Most things revolve around aiming, then doing your actions which allows you to do 
 EVERYTHING very accurately. Great controls!
  
  Playability
  The game sells itself. After beating it, the games makes you want to play it through so many more 
 times to change the outcome of how you upgraded all your items and so forth. I'll be playing this 
 game for a few more years before it becomes boring.
  
  Difficulty
  Various levels of difficulty allows this game to be played by virtually anyone. I recommend playing 
 through on medium first, then after the first chapter, decide if you should continue through with 
 medium or adjust accordingly. 
  
  Final Comments
  This game is the best of the survival horror games that I've played. I think it's my new favorite 
 game of this year. I hope that if you're reading this right now and you love a great game full 
 of challenges, that you go out today and purchase Dead Space for a thrill you won't forget.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebrahim_1212
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  It is very, very amazing and wonderful .Graphics and sounds was very frightening. The game was exiting. You 
 really want to complement to the end.
  
  Scary monsters and manifestations also very frightening. If any monster catching you he will cutting 
 your body.
  
  Weapons Advanced and very interesting.. and Very nice way to play .
  
  And with the playing you can Development your weapons more and more, and also development your 
 suite. And you can also buy new weapons.
  
  The game is somewhat difficult, but would exceed the difficulties as soon as the existence of the 
 manual. The one level take a long time.
  
  If you prefer horror Games Bought it without hesitation . Just one problem it enacted Online. But 
 it worth it. I really really love it .
  
  Do not play it on your own. It is only my advice. Because it is very, very frightening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phylyn5151
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  In space, no one can hear you stomp on a dead corpse, except you, the player, while your playing, 
 welp, messed that up.
  
  Aliens meets RE4 meets Event Horizon meets Leviathan, meets Silent Hill meets Doom 3, and kicks 
 the crap out of all of them. Finally, survival horror in space done right, and that goes for games 
 and movies.
  
  This game does not let up from the start. The most amazing part of this game is the enviroment. 
 Even the so called "safe zones" where there are no enemys are seemingly lethal.
  
  Combat in this game is also great. And when your done killing the enemys, stomp on them and you 
 still get credit for severing there limbs to get the respectible achivments.
  
  What else is there to write, this game rocks. Turn off the lights, turn up the surround sound, 
 and hack off some undead limbs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlizard-beta
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  wow this game is good if you want scares. You are an engineer of a few words who goes to a mining 
 ship to make reoairs but finds a horrific scene of murder but by what. A mutant alian virus has 
 struck crew and they are basicaly mutant zombies in many different most of the shapes and they 
 are every where by the time you you arrive most of the crewi dead and you get seperated from your 
 group which gets narrowed down to the captain and you both strategicaly work together by the advantage 
 of being in two different parts of the ship u must fix things and search for a way out of this 
 mess since you ship blew up.
  
  gameplay
  this game is perfectly set up for scaring you because you are forced to go places you dont want 
 to go. all these things are different and you must figure out how to kill them like some have no 
 legs and they cant fly but they launch themselves at you bu you dont hhave limbs to cut off so 
 u must go for the head. The most common type you muust cut off their legs. Also you will here these 
 things in the wall or you see them at the distance and you must go that way bt then u dont see 
 them but then it is behind you or when they lay down and actdead but then scream and jump up it 
 is scary. Your weapons are not actually weapons (with a few exceptions) but are for wor worrking 
 like the mineral cutter or the torch.
  
  overrall a great game and not for the faint hearted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  In Dead Space you take the role of Issac Clark an engineer on a by the books mission to the USS 
 Ishamura. As soon as you enter you will realise that something has gone terribly wrong. You will 
 begin to lose some of your teammates, attacked by a necromorph (the monsters in the game) , and will 
 begin running for your life all within the first 10 minutes. Basically all hell breaks loose early. 
 
  
  Dead Space is easily the most atmospheric games of 2008, and easily the best survival horror game 
 in awhile as well. The atmosphere is entirely Metroid Prime or Bioshock, but that isn't exactly 
 a bad thing. The USS Ishamura is dark, empty, and torn apart, and I woudln't want it any other 
 way. Visually the game is impressive with consistant framerates, very good textures, and really 
 good character models
  
  Adding to the atmospher/visuals of the game is the impressive audio work. The voice acting is very 
 well done. The Script could use some work, but the voice actors for Kendra, Hammond, Dr. Kyne, 
 etc all do a good job. THe Audio files (ala Bioshock) are also compelling and interesting to hear, 
 and give you alot of details on what went down on the USS Ishamura. The soundwork doesn't stop 
 with dialogue. The Music is fantastic, and gets the heart pumping at the right times. The Guns 
 sound so satisfying, and hearing a necromorphs limb fall will contiune to entertain. The Melee 
 attacks (which you will rarely use anyway) sound disturbingly good as well. 
  
  Dead Space's narrative isn't bad by any means, but it sure as heck isn't great. The game can be 
 considered a giant Event Horrizon ripoff to be quite honest. However the narrative is good enough 
 to be enjoyable, and keep you going. The characters are very well presented, and to say the game 
 can't be disturbing and haunting at time is a lie. 
  
  What Dead Space probably does better than every other survival horror game not named Resident Evil 
 4 is the combat, this is because it basically plays like Resident Evil 4. The Weapons are all diverse, 
 unique and a ton of fun to use. From the Force gun to your default weapon. The default weapon is 
 basically meant to cut limbs off, so you can go up and stomp the necromorphs face in. There is 
 a standard assault rifle, an entertaining flame thrower, but the most fun is a linerack gun. Shooting 
 mines at necromorphs, and watching it explode never gets old. 
  
  The gameplay can basically be described as Resident Evil 4 plus a sprint button. Also unlike RE 
 4, you can move and shoot. You will use your kinesis add on to move objects and finish some quick 
 puzzles. Stasis to freeze to slow down certain objects so you can advance. 
  
  Dead Space does do things different with its "Strategic Dismemberment". WHile the idea can be fleshed 
 out even more with more variety in enemies and weak points, it was productive in this game. Instead 
 of the topic spray and pray... and go for head shots. Dead Space wants you to knock limbs off one 
 by one, before you can finally kill one of the necromorphs. ON harder difficulties this is exciting 
 because the monsters not only move faster, but can be just as menacing when they are without there 
 legs to come kill you, adding to the tension. THe other great addition is Zero-Gravity and playing 
 in the vacuum of space. 
  
  The Vacuum could have been done better, because there wasn't enough tension in these sequences, 
 but the zero gravity was done perfect. Mind bending, and confusing sequences, waves of enemies, 
 and one of the best boss fights in the game to boot. Hoping around, working a puzzle, and fighting 
 the necromorphs was quite enjoyable. 
  
  Dead Space is not a game without flaws though. THe Boss fights will interesting in design, fail 
 to really deliver. First there wasn't enough of them, and second the boss fights were easy and 
 kind of boring. THe Leviathan and the final boss fights were the only enjoyable one. One of the 
 bosses can be slowed down, frozen, and boom done with... I'm not kidding
  
  The game can be beaten easily in less than 10 hours, and it is fairly easy. The puzzles are on 
 Resident Evil 4 status, which means they are pathetic and can be done by a child. The great combat 
 and unique weapons are offset by the lack of variety in enemies. Dead Space is a game that truly 
 feels refreshing with many old and proven concepts. It is an extremely polished game and filled 
 with great design choicses. That said the game definantly had some missed opportunities. 
  
  Now the final question about Dead Space... Is it scary? In Short. No. It is tense and will make 
 you jump a few times. It definantly isn't a one trick pony for scare tactics, but most of it only 
 enough to startle you and not scare you. However the final sequence... i guarantee will deliver. 
 Also Dead Space has its own twists for Twinkle Twinkle Little Star
  
  Simply put Dead Space is a good game. Has a fantastic atmopsher, terrific audio work, fun gameplay, 
 and one of the most polished games of 2008.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReaperDevil2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  In a world where Dead Space isn't reality or just a science term that I have never heard of or 
 researched, but a game, Dead Space is.... 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Dead Space has very interesting gameplay, and by interesting I mean extremely challenging 
 and fun. With all the puzzles and junk, I can hardly see how one can get through this game without 
 a walkthrough, and I only mean this in a good way. But the bad side is that the objectives are 
 very repetitive and can be a bit more creative. This game ended a little to shortly and that could 
 have made it a bit better, but it did not harm or ruin the game by those little things.
  
  *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* 
  
 
  Story: 10
  N. I. C. O. L. E. I. S. D. E. A. D
  Yep. That's it. Nicole is friggin' dead. That's the story. All that mind blowing play through, 
 just to find out that Nicole is DEAD! But in all seriousness, it had a great story to it.
  
  Fr Uz cheaterz nd' n00bz: 5
  Yes it had cheats, but most of them were one time use. Oxygen 
 and refills of both energies aren't that appealing to the cheating eye. For starters in shooting 
 and action games, this game was not for you. I have been playing shooting games for about 2 years 
 and even though I am not an expert, I am about a 7 on a 1 to 10 scale, and this game was moderately 
 HARD ON EASY!
  So if you want cheats, and don't have this game, don't buy it.
  However if both of the above are you, and you want a great game, go get together 60 bucks!
  
 
  Everything else: 5.0
  For all the little tidbits of junk, glitches and uncalled for moments where you had to change your 
 pants it was that scary,
  it earned a 5.7 billion. 
  
  Overall: 9.0
  So if you choose to get this game, then get ready with about 48 hours of spare time, at least three 
 spare changes of boxers/briefs/whitie-tidies and pants, and an invulnerability to pure awesomeness! 
 And if you want to play it on New Game Plus, then double your forces!
  
  P. S. Yes, I do watch Scrubs. It's the best show that you're not watching! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender-san
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this review short and sweet.
  
  The game is kind of creepy, I wouldn't call it scary. At it's best, I Would call it intense. You 
 feel like a badass with your character, and seeing as how you can upgrade weapons, and buy ammo, 
 Its completely realized. Intense fits well simply for the fact that you are in a constantly ambient 
 environment with an occasional *BOO!*. Personally I don't think I've been scared since fatal frame 
 1 & 2 and silent hill 3.
  
  Let me sum up the story for you....
  
  Captain Dude:"Something Weird happened on this ship!"
  
  Scientist Chick:" We've got to get 
 in here and accomplish a simple goal."
  
  Isaac/Player: ".............."
  
  Capitain dude:"Isaac heres a message from your girlfriend"
  
  (Plays message of ethans girlfriend)
 
  
  Isaac girl: "AHHH, Scary stuff is happening, Need help!"
  
  
  
  Capitan Dude:" Alright lets go"
  
  (Ship explodes 
 after they exit)
  
  Capitain Dude: "Uh oh. Looks like we have to get this ship running again. Isaac, Your my **** Go 
 fix something, then we can leave.
  
  (Isaac Returns an hour and a half later)
  
  Capitain Dude: "Alright now we can (flips switch, Stuff blows up and hisses) . Aw crap, Isaac, Go 
 fix the AC, I'm hot."
  
  (Isaac faces monsters and demons, fixes AC and returns)
  
  Capitan Dude: "Alright, now that I'm nice and cool, I can flip this switch and we can finally (Flips 
 switch, something else breaks) Aw crap.
  
  IT GOES ON AND ON AND ON! NO REAL STORY! NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT! Just back track! AGAIN AND AGAIN. 
 FIX THIS, FIX THAT, FIX THIS, and on and on and on. Then the obvious betrayal and a Minor twist. 
 A twist that might have actually meant something to you in the main character ever muttered a word.
 
  
  
  This game is worth a play, one play. there is incentive for replay value but I did'nt see the point. 
 Why trick out my armor more when the monsters already get folded up from my utility cutter gun/pistol. 
 Rent this game... Don't buy it simply to beat it twice, then get bored. In an effort to validate 
 the purchase you will buy the DLC to access things that you should have been able to access by 
 pushing A, B, X, Y RB LB RB. DLC for cheats is retarded. for 100 MS increase your damage with an all 
 new pistol. Retarded. Rent if your a horror fan, get your 12 hours worth and bail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a brilliant horror game. It is scary, and even if it doesn't scare you, it's still 
 very fun.
  
  The graphics in Dead Space are great. They're the same, if not, almost as good as GeoW (nowhere 
 near Far Cry 2) graphics except darker. The graphics are good and all, but that's just one problem 
 -- it's dark. I know you're probably thinking, "Haha! Has this guy ever played a horror game before?!" 
 Well, some places are a little too dark, and a pain to find your way through. Other than that, 
 the graphics are great! The words actually match the peoples lips, instead of them moving and not 
 match them at all. Although, sometimes there is that problem.
  
  The gameplay gets repetitive sometimes, but not often. It introduces you to monsters every here, 
 and there. Some of them can get really annoying such as the generator, but that keeps the game 
 fun and challenging, right? The difficulty is great. There are three difficulty modes -- easy, 
 normal, hard. There is no "Pro" or difficulty like that. That would be nice for the hardcore Dead 
 Space fans if they think Hard is too easy.
  
  This game isn't worth $60, I have to say. It gives you a decent size campaign. There is no online 
 play, because they can't really make online play out of this. Well, they could of... if you think 
 about it, it could've been quite fun online. All it basically gives you is a campaign.. that's it. 
 No online play, no nothing. There is obviously downloadable content, but that barely does anything.
 
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a fun game. You get used to the creepy atmosphere after awhile, but it's 
 still fun. I would suggest renting it first, and if you like it that much, buy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joser15
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is 1 of those games that doesn't get alot of publicity, but wen it comes out its amazing... 
 u coodn't believe that a game like this cood exist but it does and dead space puts u on ship wer 
 the crew on the ship hav been mutated into freak monsters that r blood thirsty... as normal zombie 
 shooter kind of games dead space is making itself a bit different. for instance usually if a zombie 
 head got its head pop rite it wood jus stop moving. but in deadspace that mite not work infact 
 u gotta take off the limbs 2kill it fast and once u get into tha game it get harder as mor of a 
 "hybrid" starts to come... 4me it works great... this game shood b played on a big screen w/ tha 
 sound up in tha dark to get the fullest expiernce... now i will show y this game got 9.0
  
  Graphics 1.5 - as all good games exist in2day they gotta hav good graphics and dead space has got 
 em... tha only problem waz wen i waz going through it a 2nd time was i notice that tha framerate 
 dropped a bit in sum parts, and any gamer kno's that a great game shood always keep up, but other 
 wise everything looked almost 2realism as it gets
  
  Sound 2.0 - weapons sound like they shood cutting limbs of dead bodys and the zombies sound 4real 
 as any i hav in a movie or other games and the ripper sounds great
  
  Gameplay 1.5 - Game is pretty kool but tha problems lays within not enough guns and u can finish 
 tha game b4 10hr, mayb 9 give and take how good u r and difficulty, but ther is replay value
  
  Acting 2.0 - EA kne wat they wer doing wen they picked tha cast they sound like its 4real and 
 that ther gona die... big problem though is Issac "U" doesn't talk even once through tha whole 
 game, witch kinda made me feel like i was robot being told wat 2do
  
  Story 2.0 - sucks u in like a great book... makes u think bout wat cood happen nxt evn wen ur not 
 playing it and does a good job making u think this is wat u here 4
  
  All and out Dead space is an amazing game, but shood b only rented do 2 tha fact that ther is no 
 multi player and 4me i woodn't buy it and it only last 10 hr. through 1 time. also they shood hav 
 put in 2 mor guns that game, in total i think ther waz 7 weapons i think that u dont buy from live... 
 but a game w/ this caliber u shood so play it and this is 1 no1 shood miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0crian
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This title seems to be vastly hyped up. It's a good game, but it's no half-life.
  
  I enjoyed the way the game played. Very gritty combat, good controls and weapons that are very 
 effective.
  
  Although you are some poor sap stuck in the middle of space alone with a ship full of crazy demons 
 and the undead... you take it rather well. You're supposed to be an engineer, an everyday guy. However 
 there doesn't seem to be an option to interact with objects to duck under them and cry while cradling 
 your knees..... which is what I assume an everyday person would do given the circumstances.
  
  The music is fantastic, it works well and doesn't repeat itself like other large titles out 
 there.... this adds a great point of originality to it.
  
  Overall the game is well executed and will thrill and impress everyone who plays it, the death 
 sequences are particularly cool.
  
  However....... Old school gamers will have a nagging sense of deja vu from the moment you pick 
 this off the shelf.
  
  Space. Alone. Monsters. "One man.... ONE mission..." ... as Don Lafontaine would say. Come on... really? 
 We've milked this genre so much it's teets hurts. Doom I, II, III... Quake I, II, III, IV... System 
 Shock... Bioshock... etc etc etc.
  
  This game doesn't deserve anything higher than a 6. For a game to reach the upper reaches of a 
 good vote, it'd have to be ORIGINAL and full of genre destroying magicalness. Instead, what you 
 have here is a beautiful re-rendition of something we've all seen for so long.
  
  
  It's great, but it's nothing we haven't seen before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  
  Dead Space is a perfectly executed video game, it's like being in the middle of the movie "Aliens".
 
  
  The developers did a masterful job of transporting you into a nightmare sci-fi experience, from 
 the graphics to the sound effects to the ghastly creatures bounding at you from all directions.
 
  
  Some people have complained about the puzzle aspects to the game, that it makes the story repetitive. 
 I disagree; I think the puzzles give the game an interesting extra dimension beyond a run and gun 
 experience.
  
  The variety of weapons is great too, and I like how the "traditional" military issue weapon in 
 the game is the least useful. Also being able to upgrade your equipment is a fun part of the game.
 
  
  Zero-G and vacuum environments are really innovative.
  
  What it all boils down to is every time you open a door you pause, with your finger on the trigger. 
 You hold your breath and wait for something to jump out at you. But you know nothing is going to 
 happen until you get a bit down the corridor but still you wait and listen. 
  
  You're in it, there's no turning back, there's no escape, there's no place to go but forward.
 
  
  This game will go down as one of my all time favorites. 
  
  Well done EA. Well done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3v3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't get sucked into many horror games, but this was a pretty good experience, the plot actually 
 sucked me in, the gameplay was really sweet, It felt like a more futuristic Resident Evil with 
 it's inventory system.
  
  Weapons are fun and unique, The fact the HUD is belt into the suit of the character makes the game's 
 imagery a lot more scarier, and on that note. this game can be scary and might even make you jump 
 a couple of times.
  
  The enemy designs are pretty nice, atmosphere is awesome. The fact that you have to cut off limbs 
 of the enemies to actually kill them is awesome and makes the game already a must-play. As a third 
 person shooter, the game is already good. The game over-all is pretty epic, deep, spooky, and fun.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10 (They need to tweak it a bit, to make it perfect)
  Graphics: 10/10 (This game's art direction is awesome)
  Story- 9.5/10 (pretty engrossing story, 
 a solid plot)
  Lasting appeal: 10/10 (It's not too long of a game, but DLC, achievements, the fact you get a new 
 suit for buy after you beat the game, will motivate you to keep going. PLUS, tis a game worth playing 
 more than once.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtWildey77
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people put a lot of hard work into the atmosphere of this game without a doubt or pun. 
 These are some of the best graphics available in a game and I've played thousands of games over 
 the past 25 or 26 years. (My first babysitter was an Atari.) I wouldn't say it has a soundtrack 
 but more of a 'music effect', that is to say, if you're walking along and not much is going on 
 at the moment the music is almost purposefully nonchalant but, if you're walking along and suddenly 
 it even looks like it's going to hit the fan (and it may not) the music demands attention with 
 it's creepy "I'm gonna getcha..." violin type rips. However and but, there is very little innovation 
 in the this game although the little bit of innovation that does exist is pure genius. In Gears 
 of War (2) , Halo (2,3) , God of War, etc. there is always a part of the screen that's dedicated 
 to weapon, ammo, health, MP, ability gauge and so on but, hopefully, that's all over with from 
 now on. A huge nod to EA to invert the player/hero perspective. You see the game how the hero does 
 instead of the other way around. Your health gauge is physically on his battle suit. If you get 
 an incoming message, a small screen pops up in front of your hero within the game instead of the 
 game taking an automatic pause or otherwise taking you out of the game play for even a second. 
 The other huge nod to EA is making the load screens invisible (yes, unnoticeable) to the player. 
 If what's behind the next door has to be loaded, the door will very briefly seem like it's having 
 a minor mechanical problem or something behind the door is trying to keep it shut. Again, the load 
 screens don't take you out of the game play. If you decide that you want to reload before going 
 through, fine, take the fraction of a second it takes before the door actually opens to reload 
 then continue on. Other than that, there's sadly not a whole lot of creativity going on. The plot 
 and dialogue is impeccably from Ridley Scott's Alien, Aliens; the game play itself is Resident 
 Evil 4 exactly, and the weapons will be absolutely no surprise to anyone who has played Half Life (2) . 
 So, I give Dead Space a grudging 8.9. With just a little more 'fingerprint' this game could have 
 easily been a 9.5+ and while few will be utterly disappointed there just isn't enough grandma in 
 this apple pie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpio85_rome
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  EA has made a masterpiece, this is a kinda game thats not for weak hearts... dnt buy this one if 
 ur scared of the dark believe me and if still buy it dnt play in the dark coz ull jump now n then 
 on ur couch for sure.
  all the horror genre fans wanted a game thats in the dark isolated where ur all alone far from 
 civilization, some games were up to the mark like RE but nothing like dead space, it gives a feel 
 like the movie event horizon where every thing goes wrong and u wonder how can this really happen 
 where every thing is right....
  the games kicks off from a distress call from the mining ship USG ishimura and three people are 
 sent to investigate .. a hardware technician (issac clarke) played by you, a software technician (kendra) 
 and a ship commander (n/a) .
  As soon as you land on ishimura its all dark no one around spoooky, the mining ship thats was home 
 of thousand people working aboard suddenly disappeared yeah right... there's definitly some thing 
 wrong. adding to that its more scary when ur seperated frm ur crew while the contamination alarm 
 system goes on and dark orange light revolves around the dark room and u can hear ur crew shouting 
 at u to run... run as fast as u can coz there is something somewhere in the room.
  the graphics are amazing the colors, texturing and the lighting are perfect...
  some gamers say 
 there are problems with close combat but these small flaws cannot shake this giant title, almost 
 everything in the game is perfect.
  the best thing about the game is the vent system, the entire ship has air vent openings and its 
 every where , the games monsters called necromorphs can come frm vents, they act smart and attack 
 in packs.. there are few that ll act over smart yeah thats right.. they act like dead bodies but 
 if pass by them theyll jump at u and try to grab u.. with those big hooks coming out from the shoulders.., 
 they look real scary just like the aliens from the movie (john carpenters- the thing) .. youll never 
 knw when they attack, some are so smart while ur walking they slowly follow u from the behind and 
 bamm ur gone.
  the brilliant thing about the game is it changes the whole idea of aim and shoot technique.. its 
 opposite in this game u cannot kill these monsters by shootin them in the head u have to dismember 
 them limb by limb so they become slow and then u can do the finisher by giving crub stomp or taste 
 of ur plasma gun.
  after all this discription about the game, the worst thing is the necromorphs are fast really fast 
 some of them are so fast that u wnt be able to aim at them, for instance ur in a huge hall and 
 u can see a necromorph at far end coming out frm the vent u aim at him and suddenly ull see him 
 left right and straight in front of u up close yeah believe me there some stages where ull find 
 these . To see these necromorph coming out from the vent from different places u got ot play the 
 game on hard level , if u play on easy ,ull jst find these monsters attacking u in specific locations.
 
  the menu system is awsome , the menu system is ingame buddy so if ur tryin to check u health pack 
 and weapons make sure ur in safe place coz u if ur not then ur gone..., one more thing the game 
 doesnt have a hud so dnt get confused u health bar is the backbone of the player.. and the ammo 
 indicator is on the gun itself yeah its cool..
  There are few bosses in the game and u have an epic long battle with them, i dnt even wanna talk 
 about how the showdown is .. i ll bet youll be lost for the first time trying to aim upside down 
 in zero gravity..
  there is one thing that i wanted more from this game is the final boss fight, if u guys have played 
 onimusha and ninja gaiden will knw what iam talkin about,
  i bet ya this game is the best sci fi horror game ever made and will rock till 2010 bet on that..
 
  SO remember dnt turn off the lights while playin on hard mode otherwise ur gone buddy.... twinlke 
 twinkle litte star... hehehe game on 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  After playing through Dead Space I was pleasantly suprised by EA's Redwood Studios. I am not a 
 big fan of horror games, but I tend to lump them into one of two categories : Resident Evil (jump 
 out and scare you) and Silent Hill (mentally scare you) . Dead Space, competently bridges the gap 
 between the two and makes a really fun and immersive experience.
  
  The easiest way to describe Dead Space would be to take the close confines of the first Alien movie, 
 the action of the second Alien (s) movie, and throw in some Event Horizon atmosphere, and attach 
 a controller to your TV. The storyline is solid, the game play (i. e. dismemberment and shooting 
 mechanics) are great, and the games atmosphere are immersive and super creepy.
  
  I was however dissapointed with the fetch and unlock game play that seems to hinder every horror 
 game. Why couldn't the game just be "get to the other end of the ship to get your girl" not, get 
 this key from medlab to unlock this room and restart the engines to get through here... The backtracking 
 between levels really minimized the size of the Ishimura, where as a linear level progression, 
 I think, could have really expanded the size of the ship. I can't really say that this is bad (seeing 
 as I was expecting it) , its just a personal gripe that doesnt take away from the game.
  
  The Good - Graphics, Sound, Controls, Story (especially with the comic book and movie) .
  
  
 The Bad - not much, find and retrieve game play, but its not really a negative
  
  The Ugly - Dead Space 2 is underway and EA Redwood say they want to focus more on action... does 
 this mean more Resident Evil style game play? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IZZO71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that the best thing about dead space is its atmosphere. This game makes 
 you feel really connected to the environment. This is helped by the very good graphics, lighting, 
 and physics the game delivers. The atmosphere and feeling is very hard to describe since many games 
 try to reach it and fail. Just imagine you are in the movie "Alien", with the rotating yellow lights 
 accompanied by strobe lights flashing. The menus and objective screens are all in game and are 
 displayed by a projector on your chest. I can not tell you how cool this is an how it makes you 
 feel totally immersed as it makes the game never pause or stop. I have a feeling we will see this 
 in the future with many other games.
  Dismembering your enemy's body parts is the way to dispose of them. I cant really remember any 
 other game doing this other than resident evil. Dead space makes it feel more realistic however, 
 since you are using cutting tools rather than bullets. The boss fights are rather epic even though 
 they did seem tedious at times if you had to fight the same boss about 5 times or so. I found myself 
 eventually just going back to the store and stocking up on ammunition just to beat a boss because 
 I would run out of ammo in a boss fight i could not exit out of. 
  I am not a fan of scary games because I am a big baby that gets scared. However after the first 
 10 minutes I found myself not really frighten that much by anything going on. I mean, a lot of 
 stuff popping out at me surprised me; but did not scare me. To me this is more of a thriller game 
 than a horror. ( Despite the zombie aliens and large amounts of gore) This game is defiantly a must 
 try for any gamer and it can not be afforded to be missed. Even if you are just watching it, you 
 have to see this game being played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristin566
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  it was a shock when i played dead space i found its not that scary at all i was so disappointed 
 i traded it in the moment i completed it for far-cry 2 i mean dead space is good but after the 
 first monster jumps out the shock factor disappears if they make a sequel i hope the change it 
 so you will be more scared and the weapons aren't that great ether the ammo is rubbish and mining 
 weapons really won't protect you from six legged mutants will they its a good game but i wouldn't 
 pay 40 for it personally i would what for the price to drop before you buy it the dlc are good 
 and i recomend that if you buy dead space you download them they are free at the moment but eventually 
 they will cost 200 microsoft points each one has has its own perks but they both have extra health 
 so they are very usefull for people that aren't good at the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  "Dead Space" is an academic work on how to create a (western) horror game. It's as if a game design 
 student were asked to devise an action/horror game out of existing models. What would happen? The 
 student would go do some research on how to design such a game, he'd then borrow ideas from the 
 major genre references both in and outside the means, seeing how he could glue them together and 
 come up with a formula of sorts. "Dead Space" is the end-product of that formula. The quality of 
 this academic exercise depends solely on the quality of the student, on his choices for references, 
 and on his ability to (re) interpret them correctly. So how good is Bret Robbins ("Dead Space's" 
 creative director) as a game student?
  
  The basis for "Dead Space's" model is obvious: "Resident Evil 4. Whatever the view on "Resident 
 Evil 4, it's widely regarded as a great game [though I have some issues with it... but that's 
 a different story] , so the choice to use it as a major reference seems spot on. For all intents 
 and purposes, "Dead Space" is "Resident Evil 4; copied with precision and perfectionism, 
 which is more than you can say about most plagiarists. There's the claustrophobic camera angle, 
 the sluggish tank-like movement, the "stop, aim with laser pointer and then shoot" interaction, 
 the overwhelming odds against hordes of living dead monsters, the silly item/weapons store in the 
 middle of a war zone, the grueling old school inventory management, etc, etc. Its a thorough and 
 well designed facsimile. Even the less obvious notions that made "Resident Evil 4 a success 
 are mimicked. For instance, level structure: like in "Resident Evil 4, levels are built 
 as mini-roller-coasters, each starting with a slow crescendo of enemies, properly paced with exploration 
 sequences, but quickly ramping up to a succession of hectic encounters with several monsters. The 
 result is a non-stop thrill ride till the end and that's what action games should be all about.
 
  
  To add some variety into the "Resident Evil" action formula, there's the occasional puzzle. The 
 importance of puzzles in survival horror games could be easily overlooked, but for once, it was 
 actually understood. Because puzzles force players' mind to focus on something other than shooting 
 enemies, they establish the perfect occasion to catch him off guard and unprepared for combat, 
 as another batch of monsters jumps out of nowhere. It's a cheap trick of course, but a very effective 
 one at getting your adrenaline flowing - "Dead Space" uses it constantly. Moreover, the jumpy chair 
 moments fit perfectly with the "Resident Evil 4 survival horror vibe, thus adding more excitement 
 into the roller-coaster ride notion. Obviously, the puzzle models had to come from somewhere else, 
 and, once again, our student did the job. He borrowed from "Half Life 2's" gravity gun, arguably 
 the best use of environmental puzzles in modern videogames; "Prey's" gravity twisting, which allowed 
 players to run through walls and ceilings, a great idea left undeveloped in the original game; 
 and the now standard time bending mechanics from well any game with time bending - which game 
 is complete without it?
  
  What Bret Robins lacked in his formal exercise was something that could weave all these game design 
 fabrics into a consistent piece - he needed a game world, a set of artistic assets that could establish 
 a believable background for the interactions. Consistent with his approach, he turned to classic 
 horror movies, specifically, sci-fi horror movies. He took the "Alien" saga's set up, the environment 
 and religious undertone from "Event Horizon", spiced it up with a monster design based on "The 
 Thing", and weaved everything together with a story. The result is a dark, moody scenario, perfect 
 for any survival horror game. And because it's sci-fi, all those crazy game design notions could 
 be made believable - in the future, anything is possible. The only thing left was how to translate 
 the story. The word out on the media is that cutscenes are a thing of the past, so "Dead Space" 
 avoids them by incorporating the narrative devices from "Bioshock" (or its predecessors, "System 
 Shock" and its sequel) , most notably, the use of disembodied objects, such as text-logs, audio-logs 
 and video-logs, to translate story. The choice is a smart one, because, like in "Bioshock", these 
 elements effectively allow for the absence of characters' physical presence, thus enhancing a sense 
 of loneliness and helplessness face the environment - a crucial factor in a survival horror themed 
 game. Once again, our student passes with flying colors.
  
  But though the exercise was pulled off, there's something fundamentally wrong with this approach. 
 Copying from others in such a systematic fashion may achieve good results, but can only be regarded 
 as plagiarism, something that challenges the very notion of Art - which is based on human creativity, 
 not xeroxing. That's one of the greatest problems in this industry, this notion that mimicking 
 others is a good way to achieve great products - the result is out there for every one to see: 
 endless remakes, sequels and rehashes flood the market every year. Furthermore, even if one could 
 accept this academic process as a valid notion on how to address game design, "Dead Space" could 
 still be criticized. Because, though its author had the knowledge and the resources to pull off 
 the formal requirements, he lacked the ability to reinterpret his references in a meaningful, artistically 
 profound way. His blind faith in successful design models stopped him from criticizing and deconstructing 
 those references, in the process reconstructing what could've been a new game, that though based 
 on a couple of references, went further with its own ideas. But there are no original ideas in 
 "Dead Space" save a few stylized gimmicks (dismemberment shooting, in-game HUD/menu system viewed 
 as a hologram, ) . The end result is a well executed work, that while amusing in itself, never 
 transcends the sum of its numerous parts. Adding to that, its infatuation with superficial gimmicks 
 and technical minutiae leaves its core experience a hollow shadow of its predecessors. It ends 
 up lacking texture and density in every one of its expressive vehicles: the story is detached and 
 bland, its environments are too predictable and dull to become scary, and as a pure action thrill, 
 you can't but shake the thought that it never achieves the mastery of its main reference, "Resident 
 Evil 4. And that's its greatest downfall. If a game doesn't add anything substantially new 
 to its genre, and can't pair up with the game it tries so hard to imitate, then why bother playing 
 it? The answer is: you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonkauffman
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Predictable game with no real substance, characters and game setup felt more like a beta test than 
 a real rough copy finished title.
  
  Enemies were not scary in any sense and to think so like most gameplayers on here claim, makes 
 them either little kids or **** who live with their moms still.
  
  Game was the worst I've played in a while and I've played Just Cause and Legendary, not to mention 
 Vampire Rain.
  
  The gameplay is slow on this game and there is no real story you basically jump through hoops for 
 the guy like his dog instead of leaving and going on your way, therefore making the whole game 
 completely redundant.
  
  Same actions over / and over + repeative results + repeative scenery/rooms = BOREDOM
  
  I wish 
 I could say it could be worse, but this game is not a zombie game like they claim it is, want a 
 zombie game go play Resident Evil series or Dead Rising, or even Left 4 Dead
  
  Fallout 3 is probably the best game of this year, go play it, but also wait for Resident Evil 5. 
 It shall be worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  by far the ONE OF the best games i have ever played. this is because it has a memorable character 
 and amazing story. it also scared the s*** out of me like 10 times which a lot of games dont usually 
 do. graphics are beauifully creepy. there is also alot of detail that u will recognize and appreciate. 
 the zero-g basketball game didnt really interest me though. there isnt any multiplayer but honestly 
 i cant see dead space online being fun but u never know
  
  
  
  story lasts 10-15 hours
  
  gameplay is exciting and fast paced
  
  not really any replay 
 value unless u want to play the story again with different suits and harder difficulties.
  
  THE ENDING SHOULD NOT BE MISSED!
  
  im hoping theres a sequel to the game because i loved 
 it.
  
  something to note is i finished this game like 3 weeks ago and i still remember the story and playing 
 the game which says something..
  
  also i only write reviews for my FAVORITE/BEST games so i guess that is saying something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titan14
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  
  Okay, so a friend of mine bought Dead Space and told me i should play it. At the time i had no 
 interest in the game, actually it wasn't even a blip on my radar so to speak. But, nevertheless 
 i borrowed it off him. He dared me to play it with the lights off and the volume turned up. I laughed 
 at him, how could a game be so scary? So, I went home and turned my surround sound up and switched 
 off the lights and started playing....
  
  After about 30 minutes, i had to turn the sound right down and switch on the lights, call me a 
 wuss but man this game scared the HELL out of me. The graphics, atmosphere, story and gameplay 
 all work perfectly together to immerse the player in the game world. I felt like i was actually 
 on board the ship, probably the only time i've ever felt my heart beating while playing a game!
 
  
  If you want a good horror/sci-fi game with an excellent story, well paced plot, lots of violence, 
 good graphics, has the ability immerse you in the game and to scare the living daylights out of 
 you, then Dead Space is definitely worth a look.
  
  One point to mention, the replayability, i just finished it today and i don't think ill be playing 
 it through a second time as it just wont be as scary because you will know what, when and how things 
 will happen/unfold. In a game where atmosphere is everything, it would probably (i assume) get 
 boring....
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The gaming world has evolved to the point where game categories have many subcategories. Dead Space 
 is a space survival horror with strong elements of a 3rd person shooter. This game is simply outstanding 
 in EVERY respect. Graphically, I haven't been this impressed by a game in a very long time. From 
 the dark bloody corridors to the muffled vacuum of space, the game keeps you intrigued from the 
 very start. The environments, character and enemy models, and the weapons are all done superbly. 
 Although most of the weapons are actually mining tools, they still feel like they pack a punch 
 and the sound makes you feel it (nothing like the crunch of an enemy being slammed back by a blast 
 from the force gun!) The game uses a variety of filters depending on the situation (for example, 
 the cold vacuum of space has a raw, unfiltered look to it) and they set the mood perfectly. The 
 sound is simply amazing, making sit on the edge of your seat the entire playthrough and knowing 
 just when to make you jump. Never have I been so creeped out by sounds in a game. There are unique 
 elements such as zero gravity zones that add to the uniqeness of the game. The pacing of the game 
 is excellent and backtracking is minimal. The game is quite linear and spaces confined but it goes 
 with the territory and fits perfectly. I would highly suggest this game to any quality game fan 
 as it is a milestone in the survival horror genre, a prime example of what a current gen game should 
 be like, and a work of art and technical achievement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Creepy atmosphere keeps you immersed in the interesting story; strategic dismemberment 
 is a unique aspect; graphics look eerily realistic; Great voice acting and sound effects; upgrading 
 weapons, powers and your suit keep the action intense and relentless; completely gruesome and ridiculously 
 creepy kills from enemies.
  
  The Bad: No online play; missions aren't very unique. 
  
  When games scare the crap out of the gamer, there's always a sense of shock, then adrenaline, and 
 finally those quick reflexes to take care of the thing that almost gave said gamer a heart attack. 
 Although it sounds strange, Dead Space uses this technique constantly... and it's never felt and 
 looked so amazing.
  
  You play as a man named Isaac, a mining ship engineer. He and his crew are investigating a distress 
 signal sent by a large space station. After having to crash land inside, Isaac and his crew quickly 
 get separated, and discover that weird, infected looking creatures are haunting the halls of the 
 station. It's a good setup, and the story gets incredibly interesting as it draws to a close. 
 
  
  The dead crew members of the space station continue to provide information on their deaths and 
 on the strange creatures running amuck through their audio diaries and blood written notes on the 
 walls and floors, which is, somewhat reminiscent of Bioshock. The feeling of isolation is key in 
 these kind of games, and Dead Space nails it. You rarely see your crew, and when you do, they're 
 in no condition to help. This gives you the feeling that you actually are alone, and are fighting 
 for your life with almost no help. There are also sections where there's zero gravity, and you 
 can, basically, jump long distances around the ship. These sections are simply amazing, but the 
 fact that enemies can come from anywhere provides an intense feeling of fear. 
  
  Being a miner, Isaac has mining tools which act as his weapons. The first weapon is a plasma cutter, 
 which is normally used for cutting rocks, but, in a situation like his, anything that shoots lasers 
 is probably good. Each weapon is unique. There's the typical machine gun and flame-thrower, but 
 there are also a couple of out-of-this-world guns like a large device that shoots chainsaw blades 
 that bounce around the room like a 5 year old who drank five cans of soda. Each of these weapons 
 have a secondary fire to help cut the creatures down to size. You also have two melee attacks: 
 an arm swing and a foot stomp. These come in handy at times, but only when the creatures get a 
 little too close for comfort.
  
  Headshots have always been the safe bet these days, but in Dead Space... they're not safe at all... in 
 fact, they're quite dangerous. Dead Space relies on a new tactic called "Strategic Dismemberment". 
 In order to kill a creature, you have to cut off its arms and legs and... what the heck.... split 
 its body in half. If you cut off the head immediately, the creature will be even more lethal... seriously. 
 
  
  As a futuristic miner, Isaac also has an ability called stasis. This allows Isaac to slow things 
 down (I guess it's used to help with rock slides when mining) to get a better shot at his enemies, 
 or to help solve a different variety of puzzles. He also has kensis, which allows him to pick up 
 and throw objects with... psychic powers (I guess) . All of these abilities, weapons and your suit 
 can be upgraded through the various upgrade stations scattered throughout each level. 
  
  Throughout the levels, you're given tasks to help you find your fellow engineers and to get off 
 of the space station altogether. Your crew will constantly talk to you via your holographic projector, 
 and send you on missions. These missions are pretty dull though. Each mission basically has you 
 running to a specific place, picking something up, and using the thing you picked up to advance 
 further in the level.
  
  Where the gameplay really shines is in zero gravity, as mentioned earlier. You can jump across 
 long distances, and there are many dizzying landscapes that will test your control over Isaac and 
 his weapons. However, there are also times where Isaac has no air to breath but the air in his 
 tanks on his suit. In these situations you either have to have a lot of oxygen tanks in your inventory 
 or do whatever your going to do as quickly as you can.
  
  The game also supports quick time events. When a creature jumps on you, you have to rapidly press 
 "A" to get it off. There are also times when Isaac is suddenly attacked by a large tentacle monster. 
 When this happens, you have to shoot hotspots on the tentacle while being dragged along the ground 
 toward your imminent doom. If you fail to kill the monster... you don't want to know. The image 
 is so gruesome in realistic that it will make you cringe. 
  
  Altogether, the gameplay is creepy, fun, and gruesome. It borrows a lot of ideas from different 
 games, but it integrates them in such a way that they seem like an entirely different concept altogether. 
 It also integrates its own ideas, making it a fairly unique shooter as well. 
  
  Graphically, Dead Space looks amazing. Lighting is almost perfect and the animation for each monster 
 and Isaac himself looks realistic and amazingly creepy. The physics are also impressive. It's particularly 
 amazing to bump into an object in zero gravity and see it react accordingly. Bottom Line: This 
 is an impressive looking game that really pushes the 360 to its limits.
  
  There's not a ton of music in Dead Space, but when you do recognize it, it's either intense or 
 eerie. The intense music is... well... intense. You heart will be pounding and you'll probably have 
 a heart attack... (kidding) . When the music is eerie, you'll be wandering the blood drenched halls 
 very slowly thinking, "Something's gonna jump out at me... I just know it!" The music that is heard 
 is top notch and contributes to the creepy atmosphere. 
  
  The sound effects are great. The grunts from Isaac when he swings his weapon for a melee attack 
 are impressive, but the best sound is when you stomp on a dead creature and hear the flesh squish 
 and the bones crack. It's appropriately gruesome, and there were times when I stomped on my victims 
 just to hear... that squish.
  
  The voice acting is also good. Dialogue from the various characters is great, and there's a lot 
 of cool effects from characters speaking through glass, you holographic communicator... thing, and 
 different containers. Altogether, the voice acting, sound effects and music sound pretty good when 
 you pay attention to them, and do a great job at making Dead Space a great game when it comes to 
 the audio.
  
  There's no online play, and you're probably only going to play through the game once... maybe part 
 way through a second time. I don't recommend buying it. Don't get me wrong, this game is amazing, 
 but it's one of those games where you're proud that you got through it... but you don't really want 
 to go through too much of it again. It's a strange feeling, and it may be just me who feels it. 
 Regardless, I recommend renting this since you'll probably beat it in about 3-4 days.
  
  Dead Space is one of those games that can take other's ideas and remodel them. The story is an 
 emotional roller coaster ride, and the gameplay is intense, scary and entertaining. The graphics 
 are amazing and the music, sound effects and voice work are top notch. Dead Space is a game that 
 satisfies on all fronts. It's a game that's worth your time and rental money. Don't pass it up, 
 and even when you think the scares have stopped... they're not over yet... you can count on that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_tingle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Dead Space seizes every opportunity to submerse the gamer into its eerie ambiance. After loading 
 the game, a disquieting rendition of "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star" is cued as serene footage of 
 the vast emptiness of space plays before your eyes. Soon jarring noises teamed with disturbing 
 scenes of violence are cut into the footage offering a preview of the horrors that lie ahead. The 
 situation only worsens as you board the oddly unresponsive Ishimura as weaponless engineer, Isaac 
 Clarke.
  
  Sound is the lynchpin of Dead Space. From the muffled breathing of the main character to the mechanical 
 groans of the ship, the game's audio is used to manipulate your emotions and fray your nerves. 
 Dramatic music mounts as you enter a room priming your senses for battle only to ebb without a 
 threat revealing itself. Barely audible whispers permeate the walls and the shrieks of monsters 
 and the insane go unaccounted for. Video logs scattered throughout the ship recount the last moments 
 of the crew and slowly offer insight into the origins of the horror that has been unleashed. Second-guessing 
 your hearing, you keep watch, unsure if the ominous rattling in the vents is another distraction 
 or a more sinister threat-and then the lights go out.
  
  The looming threat to your person never abates since the HUD inventory and mapping systems offer 
 nothing more than a semi-opaque projection between you and your surroundings. Even when you are 
 buying supplies or upgrading your wares at the many kiosks and workbenches scattered throughout 
 the Ishimura, you are vulnerable to attack, giving a whole new meaning to Buyer Beware. All these 
 factors leave you ripe for panic when your next encounter with a necromorph occurs, causing you 
 to revert to your FPS instincts-the worst possible decision in a game that rewards you for targeting 
 limbs. Too many poorly-placed shots and you'll find yourself wanting for ammo when you truly need 
 it most. 
  
  The atmosphere in Dead Space is almost unbearably unnerving throughout the first three chapters 
 and then it beings to dissipate. The game remains frightening, but parcels these scares out at 
 a level comparable to other horror titles-though even that breaks down after chapter 10. The final 
 letdown stems from a combination of a change of scenery and a change of tactics by the game developers. 
 While for the majority of the game, the necromorph-threat maintains its vitality via the continuous 
 introduction of uniquely specialized creatures and an ever-changing combination thereof, upon the 
 completion of chapter 10, the developers opt instead to overwhelm you with numbers. The change 
 isn't so much frightening as annoying, since it forces you to burn up a large quantity of your 
 health and ammo stores. 
  
  Among the game's shortcomings are sub-par melee controls, poorly designed mini-games and uninspired 
 boss-fights. With the exception of the Tyrant, the bosses of Dead Space do not feel like realistic 
 continuations of the necromorphs that populated much of the game. The battles are also a bit of 
 an anomaly (Tyrant exclude) in that the creatures you are fighting feel as though it exists in 
 a completely different plane than Isaac. The strange dissociation makes it hard to believe there 
 is any real threat to your well-being and results in some of the more subdued confrontations in 
 Dead Space. Couple the creatures' absurd appearances with the often formulaic methods you must 
 employ to defeat them, and they begin to feel more like something you would encounter in a Legend 
 of Zelda game than in some far-off corner of space. 
  
  The plot also comes up a little short insofar as it turns out to be nothing more than a blending 
 of preexisting clichs. The beginning of Dead Space sets up what looks to be a fairly complex conspiracy 
 plot, but sadly devolves into a rather straight-forward tale with a few minor twists along the 
 way. The final picture you are presented feels rather loose and a little implausible. Having said 
 that, the weak storyline does not detract from the game or the carefully crafted atmosphere. 
 
  
  
  Dead Space should not be overlooked by any gamer, particularly fans of the survival-horror genre. 
 The ill-omened ambiance of the initial chapters leaves a lasting impression that will undoubtedly 
 be the benchmark of all horrors games to follow. Even after the ambience begins to crumble, the 
 game reveals itself to be a first-rate action/shooter that is well-worth your time. While the game 
 is not particularly innovative beyond the limb-targeting system, it masterfully combines all the 
 best elements of the Sci-Fi cannon (both game and movie) to produce arguably the best game of its 
 kind. The very ending of the game is exceptionally well-done guaranteeing Dead Space will be on 
 your mind-and in your nightmares-for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonknight518
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game immediately strikes you with it's ability to create a creepy isolated feeling using effective 
 lighting and environment. The bad guys are not your run of the mill brainless zombies that predictably 
 jump out at you, these ones will come out when you truly least expect it and run right up to you 
 which I found refreshingly new. The shooting engine is very accurate and fun to toggle which is 
 good considering the wide range of weapons the game throws at you. The game is a first person shooter 
 which makes my criticism unfair, but the major problem I have with the game that is preventing 
 me from going out an actually buying the thing (I rented it) is that it is too damn repetitive, 
 walk for 10ft, get 3 monsters thrown at you, walk for another 10ft, there's three more and that 
 is the basic formula for the whole game. What really kept me engaged is the ability to level your 
 weapons.
  
  I would recommend everyone at least try this game because of it's slick gameplay, graphics and 
 story, but I don't think this is a purchase for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: il_dottore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Dead Space re-elaborate an old adagio: the space, a lonely hero and a place full of deadly aliens!
 
  
  First thing to keep in mind when approaching Dead Space is that we are not in front of a Sci-Fi 
 shooter but we're playing an horror survival game, much similar to Resident Evil saga instead of 
 a classic first person shooter.
  
  The visual of the game is similar to Gears of War: the camera is behind the shoulder of our hero.
 
  The initial storyline is pretty simple. A squad of specialists is deployed for a rescue mission 
 on a space station but too soon they discover the place is full of hostile aliens.
  Our hero is not a soldier nor a combatant, he's an engineer so we're not going to see him performing 
 stunning combat moves, but he can place two or three bullets in the right place.
  Most of the weapons are designed to sew enemy limbs, in fact our opponents are former members of 
 space station crew infected by an alien virus that morph them in unstoppable undead creatures.
 
  The only way to kill the opponents is to rip them in pieces and make them unoffensive. So shooting 
 them in the head will not help to stop them but ripping off their legs will help to slow them down 
 and have time to completely rip them apart.
  The main character can carry a maximum of 4 weapons but can choose from a large range: plasma cutter, 
 automatic rifle, line gun, flamethrower, industrial saw, beam gun and force gun. All of this guns 
 have his own utility. While flamethrower is not useful as the line gun or the industrial saw to 
 rip off enemy limbs, it's extremely proficient at killing the little spider likes entity the jump 
 on us doing a lot of damage.
  Most of the enemies can be divided in two categories: bad guys that shoot at us and bad guys that 
 charge us to get a piece of our body.
  It's vital to understand how to handle different enemies and which weapon is better to shoot at 
 them to get rid of them as soon as possible.
  Of course it's vital to switch weapons often and save ammo when possible, sewing limbs to kill 
 opponents quickly.
  
  Our duty is not only to kill the aliens but even explore, repair vital space station parts, recover 
 items, protect the external armour from asteroid attack and many other.
  We have three way to interact with the surroundings: standard "push the x button" method, used 
 to open doors, recover item, open lockers, activate machinery and elevators; kinesis and stasis.
 
  Kinesis let us to move heavy object and in general take objects and propel them far. It can be 
 used as a weapon but most of the times playing in at normal difficult is suggested to avoid fancy 
 thing and try to best enemies in hand to hand combat. Most of the times this attempts ends bad.
 
  Statis is used to slow down objects and it's vital to don't get chopped in pieces performing some 
 tasks, slow down machinery and last but not least, even enemies, letting us to take some good shoots 
 at a fast moving enemy or escape from stinky situations.
  Stopping enemies with statis is useful and some times even compulsive to maximize damage in order 
 to kill tougher enemies (and avoid to be ripped into bits in the attempt) .
  
  The game is good, enjoyable and immersive. Took few minutes to enter into the atmosphere of the 
 game and start to feel the tension every time we heard a strange sound or something near us misteriously 
 broke or light go sudden out.
  
  There is even a shop system and a power up system for our weapons, just to make interesting the 
 collecting of "power nodes" items used to improve out equipment and unlock some doors. Because 
 there are few power nodes and they costs alot, it's very difficult to decide the best use for them.
 
  
  There are not major drawback in the game, some players complained about the lack of player character 
 personality, but I think was a precise choose not avoid a non appropriate act of main character. 
 Game designers probably wanted to keep our character neutral, avoiding a badass acting or a **** 
 behaviour.
  
  Definitely a game to play and remember: keep your plasma cutter or line gun ready and charged, 
 if you aren't already in deep **** duck! A large load is coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rshaver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Brought to you by ] www. shave-reviews. com.
  
  I'm going to start this review by letting you all know that Dead Space is, without any doubt in 
 my mind, a game of the year contender and quite possibly one of the greatest single player experiences 
 I've had to date. A bold statement and one that might not be shared by many but this game delivered 
 exactly what I needed and when I needed it most.
  
  With the exception of Bioshock I don't think there is a better single player experience on the 
 Xbox 360 or PS3. To be clear, I'm comparing apples to apples here; 1st or 3rd person shooters or 
 similar experiences. Not oranges like Prince of Persia (which is another stand alone masterpiece 
 and game of the year contender) or lemons like GTA IV that some seem to figure deserved a 10/10...
 
  
  Have you seen Event Horizon? How about Solaris? Maybe a little masterpiece called Alien? I have 
 too. And I loved them all. If you didn't, I can't really blame you as we're all entitled to our 
 own opinions, right? Wrong. These movies are fantastic, especially if you are reading this review 
 which means you must have a slight appreciation for the genre. OK, that was a cheap shot, I apologize.
 
  
  So I digress. The basic premise is pretty easy to follow... which is another reason I probably 
 love this game. You're an engineer, Isaac Clarke, sent with a couple hot girls and a military muthaf*cka 
 to go figure out what went wrong on a ship called the USG Ishimura that was mining other planets 
 for stuff our greedy human asses sucked out of our own planet and didn't have the foresight to 
 figure would be disastrous in years to come....
  
  Communication is lost, your ship crashes into the Ishimura and now you have to figure out a) what 
 went wrong and b) how to get home. Why do you have to figure it out? Because, of course, the military 
 muthaf*cka gets stuck and now it's up to you, Mr. Space Engineer equipped with a tool called a 
 plasma cutter that most definitely would have been OUTLAWED for regular engineering duties because, 
 well, it's LETHAL. I'm gonna ask for one for Christmas this year. I'll tell my Dad it's for plumbing.
 
  
  Anyway, this all sounds familiar, right? Oh, did I mention the love of your life was also on the 
 Ishimura? Nooooo kidding! It's all good, though, she's just swell and shows up out of thin air 
 just when you don't expect her to so it adds to the what-the-hell-just-happened moments in the 
 game which is why I played through Dead Space in 2 days in the first place!
  
  I'm done with the story... sorry for going on about it for so long, I'm just proud of myself for 
 actually keeping up with this one. Maybe it says something about lack of story depth but, whatever, 
 this is my own personal rant, I can say what I want.
  
  Creative/Graphics:
  
  Now for the good part. Dead Space is a technical masterpiece. EA kindly decided to do some research 
 and learned from the best.
  
  Atmosphere. With the exception of Bioshock and, maybe, Gears of War 2, there isn't a game with 
 more atmosphere (you might disagree) . The attention to graphic details, lighting, sound (get to 
 this in a minute) , sustained periods of silence, your weapons, the story progression, the way you 
 can (and will) get attacked while checking your in-game menu system and pretty much everything 
 make for one of the most immersive game experiences I've had to date.
  
  Isaac. There is something incredibly curious and, for some odd reason, relatable about Isaac's 
 lack of a face in this game. Maybe Master Chief numbed me but I like the fact you don't meet Isaac 
 early on. I mean, come on, how often do game studios accurately represent a human face and emotion 
 with a 3D model let alone make you want to feel for it? The suit and kick-ass helmet do just fine 
 - if not better - in Dead Space. 
  
  In-Game menu system. EA, kudos for what I would consider an evolution in gaming. Although the menu 
 can be a pain in the ass at times (the map needs some work) , it is a feature that keeps you in 
 the action at all times with no means of escape which is exactly what you need in a game where 
 you SHOULD feel trapped. If this game doesn't win game of the year, it's menu system should at 
 least come in second. 
  
  Sound. I realize this isn't a graphic, buddy, but it is creative. The sound in Dead Space is superb. 
 The timing, realism and EA's obvious mastering of Dolby Digital Surround truly make Dead Space 
 super awesome. In level 5, I thought maybe my dog had turned into a giant mucousy killer and was 
 running through my walls trying to kill me to pay me back for hitting him for peeing on the floor 
 the night before. Thank God it was only the Dolby Surround! If you're looking for a reason to convince 
 your wife/girlfriend/boyfriend/self to purchase a killer surround sound system, well, Dead Space 
 is that reason my good friend so just do it already.
  
  Enemies. Creepy. I will be the first to admit I'm a little bored of killing aliens, I really am. 
 What's nice about Dead Space is EA did NOT decide to make these b*tches intelligent. They are big, 
 ugly, stupid, homicidal killers. They exist to eat and survive, that's it. And that's what makes 
 it fun. They look cool, they hide around every corner, they go relentlessly ape-sh*t on you and 
 then, right when you don't think they can get any more difficult, they seem to suddenly have fallen 
 into a vat of RedBull or cocaine.... you'll see what I mean.
  
  General graphic awesomeness. I don't really know how else to put this. The game is one of the best 
 games I've ever seen. The character models, environments, lighting effects, enemies, particle effects 
 and scope make this one of the purttiest games you're going to play to date. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The way I see, art is adaptation and I will never hold it against a company that 
 takes the best of other masterpieces and can not only bring them together but make it work better. 
 EA has accomplished this in every sense. Borrowing weapon/ability mechanics from the likes of Bioshock 
 (telekinesis) and Ratchet & Clank (weapon upgrades/selections) , character controls & gameplay from 
 Gears of War and Resident Evil, enemies and story from countless survival horror properties, EA 
 has literally pulled together a "best of" game which, surprisingly, happens to find itself in the 
 process.
  
  Isaac is easy to control. The camera never falters which is spectacular considering you're running 
 through tight corridors and experimenting in zero gravity for a good portion of the game. The weapons, 
 suit and item menus upgrades are are well-tuned and not a chore to deal with.
  
  If I have any minor complaints they are:
  
  Save points. I hate them. I will not fault Dead 
 Space as much as other games as it gave me a good reason to tell my fiancee I absolutely HAD to 
 play for just another half an hour or my game would be lost. 
  [b] Weapon upgrades. [/b] They take way, way too long. EA was oh-so-wise in letting you keep your 
 entire inventory for your second run through the game. Had I not wanted to do this anyhow, I would 
 have been extremely disappointed with the fact that it is near impossible to max out more than 
 one gun the first time through the game. I guess there's something to be said for replayability.... 
 
  
  No multiplayer?! I'm not the biggest fan of competitive multiplayer games. I hate it most of the 
 time, in fact. I do love co-op campaigning; however, and it's disappointing I had to keep this 
 experience to myself. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  You can run and gun through Dead Space if you'd like to miss out on everything Dthe game is intended 
 to be. You can also complain about it later or you can grab a bevie (or 2 or 10) , get into the 
 mood and enjoy this 12-15 hour experience as it's meant to be. If you're willing to suspend belief 
 and immerse yourself in the game you will be sh*t-your-pants-scared yet pleasantly surprised and 
 satisfied at the end of each gaming session. You will creep around every single corner HOPING there 
 are enemies waiting for you and you will play through this game a second time.
  
  Dead Space is the sleeper-hit of 2008. Now if only it had Horde multiplayer, I'd be the happiest 
 gamer alive...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i8blind
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  EA 's best game ever.... its very satisfying..... the visual is so good the sounds is truly terrifying... even 
 if you've heard a metal falling all over again you still feel like something bad is going 2 happen... 
 necromorphs appears shockingly every time... the tension playing the game, you cant pause the game 
 except if press start, if looking for at your item or objective you'll be showed a holographic 
 screen, afraid losing health is great... especially if your playing impossible mode.... there are 
 seven weapon in this game: plasma cutter , line gun, force gun, contact beam, ripper, pulse rifle, 
 and the flamethrower.... the best gun and most useful is the line gun... even if the plasmacutter 
 can be use to kill every necromoph, it cant achieve a one hit kill like the line gun... but the 
 suit is the most creative thing... every chapter you cant wait to buy a new suit... but only 6 
 suit is available in dead space.. boss fights is very satisfying... the story is beautiful... poor 
 isaac loss his beloved... but he meet her again face 2 face in a shocking way eventually.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MK_Geek
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  At first glimpse i wasent to sure what to think when i bought dead space. one thing was for sure 
 though. i was in for a roller coaster ride of frights and fights. now being the Nerd that i am. 
 i love horror movies and double goes for video games. considering the last game i played along 
 those lines was resident evil 4. so i was expecting this game to be a little bit of a let down. 
 Damn, was i wrong. this game has everything i could ask for. it's got space, check. Futuristic 
 weapons, check. angry pissed off aliens, check. but the best was when i found out. its not about 
 killing your enemys, or getting head shots. its all about dismembering them. limb by limb. everything 
 from the sounds to the music. even down to the detail on the characters an enviroments is just 
 top notch. this game had me sleeping with the lights on it was so creepy. either way this game 
 was very well put together and im still having nightmares from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animenerd2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of the most spetacular games that I have ever played. Its graphics are amazing, 
 and it looks just so realistic. The enimies look like they could be real. And the evironment looks 
 like you are really inside of a ship.
  This game's gloomy atmoshere along with the enimies popping out from every corner eventually totally 
 freaks you out and makes you turn the lights on and look under the bed to make sure that nothing 
 is there.
  The enimies in the game are unfortunately repetative. Yeah, there are only like five different 
 variations of enimies. And to the game creators "Going all Final Fantsy doesn't countI mean changing 
 their color doesn't count as them being a different monster.
  I am a huge fan of the upgrading system. How you do it is just so fitting for this kind of game. 
 While we are on the subject of upgrading, be careful because enimies can still attack you while 
 you are upgrading or even shopping. How rude!
  Anyway this game is spectacular from start to finish and hard throughout the entire game. The game 
 doesn't follow the trend of most games in letting up in the last few chapters. It keeps on going 
 deven until the credits go. This game is a true heart-pounder from when you start until the very 
 end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Fear. Its something most media  especially movies & games - tries really hard to make people feel. 
 & unfortunately 99% of the time it fails miserably. With films I normally end up laughing or being 
 a bit bored. In games, they just tend to throw as much gore in your direction as possible, which 
 is entertaining but not exactly scary. However, as with most things there are exceptions that make 
 up the over 1%. Condemned, for example, scared the living hell out of me. So where does this game, 
 a new IP from EA, sit? A gory slice of entertainment that scares very little, if at all. Or crap 
 yourself & hide behind the sofa kind of horrific fun?
  
  Well you'll be glad to know it sits firmly in the latter camp. This is truly one of the scariest, 
 most atmospheric experiences I have ever had. That's not to say it lack in gore though. Oh no, 
 its got bucket loads of the stuff. Some of it can even be slightly disturbing. Which is nice. Take 
 for example one of the very few cut-scenes. You will witness someone get torn limb from limb in 
 a truly horrific but very entertaining way. But don't worry you can dish it out the damage just 
 as well. You see the person you are in control of isn't your typical space marine. He's actually 
 an engineer called Isaac. So his tools for combat aren't quite what you'd expect. Rather than typical 
 guns you get things like band saws that you can fire blades out of & cut the enemies up. & cut 
 them up you will. Quite literally. You can just pummel loads of bullets, saws etc. into your enemies 
 but it wont do much good. To actually dish out proper damage you must aim for the limbs. It could 
 take 20 rounds to take them down if you shoot them in the torso, but shoot a there head off (this 
 wont kill them either by the way) & a couple of limbs & they'll drop quickly. The combat really 
 is great, its basically a carbon copy of Resi 4 where the camera is over the shoulder constantly. 
 The only difference being you can move albeit very slowly while aiming. But, lets back up a bit 
 im getting carried away here. For those that don't know, this is a survival horror game is set 
 in space (well duh) . You board a mining ship answering a distress call with your small crew, which 
 is assumed to be just a mechanical fault that your trusty engineer should be able to easily sort. 
 However upon first inspection things don't seem right, no lights on & nobody will answer the phone. 
 Well apart from some noise they mark off as distortion. Anyway on you go to dock. A little accident 
 happens & your craft ends up getting damaged. You then quickly find out its inhabited by alien 
 type creatures that want to kill you & have probably already killed most the crew. Something happens 
 that means your stranded on the ship & must repair it to make an escape. As always there's more 
 to do & a much bigger picture emerges as you progress.
  
  All this basically means is you have to traverse the mining ship, carrying out missions & killing 
 anything that gets in your way. So far, so very clichd. But it's the way its handled that makes 
 it such great fun & scary to play. First there's the lighting & sound. Both are of the absolute 
 highest quality. Almost all areas predictably are poorly lit but the light that is there casts 
 shadows in all the right areas making some truly eerie areas. There's also an abundance of flickering 
 lights that create confusion & have you walking extra slow as you scope out the room or corridor 
 ahead of you. Then there's the sound. Its truly superb. You'll hear whispering of the crew, which 
 you wont be able to tell if they are ghosts or a survivor until you've turned a corner & had the 
 life scared out of you. Then there's the absolute worst noise of the scurrying & rattling. It'll 
 sometimes just start when you've entered a new room or walking down a corridor. You wont be able 
 to tell where its coming from as it'll just be all over & there's air vents everywhere that any 
 enemy can jump out of at any moment. Meaning nowhere is safe. Coupled with the lighting that makes 
 it impossible to see everything unless you aim your weapon that has an attached torch, you'll frantically 
 spin around in circles trying to spot something lurking in the shadow, just trying to find the 
 source of the sound. I just cant describe how on edge these parts will make you feel. But sometimes 
 nothing will happen. The noise will just suddenly disappear. You'll slowly start dropping your 
 guard then a few moments later something will attack you & you'll absolutely crap yourself & fire 
 away in a blind panic, wasting half your ammo. It really delivers on the scares. Not only does 
 it deliver on shocks that make you jump out of your skin it also does the much harder job of slowly 
 building up a sustained feeling of terror & suspense that will make sure you never feel entirely 
 comfortable & will be damn near too afraid to enter certain rooms.
  
  This game wears its Resident Evil influence on its sleeve too. It has puzzles such as collecting 
 & mixing chemicals which add a small but very welcome variety to the game play. There are countless 
 little breakable blocks containing money & ammo. You also have stores where you can buy items & 
 that also can store items & act as the chests of past Resident Evil games. You can only hold a 
 finite amount of items, so good management between ammo, heath, air packs (which I'll get to in 
 a moment) etc. is necessary. You can find work bench's too that let you power up your weapons using 
 Nodes that can be found throughout the ship.
  
  Now, the air packs. Now this is where it takes the fact of being in space & makes its puzzles more 
 original. You'll enter areas of the ship that have been damaged & as a result have no oxygen, you 
 are basically placed on a time limit here. & fighting off enemies while trying to solve a puzzle 
 with limited oxygen is edge of your seat stuff. The sound here is excellent again too. With it 
 being a vacuum of air the sound becomes all muffled & almost disappears altogether. Its sounds 
 simply brilliant & exactly as you'd expect it too. The game gives you some other skills for problem 
 solving too. You can slow down time on particular items or enemies, making them move slower while 
 everything else is at normal speed. Say if there's a faulty door that's closing & opening at ridiculous 
 speed, slow it down & walk through. Or you just want more time to pick apart the limbs on baddies. 
 Then there's kinesis which lets you move specific items with the power of thought that would otherwise 
 be too big to move or are inaccessible. You also enter zero gravity areas where you can walk on 
 ceilings & walls. These are incredibly disorientating & you'll quickly lose track of which way 
 is up. Mixed with low oxygen, using the slow down & kinesis skills & fighting enemies, sometimes 
 all at once, created head scratching moments on one or 2 occasions.
  
  Next there's the immersion factor. Almost no game has ever immersed me as much as this. There's 
 no HUD to speak of. Your health is represented by a bar on your back, so is the stasis ability 
 (slow down) & oxygen time. The ammo is shown by a little holographic counter on your weapon while 
 aiming. The inventory list, map etc appear as a holographic table in front of your character out 
 f a little plate on his chest. As do audio logs that tell the story of what's happened that are 
 picked up in a similar way to the diaries in Bioshock & is an excellent way of expanding the story 
 & never break the immersion. None of these pause the action of the game & most the storytelling 
 is done through this holographic interface. Even during the actual cut-scenes you can still move 
 about & it carries on without your input.
  
  Lastly at the click of a button you can create a line of light that shows you to your next objective. 
 Now I feel I should mark the game down for this for dumbing it down & making it too easy. But I 
 cant because it works so well. It means you never get stuck for ages wondering where next to go 
 & keeps you progressing, immersed & in the action constantly. Plus its entirely optional, you don't 
 want to use it? Don't. & it wont stop you from exploring everything if you want too. It certainly 
 didn't stop me.
  
  There are problems however one of which is variety. Its set on a space ship & as such just a set 
 of corridors & the odd room. It does throw the odd set piece at you & the last area is slightly 
 different, but its mostly a black metal corridor or room. Credit to EA though, they have done a 
 good job adding as much variety to these corridors & rooms as possible for a game set on a space 
 ship. But for the most part it a bit samey & it would be quite easy to get lost. If it wasn't for 
 the aforementioned line of light. There's also a couple of difficulty spikes. Most of the game 
 is problem free. But some areas you'll just be out of ammo constantly & overrun. These parts surprise 
 you & break up the action a bit. But luckily the checkpoints are well placed, meaning there's never 
 too much to redo. The story doesn't pick up until the end either. Your never sure what you are 
 doing or why & the only reason you'll really know where to go is by bringing up that light that 
 tells you the direction of your next objective as the game just doesn't explain well enough what 
 to do or where your supposed to be going. Its like this for over half the game & really brings 
 it down. You're just lead from place to place doing things because your told & for no real, apparent 
 reason. However it does pick up & becomes a great tale when you are approaching the end. Granted 
 these aren't huge problems & for what the game does right it should be a 9/10. But I cant explain 
 it, there's missing. That little extra something that turns a truly great game  which this is. 
 Into a truly brilliant one  which it isn't. I've racked my brain for ages so I can try & explain 
 it, but im sorry I just cant. However don't let any of this put you off. Turn the lights off, draw 
 the curtains & prepare for one of the most terrifying, well designed, immersive & atmospheric gaming 
 experiences out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theandysho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I can't stand survival horror. I hate the genre, because it's the same old story - kill a ton of 
 zombies - a possibly creepy atmosphere - ending.
  
  Dead Space is not survival horror. Frankly, you can't classify this game because it has so many 
 unique ideas and innovations in all the small, right places. What this game does is take the feeling 
 you had playing Doom 3 alone in your basement at night with the lights off and a full surround 
 sound system and turns it on it's head. You'll be triple checking shadows for movement, spinning 
 around at the first noise, and making damn well sure whatever that thing was that you just killed 
 isn't going to get back up.
  
  If you have ever seen the original Alien movie from 1978, this game is literally an interactive 
 version of that movie. Dead Space is not survival horror. It's gothic horror, and like the movie, 
 a masterpiece.
  
  No one expected Dead Space to be as good as it is. I surely didn't. Give it a try. Borrow it from 
 a friend. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maloson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Yes its innovative in respect to gameplay mechanics and level design, but ultimately there is 
 far too little action for my taste. The storyline doesnt make any sense probably because there 
 are no subtitles and most of the dialog is covered with static and explosion effects, so I finished 
 the game feeling a little bit of relief, just wanted to finish it!!! , cant help but think: "great 
 another 30 to 45 minutes of walking around and collecting silly stuff just to turn on a light" 
 after 1 hour I was already in done this, seen that in other, better games.
  
  PS: maybe its just a 35 y. o. gamer talking but it takes a helluva lot more for me to consider 
 a game scary and for us old folk out there playing, the backstory plays a fundamental part of the 
 gaming experience so I didnt like this enough to merit a purchase, rent!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Issac0118
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is nothing short of amazing. It draws you in from the first scene and doesn't stop the 
 action till the credits roll. The gameplay draws from some of the best games in recent years. the 
 atmosphere feels like Metroid Prime mixed with Silent Hill. The gameplay is Resident Evil 4 with 
 a nice camera control system. The story is predictable at first but by the end of the game you 
 wont know whats coming next, and you will be dying to know. The graphics in Dead Space are nothing 
 short of amazing everything is detailed to the last pixel, the characters and enemies are detailed 
 to incredible effects. The core gameplay of Dead Space is completely unique, you are not supposed 
 to shoot enemies in the head like in most shooters, instead you shoot there appendages off to kill 
 them. The system is unique, but sometimes you wish it was more realistic and things that should 
 cut appendages off dont. The main flaw with Dead Space is that you see the same enemies over and 
 over. By the end of the game you can guess what enemies will appear and when. All flaws aside Dead 
 Space is an amazing game and must be played by all who want a trill ride or maybe just a scare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a direct pasting of a Blog post a made shortly after starting the game, and I think it 
 holds true for an accurate summary of what to expect from the game. I did indeed finish it about 
 a week after I wrote this, which was around a month ago. I felt like writing a new review this 
 far removed wouldn't be accurate enough.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Dead Space 
 had the potential for a LOT of obvious, and stupid, puns.... had it sucked. By definition a pun 
 is always pretty obvious, and stupid. But trust me when I say that such puns would have had an 
 extra layer of obviousness and stupidness attached to them. Thankfully it does not suck. This is 
 nice. The Puns "O" Plenty can stay dorment for now.
  
  I played through chapter 1 last night and have so far really liked the game. The atmosphere in 
 Dead Space is right up there along side Bioshock in terms of immersion. I was pretty shocked at 
 how well the game handles going through an air-lock. If you haven't yet played a game and been 
 satisfied with transitioning from a compressed environment to the complete vacuum of space, then 
 you should pick up this game just for that moment. It's perfect so say the least.
  
  It's been said more then a few times, and by more then just a few people, that Dead Space has been 
 done before by more then a few other games and or movies. This may be true, and there certainly 
 is a sense of familiarity when playing the game, but I can't recall it feeling this complete before. 
 Doom III comes to mind several times, but that game certainly had a feeling of something missing. 
 I can't even put my finger on what was missing, but Dead Space has it. You know they nailed it 
 when you start to get jittery and anxious the farther you go. If I need to stop and remind myself 
 to stop squirming then they did it right. I wish someone would spell out what this magical mystery 
 ingredient is.
  
  To the details!
  
  The lack of a HUD is awesome. It's nice getting to use every inch of my TV's screen as a view instead 
 of having to move my view around so a health bar or energy meter isn't covering something I want 
 to look at.
  
  Also, the controls are VERY well done. After getting fed up with Star Wars: TFU's asinine controls 
 it was a relief to play Dead Space and actually get a response/action when hitting a button. I 
 haven't yet noticed a single "stuck in animation" moment where I am waiting for a character animation 
 sequence to finish before getting responses to button pounding. The speed is just right and the 
 controls are really intuitive. And they weren't afraid of mapping a menu pop-up to one of the 4 
 primary face buttons. Quick and easy access/retreat from menus is great in a game like this... 
 especially considering the gameplay doesn't "pause" when you open your inventory to use an item. 
 This makes using medpacks in the middle of a fight quite scary and prompts a little thinking before 
 doing so.
  
  RPG elements? Big check! I love upgrading stuff. I don't care what it is.. I want to upgrade it 
 somehow someway. Maybe even a few different ways if possible. Upgrading is awesome. If you don't 
 have upgrading in your game... you failed. New versions of Tetris should even allow upgrading. Why 
 yes, I would LOVE to upgrade that T block into a P block. What's a P block you say? It's a damn 
 upgraded T block that we haven't seen yet.. tha's what. That game could use a refresh of some kind.
 
  
  Dead Space has upgrades. Infact it has several ways to upgrade. You can use collected/purchased 
 "power cell" thingies to upgrade different items you have, and you can also purchase new items 
 as well as armor upgrades with the in-game currency that you periodically find. The armor upgrades 
 are just as you would expect. A nice visual upgrade along with a value upgrade representing a percentage 
 of damage.
  
  Well what sucks so far? My first death felt, and rightfully so, REALLY cheap. I was upset when 
 I finally did die after around 2 hours of play time. The OCD in me is a big hater of the first 
 death. For some reason I am convinced that I may someday play through an entire game without dieing. 
 If dieing is not part of the game, this never is an issue. Only when stopping death is part of 
 the game do I grasp onto this stupid goal. This is completely irrational, I know, but that is always 
 my thought when I die for the first time. After calming down and accepting it I realized that indeed... 
 I may die a few more times throughout the game. Perhaps the first 2 hours of death-free game time 
 are just a tactic for slowly increasing the tension. Is this the beginning of a steady increase 
 in one death after another? Quite possible. We shall see.
  
  What else sucks? eh... It's hard to eat a sandwich while playing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Sharp graphics, excellent story, excellent plot, fantastic characters, great setting, 
 excellent detail, excellent sound effects.
  
  The bad: Repetitive mission objectives.
  
  When you first start wandering the haunted halls of the USG Ishimura and start gazing at the 
 blood splattered walls and floor you can't help but hand it to EA they did a fantastic job. In 
 retrospect Dead Space is scary but not really, you jump out of your skin every now and then but 
 that's where the scary ends. I absolutely love the graphics it's sharp, crisp, very modern by today's 
 standard. The story, excellent story, but there are some questions I can't help but wounder that 
 Dead Space is not exactly clear about, How is Isaac Clarke related to Nicole Brennan? In one of 
 the video logs (WARNING SPOILERS READ AT YOUR OWN RISK) you see the Captain of the Ishimura being 
 murdered by the Doctor, after the Doctor murdered the Captain they crew arrested the Doctor well 
 why didn't the crew stop the Doctor from murdering the Captain before hand sense they knew he was 
 going to do it? Which doesn't make any sense. The sound effects are sort of wierd. But the music, 
 wow the music was great! 
  
  Even if your not a sci-fi fan there is a excellent chance you'll still enjoy the game, definitely 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -Visuals, just outstanding. Best I've seen so fare in a 360 title. The lighting, the textures, 
 the color pallet... all top notch. The first time I saw the massive planet in the space with the 
 bright light from the star next to her I was flabbergasted.
  
  -Creepy atmosphere (left alone on an abandoned spaceship infested with many different baddies)
 
  
  -Strategic dismemberment. Do I really need to explain why this is so cool ?
  
  -Pretty cool and new weapons never seen in a shooter, that were designed, as you guested, for dismemberment
 
  
  -small RPG elements: Upgradeable weapons, inventory system where you can buy/sale and stock goodies
 
  
  -telekinesis and a kind of bullet time where you can slow down your enemies movement but not yours
 
  
  -cool puzzles + fun zero gravity spots
  
  Cons:
  
  -extremely linear: but it's hard not to do a linear game when you make a shooter game taking place 
 in a closed environment
  
  -the story is good but I felt it was dj vu... Doom 3 and Doom 3 resurrection of evil (PC) anyone 
 ??
  
  Overall, this game is full of positive points with minimal negative point which IMO are really 
 not that bad for that kind of game. So bottom line, go get this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  when i first play this game i love it so much this is my second favorite game the best is gears 
 of war 1 and 2 this is the second and i am waiting for dead space 2 if thair is dead space 2 Ii 
 screem but im waiting for risident evil 5 to se if it better than dead space or not ////////////////////// 
 ///////// ///////////// ///////////////// /////////////////// ///////////////// ////////////// 
 //////////////////// /////////////////// ///////////////////// ////////////////////// //////////////// 
 ///////////////////// ///////////////////// ///////////////////// //////////////////// ////////////////////// 
 ////////////// ////////////////// ///////////////// /////////////////// ////////////////// //////////////// 
 ////////////// ////////////////// ////////////////// ///////////////// /////////////// /////////////// 
 //////////////// //////////////// /////////////////// ///////////// ////////////// ///////////////// 
 /////////////////// //////////// ////////////////// ///////////// ///////////////////// /////////////////// 
 ///////////// ///////////////// ////////////////// ///////////////////// //////////////////// ///////////// 
  /////////// //////////////// /////////// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d7rth_j0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is awesome. after mercs 2 I had a bad feeling, but am pleased to say that EA actually 
 did it right. I just beat it and an really looking foward to the sequel. The story was an interesting 
 version of the standard sci-fi fare story invulving a ship full of alien monsters and the game 
 played like a weird hybrid of mass effect and bioshock. Some complained about the nature of the 
 objectives (run around the ship fixing this or that) but they are all urgent and the level actually 
 shows signs of bad things happing (like meteors hitting the hull) so you find yourself wanting 
 to move as quickly as possible. You find logs or video recordings throughout the ship that fill 
 it in similar to bioshock's audiodiarys that fill in bits and peices of what hapend on the ish-ig-moo-ra 
 (or whatever it's name is, not the best name for a it) . The difficulty is just right, and all the 
 weapons are re-purposed mining tools and have a good, industrial feel to them. A word of warning. 
 Upgrade your weapon's damage and ignore all other stats, period. Comb each level for power nodes 
 (used upgrade weapons) and don; t be turned off by how many it may take to upgrade it. It will be 
 worth it. Don; t buy stuff unlees it is a weapon (you only find the plasma cutter, a good weapon 
 to always carry and max out it; s damage fast) or a suit upgrade, but hold out for the level 3 suit, 
 then wait for level 5. 
  I bought and tried all the weapons in te game but the force gun. Dont even think about the flamethrower 
 as it sucks and does nothing. The pulse rifle is only one step above, it is an automatic rifle 
 with tiny damage per shot and little accuracy. It; s only use is wiping out the little swarms of 
 things that climb on you that come out of fat necrmorfs. To do this, you do not need to waste one 
 power node on it. The weapons that I would reccomend are the plasma cutter, line gun (upgrade this 
 after the plasma cutter, it utterly slays groups) , the ripper (takes a lot of nodes to upgrade 
 but is worth it) , and the contact beam (very power even when not upgraded. I used these for the 
 duation of the game and as long as I upgraded them never had a problem.
  The controls work very well, and I never had any problem with them or the aim, except that it feels 
 a bit cumbersome to somebody used to twitch-aiming like in most fps's. You don't have a reticule 
 but a laser sight that works great for thisgame about pinpoint precisin. the combat is brutal and 
 satisfying like gears of war but maybe more cerebral. The whole idea is to blow the arms and legs 
 off of your foes so that you can deal more damage and cripple them. Blow off a leg, and it's dragging 
 itself after you since it cannot walk. Forget about a headshot, it will just make it mad. For most 
 foes, blow off one leg and one arm and it'l die with 2 or 3 well-placd shots. the line gun can 
 cut the legs of 4 or 5 foes at once, giving you breating room. 
  All the environments look great and never for moment do you see a seam in the presentation, except 
 for the bouncing limbs and bodies as you walk over them, but that is funny. Though it may seem 
 like survial horrer it isn't scary at all at least i didn't think so. It made me jump more than 
 a few times but I was neve scared though I've never been scared in a video game before (even silent 
 hill, though i don't like those games) . It playes like a shooter with a creepy environment. The 
 game is very re-playable as you can start it over with your upgraded wepons and suit. Over all 
 it took me week to beat it. I'd guess I spent 16 hours tops on it. 
  
  The story is enjoyable with the plot adavanced not as rapidly as I'd like but it really picks up 
 at the end. One plot twist become a bit obvious because the game really lets on that... well, you'll 
 find out. It doesn't end happily though, but I'm looking foward to the sequal. Bioshock, gears 
 2, we're seeing a real departure from traditional stroryies or at least ways of telling them and 
 conventions of main character complexity. Not that they get developed much or at all, but their 
 motives ar well defined and they aren't the psychological fortress they used to be, vulnerable 
 to grief, fear, and mental sugestion. Before, you didn't see much of that because people were afraid 
 to alienate potential buyers, but now you see more risky plots not garrenteed to be liked by all. 
 And that is a good thing. All in all, if you like shooters at all, or gore at all, you'll like 
 this game. Now would you kindly go out and get this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejm1234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. It took me about 12 to 13 hours to finish the game on normal mode. 
  
  You play the game in third-person mode as Issac Clarke, an engineer sent on a rescue mission 
 to investigate what went wrong with the USG Ishimura (a "planet cracker" class ship) . Shortly after 
 crash landing on the USG Ishimura, you and your crew board the ship and begin investigating what 
 went wrong. This is when the nightmare begins. You and your crew discover that most of the USG 
 Ishimura crew is dead and that there are these hideous creatures called necromorphs stalking the 
 ship. The rest of the game deals with you (playing as Issac) trying to figure out what exactly 
 went wrong and trying to not only survive but also escape the ship in one piece. 
  
  Since you play as an engineer, you don't have the usual assortment of weapons available in most 
 third-person shooters. You will start out with a plasma cutter and as you progress through the 
 game you will be able to get new weapons at "stores" and upgrade you current weapons at "power 
 benches" located throughout the game.
  
  The fact that most of the weapons you will get are cutting, mining or engineering related is actually 
 a good thing since necromorphs don't die easily. They must be "strategically dismembered" in order 
 to kill them quickly. This means that you will be cutting their arms, legs, and heads off for most 
 of the game. This significantly adds to the gore factor and is one of the unique aspects of this 
 game.
  
  Another unique aspect to this game it that it does not have the traditional Heads-Up-Display (HUD) 
 that shows life, ammo and other vital statistics. Your life is displayed on the back of Issac's 
 suit as colored bars and the amount of ammo left in a weapon you are using is displayed holographically 
 just above the weapon. The amount of stasis (a power that allows you to "slow down" enemies or 
 objects) is also displayed on you back as well. Finally, your inventory and messages from your 
 fellow crew members or from recordings are displayed as holograms in front of you.
  
  The way you progress through the game is by completing short missions. The missions range from 
 flipping a computer switch to restore power to solving a puzzle in order to get something to work. 
 The problem, of course, is that there are a whole slew of necromorphs that you will encounter as 
 you go about completing these missions. Most of the missions are pretty straight forward and you 
 can always look at your map or use the convenient trace beam to point you in the right direction. 
 I recommend going off the mission path every now and then and exploring the other rooms on the 
 ship as there are power nodes, ammo and other items in these rooms. Just be forewarned that there 
 are also necromorphs in these areas as well. 
  
  Some people have commented that this game "copies" certain aspects of other games (Resident Evil 
 4, BioShock, Doom 3, etc.) , but for me this is what makes the game great. It takes what is good 
 about these games (such as the controls and atmosphere) and brings it all together in a great package. 
 The graphics are great and the levels of the ship feel truly spooky. I played this game mostly 
 at night and was scared stiff in certain areas as I was always on edge that some monster would 
 come rushing at me from out of the shadows. 
  
  Now for my complaints:
  
  The game unfortunately doesn't have too much replay value. Once you know the story, a lot of the 
 suspense in playing the game is gone.
  
  Plus, once you beat the game, you can only keep your current weapons and armor if you replay it 
 on the same difficulty (you also don't have access to the military suit if you want to play at 
 a different difficulty level) . This stinks since replaying the game on the same difficulty with 
 superior weapons and armor is kind of boring. 
  
  Also, there aren't enough side-missions to warrant a replay. If EA makes a sequel to Dead Space, 
 I would like to see them add more side-missions or even randomized missions. This would add replay 
 value to the game.
  
  Finally, I wish there had been more variety in the necromorphs. The necromorphs you will encounter 
 while playing this game all kind of seem similar. Sure, there are darker colored necromorphs (that 
 are faster and harder to kill) later in the game, but even these seem very similar to the necromorphs 
 that you encounter earlier in the game.
  
  Summary: 
  
  In short, Dead Space is a great example of the sci-fi/horror genre. The action will keep you on 
 the edge of your seat most of the time and the story is entertaining (for a sci-fi/horror game, 
 which probably isn't saying much) .
  
  I would recommend buying or at the very least renting this game if you like sci-fi/horror games. 
 You will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: an0fel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a horrible Game.
  In the game you see dead HUMAN and you must dismember limb them.
  It's Not play for Under 18 
 Years old.
  You forgot similar game because this game diffrent with games of Sci-Fi Shooter.
  On the game:
 
  You special gun is plasma cutter.
  All guns in the game Can be upgrade.
  in the begin, you see Stars And The milky way.
  You must fast & you must Strong.
  Scare of 
 dark and River blood.
  You impossible tired.
  game do of 3 level hardly.
  I told you, begin the game of easy because you to get acquainted game.
  After as 1 time end game, 
 easier played game.
  Geraphic in the game is higher & you can to put on to game.
  Game play is Very Relax & Good.
  My Scored to Game:
  Story: 8.8
  Geraphic:9.2
  Music & 
 Voice: 9.5
  Gameplay:10
  in the ENd:
  Dead Space is a Special Game & play it have Excited for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullflower
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Easily one of the best survival horror games I've had the pleasure to play, and probably the best 
 science-fiction horror I've ever played. 
  
  The whole feel and atmosphere of Dead Space had me on edge throughout my entire play time, which 
 for me is the mark of a good horror game. I was never quite at ease while playing it, just waiting 
 for something to happen. 
  
  The sound design didn't exactly help my nerves. You're always hearing movement around you, through 
 vents and air ducts. In the far reaches of the ship, you'll hear enemies and humans alike moaning 
 and groaning. Dead Space does rely on BOO moments here and there, but they're done very well while 
 not relying on them so much. 
  
  Weapons are extremely satisfying to use. They stand out as a highlight, and are rather revolutionary 
 in a way - being that they're industrial tools rather than full on military hardware. Having no 
 HUD is genius - all your information is displayed on floating screens infront of Issac, be it videos, 
 inventory, audio files being played and pickups. 
  
  Rating - 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Late last year EA cracked open the secret of a new franchise that would brave the outer rims of 
 deep space and venture far into a genre that is usually dominated by other known names. Most people 
 scoffed at the idea that such a project would blossom any form of success, including myself. But 
 curiosity was sparked, and thats half the battle. 
  Not only did they slowly reveal promising gameplay pics, but the surrounding world of DS started 
 to really take shape as story was fleshed out, characters were defined, online comics with high 
 presentation values began to release bi-weekly, and then the announcement of a full-feature animation 
 posing as the prequel came to light. Wow! Talk about pulling out all the stops... you kind of question 
 what company were talking about, but then you reflect on the change of upper management that took 
 place shortly before this project kicked off and it starts to make sense. Yet the real controller 
 in hand test still dauntingly stood if front of Dead Space and the clamoring gaming community.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The last few years EA has been known to push the buck in offering some of the best gaming mechanics, 
 yet this argument can drastically go either way depending on what camp you hail from. Myself personally, 
 I haven't seen much in the impressive column, but I'm always looking for big improvements.
  In the first 30 minutes of DS you can instantly feel something special in how you easily navigate 
 your main character and interact with the space station environment. Borrowing a lot from other 
 popular titles that also use over the shoulder cameras and aim systems, DS does very well at meshing 
 these mechanics and making them feel like their own.
  
  Being a futuristic setting, the usual methods of interaction and weapon usage are slightly different 
 due to the lack of a HUD. Any numbers for ammo, health display, inventory management, map coordinates; 
 all of it is wonderfully blended into or around your space suit. Leaving you always vulnerable.
 
  This may seem discouraging at first, but once the action starts popping off, you'll be grateful 
 for all the open screen you have to handle oncoming danger. And it comes at you!
  Like most survival-horror games, the nasties that render your progress are exactly that, nasty. 
 Exploring the story you'll get a good sense of whats going on, but the basic gist of the enemy 
 is space zombies. The entire crew of this massive space station has fallen victim to creatures 
 that reanimate the dead and launch them at you from every direction at break neck speeds. 
  
  In the beginning, dealing with these numerous creatures can be pretty tough since all you have 
 is a simple mining pistol and very little skills. As the game progresses and your inventory expands, 
 these creatures kind of become a cake-walk.
  The trick is taking out their limbs. If you feel spoiled, remember the game reminds you 20-some 
 odd times this is the only way to succeed. Once you become savvy in dismembering the enemy, literally, 
 the perks of new gear really open up the playing field. Taking control of 8 weapons that vary between 
 futuristic mining equipment and heavy firepower; also paired with old-fashioned melee attacks that 
 allow for wild swinging and serious curb stomping, there isn't many situations you can can't handle 
 with command. If you tend to keep your distance from danger, feel free to do so thanks to some 
 wild tech called Stasis and Kinesis. One halts the enemy in its tracks while the other projects 
 targeted objects... cheap stuff for a miner, but good fun none the less. 
  
  VISUALS
  In a few words, Dead Space is gorgeous! I truly believe EA has picked up a lot of design skills 
 since they merged with numerous companies in the last few years. Facial animation, character design, 
 even the layout of levels, which are kind of repetitive in DS, come off extremely polished.
  The main character is stuck in a space helmet a majority of the game, but the believability in 
 his movements and interaction with the environment is spot on. Everything from firing weapons, 
 to jumping through zero-gravity rooms really fits... just stay on your guard, because you can easily 
 get your head or any other limp lopped off if you get overwhelmed or face one of the stronger zombies.
 
  
  Speaking of the tougher ghoolies, the variety in what you'll see from start to finish in the game 
 is very limited. Being a huge space station with over a 1,000 bodies on board, you mostly come 
 across the same two zombies: bare-body and tattered clothes. Depending how you arrange yourself 
 in combat, they basically operate the same way.
  In the later portions of the game you get to see at least 4 other types of monsters which is about 
 it, next to the few creepy crawlers and bosses. This can be some what disappointing, especially 
 once you master the best way to take down each villain quickly, but the sight of vibrant blood 
 and body parts flopping about never grows old. 
  
  AUDIO
  Creating a world from nothing is tough business I hear, especially when you break it down into 
 the main pieces. One of the strongest pieces in Dead Space is the amazingly pristine work that 
 went into voice acting and ambiance. Any studio with a buck to its name can hire a few people off 
 the street to scream into a microphone or read a few lines. Yet DS really goes all out in adding 
 tons of scattered audio logs through out the derelict space station giving the feeling that people 
 really did walk the halls and face a horrible situation.
  Even better, the feeling of being alone and vulnerable is greatly magnified by every metal clanking 
 sound possible rattling off in numerous directions at once. Unlike other games in this genre that 
 seem to desperately repeat sounds in certain areas, every area in DS offers its own mixture of 
 creepy sounds ranging from mumbling whispers, monster growls, to electronic and motorized hums. 
 Definitely a game worth playing on high volume! 
  
  EXTRAS
  Scoring big with legitimate achievements that are awarded for going through Dead Space's 12 chapters, 
 dismembering a certain amount of limbs, upgrading weapons and gear, and playing a game called Z-Ball 
 all seem like a fitting way to rake in nearly 700 points on the first play thru.
  The real kick to the junk comes in the form of not having much left to accomplish after the some 
 what enjoyable ending. You can start the game with your previous save data which allows for instant 
 mixing with upgraded gear and such -- beyond that, all thats really left is collecting audio logs 
 and braving the impossible difficulty setting which is truly damn near impossible to survive without 
 pulling a good portion of your hair out.
  One thing I really wish EA tried, which would have been silly, was to give more credit to the Z-Ball 
 mini-game. Its basically zero-gravity basketball with multiple hoops and minimal obstacles. To 
 add an online component for something only a few gamers would have enjoyed no longer than a few 
 hours is a big stretch, but it sure would have been a nice way to sneak a leader boards into the 
 menus. 
  
  OVERALL
  To stand out in a genre that is usually dominated by only a few popular names is tough -- but to 
 do it with style and, especially being EA, who is known for many other areas of supposed expertise... 
 I have to say this is a major break through!
  Dead Space offers a great single player experience that allows you to face constant fear and maintain 
 cool control while looking good. If you are familiar with survival-horror games like myself, you 
 might hit a few brick walls that take away from the overall enjoyment. If you can get over the 
 hurdle of seeing the same baddies for 10+ hours and handling every situation with the same tried 
 and true tactics, this game will have you on the edge of your seat with a smile.
  Keep up the good work EA!! This was a great display of everything clicking excellent on every end; 
 I'm sure that building a new franchise around this title and the work ethic that went into it is 
 a solid way to maintain high status in the gaming industry going into 2009. Its been awhile, but 
 you got my vote of confidence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_pants_4_u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Dead Space 'roxxered my soxxerz'. Its a great game when it all boils down. To begin with, the entire 
 game on normal difficulty took me around 13-15 hours. As I'm sure you've read the main review I 
 won't go into the small details of what the game is about or the story. Your mileage will vary 
 depending on difficulty naturally and there are many bonuses to playing it through again as you 
 are rewarded by the ability to keep all of your gear and upgrades, along with new story backlogs 
 added... it gives you good incentive to try and ramp up the difficulty.
  
  Gameplay wise, this title is excellent. From the many weapons you encounter with all the various 
 upgrades you may choose to customize, to the satisfying 'feel' of stomping off an enemies limbs, 
 production values are very high. Your movement is very natural (Your character seems to move at 
 just the right speed, although you can run... and WILL at certain points of the game =) , the aiming 
 and shooting mechanics are very fun, and the whole 'noncluttered' interface that allows for nice 
 tension and scares adds a LOT to the immersion factor.
  
  
  The atmospheric tension, sound, and graphics are excellent. Often times you will end a particular 
 fight, or just stop to stare at a particularly 'cool' scene outside the ship and think to yourself 
 "Nice". If you're flavor of games tends to mirror that of Resident Evil 4 (and the upcoming 5) ... you 
 will enjoy this game very much. Not for the kiddes at all (Lots of gore and gruesome deaths... though 
 all very nicely and viscerally done) , but if you enjoy a good satisfying horror-shooter, you'd 
 be a dorkus malorkus NOT to pick this up. =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTac8745
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  So I was really reluctant to play this game in the beginning because I had a backlog of games. 
 But I decided to jump this game up my queue of "To Play" and boy, do I wish I have done it before.
 
  
  Dead Space is one brilliant game from beginning to end. Everything that you would expect from a 
 great game is found here in a game that would take roughly 10 hours to complete, but it does come 
 with replay value.
  
  Th main premises of the game is that you play as Issac Clarke, an engineer sent with a crew to 
 check on the USG Ishimaru, a mining spaceship that has sudden went silent. However, upon arrival, 
 you find that there is something wrong finding an unknown species has infested the entire ship. 
 Your task, survive the infestation while repairing the ship in the process. A simple premise that 
 doesn't sound much. 
  
  Graphics - great use of lighting and texture to show the disaster that is within the USG Ishimura. 
 Not the best looking engine you may see, however, it does the job completely fine.
  
  Sound - chilling audio that always plays with your mind, unique sounds for each enemy and character.
 
  
  Story - although the missions are repetitive (all the time, you are required to go to X to pick 
 up an item, then bring it to Y, then go back to the tram line) , the actual story behind what is 
 going on will suck you in, so does the ending!
  
  Gameplay - cool idea is the HUD-less displayed, with everything shown through your suit, makes 
 the game feel more realistic as you were the main character yourself. The shooting also feels solid 
 with guns packing a good punch (however, funny enough, the starting gun of the Plasma Cutter is 
 probably the strongest gun of the game) . The gameplay does have a sense of a mashup of Resident 
 Evil 4.
  
  Longevity - with the trophies/achievements on the console version, most being easy to unlock, the 
 game does have a sense of replayability to get them all. Plus you can go through it again to find 
 all the text and audio logs. 
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a brilliant game that you should give a try even if you are not a fan of 
 horror games. It just goes to show that EA can make top quality games when they do choose the right 
 developers to do so.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalocupra68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This games its great because a lots of thinks one of them obviously it the graphics, this one are 
 amazing, the gameplay is more or less like Resident Evil 4 but in this game you can buy upgrades 
 for your armor and weapons 
  
  and there is nothing to say only that this game is 
 
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  GRAPHICS 
  DIFICULTY 
 
  OVERALL  
  
  again this game its great 
  
  GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT 
 GAME GREAT GAME 
  GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME 
  GREAT GAME GREAT 
 GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME 
  GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME 
  GREAT GAME GREAT 
 GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  You walk down a dark corridor, you can hear footsteps moving quickly across the vents. A whisper. 
 You are alone..... or you feel alone, but by no means are you. You turn around only to see a dark 
 figure with long sharp arms sprinting at you. A gunshot. Its legs fly off in the direction it came 
 from. Was that the only one or are their more? 
  
  This is the USG Ishimora. A mining vessel in restricted space that discovered the terrible secret 
 and came to a tragic end. All of the crew was slaughtered by these necromorphs, a crazy sort of 
 Flood (in Halo) on super steroids. Of all video games ever made these are the most intruiging, 
 horrifying, and complex enemies you have ever faced. From the tiny "babies" to the seemingly invincible 
 super brute that rips Hammonds leg off (sorry to ruin that) . These creatures are amazing. The no-HUD 
 gameplay gives it a special sort of feel felt in no other game. Everything like your inventory, 
 health, or weapon selection; has a sort of computer projection system that works really well. The 
 shooting is fantabulous. Every weapon is unique and fun to use. They can all be upgraded and have 
 a special attack that is pretty sweet too. The armor looks great too and the magnetic boots look 
 very real. The most unique thing about the game might be the reality of this game. Everything seems 
 completely real and plausible. From the no-air vacuums to the zero-gravity jumping everything works 
 beautifully. This game is so innovative its almost on another level. This is one of those games 
 that belongs in everyones collection. If you dont have it go get it please Im begging you. I didnt 
 go into the story much to prevent spoilers but its even more amazing than the gameplay. Trust me 
 you will NOT be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raqueem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  
  There's only one way of playing this game correctly; in the dark and with your sound set on very 
 loud. If you've got a dolby pro logic of subwoofer system, be sure to use it.
  
  I will not talke too much about this game as it is one you need to discover for yourself. The biggest 
 difference with the other games in this genre is that I don't get a headache from searching endlessly 
 in the maze of the map's to find out your objective. You don't need to pop-up the map a gazillion 
 time to find out where you need to go next. With one click on your right-thumbstick you immediatly 
 know where you need to go.
  
  Doesn't this make the game amazingly stupid, you ask? No absolutely not! Now you can concentrate 
 on enjoying the scares you're getting and taking your time dismembering the nice people on board.
 
  
  If i'm so enthousiastic about this game, why didn't I give it a ten, as I seem to be saying that 
 this game is almost perfect.. ? Well, I would say that I'm a bit dissapointed by the story-telling 
 in this game. I'm not gonna throw some expensive words at this or whatever, it's just that somewhere 
 along the line, I kinda lost my intrest in the story as it was very simple; not that I really mind 
 seen the impact this game had on me for the rest.
  
  I can only say one thing; if you don't have it yet, get it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It's really been a long time since I enjoyed a game this much. Dead Space has a perfect balance 
 between classic stuff (such as boss fights) and last generation stuff (such as awesome graphics 
 or dangerous overdoses of blood and violence) . It's awesome and thrilling from head to toe; from 
 the beginning to the end.
  
  You will never get bored on this game, not even for a minute. There are no annoying moments like 
 those when you don't know what to do next, though you'll face some smooth and fun brain challenges 
 that gives balance, prevents the monotony, mix nicely with the constant scary action of the game 
 and fits perfectly with the storyline.
  
  Boss fights are, in a single word, perfect. You'll really get the feeling of being fighting a boss 
 from a classic arcade game. It really brought back some good memories to me. Maybe the only blemish 
 about the boss fights is that the final boss could've been more challenging. (Note: Don't worry, 
 you can keep reading, I never include spoilers in my reviews.) .
  
  Weapons and melee attacks are awesome. Regarding melee attacks, it's amazing how a simple and solid 
 foot step can give so much satisfaction for the gamer who's holding the vibrating control; it's 
 like crushing cockroaches. About weapons, all of them are great and varied, so you can choose the 
 ones that fits better to your battle strategy (you can carry up to 4 different weapons) . The weapon's 
 upgrade system gives Dead Space one more good reason to play it.
  
  Graphics and game sound are awesome. The natural darkness of the game also helps to give the game 
 better looks. Sound is as astounding as graphics and goes well with the ambience they try to create. 
 There's not really much more to say about this subject; you'll have to play the game for yourself 
 if you want to find out exactly what I mean when I give a good note to Dead Space's graphics and 
 sound.
  
  Gameplay just couldn't be better. At the beginning you might think the camera will be a little 
 tricky, but it's not, and you'll get used to it only in a few minutes. Aiming system is smooth 
 and precision is, to put it in a few words, 'physically logic'. To take off enemies extremities 
 with a powerful shot of your gun is very rewarding and you'll never get tired of it.
  
  This game is so good, that even dying is part of the fun. There are some enemies that kills you 
 in a specific way that is so brutal and bloody that you'll be happy about it. I mean it, you won't 
 even get mad when you die.
  
  Another good thing of Dead Space is that you'll find plenty enough save points. You won't have 
 to worry when you face a hard battle scene without a save point nearby, because, if you get killed, 
 the game will reload right before that battle scene starts and sometimes even in the middle of 
 it.
  
  There is a lot of neat stuff about this game, more nice little details in it, but you'll have to 
 play it yourself to see what I'm trying to tell you.
  
  Game is not very long. It will take you from 15 to 20 hours to finish it if you play it with no 
 rush, but you'll want to play it all over again once you've finished it.
  
  If you want to play a good looking game full of blood, violence and brutality, Dead Space must 
 be your choice. I strongly recommend it.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CYCLOP5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about Dead Space, this games roots come from the most classic of titles such as 
 the early Resident Evil and back when Alone in the Dark was good. It brings back that feel that 
 anything anyone no matter how insignificant can kill you, that the dark is your worst fear, shaking 
 you down to the cold bones that make up human mortality. It took the idea that you could power 
 through enemies with an array of lead and destroyed it, forcing you to take time and be precise 
 when fighting your adversaries. The only part of Dead Space that really annoyed me was the story, 
 it was awful. Now it was good if you took time and went on the website and watched the comics and 
 movie the story was okay, but really EA, why put us through all of that just to understand your 
 latest creation, it is the only downside in this game that really effects the enjoyability, but 
 it can be overlooked so I gave this game an 8.5 great game play, great atmosphere, but dreadful 
 storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightangel121
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Dead space is a game i saw a few things about and dident think to much of it, until i saw the first 
 review, i thought what the h3ll i'll give it a shot, so i got he game and glade i did but it is 
 a game you could and mabye should rent, so first off the game looks great, the graphics a very 
 nice and has some of the best lighting i've ever seen, their is a very freaky feel to the game 
 which is great but in the end its just startling, i mean game like bioshock and resident evil 4 
 are not realy scary their just startling and that not a good thing but its not a bad thing ethier, 
 but when people call dead spcae scary they must not have seen many horror flims, well it does help 
 to make the game more fun and there is one very startling part at the end of the game, its just 
 not many games are realy scary or do it well, like bioshock was scary but in time you do feel sorry 
 for the splicers for what they did to themselfs but as long as if you get do that then the game 
 becomes less scary and more depresing than anything, and this works for bioshock and it seems that 
 dead space trys to copy it and fails, it has audio logs which are a rip-off of the audio dariys 
 that are in bioshock and they dont realy feel as deep or well done so it makes the game feel less 
 immersive, the games story is also a fail and makes the game feel blane, so oveal the story is 
 the big fail of the game and if you care about story like me you should rent the game, now the 
 sound is good but having some realy freaky nosies and sounds but is lack charater, like the dialog 
 is not very convinsing and makes the game feel evenless scary, now the gameplay is the best part 
 and has almost no flaws, but does feel kinda like resiend evil 4 mixed with bioshock, but is not 
 realy does not show, every weapon feels fun and good but has mostly been done before. oveal graphics 
 5/5, sound/aduio 3/5, story 2/5, and gameplay 5/5, oveal 4/5 or 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard_Prime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Overall one of the scariest and most action-packed and exciting games I've ever had the pleasure 
 of playing. 
  
  First of all, let me tell you that if you are a fan of space and sci-fi, your enjoyment of this 
 game is ten fold. I loved the ship's design and the zero gravity parts are awesome, often reminding 
 me of the movie Star Trek: First Contact. 
  
  The game definitely manages to give you a handfull of scares, no matter how many survival-type 
 games you have played in the past. The producers of this game clearly have past experience in the 
 genre. The story is great, and does a good job of pushing the action forward. You often want to 
 keep going faster just to see what will happen next. 
  
  Combat is fun, and you have a nice variety of weapons at your disposal, even the low grade ones 
 like the plasma cutter can still hold their own against the tougher enemies if it is upgraded. 
 
  
  Graphics and sound are top notch here. Some absolutely breathtaking scenes that I would often stare 
 at for over 10 min. I remember the first time I looked outside of a hull breach, it was so beautiful. 
 Sounds and music are superb and greatly enhance the atmosphere. 
  
  An outstanding addition to the survival-horror genre and a must-have game if you're a sci-fi fan 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space places you in the seat of Isaac Clarke, a mechanic of sorts sent on the ship Kellion 
 to repair the Ishimura communications, which is believed to be the reason why the Ishimura has 
 made no recent communications. When you arrive on the ship you obviously discover that something 
 much worse has happened. The ships inhabitants have been tranformed into vicious Necromorphs, and 
 it becomes a race for survival. Dead Space sets the bar as one of the best games I've seen in a 
 while in the horror genre, coming in close to F. E. A. R. The ship is frighteningly surreal, where 
 every monster encounter will have you jumping in your seat and possibly wetting yourself. While 
 not setting the bar for horror, the game certainly reaches close. The onsters are frighteningly 
 well designed, and the ship looks waht you would expect from a science fiction horror story. The 
 story itself is amazingly well thought out, enough to leave you interested for the whole game as 
 you will need to find out how it ends. The game suffers fromvery few flaws, none of which are bad 
 enough to really desrve mentioning. All out the game is truly fantastic with some amazing gameplay 
 and graphics that will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAlTerego
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Without question the best game of 2008. Excellent story, graphics, interface...
  
  This game was made by people who like to play games.
  You can tell by the little things.
  
 
  Upgrades, map, in game HUD that is not obnoxious, scary, well timed, increased difficulty, minimal 
 cheat options....
  
  On my third play through, it doesn't get old. One of the best games I've ever played and I will 
 not be selling this for sure.
  
  Can't wait for Dead Space 2.
  
  I promise... this is not a ball of turds like the Force Unleashed was. It's resident Evil meets 
 bioshock meets Aliens.
  
  Excellent.
  
  A+ and a 10. I cannot speak more highly of this game.
  
  Al
  
  Buy this game. This is here 
 as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This 
 is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this 
 game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. 
 Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 
 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as 
 it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This 
 is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this 
 game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. 
 Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 
 800 words. Buy this game. This is here as it demands 800 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  i have quite a few negative things to say of this highly overrated game
  
  1. gameplay, while smooth and well done, is almost an exact replica of resident evil four. the 
 few moments of originality don't make up for the rest of it
  
  2. story: was garbage. a rehash of so many other video game and movie stories it's hard to keep 
 track. but you still notice them. it wasn't the least bit scary and it had the all too common problem 
 of being so vague you don't really give a shart. the ending has all the depth and originality of 
 a PG13 teen slasher movie
  
  3. value: rental value. you could easily beat the game in a few days. (i beat it twice in fifteen 
 game hours) there are twelve missions, the missions are mindnumbingly repetetive, and you have 
 a map with a blue line telling you exactly where to go next. aside from playing it on the hardest 
 difficulty, the game presents no real challenge. it is about as linear as games get. even the end 
 boss is a complete joke and can be easily killed within a couple minutes by using the weakest weapon 
 in the game.
  
  bottom line: rent it if you're really interested. but nothing about the game warrants a sixty + 
 dollar purchase, especially with so many other great games out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  YAYS
  - impressive graphics and sounds
  - an engaging story that actually makes sense
  - truly terrifying
  
  NAYS
  - X360 controls make aiming difficult in a game that relies on 
 aiming
  
  With the recent outings of refurbished horror franchises, the genre has been pretty much in the 
 same standard for many years. With Resident Evil dominating (and improving) , Silent Hill being 
 psychologically disturbing and incoherent, and Alone in the Dark serving little to no purpose in 
 this field, it has become a challenge for developers to bring out something fresh and worth playing.
 
  
  Rest assured though - not only does Dead Space take on the challenge, but blows the competitors 
 right out of the water.
  
  The story in Dead Space gets down to business from the start. You're a member of a team of engineers 
 sent to resolve the technical issues on the USG Ishimura, a mining ship that has mysteriously gone 
 silent. Within a few minutes of landing, the team is attacked by a hideously looking beast, and 
 you're separated from your team for the rest of the game.
  
  Dead Space doesn't ease you into the fear factor. In fact, it gives you an overdose at the beginning 
 which serves a segment of things to come. If you can't handle the first of twelve chapters, this 
 isn't the game for you - it only gets more disturbing from there on.
  
  While separated physically from the team, you're always in frequent contact as you try to explore 
 the ship and unravel its mysteries. The story is unfolded gradually through these communications 
 - and new assignments - as well as through the informative text logs or creepy voice logs you find 
 scattered about. Think of it as Bioshock on a different level of creepy.
  
  The story takes you across 12 chapters and an equal amount of segments across the Ishimura. You 
 get to revisit a couple of segments later on in the game - so don't think because you've managed 
 to escape a particularly mentally disturbing and gruesome segment that it would be the end of it.
 
  
  While the creepy atmosphere is established within minutes of gameplay, the horror starts when you 
 first deal with a Necromorph - a horribly mutated human-like creature that is just painful to look 
 at. With split chests, convulsing torsos, flailing scythed tentacles and a hideous groan, you'd 
 spend the game crying or vomiting and praying you'd never see such a beast again. Looking at a 
 screenshot won't do them justice.
  
  Unfortunately for you, a well-aimed head shot won't do you any good. In fact, a headshot - while 
 a universally celebrated feat - is probably your biggest enemy, as headless Necromorphs go out 
 on a lashing berserk that will almost surely spell game over for you if you're not quick enough 
 to cut off the other limbs.
  
  Yes that's right - the only way to kill off the monstrosities is to dismember their limbs, sometimes 
 all limbs. Shredding off the "arms" would have them thrown at you running and biting. A gone leg 
 or two would have them crawling to you... they're impossible to kill without relieving them of 
 the extra burden that is their limbs. If their gruesome sight isn't appalling enough, wait to see 
 them crawling to you.
  
  Necromorphs come in all shapes and sizes - including initially-disturbing babies. Scratch that, 
 they're always disturbing. Each Necromorph has a different way to kill it. While most involve shredding 
 them apart, some Necromorphs can be more easily killed by splitting off a particular limb. It's 
 through trial and error that you'd know what to do, and while shredding off everything is inevitably 
 cool, mindless sadism will put you in trouble when you have multiple types in the room with limited 
 ammo. The only gripe is that the X360 controller aiming needs to get used to. While it is fine 
 in a shooter, for a game that focuses on cutting off limbs from moving creatures, the tank-like 
 aiming needs a bit to get used to. It's not entirely bad, but a sensitivity calibration would have 
 been nice.
  
  Complimenting your guns are "powers" that you have - provided to you by your suit of course. The 
 first one is Stasis, which as the name implies slows down enemies and environmental elements. Stasis 
 comes into some of the puzzles in the game - ranging from simple to complex - but is mostly useful 
 in fights when you have many monsters rushing to you and you need to slow them down to enjoy sawing 
 off their limbs. It's also useful to slow down some of the later Necromorphs that keep twitching 
 and convulsing disturbingly fast you won't be able to tear them apart without Stasis.
  
  The second power is Kinesis, which is mostly used to solve environmental puzzles, but is also a 
 useful and largely overlooked tool to win a fight. If you're into ammo conservation (and you should, 
 since there is little of it) , you can use Kinesis to throw flame tanks into enemies. While they're 
 not in every room, you can use Kineses to take a dismembered limb from an enemy and throw it to 
 dismember another. It requires aiming and some practice, but you can more or less kill one monster 
 in the usual way and use the sawed-off limbs to dismember other monsters. It's not the best way, 
 but at some points when you know you have a boss fight ahead with limited ammo, you'd have to make 
 do with what you have.
  
  Dismemberment works the other way around, too. If you're not careful enough, you could (and would) 
 die in some of the most macabre ways seen in a videogame. One of the monsters takes it's leisure 
 time to rip you apart while you scream and jactitate in pain, spraying blood everywhere. Sometimes, 
 it's the way you die that provides the shocking factor in a given scene.
  
  While you traverse the ship attempting to fix what can be fixed to secure your escape, the visuals 
 and sound haunt you. The graphics are just unbelievable to look at. The Ishimura is so vastly detailed 
 right down to the labels on cans. It seems impossible to render, but it renders beautifully and 
 flawlessly. Monsters are ghastly, and even how your weapon changes and animated is something to 
 marvel at.
  
  One of the best visual touches though is the complete lack of any heads up display. There is no 
 numeric indication of health or ammo or anything. Instead, it's all implanted as a visual cue on 
 your suit or on your gun as a hologram. The menu and inventory is projected outwards in front of 
 you - no loading or pause whatsoever. Video logs, audio logs and text logs are also rendered in 
 a similar fashion. In fact, anything that requires the user interface is rendered in a hologram. 
 It's pure genius and immerses you in the experience by removing all the clutter.
  
  The sound is what perfects the game. The falling pipes, screaming survivors, shrieking enemies, 
 and your very own breathing all adds to the chilling experience. In some sections that take place 
 in a vacuum and zero gravity, everything is muffled but your own breathing. As a note, seeing limbs 
 and corpses floating in zero gravity is as shuddery as you can imagine.
  
  The feeling of helplessness in the game is what sets it apart from the rest of the genre. The scarcity 
 of ammo (even though you can purchase some for an exorbitant price) and the constant feeling of 
 solitude in an astonishingly creepy environment makes you feel truly isolated. The Necromorphs 
 can surprise you in any way. They can be in front of you, jump into the ventilation system and 
 follow you to the other room. There's no escape. If there are no monsters, the ambient lighting, 
 sound effects, and disturbing visuals more than suffice to turn a regular walk down a corridor 
 into a self-contained terrifying experience.
  
  With shocking plot twists, intense gameplay, and some truly horrifying sequences and boss fights, 
 Dead Space is one hell of a scary game - a worthy one at that - down to the last second of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  Without going into too much detail about the story, Dead Space borrowed a lot of elements from 
 the classic horror/survivor movies, the twists and turns worked great in many instances but sometime 
 is rather predictable, nevertheless, if you are fans of Alien series or The Thing etc. the game 
 will give you a blast. The cleaver use of pop-up hologram instead of the HUD is an excellent example 
 of how future game should be made. The pace of the game is deliberated and well-paced, and there's 
 no shortage of scary moments or heart-stopping adrenaline pumping actions. The control is tight, 
 but sometime is far from good, especially when you are jumped by enemies from behind or where the 
 camera is lacking, this contribute to the difficulties of the game, where you constantly trying 
 to aim but overwhelmed by the lack of effective aiming and often the shear number of enemies coming 
 at you. A great game nevertheless... just make sure u play in a dark room... alone... :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 32tsunami
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  For me.... this game turned out to be a basic and repetitive shooter with a few scary moments. I 
 used up most of my time looking in boxes, opening lockers and updating nodes. The character was 
 always a pawn being told where to go and what to do. The freaky monsters and weapons were good 
 but I had seen it all before (res. evil, bioshock, red faction, gears of war, f. e. a. r.) . My favorite 
 sci-fi shooter - Bioshock had much more mood, depth, and action. 
  
  The ripper "saw blade" was the only truly unique weapon in the game. It was fun to take each limb 
 of the critters. The story did not add much to the game and played out like most other sci-fi shooters. 
 The bosses were easy to solve and finish - usually in one try. A few more good notes.... the sound 
 was amazing - some good replay reasons - nice addition adding the health meter to the suit.
  
  Overall - the game was short and unsatisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Now I'm a fan of survival horrors for silent hill to Resident evil, Eternal Darkness and Call of 
 cthulhu (which dark corners of the earth is easily the best horror game of last generation) . But 
 one thing what always disappoints me is games that want to be scary but give somehow manage to 
 cock it up. For example resident evil 4 was a bit horrifying until I got something bigger then 
 the pistol then it became a skip down Dead Spaniard Avenue.
  
  Now last Halloween (that's 31st of October) Dead space arrived on the shelf and boasted that would 
 be one of the most scary games yet, I come along and declare "I'll see your challenge sir, and 
 I shall accept!" much to the disgruntled staring of the shop clerks and customers of this long-haired 
 loon speaking in a loud formal tone to a display box.
  
  So once I got home I whipped it out and slammed it in until the Xbox screamed for mercy wait, 
 what? Anyway I played this game for a couple of hours each day and 9 hours and 59 minutes later 
 I had the credits scrolling up the screen, with no white hair or uncontrollable shivering (well 
 the last part was a lie I was a bit cold in my room) .
  
  So story is you are Isaac Clark, a space marine engineer tasked with the job to do all the work. 
 You arrive at a large ship with four others, two red shirts, a black guy and a whining wench. You 
 get to the reception room and you go to let yourself and the others in when suddenly your blocked 
 off from the rest of them and watch as the red shirts are ripped apart a single alien life form, 
 and watch as the black guy and the wench escape through the door you opened for them. From there 
 on you take commands from each one needing to turn things one and kill other thing because you 
 seem to be the only one clever enough to bring a helmet to a damaged ship which has many vacuum 
 enclosed areas because of damage. Seriously your sent on a repair mission and no one except you 
 didn't expect that there may be a chance that you will need to go into vacuum spaces?
  
  So the game play, from the beginning you can tell this is a survival horror made by westerner as 
 westerners do the same thing over and over again  blood splattered everywhere, messages written 
 in blood and flickering lights. Also the word repetition comes into this review, every so often 
 you'll find the corpse of a zombie thing (their actually called necromorphs but zombie thing is 
 fine) or maybe three now the first time this happens it springs up and begins to gnaw at your leg. 
 Then after that it will try to do this over and over again, if it isn't coming out of a vent it's 
 probably on the floor. Also the bosses are repetitive most of these bosses have a 'Shoot here' 
 target on them (one doesn't but its not much of a boss battle more of an annoyance) .
  
  The way to beat the enemies is not by shooting them but by cutting their limbs off, however this 
 falls short as on medium difficulty most enemies die after you cut 2 limbs off so the ripper (a 
 industrial saw which for some reason has a torch, a laser sight and the ability to fire its blade 
 off) can usually kill a horde of them with a single shot down a hall way. Also some of the guns 
 have pointless secondary modes, for example the Pulse gun has a secondary fire that you crouch 
 down and the barrels all tilt to spin above your head firing shots in all directions. The problem 
 with this is that it wastes ammo (not that that's a problem as the game has a store which you can 
 buy more ammo, and also most of the ammo pickups you get will be for the guns you have on yourself) 
 but also it doesn't kill anything below the waist which is most enemies and even then you are hitting 
 them in the torso which doesn't do much good.
  
  Also the you have the force, ever since Half-life 2 came out everyone now has a anti gravitation 
 gun or ability which allows them to play with the physics engine. Yes even Gordon fre- I mean Isaac 
 Clark also has a gravity power in his glove that allows him to work all the broken machines within 
 the ship. I guessing either the zombie things broke the machines or the entire ship crew didn't 
 have a single engineer on the deck (which from a few of the audio logs it sound like the later) . 
 Oh and you can also slow down time on enemies and selected dysfunctional machines.
  
  The controls are easier to pick up and the invisible HUD (which most of it is on your suit) is 
 also a nice touch, they don't confuse but the sprint button is pretty much pointless as everything 
 and anything is faster then you anyway so the slight extra millimetre may as well be default movement.
 
  
  Sound effects are good in this game but they do take away from the experience of a survival horror, 
 in a survival horror music should only accompany disturbing scenes or cut scenes that you have 
 no control of. They shouldn't (which dead space does) come on when a enemy spawns, not only does 
 this break the suspense with a loud sickening crack but also gives the player a heads up to prepare 
 to make mince meat for their zombie thing pies.
  
  The zero gravity parts of the game are fun but sometimes seem silly that I can't walk on to walls 
 but have to do a 'Zero jump' on to them and even then I need like a 10 metre distance to pull this 
 off, its like they restricted it to make you look at Isaac float across the room while zombie things 
 come to impale his cocky arse with their talons. And another thing they decided to put in was a 
 love interest with the mute Isaac and his wife who was on the ship when the zombie things attacked. 
 When I was about two hours in I began to make assumptions on what was going to happen and every 
 one of them came true, which completely broke all interest in the other characters (though with 
 the wench I never liked her since from the beginning she wouldn't shut up) .
  
  Overall the game is a action game not a horror game, it tried to be scary but anyone who has watched 
 a horror film will know what to expect in this game. This game is for those who want a single player 
 that doesn't need much thinking other then hold left trigger, then press right trigger to win. 
 For now I will wait for another horror game, one like Call of Cthulhu which didn't rely on cheap 
 spooks and had you running away and hiding from most of bad guys as your guy was too scared or 
 had a slight problem with his insanity.
  
  Also if that didn't give you a good enough verdict lets do it on a 1 to 10 scale
  Game play  
 8/10
  Graphics  7/10
  Sound  8/10
  Atmosphere - -20/10 (really the whole music thing ruined any chance for a surprise attack)
  Overall 
 - 7.5/10
  
  SPOILERS
  Reasons I don't think it deserves the following medals gamespot has given it.
  
  Great boss 
 battles  these were boring out of the 5 bosses only one of them is different. The regenerator 
 was a invincible normal enemy on which you would first freeze it, then burn it. The leviathan, 
 slug and Hive mind were simple Shoot tentacles till dead or reveals weakness, also the weaknesses 
 on these bosses are painfully obvious (yellow warts near the base of each tentacle) 
  
  Innovative  if they mean the hidden HUD bar on the suit then yeah, but if they mean the dismemberment 
 mechanic then no, Resi 1 pretty much that (though restricted to the head) so really saying that 
 its innovative is a step too far.
  
  Great story  how? It's a simple stranded ship, oh snap aliens try and escape business, and before 
 I get a flood of emails saying the story is in the documents or some crap, I know I've got all 
 the gamer points and read every bit of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to know how it feels to be onboard an infected space craft? 
  Then Dead Space will give you the perfect fix of ALIEN action. 
  
  EA has created an epic and 
 immersive game 3rd Person shooter that will have you tentatively turning corners or running for 
 your life from hoards of mutated alien monsters who's only goal it seems is to kill you!
  
  The Good Stuff:
  As you will probably already know, the graphics in D. S are superb. Nearly every 
 detail needed is given to meteor showers, mammoth rooms and to mid and end game bosses. The designers 
 have done a great job of mixing together claustrophobic rooms and corridors with the occasional 
 massive set piece that will give you the same feeling of awe and epic scale that can be found to 
 a lesser degree in Lost Planet.
  It's this constant change in size, shape and distance that really makes the surroundings feel like 
 a real spaceship that's filled to the brim with deadly creatures and the occasional suspicious 
 crew member.
  
  Although D. S is atmospheric and tense I would never say it was a scary game (anyone who has played 
 the original Condemned: Criminal Origins will know what it means to be scared stiff by graphics) . 
 
  But it holds your attention well and does have you panicked when the aliens multiply and your ammo 
 dwindles. The fantastic score and voice acting all combine to make this an incredibly rich gaming 
 experience, but if jumps are what you are looking for then you might be a little more disappointed 
 than first thought.
  
  Dead Space is a survival game, not only in the horror sense but also when it comes to your use 
 of the very limited ammo. You will constantly be searching for more health/ammo/stasis packs to 
 make sure that the next room will not be your last.
  
  The down side to Dead Space is that for all its depth and richness of play, your actual mission 
 objectives may not always be apparent. Instead you find you don't really pay attention to the details 
 of what the next problem you have to fix is and you become accustomed instead to clicking on the 
 right stick and following the blue navigational line that appears.
  Also at the end of each level and regardless of what part of the ship or problem you've just fixed, 
 there will be another one waiting for you that forms the basis of the next level. This backward 
 and forward gameplay can seem a little lackluster in other games but Dead Space manages to cover 
 over the cracks with fantastic design and meatier sub plots.
  
  Dead Space is one of those rare, deliciously moreish games. Every time you think you've had enough 
 for just now, you'll find yourself returning to the 360 to play 'just a little more' and before 
 you know it you've made your way through the whole 12 levels and the fun is over.
  
  To me that is the sign of a great game. And although Dead Space is not without it's flaws, it can 
 easily be put alongside the other few greats of the gaming world like Bioshock.
  
  A challenging game that may not be for the casual gamer.
  In my opinion it deserves to be in 
 the running for 'Game of the Year'.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Several months ago when I started to see the first video previews of Dead Space I was definitely 
 interested, being the survival-horror fan that I am. My optimism was somewhat cautious, however, 
 because I was afraid it might simply be a ripoff of Doom 3. When the game arrived to great reviews 
 I happily made my purchase. Working against it was the fact that I had just finished Fallout 3, 
 one of my favorite games of the year, and any game following that would have a tough act to follow. 
 Fortunately Dead Space more than holds its own as a game-of-the-year contender.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9.5) As I mentioned, the gameplay closely resembles Resident Evil 4 with a behind-the-shoulder 
 view. At the start it seemed a little awkward but it didn't take long before I was completely comfortable 
 with the view. Your character, Issac, will have a large selection of unique weapons that are actually 
 based on mining tools to help him survive. What separates this from other shooters is that most 
 enemies will not be killed by simple shots to the head or torso. Instead shots must be made to 
 the limbs to put these monsters down for good. It usually is a case of knocking off the legs first 
 and then finishing them off by destroying the arms, though this varies as not all of the creatures 
 have two legs and arms. Again, this seemed a bit awkward at first but it did not take long at all 
 to get used to this style of combat and I found it to be much more fun and intense than old-style 
 shooting. Isaac also has a stomp move to both finish off enemies and to break open boxes that contain 
 useful items. Several areas take place in zero gravity, which works surprisingly well. Isaac has 
 magnetic boots to keep him on the surface but at anytime can point to another area and fluidly 
 dive to that spot. The game stays pretty linear, and Isaac even has the ability to create a line 
 pointing in the direction he needs to go. However there are a good number of branching hallways 
 and rooms that provide a little more exploration. Throughout the game Isaac will collect schematics 
 for weapons or improved armor and items, which he can then input into "stores" and buy. Plus he 
 will occasionally find workbenches where he can make individual improvements to either his armor 
 or weapons. The only thing I didn't like about the gameplay was two occasions where Isaac has to 
 man a cannon and get though a shooting game that was a bit frustrating for me as the 360 controller 
 just wasn't as precise as I would have liked. But, after a few attempts I got through them and 
 other than that the gameplay was excellent.
  
  GRAPHICS (9.5) Simply put these are some of the best graphics I have ever seen in any videogame. 
 The ship is very well designed, looking completely sinister whether you're in an area that has 
 been taken over by some alien life form, a room covered in blood after a massacre, or simply a 
 hallway with flickering lights. The monsters are disgustingly detailed and look and move very realistically. 
 Isaac himself looks great in his armor which includes neon bars in the back that lets you know 
 his health status. To make things more immersive there is no HUD. Isaac must bring up his inventory 
 and other info in a very cool looking holograph screen. All weapons look very realistic and to 
 top it off the lighting in the game is perfect.
  
  AUDIO (9) Everyone knows that decent audio is essential to survival-horror. Fortunately Dead Space 
 has great audio effects. You'll hear creatures skittering behind walls, normal computer and machine 
 noises as well as creepy whispers that keep you on edge. The music is well done, sounding like 
 something from Alien or Event Horizon. To top if off Dead Space also has top notch voice acting, 
 which is important not only from the characters Isaac meets but also in the many audio logs he 
 will come across that helps to provide explanations as to what has happened.
  
  VALUE (9) Dead Space took me approximately 16 hours to complete, not bad for an action game that 
 really did not have any slow moments. Naturally the game allows you to replay it at harder difficulties, 
 and for an extra incentive when you finish the game the first time you will be given some bonus 
 items to use in your second playthrough.
  
  SUMMARY - I haven't talked about the story since it really is something to experience for yourself. 
 What is known from the start is that the mining spaceship Ishimura has lost communications and 
 Isaac is part of a small crew sent to investigate. To add a little drama one of Ishimura's crew 
 is Isaac's former girlfriend that he obviously still has some strong feelings for. Once Isaac's 
 ship arrives near the Ishimura things happen very fast as something terrible is going on, and Isaac 
 will be on a terrifying yet fascinating journey of survival. Needless to say the violence is extreme 
 but if you are not bothered by this then I highly recommend this game to not only survival-horror 
 fans but to anyone that enjoys action or shooter games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safy_soldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  dead space really does prove that horror games can still scare you these days because it sured 
 scared me. it has a unigue 3rd person camrera with no HUD display you can see your ammo on a hologram 
 infront of you and your bar is displayed on your back so really you can enjoy the game with no 
 HUD display and just enjoy full screen action. it is about a ship called the Ishimura is not responding 
 and you have a message from your wife that is on the ship calling for help so yuo and a squad go 
 on a rescue mission to find out whats going on. when you reach the ship you find out there are 
 monstrous aliens on board so time to get the guns out. also a good thing in the game, it is that 
 the only way to kill your enemies is by shooting their limbs of then finish them off by executing 
 a huge foot stomp on their head...... very gorey but very satisfying. the thing that puts the game 
 down is that is lacks online play, which is essential to every shooting game. so people cant share 
 their limb shooting talents with others around the world.
  but apart from that dead space is a top class horror game with spectacular graphics and scenery 
 that can promise you scares and thrills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Not long after beginning this game, I felt as if I was playing Doom 3 all over. Not because of 
 the gameplay, but because of the environment. You start the game crashing into a friendly space 
 ship due to some equipment malfunction. The enemy space ship seems abandoned upon approach. The 
 spend the rest of the game fighting funky looking creatures. The game is SUPER SUPER freaky especially 
 when playing it on your own at night. This game is definitely not for the faint of heart. It's 
 a linear game. Unfortunately. But the game play is good enough to look around that. The constant 
 third person is quite annoying I'll admit. Sometime the funky space dude that you're playing ends 
 up RIGHT in the middle of the screen making it super hard for you to see what's coming at your 
 face. It also makes it even more hard because when he's not right in the middle of your screen 
 he's taking up 1/3 of it. It's kind of cool that they replaced the HUD and put it on your characters 
 back, but if it's taking up 1/3 of the screen making it annoying to try to look around, I think 
 I'd just prefer the HUD. That is my only complaint with this game. It's violent, fast, and just 
 plain fun. The story is interesting and intriguing enough to keep you playing it until the very 
 end. The scenery is pretty cool when you get to look out into space. So overall, this game does 
 it for what modern gamers are looking for.
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtremeflem2day
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Dead space is a good game, but there are many gaps for improvement.
  
  The overall game play is good, this game really makes you feel like someone who is stuck on a space 
 base, fighting desperately to survive. The way he grunts when you stomp, and the way he swings 
 his weapons (and grunts) while bashing and using melee, has a great visuals and sound. Instead 
 of having an HUD, they show your characters health by having a bar on the characters back. And 
 a special power called Stasis is also shown on the characters back (watch game play images and 
 videos to see what i'm talking about) . This all makes the game have well done visuals, so it pretty 
 good.
  
  You will have to be using ammo sparingly, because you usually only get just enough to survive in 
 this game. Finding loads of ammo around you, is going to be a bad thing, because that's a sure 
 sign that you will be needing it for something big soon.
  
  As well as the good parts to the game, there are some bad parts as well. Since you are sort of 
 stuck on a "path" while playing the game (You are blocked off from going to other areas of the 
 ship by debris, locked doors, etc.) it can get boring, having to always go only in the directions 
 of the objective and having nothing to explore. Sometimes you find ammo in storage compartments, 
 but you don't get too much of it.
  
  ONE BIG PROBLEM OF THE GAME, is that after you cleared an area, gathered ammo from it, there wont 
 be anything back there when/if you return. If you are stuck on a boss or at a place where enemies 
 keep swarming on you, and you don't have much ammo, there is no way to go back to old places and 
 get ammo. In games like bioshock, after clearing an area (a certain building or section of the 
 city) , if you come back to it there will be more enemies to kill and you can regather supplies. 
 In deadspace, if you don't have much ammunition, its going to be hard to get more, because the 
 aliens will take usually a good amount of ammo to kill, and then they don't leave much behind when 
 they die. The melee in the game may look and sound real, but it doesn't do too much for damage. 
 
  
  Overall, Deadspace is worth getting maybe a year or so after it comes out, when its cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a true masterpiece of the Sci-Fi shooter genre. The stunning graphic presentation 
 coupled with a unique and creepy audio track create a truly horrific atmosphere akin to 'Aliens' 
 but much better because you are in it and they are after you! In an already crowded field with 
 games like Doom, Quake, Prey and many others this game stands out as fresh, engaging, immersive 
 and a real wild ride through and through. It is not for the feint of heart. It is the stuff of 
 which nightmares are made and gives one the sense of a real alien take over of a spaceship. What 
 might that really be like? It is creepy and erie beyond anything I have ever played because it 
 has a convincing story line that sucks you in and an atmosphere to match. When I was deciding to 
 buy this game I had my reservations. What could really be new in a Sci-Fi shooter game that has 
 not already been done a thousand times? I am glad that I made the leap of faith to try this out 
 because it is one of the best games I have ever played. Although 'Dead Space' is not an RPG game 
 I get the feeling of being in a central role and in a house of real horrors drifting helplessly 
 in space. The storyline is storng and the character acting superb. The special effects and graphic 
 flourishes are nothing short of brilliant eg the wisps and tendrils of smoke in the corridors, 
 bays and labs. Zeor gravity is an awesome effect. Wow! The combat is intense and challenging. To 
 kill an enemy you actually need to dismember the creature or it will come back at you with a vengeance. 
 This is a game of significant 'puzzle' situations that require thinking and planning. While it 
 has it has a significant stretch of run and gun moments... just try running and gunning when the 
 lights are out in some creepy and bloody lab filled with alien life forms. I like games that mix 
 both run and gun with significant strategic challenges and puzzles. The unique approach to a projected 
 and holographic outside the suit information display system is very cool. Workbenches for upgrading 
 weapons is a very nifty touch too. I highly recommend this game it is clearly in the competition 
 for game of the year. I would also say to other game developers that they need to study this game 
 because of its general excellence in all categories and because it does something that many game 
 developers seem to miss. It pays attention to detail in such a way that it creates a convincing 
 atmosphere that lends itself considerably to the storyline of the game. It is in games like 'Dead 
 Space' where we see a kind of crossover between, movies, books and games. It is so immersive that 
 I think it qualifies as new entertainment genre. It is like a story or movie and you are playing 
 the main character 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swol1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best game I have played ( on the 360 console) . You can only have four weapons 
 at a time so you will have too choose the weapons you think are the best way to kill those freaking 
 aliens. It is so fun and it is scary and that makes it even more fun! The enemies, the environment 
 and mixed with the sounds of the enemies is the scary part. They are so I don't know terrifying!! 
 If we leave that I think the graphics are OK, the best part is when you die and the aliens bites 
 of your head, then the graphics is at its best. I would recommend this game to all horror fanatics 
 and I would give this game a 9. And that decision am I happy with. But you who don't like horror 
 movies and games I give you this piece of advice DO NOT BUY THIS GAME I, ALMOST PEED MY PANTS!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  This game is not recommended for kids under 18 years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Down right creepy is the best way to describe Dead Space. EA really went out of there way to make 
 a quality title and an expierence that will stay with you after you play it. Aside from some minor 
 technical flaws, and multi player option, Dead Space would have been easily a 10. 
  
  The game starts as you (a silent engineer names Isacc) and your team go to investigate the damages 
 to a far off mining space station in the middle of no where. Though your character himself is silent 
 through the game (with the acception of some grunts of pain) you immediately feel connected to 
 the character. He's kind of the low man on the totem pole, yet he is very Macguyver like in his 
 wizardry with electronics. On a personal note Isacc is here mainly because his ex-girlfriend (who 
 he probably still has feelings for) was stationed on the space station and is missing. 
  
  From there you find that an alien parasite has infected the crew and mutated them into monstrosities 
 due to the mining on the near by planet. The only real way of killing them is to dismember them, 
 which makes from som grizzly fatalities. 
  
  Isacc several weapons at his disposal through out the game, all of which are based on engineering. 
 He can upgrade them by finding a bench and a special type of node. He can also buy supplies at 
 the freighter's store and keep his own personal items there (kind of like the old Resident Evil 
 games and the box) . Unfortunatly there are save points through out the game rather then just saving 
 when you want. This seems like an outdated idea, but it does add tension to the game. Plus if you 
 die, you will start off a check point pretty close to your demise rather then back at he save point. 
 
  
  The graphics for the most part are pretty good. Isacc himself is well animated and detailed. The 
 creatures you fight along the way (if you can get close enough to them) are well detailed as well. 
 The animation for the most part is pretty fluid, although you can see some issues with the frame 
 rates along the way. The lighting and shadowing is really great, adding a tenseness to the game 
 along with the fog and dripping waters you will find around. The back grounds themselves vary. 
 When out in space it's breathtaking, there are portions of the space station that are obviously 
 textured, and this can take away from the greatness of the way the game looks. But still you can 
 tell that the creator were inspired by such great movis as Alien and Event Horizon just by looking 
 at the graphics. 
  
  There are portions of the game that take place in zero gravity and a vaccum. Zero gravity allows 
 you to jump around on your magnetic boots, and it does justice to the items and creatures in the 
 room. The vaccum makes you use your breathing apporatice and dullens any sounds that are made while 
 out there. In fact the music and sounds are awesome, drawing from what Silent Hill does to create 
 terror by creating whispering, sections of no music to dramatic forbodding music. 
  
  The controls are good, they aren't easy to pick up and play, through the game you are given a training 
 course, which is nice because then the player wouldn't know half of the things you could do. The 
 camera style is much like Gears of War or Resident Evil 4. The game has pretty good AI and starts 
 off slow so you can adjust to the controls and then picks it up as the game moves on. 
  
  Dead Space is a very creepy and great expierence. It proves not only that EA has some new ideas 
 up it's sleeve, but it can make a quality title that isn't a sport. This is a great game for survival 
 horror fans and 3rd person shooter fans. It's hard to recommend to casual gamers because of the 
 level of difficulty that it can produce, but it's a new (hopefully) franchise that hardcore gamers 
 can enjoy. I'm certainly hoping this isn't going to be the last game. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Scary games don't come out very often without having some in game cinematic take part, some loud 
 music, and a preset jump. Does Dead Space stick out in this world of simple spooks, or does it 
 just drown in the same?
  
  Story (7/10) : Dead Space, unfortunately, is lacking greatly in story. It isn't terrible, it just 
 nearly doesn't exist. It picks up a bit in the end, but most of the twists, though good, may be 
 predicted early. That's not to say all can be, but some of the major ones, one given away in the 
 achievements list. If all that negativity wasn't enough, it's also very close to the movie 'Alien'. 
 They both are in space, on a mining ship, leaving you alone with parasitic like life form (s) , all 
 while the ship around you is dying. It isn't a complete rip off, but if you've seen the film, you'll 
 make connections. 
  
  Environments (10/10) : I'm rounding up here from 9.5. The only thing wrong is repetition. It gets 
 a bit old towards the end, just as it changes just a bit. Other than that, they are phenomenal. 
 Full of frightening potential, giving away a feeling of something's happened, and something could 
 still happen. Too add to all of this, sound (yes, I'm adding sound and Creatures together here 
 with Environments) plays a major part. Hearing the creatures shuffle past you, hoping to get your 
 heart pumping so as to side track you from being focused on your mission. The creatures then continue 
 to dismember you s you struggle to escape their bleeding (literally) grasps.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : This is where the game shines. Having no HUD at all keeps you immersed in the 
 action constantly. The upgrading feature is done greatly, giving you a schematic to slowly work 
 through in various ways using 'nodes' you find occasionally. The only problem (though not specified 
 in my rating) is the habit of being a bit clunky while doing your missions. It gets hard to do 
 what you want to do when you're having trouble moving and aiming fast enough. It isn't a sensitivity 
 problem, or even a problem really fixable, hence no reflection in my rating, but it deserves mentioning. 
 
  
  The Pros:
  
  -Great Graphics
  - Actually scary
  -Unique Art
  
  The Cons:
  
  -NO STORY . . . or at least not much of one.
  -No multiplayer
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
  
 The game feels like a cross between Resident Evil 4 and BioShock, and even though not coming out 
 as good as those two, still coming out one great game that must be played at least once. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Graphics:10 - This game is a horror game. It has the dark shading the twitching lights and all 
 that jazz. Its crisp and clean style of graphics fit this game very well , The textures of the 
 suit and rooms are extreamly detailed. To keep you in the mood for the game there is no heads up 
 display which i thought was a good touch. 
  
  Controls:8- At first this took me a little getting used to i havent played a resident evil game 
 in a while... and the controls and feel of the game are very much like it with only a couple of 
 different actions here and there. 
  
  Sound:10- This game has some outstanding sound quality in it . If you have ever played games such 
 as F. E. A. R. you would kno what im talking about. Screams comming in from all around you from the 
 necromorphs and from people . You can hear enemies crawling in vents through-out the areas. It 
 scares you and stops you in your tracks at points in the game .
  
  Gameplay:9- I havent really beaten the entire game as of now, so far the gameplay has been amazing 
 , the story line is top-notch and i love how you can upgrade everything from your suite to your 
 guns. This game should run you about 10-20 hrs at least. For me im kind of taking my time with 
 the game sucking in as much of it as i can. 
  
  Final comments: This game sucks you in when you play it. It can be scary it will give you a fright 
 but not enough to stop you from playing. Its dark and detailed atmosphere and complete lack of 
 h. u. d keeps you consentrated enough to have a great time with this game. I highly recommed this 
 to anyone in for a scare or whoever is a Resident Evil fan to pick this game up and give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodarthur
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The game kick off amazing and is intensive the entire time you are playing! The suspense never 
 ends with this game! Take the suspense with amazing graphics and gore then this is the game for 
 you! I'm already recommending it to my friends! Walking threw the levels you are always waiting 
 to see what the next plot of the story is, not very many games has a story line that I am drawn 
 into but this game nailed it! If you haven't played it yet then you will the zero gravity rooms 
 jumping wall to wall! Taking your mining tolls to rip apart the aliens and even without legs arms 
 or a head still trying to attack, talk about an aggressive enemy. The only thing that would make 
 this game better is if you could have some kind of online game play, after all the good thing about 
 online is a game is never over because you can play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Seeing EA throw so much money in ads, comics and animated movies for one game that is a newcomer 
 to the scene was pretty inspiring and a tell tale sign that they thought they had something good. 
 I took the bait, and downloaded all the comics, waited to watch the animated feature film before 
 I played the game and finally dove into Dead Space and was literally blown away by the quality 
 of this game.
  
  Strategic dismemberment is buzzword that was tossed around a bunch in previews and when I actually 
 played the game I don't think I could have came up with a better word to describe combat and the 
 main means of survival. The weapons in Dead Space aren't meant to simply impact a character's body 
 and cause massive internal trauma, if that were the case then there would be no survivors in this 
 game. Thankfully most of the weapons are mining tools used to sheer rock and uncover ore and they 
 double as perfect weapons to slice off arms, tentacles and legs. Using this dismemberment system 
 is the best way to slow down these creatures and ultimately kill them.
  
  But if it was just cutting arms, heads and legs off creatures throughout the whole game Dead Space 
 wouldn't be that interesting so throughout the game is a continuous evolution of this alien species 
 ranging from simple cannon fodder mutants to mutated infants to faster then hell mutated space 
 marines. There are many more surprises that constantly keep the game challenging and engaging.
 
  
  I played the first time through on hard with just a Plasma Cutter which is just a fancy name for 
 a pistol like device but on the second play through I tried out all the weapons and can easily 
 say that each one feels different and has its pros and cons. A slow crawling enemy is easy prey 
 for a flamethrower but use that on a mutated marine and you'll be introduced to the loading screen. 
 Each of these weapons can be upgraded throughout the game making them more powerful and balanced 
 in the end. That's the main reason I was able to survive the game with just the initial weapon.
 
  
  The main protection in the game comes from an equally upgradeable suit and a couple of neat devices. 
 The suit is multifunctional in this game providing armor, a display for live and oxygen levels, 
 a base for the characters stasis and kinetic beams, storage and also and log interface. This pretty 
 much boils down to one of the best HUDs I've seen in a game as everything is located on the character's 
 back except for ammo amounts.
  
  There's a store or two conveniently located on almost every floor and this is where schematics 
 and credits are turned into useful items, trade and inventory management occurs. It's makes these 
 places almost as precious as save points, although there are many save points located in each level. 
 These shops are important to stock up on items and hold other items over for a rainy day or purchasing 
 new weapons and ammo.
  
  One thing I didn't find too survival horrorish is that there was really never a shortage of money 
 in this game which translates to there never being a shortage of ammo or health packs. Sure there 
 were times where I was unprepared for a run in with some enemies that ended up in a quick death, 
 or a few times I didn't check how much ammo I had left but most of those times could be easily 
 prevented by finding a store. 
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful or horrible in positive ways. A lot of time went into designing 
 the ship and it's truly a wonderful local that only feels repetitive during certain parts of the 
 game. Each section has a different look and there's overall a cohesive flow visually throughout 
 the whole game. However Murphy's Law is the theme of this game and often means that the same corridors 
 will be traveled on two or three times before the game is over.
  
  That's the main problem with the game. No matter what your character does, it ultimately fails 
 do succeed in anyway throughout the game until the very end. Thankfully the main character is such 
 a good sport because if I were that guy risking my life over and over for failed attempts it would 
 be strategic self decapitation for me.
  
  Keeping along with the graphics theme and also tying into the physics and sound theme would have 
 to be the zero gravity, vacuum of space portions of the game. They are literally amazing in everyway 
 visually and aurally. Dismember a foe in zero g and watch as the limbs float gracefully across 
 the screen while copious amounts of the red stuff beads up and trickles out into the air. Walk 
 around in a vacuum and hear the character's heartbeat and breathing take the foreground while gunshots 
 and creature screams are muffled in space.
  
  The gameplay isn't all about shooting things because occasionally there are parts that have small 
 puzzles where the suit's stasis and kinetic abilities come into play. Stasis lets the character 
 slow down foes or fast moving objects such as doors or mechanical arms to make them easier to manipulate. 
 Kinetic lets him move things far too heave for him to move naturally or things that are simply 
 out of his reach. Rarely do these puzzles involve backtracking even though there's a fair share 
 of backtracking in the second half of the game.
  
  All of these weapons and abilities equip Isaac to handle any of the regular creatures and the few 
 bosses that pop up now and then with a little bit of trial and error. It's a survival horror game 
 so there's going to be personal death every now and then.
  
  Story progresses through audio tapes, text tapes and contact with your fellow crew members that 
 survived the crash shuttle the main character was in. The rest of the game is spent trying to find 
 out what happened to the ship and ultimately get off the rotting thing. However, like all plots, 
 greedy people make it difficult. The animated movie is a great tie in and complements the game 
 pretty well.
  
  I really enjoyed the game and can't say too many bad things about it. I have to give praise to 
 EA for taking such a chance with a game that hadn't been established yet. I hope it pays off for 
 them in the run. As bad as EA usually is, they're the first ones to give video games it's very 
 own taste of what Aliens did for movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a game that hooks you from the beginning with its chilling and foreboding atmosphere, 
 and the promise of a roller coaster of a ride you wont soon forget. Before the credits begin to 
 roll, you'll be left wanting more as a cliffhanger ending insures a sequel is around the corner. 
 Here's what you need to know.
  
  Pro:
  - Breathtaking visuals
  - Well written and presented story 
  - Believable supportive cast
  - Innovative combat system 
 
  - Challenging boss fights
  - Creative use of the hud
  - Loads of unlockable content
  -
  
  Cons:
  - Game clocks in at roughly 13 hours
  - Scripted events become tiresome and 
 repetitive
  - Cant change the difficulty after clearing the game
  
  
  Although the game is short, it does offer some compelling reasons to go back and play through it 
 again. With your equipment transfering over to your next play through, Dead Space definitely deserves 
 some extra attention. With a sequel already planned for production, you'd be doing yourself a disservice 
 by not playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  Dead Space looks pretty amazing. Characters are super detailed and monster are unsettling and almost 
 scary. The lighting is superb, and backgrounds are incredibly detailed. Animations are also top 
 notch and likely the goriest thing you have ever seen in a game. All contributes to a truly atmospheric 
 experience. It's a shame that there is not much variety in the monsters (around 10 or so) and environments 
 (which are pretty much always inside of a space-craft) but what you have is truly spectacular
 
  
  Sound
  Matching the graphics, the sound effects and purposedly sparse music are just perfect, contributing 
 to a super scary experience
  
  Playability
  The game just feels right. The combat dynamic is perfectly tweaked and it is enjoyable from beginning 
 to end, even after 10 hours of slicing aliens. Which is a good thing because that's pretty much 
 what you will do 85% of the time. The game is a combination of mild exploration (maps are never 
 too big and you have a function indicating where to go next so it's impossible yo get lost) and 
 fetch quests, pulled together by a story which is good even though a bit convoluted. Each monster 
 has its own patterns and weak spots and killing them with different weapons is really satisfying. 
 Few complaints I have are around gameplay variety (the game is enjoyable, but you really do the 
 same thing over and over) and the serious lack of boss fights. There are 2 big bosses in the game 
 (one of which is the final one) and they are great but it's not acceptable that the game tries 
 to sell you bigger enemies as mini bosses all the time. Weapons are great and the strategic dismemberment" 
 really plays a key role and never gets old. The upgrading system adds another strategic layer 
 
  
  Longevity
  It took me 10 hours to finish the game. It is not particularly hard and you will rarely get stuck 
 to a point where you don't want to continue playing. Once you finish it though there is no reason 
 to play it through again, unless you are eager to play the new suit and upgrade your weapons firther
 
  
  
  Overall
  I totally recommend dead space if you are a fan of action and survival horror games. If you can 
 take real gore and rivers of blood and bowels, this is the game for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Let us not waste time and just get straight to it, I have impossible mode to start. . . 
  
  I'll start with the easy stuff. The visuals in this game are amazing even on my crap TV. (I keep 
 saying that but never get a better one) There is no hint of cutesy in this game; it is all grit. 
 It looks and feels like a mining/utility ship. Now because of that there isn't much that indicates 
 where you are on the ship and someone could complain that the levels look the same, but hey its 
 a utility mining ship, not a carnival cruise ship. AND the programmers give you very easy tools 
 to get you around which I felt was a nicely added touch. 
  
  The levels are detailed the creatures (if you aren't flailing away in fear) look great and you 
 will enjoy all the different deaths that are possible. One of the interesting touches of the game 
 which tries despretly (and succeeds) to keep you immersed in the game is that when you are in contact 
 with a creature you have to button mash to get it off, but you are treated to a cutscene like battle 
 between Issac and whatever it is that is on you. The first time it happened i just watched because 
 it was so intense I didn't see the screen saying "hit the A button idiot" I won't spoil anything 
 for anyone who is thinking of buying or renting the game, but there are a few types of this kind 
 of thing and the developers should be given a hats off; brilliant.
  
  Sound is so immersive I was spinning Issac around all the way to the last level. You just never 
 know when the sounds of creatures coming is real because its behind you or just echoing through 
 the vents and you are just being treated to the sounds of somone else's unfortunate demise. If 
 you have surround sound turn the light down and enjoy.
  
  The story is amazingly good. I really encourage folks to view the animated comic series it adds 
 a nice touch and rounds everything out. There are twists in the story nothing that some might see 
 coming, BUT the writers did a great job of putting stuff in to keep it interesting. Anyone who 
 looks at the story should appreciate what the developers did to keep the twist freshly hidden until 
 it was time. In any event for a shooter it is a great story that keeps things moving.
  
  Game play is good and strategic dismemberment is a great thing what can I say. The relative lack 
 of ammo in some places keeps your sense of "OH !@#*" going strong but I never hit a problem spot 
 and you can always buy from the store. There are set save points but the game will not make you 
 go back after you fail a major fight. it seems like it does an autosave right before a big fight 
 so that is nice.
  
  Upgrading gear seemed very sparse to me meaning you probably aren't going to get all of your weapons 
 fully developed without a number of areas suffering for it. so pick and choose according to gameplay.
 
  
  Zero-G areas very cool and provide some of the most opprotunities to ask yourself how the heck 
 did I die? Open areas, big rooms and zero-g are when you head needs to be on a swivel, that sound 
 you hear may be your last.
  
  I don't want to spoil so Boss battles (most of them) EPIC nuff said.
  
  The heads-up display 
 on a NON-HD tv (mine) hard to read, but anyone with a crap TV knows this as most games are hard 
 to read and distinguish different icons, but such is life. It provides a great immersion to the 
 game. Oh you won't be scrolling through your gear during a fight. You can and if you can pull it 
 off great, but for us humans you will most likely be treated to death. I liked that because it 
 adds to the chaos of battle. switching between weapons is easy and reccomended, but going to the 
 menu to find a stasis or a specific health pack, ain't gonna happen.
  
  OK let's wrap it up. Is it as scary as hyped, no. It is a REALLY good survival horror that really 
 has raised the bar on a number of different levels. If you can wait for the price to drop and you 
 like to wait ok, but it was worth every penny I paid for it. (I'm guessing it will retain its price 
 even in used stores)
  
  This game is not to be skipped. Enjoy
  
  Altman be prasied. . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting at least "10 forevers" to play a game like this one. The blood, the gore, the 
 wtf moments... It brings me back to doom 3. Though its no time to reminience, let's see how much 
 Dead Space, has rattled me.
  
  -Story-
  You play as Isaac Clark , a simple engineer who was sent on a team of 3 (inlcuding him but not including 
 the 2 unimportant pilots of the ship that carried them) to a planetcracker called "Ishmura USG". 
 The planetcracker is a mining colony that houses thousands of people, and mines useful minerals 
 from a planet. When messaging the massive behemoth of a ship, the party is met with silence and 
 static. Then they try landing, which didn't go so well and they end up crash landing into the docking 
 area. When further examining the Ishmura's damage, the group is attacked by an unknown being which 
 quickly dispatches the 2 pilots and seperating you from the remaining 2. When further investigated, 
 the team figures out that the monster that attacked them was apart of the Crew. Meaning, if there's 
 one here... Where's the other thousand? With nothing but video commands and audio commands, Isaac 
 is led by the 2 people to try to solve what happened on the Ishmura, and to figure out how will 
 they survive the bloodthirsty torment of the Ishmura's tenants.
  9.5/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  The game uses a Resident Evil 4 approach to moving and aiming (Though of course, poor Isaac has 
 nothing on Leon) . Though shooting for the head doesn't work in this game (Sorry Leon) , dismembering 
 the many critters seem to work alot better. Depending on what difficulty your on, ammo can be scarce, 
 plentiful or just a pain in looking for. So sometimes you rely on swatting at the "Necromorphs" 
 with your fists or just curb stomping their face in. Either way, you must dispatch these things, 
 or they will lead you to an early bodybag on the Ishmura. 
  
  I liked how it was just RE4, made me touch back to my awesome Infinite Rocket Launcher days. The 
 monsters are few in types, but in class, theres variety ( You have the monsters that seem to be 
 kinda normally coloured, but then you get these "Shadow" monsters that are hard hitters and bullet 
 sponges) . Though you figure out strategies to bring down certain foes quickly, and easily, there's 
 always a twist like, Zero gravity, displaced gravity in the floors, critters crawling the vents 
 and the many different weapons that you can utilize for your blood spilling pleasure. 
  
  The boss battles are especially nasty, or painfully easy. Some bosses you must avoid because it 
 won't die. Others you must shoot a part of it tentacle while avoiding anything else going on. Others 
 ... well, you just need patience and common Gamer sense.
  
  Variety, Never dull, and a sense of uneasiness while you stalk your way around the hallways of 
 the massive planetcracker. Even though you have a masssive arsenal of weapons on you, you will 
 find some not useful but a burden to a space in your inventory in which you could hold an extra 
 med pack.
  
  9/10
  
  -Visual-
  Blood Blood Blood Blood Gore Gore Gore Gore WTF WTF WTF WTF is reallly all you see. The enviroment 
 design is very very nice, especially the zero gravity areas where you hop around ,changing the 
 perspective of a room that you are now on the ceiling of. Character design is nice too. Isaac seems 
 to look rugged and short, making think your a miniature Terminator with all the gear on. Other 
 parts of the game are well.... interesting. People banging their heads off the wall, laughing maniacally 
 or chopping their buddies up is enough to make anyone say,"Dude... Wtf!" Monster design is original 
 and very scary. Little babies crawling on the ceilings=Messed up to the highest degree. Doom 3, 
 I loved your counter part.
  10/10
  
  -Audio-
  Ohh, they did a good job to set the right atmosphere for this game. Eerie music, the gargles of 
 zombies standing behind you, vents being broken, machines clicking away. All of this goes on while 
 playing and you know, that this game is gonna freak you out.
  10/10
  
  -Overall-
  The game is solid! Like Isaac's Curb stomp solid. This game makes me want to play it over and over. As 
 I wipe off the blood stains from the thousands of monsters Ive killed with my remote Chainsaw gun, 
 I give this game 8 and a half screaming gamers, out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: famoham
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  When I read about this game coming out I thought hmmmm.... looks ok will keep eye on it.
  
  So I got home after buying it, sent the Mrs out with her friends and sat down in my gaming chair. 
 And from the opening sequence I was hooked! Dead space is everything and more in the horror genre. 
 I was literally kacking myself the whole way through the game.
  
  Its atmosperic, the monsters are varied and pop out at the most unexpected moments... coming out 
 of the walls I tell you!
  
  Whoever said it was a cross between Aliens and Event Horizon have got it spot on! the weapons are 
 awesome too, chopping and maming foes in delectable ways.
  
  The sounds effects are A1 too! All I can say if you havn't got this game and you like horror, get 
 this game, sell your wife if you have to but get it! It is spectacular and an example to all game 
 developers on how to make a badass game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space takes Resident Evil 4's gameplay to space for some satisfying results. This is more 
 horror themed shooter than straight up survival horror, but its mix of great visuals, control, 
 action and atmosphere make it a game well worth playing. The one major flaw is that having culled 
 inspiration from various other games it often feels as though it doesn't have an identity of its 
 own.
  
  The gameplay as previously mentioned is RE4 albeit with some slight enhancements. Aiming is quick 
 and precise, a handy pointer can be brought up to help you to your next objective should you get 
 lost, and mercifully the option to run while moving backwards is now available. Basic close combat 
 abilities such as a curb stomp and punch complement the gunplay and these moves feel both weighty 
 and effective. Isaac also has a half-life gravity gun style function built into his suit and a 
 time slow effect which both prove useful. 
  
  The basic story is simple but stylishly told through audio and text files akin to what would be 
 found in Bioshock. The basic premise is not too far off what might be found in any number of Sci-Fi 
 movies or games like Doom. The majority of the games dialogue takes place here and is voiced quite 
 well.
  
  Enemies are suitably varied and progressively larger and more difficult to kill. The environments 
 are varied but believable. Lighting and shadows do much to convey solid atmosphere, and generally 
 speaking the games presentation is excellent and suitably creepy. 
  
  The areas where Dead Space truly shines though are the zero-gravity, and zero atmosphere sections 
 peppered throughout. These truly help define the game and make it feel different and are entertaining 
 to play. Audio changes to represent being in the void of space, and weightlessly jumping around 
 while fighting enemies can be thrilling. The strategic dismemberment combat system is also satisfying 
 and gruesome throughout the game with some particularly satisfying results in zero gravity situations. 
 
  
  Dead Space does indeed borrow a lot of elements from other games. However, the execution of putting 
 them all together is great and there is enough new content such as zero g, and the strategic dismemberment 
 combat system to keep the game feeling fresh. 
  
  Dead Space is a worthwhile action game for fans of the horror genre or action games in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BudgeSnutski
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  When I read about this game coming out I thought hmmmm.... looks ok will keep eye on it.
  
  So I got home after buying it, sent the Mrs out with her friends and sat down in my gaming chair. 
 And from the opening sequence I was hooked! Dead space is everything and more in the horror genre. 
 I was literally kacking myself the whole way through the game.
  
  Its atmosperic, the monsters are varied and pop out at the most unexpected moments... coming out 
 of the walls I tell you!
  
  Whoever said it was a cross between Aliens and Event Horizon have got it spot on! the weapons are 
 awesome too, chopping and maming foes in delectable ways.
  
  The sounds effects are A1 too! All I can say if you havn't got this game and you like horror, get 
 this game, sell your wife if you have to but get it! It is spectacular and an example to all game 
 developers on how to make a badass game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disciple_slave
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game had me on the edge of my seat (literally) the whole 11 hours I played it. At 
 first the enemies came in one by one and the ammo drop rate was great. I was like... this game will 
 be a sinch. Then, around chapter 8, all of that goes down the drain. Ammo is hard to come across 
 and the credits weren't coming in fast enough. The challenge it created was unbelievable, but I 
 overcame my temptations to use cheats until after I finished off The Hive. 
  
  Storyline: A great story about a ship being taken over by necromorphs (misspell I know) . The sub 
 plot is you wanting to find your wife on the ship as well. There are some twists and turns and 
 a great voice over by the cast. Everytime I turned on the game, (So I could learn how to breathe 
 again) , I forgot that this is a videogame.
  
  Sound: Man oh Man, if you don't have surround sound while playing this game, it would be both a 
 blessing and a crime. The enemies are constantly running around, beside, behind, and above you, 
 and the effects are flawless. Whenever you are in a vacuum, the sounds seem distant and echo (y) , 
 which, I know I haven't ever been in space, but would seem like it is how it would sound. If you 
 listen closely throughout the game, you can hear a woman singing Twinkle Twinkle Little Star far 
 away. I don't know about you, but that is the creepiest song to me now. 
  
  Tilt: After you beat the game, the credits roll. That's it. No secret message, now ending scene, 
 nothing. What ever happen to those. It's like no one is doing that anymore. That was the only reason 
 to sit through the 5 minutes of credits. Anyways, after the credits, it will ask you if you want 
 to save. I recommend saving in a different slot so you can go back to the last boss quickly in 
 the other slots. You get to keep all your previous gear and play again, but it restricts you to 
 the same difficulty level. Bummer I know, but they wanted to make it harder for you to grab the 
 achievement of beating it on the hardest level. It is very satifying running through it again with 
 all your gear and slaughtering those monsters.
  
  Conclusion: This game is a must have if you are into horror survival. I'm not much for EA, but 
 they have really made me happy on this game. Good Job guys and gals, you should only put a game 
 out if its up to Deadspace's par. 
  
  Justin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  With F. E. A. R. coming into the market with its horror aspects, their was some doubt if shooting 
 and scares would mix, and well, it extremely well. Now EA, are attempting to bring the two genres 
 together, with their new game Dead Space, continuing their promise of creating new and original 
 IP's, does this game add to their fresh slate? The answer is yes.
  
  The plot focuses on a Mining Engineer, a Space Mining Engineer, Isaac Clarke, after getting a distress 
 call from the Planet Cracker USG Ishimura. Planet Crackers literally crack open planets allowing 
 the crew to extract resources. The main objective for Isaac's crew is to pull out the crew of the 
 Ishimura, and Isaac has personal reasons, as he's trying to find his lover, but after crash landing 
 into the Planet Cracker, they find that they are not alone.
  Necromorphs have infested the Ishimura, they seem like aliens, but there is much more than that. 
 During the campaign, you will discover alot of questions, a small hint that a sequel is on the 
 way?
  
  The studio has introduced some innovative things, the first being "Strategic Dismemberment", instead 
 of shooting the head you have to cut off the Necromorphs limbs, many times I have shot off their 
 heads only to have them get back up and attacking behind my back. The second neat feature is there 
 is no HUD at all, the health bar is the green pipe along Isaac's back, and your enegery bar is 
 right beside it. Ammo count is displayed on the weapon, and things like your inventory and video 
 logs are displayed in realtime like a hologram, this is very useful so you savor the stunning graphics, 
 and also pinpoint items/enemies and useful devices. The 3rd tidbit is the navigation system, you 
 basically click the right stick and a line will appear on the ground pointing you to your destination, 
 this may seem very cheap, but it's very useful considering there are some backtracking.
  The game generally borrows from Metroid, you start out with the bsaic equipment, and as you progress 
 you gain new items/weapons and even suits, this mechanic is very refreshing, as so many other games 
 especially the big name ones (COD, Halo, Gears) are so linear.
  
  Graphics are absolutely stunning, textures are sharp, contrast/brightness ratio is excellent, and 
 animations for both Isaac and the Necromorhs are very lifelike, the only complaint I have is there 
 are black bars on Standard Def TVs.
  
  Sound is the treasure here, with freaky crescendos accompanying every enemy encounter, you'll be 
 sitting on the edge of your seat. Voice overs are excellent, you can feel the desperation from 
 the characters, but since Isaac has personal reasons, you'd expect him to say something, unfortunately 
 he's the only character to not speak at all. The audio creates such a good ambiance, even though 
 you have cleared the area of enemies, you'll still be hearing little noises such as bumps and scratches 
 continuously, to keep you reactive during the course of the game.
  
  Overall Dead Space is a great reminder to what this generation of gaming has lacked, a good Single 
 Player experience, with Metroid style gameplay, it makes you feel like you're progressing, getting 
 somewhere, also it includes some neat features such as the Strategic Dismemberment, having No HUD, 
 and the Navigation System. EA approximately stated one year ago that they will be focusing on original 
 IPs and with the release of Mirror's Edge, their reputation is growing towards a good direction.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyC
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been a gamer since I was 6 years old and there have been a lot of games that have attempted 
 to make me jump and keep me on the edge of my seat, but, up until now, they have all been unsuccessful. 
 There have been a few games that have made me jump here and there in the 20 years i have been playing 
 but none of them have affected me in the manner that this game has. The setting is space and that 
 leaves room for imagination and the developers have proven that they have plenty of it. The game 
 pokes fun at the horror genre from the start by making other games of its kind look like child's 
 play. It steals the right ingredients from what used to be my favorite horror games and blends 
 them into one gratifying experience while adding their own terrifying flavor into the mix to make 
 what has quickly become my favorite survival-horror game as well as one of my favorite games of 
 all time. The game plays like a game one would expect the offspring of Resident Evil 4 and Bioshock 
 to produce... except better. There have been very few games to make me want to play through a second 
 time immediately after beating it and Dead Space happens to be one of them. This game just rocks 
 from start to finish and if you haven't played it, get out from whatever rock you have been hiding 
 under and give it a try, and, please, let there be a sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  There are truly no words to describe the level of innovation in EA's terrifying new horror shooter, 
 Dead Space.
  
  If you've already seen the DVD Dead Space: Downfall, you know what the story is. If you haven't:
 
  
  Dead Space is set in the distant future, in which Earth has exhausted all of its resources. To 
 solve this problem, scientists developed "planet-cracking" - a method of mining resources from 
 other planets and shipping them back to Earth. The largest planet-cracker in its class - the USG 
 Ishimura - has gone completely dark - communications have ceased outright. You play Isaac Clarke, 
 an engineer. You are part of a team of engineers sent to investigate the Ishimura's communication 
 blackout and, if possible, repair the communications array. But what you don't know is that the 
 crew of the Ishimura discovered a bizarre alien artifact - known as the Marker - while planet-cracking, 
 and the ship's entire crew have been horrifyingly disfigured and shaped into hideous alien monstrosities.
 
  
  On the Ishimura, things have gotten sloppy. And it's time for you to make them a little sloppier! 
 You gain access to a diverse arsenal of weapons with which to decimate the Necromorphs, and you 
 can use Kenesis to manipulate large objects and get out of sticky situations. Also, there are segments 
 of the game in which you navigate zero-gravity environments and can jump from wall to wall with 
 the push of a button. WARNING: zero-grav may induce motion sickness.
  
  The Necromorphs are some seriously ugly amigos - they look like they were ripped straight form 
 John Carpenter's The Thing. There are many different types, including the Brute, a huge gorilla-like 
 creature, and Infectors - terrifying jellyfish-things that try to have your face for lunch. The 
 game contains an innovative gimmick known as Strategic Dismemberment: the Necromorphs will not 
 die if you simply shoot the crap out of them - you have to dismember their limbs to kill them. 
 Yes, that's right - in order to put down these uglies permanently, you'll have to shoot off arms, 
 legs, even heads, because shooting them in the body simply won't do it.
  
  On a darker subject, the game's gore is... erm... simply put, over the top. In addition to eviscerating 
 the Necromorphs ten times worse than they were before, there are a lot of ways for Isaac to die 
 horribly, including being sliced in half, eaten, incinerated, and even having your body taken over 
 by a dismembered alien head. Don't believe me? You will.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is that the game's graphics are UNBELIEVABLE. No game has been this 
 face-melting since Mass Effect. Character models are very high-quality - the few humans you encounter 
 look very realistic and believable, and the necromorphs are possibly the most terrifying thing 
 in a video game ever. The particle effects are awesome, and the environments - including space 
 - are just plain gorgeous.
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a terrifyingly spectacular shoot-'em-up that should not be missed. If you're 
 a fan of any kind of horror game, buy Dead Space wihout a second thought.
  
  Truescore: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Fu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space starts off as you and your crew answer a distress call from a Mining Deep Space vessel 
 know as the Ishimura. What your crew suspects is a routine fix er up assignment that turns into 
 something much more horrifying. Whats worse is your protaganists girlfreind was on board and its 
 time to find her admist the horror and chaos.
  
  Once aboard the vessel you will truely be sucked into the feeling of being on a big space ship 
 all alone. The scares can sometimes get you but Dead Space often rely's on jumpy tactics that you 
 often see coming, although sometimes you may just jump anyways. 
  
  While the Ishimura is a very large vessle you sometimes feel that it is much smaller than it leads 
 to be due to the simple run here and get that mission objectives that require a lot of back tracking. 
 Fortunatly to compensate for the stale mission objectives is a deep and involving storyline that 
 is original and thought out.
  
  As you play Dead Space your hero is not a solider but a miner, you will upgrade makeshift equipment 
 for weapons as well as upgrade your suit. You will never be able to fully upgrade in one playthrough 
 so choose wisely and expect some replay value here if you like smashing your enemies into the ground. 
 There will be lots of loot to find but the Necromorphs are vicious so dont expect to bank too many 
 items away.
  
  Combat has a familar look and feel to it, you will notice RE4 was a big inspiration, this is not 
 a bad thing however. Your undead enemies will need to be dismembered in order to be taken down 
 for good. This keeps combat fresh, and with the respectable amount of diffrent enemies you face 
 and accompynied by big boss battles, any action gamer will feel right at home. On the flip side 
 in zero gravity areas, the game dosent feel so fleshed out in terms of control and combat. This 
 can be frustrating due to a poor camera and clunky maneuvering. All toher mechanics however control 
 like a dream and EA should be comended.
  
  The graphics are great in Dead Space, while a lot of textures can appear washed out at times you 
 will appreciate the smooth frame rate and wide open areas that dont get repetitive. Every area 
 on the ship feels and plays diffirent. This helps you feel like your in a big space ship despite 
 the run around. Character models look sharp as well on both Isaac (your silent protaganist) and 
 the enemies. Shadows on the other hand looks like they took a big hit for performance purposes. 
 Perhaps Dead Space 2 will master the game engine. One cool feature of note is that the HUD is completely 
 holographic and keeps you immersed and always on guard. I thought this was a cool feature and other 
 games could learn from it.
  
  The music and score in Dead Space hits the mark. Spooky, atmospheric but not afraid to get you 
 pumped when needed. Sound effects are a bit on the heard that before side, but have big impact 
 and are mastered done very well. Voice acting is also top notch and helps you get into the story.
 
  
  Dead Space is a strong first step to a winning franchise. While the overall package lacks some 
 replay value and its not quite as tight as is it could be; you will enjoy Dead Space for what is, 
 as an action game or a horror game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reepeet
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Doom 3. I thought it was the bee's knee's and in the years that have passed since 
 its release, I have been anticipating a game that brought that same level of fear and enjoyment 
 at the same time. Well the wait is over.
  
  Initially i was concerned with the idea of yet ANOTHER scenario of lost in space, alone, tons of 
 aliens, blah blah blah. But when I saw the first pictures of Dead Space, let alone videos, I was 
 sold.
  
  The action is quick and merciless. Like a fool, I played the game on Hard for the first time. And 
 believe me it was. But, I was never bored, I never spent more than an hour on one chapter, and 
 it was most importantly fun. The first time I popped it in I couldn't believe how incredible the 
 graphics were. Like really incredible. Movie incredible. The sound effects as well are top notch 
 and the sounds of squishing and screaming and other horrific sounds are masterfully incorporated. 
 The enemies are mildly intelligent, however it is the dismembering aspect that is the real innovation 
 in this game. In Doom you're so scared that you try to disperse whatever is attacking you as quick 
 as possible, usually aiming for any body part. However, for Dead Space that same feeling is there 
 but you can't just go for the body or the head. You have to strategically dismember your foes to 
 survive. So while in a state of shock you have to take out maybe 6 enemies at a time, using Stasis 
 (a talent that allows you to slow down enemies or fast moving objects) definitely helps, but you 
 have to think and act quick, while simultaneously being a crack shot. Sounds easy right?
  
  Overall the game is definitely worth a play, for 3 reasons. A great use of a HUD (its integrated 
 into your suit, even the map is a hologram that comes FROM the suit, so you never feel like you're 
 IN a game) , REALLY scary moments (jump or exclaim worthy) , and of course fantastic settings and 
 music. This game is a great work of art. Be sure not to miss it. Or an attacking necromorph for 
 that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xCrysis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  So I went out last week, and bought this game. Within an hour of playing, I was amazed. Everything 
 about this game came together perfectly. The graphics are astonishing. Some of the best I've seen. 
 I haven't encountered and glitches, or any flaws worth noticing.
  
  The only complaint I have with this game, is story length. I beat the story in about three days, 
 and clocked in about eight hours in all. That was only on the medium difficulty; I soon changed 
 it to the newly unlocked "Impossible" difficulty, and it sure does earn it's title. It's rather 
 challenging.
  
  This games atmosphere is very haunting, with enemies coming at you from every corner. The combat 
 is the usual third person shooting, but with a twist. Shooting the preferred areas, such as the 
 head, won't earn you all that much damage. To kill the xexnomorphs, you need to completely dis-limb 
 them.
  
  This game may not last long on one play through, but has much depth through many. This game is 
 definitely worth some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  you play as issac clark, a mechanic sent off to a planetcracker class ship where they have a suspected 
 "communications" fault. which is sort of true, since every there cant talk..... because they're 
 all dead... sort of.
  anyway, as usual its up to you to save humanity, your dream girl etc etc etc... you get the jist.
 
  
  Graphics:
  even though the game is set on a boring, grey-hull starship the graphics are amazing and the particle 
 effects are astounding. the first time you gaze out from a blown out corridor into space its like 
 a smack to the gob how good the visuals look.
  
  Gameplay:
  the strategic dismemberment mechanic is vital in the first half of the game since you dont get 
 much ammo and you dont have very good weapons so one-hit kills are rare so you have to cut the 
 enemies up to keep them on the floor. 
  the guns are pretty unique and fit with the universe very well (like i dont think a sniper-rifle 
 or shotgun would be standard issue to engineers) and feel like they do enough damage.
  the absense of a HUD hightens the feeling of immersion, which makes you even more brown trousered 
 when you get you first scare from a possum slasher.
  my only niggle is the turret sections, its really awkward to aim but its still do-able.
  
  
 Multiplayer:
  there is none
  
  Overall:
  a good buy but more of an extended rent as with all singleplayer games, there isnt much replayability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czapata
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is one hell of a masterpiece, its got the action, the story, some-what of horror, and 
 smooth controls. In this game you play as an engineer named Issac who is going along to not only 
 to fix a ship called Ishimura, but to find a loved one that was stationed on there. Accompanying 
 you on this mission are Hammond and Kendra. Once you crash land on the ship (thanks to those damn 
 asteroids) , you check the damage reports on the Ishimura. Then the horror begins, as you have to 
 make your way through the ship doing certain objectives you come across human infected aliens. 
 
  You can go to stationary stores to buy supplies, ammo, or even guns to help you kill tougher enemies. 
 As you progress through the game, you encounter these items called power nodes, these are for your 
 weapons to upgrade. To upgrade a weapon of choice, there are benches that allow you to make your 
 weapon stronger, hold more ammo, and better reload speed. Here's the trick, to kill the aliens, 
 you have to dismember them, either shoot them in the head, arms, or legs, that's the way to put 
 an end to them. I'm not going to talk about Kendra or Hammond because then I would probably spoil 
 something and then I would get hateful messages.
  For those who think that this game is scary, it makes you jump in certain parts (unless you get 
 scared that easily lol) but overall it's just an action game with a good story and just makes you 
 want to keep playing. For those who are either too scared or think because it's all horror it isn't 
 going to have a good story, take my word for it, it's neither of those, if this review does not 
 persuade you then at least rent it to get a taste of this wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrispwns
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a game i wasnt sure about buying when i was tempted about buying it yet i did and i was 
 so satisfied that i did buy it. The game has fantastic graphics, story, atmosphere and the best and 
 i mean best sound of all time. you hear every single solitary detail in this game your breathing, 
 your heartbeat, and much much more. Dont think this game will be an average sci-fi third person 
 shooter thats not even scary because that is exactly what i thought and WOW was i wrong. This is 
 game is almost as scary as fatal frame and i think just as scary as the condemned games. Every 
 person gets that feeling where you dont know whats near you but you know it ts there and you think 
 to yourself OH CRAP!! and you move forward only to get the living crap scared out of you. those 
 who love sci-fi games and loved to get scared then go buy this wonderful piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible game that mixes suspense with action which builds upon you as you go through 
 it. That makes things freaken scary because you never know where the creatures are and when they 
 come at you not too mention that their incredibly hard to kill. There's another thing that makes 
 this game even better the fact that you can use kenesis on objects and use stasis to slow down 
 moving objects that's a nice touch. It's also cool that you can strengthen your weapons on workbenches 
 and that you can buy different weapons and more supplies at the stores.
  
  But the the coolest thing by far is that you you get to jump and float along to different spots 
 in the ship in zero gravity that adds a unique flare to this game strengthening its core making 
 it that much more enjoyable to play. The only thing i didn't like about this game is the air vacums 
 because you only have a limited amount of time before you run out of breath and die and that can 
 make getting out of them very difficult, but it does make the game that more challenging. All in 
 all EA has finally made a extremely well done game even though in the past they weren't doing so 
 well, but now with this title it surely has breathed new life into them and has saved them from 
 total doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: givenope
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a little underrated in my opinion. It's not very scary, but more intense and very 
 much varied. You can build up your weapon and suit - even after you completed the single-player 
 campaign. The graphic is stunning, the audio also very good and the mood is very convincing. I've 
 just played it through twice and I'm still not tired of it. Of course there are minor things here 
 and there in the game that could be improved, eg. liked the close combat scenes which are a little 
 akward and the pointsystem which makes it take a long time to build up a strong character.
  
  But the story is very thrilling and you feel like you are part of a movie like Alien where 
 you never know what to expect next. 
  
  I still think it's one a the best action games yet on the Xbox 360 and I don't agree with the rather 
 low rating I've seen around. It deserves more! If you loved Half-Life you can't miss this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS2-Seano
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  WARNING: IF YOU ARE OF A NERVOUS DISPOSITION OR HAVE A HISTORY OF SHOCK INDUCED HEART ATTACKS DO 
 NOT PLAY THIS GAME.
  
  This game is visually stunnig and the use of light and dark is used to perfection to create an 
 atmosphere that is simply terrifying. The story line is pretty great but you can miss details that 
 make somethings become unclear and confusing but all becomes clear. The game play is really cool 
 with live menus witch dont take you away from the game, but you can pause it if you need a break 
 or to turn the light back on and give the room a qiuck check (just in case) . The in game live menus 
 also featue on your weapons by displaying your ammo right next to them. Bour health bar and other 
 gauges are also not shown in a traditional HUD your health bar is a green bar of light that runs 
 down your spine on your suit wich is know as your RIG.
  
  More soon........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsanto1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  In a nut shell, Dead Space is a great game. The only problem with it is that it could have been 
 amazing.
  
  Dead Space is a horror shooter set in space. As a horror game, it doesn't bring much to the table 
 - it is certainly unnerving and ominous, but doesn't give you the terrified feeling you would expect 
 from such a game. In the first few minutes of the game you see a shipmate die, learn about the 
 creatures that roam the ship, and experience a few startling moments. From there on it turns into 
 repetitive surprises that become all too predictable.
  
  As a game set in space, Dead Space also doesn't add much to the scene: Rooms in a vacuum, limited 
 air supply, dark bulkheads and corridors, and maneuvering through the standard sections of any 
 spaceship.
  
  Where Dead Space shines brightest is in the shooter aspect of the game. The HUD is very unique 
 and I found myself surprised at how much I liked the interface. Ammo indicators, dialogue cutscenes, 
 health bars, and air supply are all located on the character itself, which means you never have 
 to cut away from the action in order to talk to a shipmate, learn about the next objective, or 
 do a status check on yourself. I also like the damage system - to kill the creatures on the ship 
 it is best to remove the limbs. This is counter-intuitive but works well, and gives you a break 
 from the normal go-for-the-head mentality.
  
  Dead Spaces' art and visual design is also superb. If you ever stand still long enough to take 
 in the scenery, you'll be amazed at the images - huge galactic backdrops make you feel like you're 
 actually on a ship orbiting a planet. The lighting and shading are also spot on, and give Dead 
 Space a very believe depth to the surroundings.
  
  The wrap up - Dead Space is worth playing, and its shortcomings are easy to overlook. It has just 
 enough new material to make you want to keep going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This is a must have game if you like adventure games, horror games and shooter games. This game 
 had one flaw in it, repetitive mission objectives, you basically just do the same thing over and 
 over again in the game, stop this object, shoot this one, stop this one again, retreive this object. 
 But that doesn't ruin the fun game and the gore.
  
  This game is different than other horror/survival games, you don't shoot them in the head, you 
 shoot them in the limbs so that they don't walk and you can kill them easier that way.
  
  They did an excellent job on the over the shoulder camera and how they put your hud on your character 
 so you have more room to look around and get freaked out alot more :-) .
  
  The gore in this game is just awesome, lots of blood splattered on walls and smeared on the floors, 
 not the mention the dismembering of the limbs and heads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielsoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  The game starts very quickly (which is a very good thing) .
  although a lot of the game elements are familiar, like the:
  weapon swing (Dark Sector)
  Object 
 holder (Half Life)
  Navigation system (Army Of Two)
  and more...
  
  The game itself has a feel of something new and exciting.
  The moment I started playing, the 
 game started at a perfect pace.
  The interface is one of the best I have ever seen and to my opinion will be the envy of most game 
 designers.
  
  The Game is not as scary as everybody warned me it would be, but it still has it's moments.
  
 
  the good:
  1. Atmosphere 10/10
  2. Graphics 10/10
  3. Sound 10/10
  4. Game play 09/10
  
  The Bad:
  If you'll find it, please let me know.
  
  The games I 
 enjoyed: (for reference)
  Gears of war
  Max Payne
  God Of War
  Fallout 1,2,3
  Call Of Duty
  Oblivion
  well you get the idea...
  
  Dead Space is a game you should buy 
 and experience alone, at least for first 3 hours.
  "One of the best games of the year"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I've kept my eyes open for this game since it was first announced. As a part-time survival horror 
 nut (I say part time because I really only enjoy the Resident Evil games) I was keenly interested 
 in this games setting, a vastly abandoned space ship infested with assortment of creepy aliens. 
 Awesome.
  
  The opening sequence goes to great lengths to re-create that epic horror movie feel. You play as 
 Issac Clarke, a run of the mill engineer who is part of a rescue team sent to answer the distress 
 call of a planet cracking vessel. The game introduces you to your commander (a Lawrence Fishborne 
 wanna-be) and some female character type, who reminds me somewhat of a tom-boy gone wrong. I'm 
 skipping over these two partly because I find their presence annoying. 
  Anyway, the three of you plus others make a crash landing into the very ship your meant to be saving. 
 Upon arrival you encounter the ships new native aliens and thus, bloodshed ensues. It is a typical 
 horror plot, largely borrowed from other sources, but hey, stealing ideas is sort of what the gaming, 
 and to a larger extend, and movie business is all about. 
  
  As you continue past the first level, which introduces you to your two 'friends' and the nasty 
 aliens you have to dismember to keep alive, you'll be given logical tasks in order to advance through 
 the game's narrative. For example, you need to put out a new distress call, but, somethings wrong 
 with the communication. Off you go to fix that little problem, and so on. It is a neat little feeling, 
 completing these tasks, because you actually feel like your doing something of importance. Even 
 though at its core, Dead Space is really a "go there and do that!' kinda game with no room for 
 improvisation in the missions.
  
  Combat is fun. You spend your time using plasma cutters, blade rippers, flamethrowers to kill, 
 squash and dismember your alien enemies. Shortly after your first encounter with this beasts, you'll 
 learn that simply pumping them full of your ammo isn't the quickest way to kill them, yet by same 
 slicing off an advancing foes leg, then breaking open its skull with your foot while it drags itself 
 towards you proves to be the quickest and effective way. Enemies come in a variety of styles, which 
 later on come in a more meaner nastier form. The scariest I'd say for my money would be the creatures 
 that are suffering from server speed overdoses. 
  
  The look and sound of the game is absolutely amazing. There is a lot of effort put into it to make 
 you feel alone on this epic ship. A lot of low lighting and flashing broken globes isn't anything 
 new, but when played in a darkened room, heightens the experience just a little. Tension is a key 
 player in this game, and most of it comes from the sound. As you play with a 'over the shoulder' 
 camera, every noise you hear will cause you spin around and investigate. You'll know when an enemy 
 is near when you hear the scattering and clawing at metal as they run around in the shadows and 
 air vents. 
  
  Possibly the best feature of this game is the lack of a HUD display. Everything is displayed via 
 Issac's uniform. From his health, to his ammo. Even the inventory screen is integrated as part 
 of the game, never pausing from the action of the game. 
  
  Dead Space is a refreshing change of pace from EA. Even though it doesn't really do anything new 
 or groundbreaking, the idea and an execution of the game is well done. As it stands, it is possibly 
 the best current generation survival horror game on the market, that is until Resident Evil 5 is 
 unleashed next March. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbailey184
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I'm happy to say that I rented instead of purchasing this game. It was a close call, after reading 
 the scores and reviews about how good this title was. I'm wondering now, having played through 
 the first several chapters, what critics are seeing that I'm not.
  
  I was originally keyed into this game because I'm a big fan of well made horror games. The last 
 one to give me genuine creeps was FEAR on the pc, and I'm alway looking for the next one. After 
 reading all the reviews, I thought for sure this would be it, but it turns out something just isn't 
 right.
  
  After playing through the first several chapters, I have to wonder what I'm not seeing that everyone 
 else was. What you have here is another space game with some ugly, gorey monsters set in a dark 
 ship. Fine, but where's the fear factor?
  
  It's the same place it was in Doom 3, in cheap attacks. Once you know that you're not really in 
 danger at any given moment, but rather at key points where the game is going to try to cherry-pick 
 you, all the fear drains away. In Doom it was walls with hollows that opened, in Dead Space it's 
 windows and vents. Big whoop. Plus, the monsters tend to move relatively slow, which I assume was 
 done to give you a better chance to hit their limbs. Necessary, but fear killing.
  
  What does the game do well? The way the hud is built into the game is really cool, with health 
 on your back and vids playing in front of your character. Visuals are nice as well, if nothing 
 really special about design.
  
  Overall, I played just enough to make it feel like the rental cost wasn't a waste, and then went 
 right back to better titles I own. Do yourself a favor, and try it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a single player action/adventure game from Electronic Arts. It is set in a space 
 ship that has gone adrift near a planet on a recent "Mining Operation." The story is immersive 
 and unique, and along with beautifully grusome and stunning visuals, is shockingly believable.
 
  Dead Space carries a rather unique atmosphere. Being alone in a space station filled with zombie-like 
 ex-crewmembers who are trying to rip the player apart limb from limb.
  Ironically, the limb dismemberment aspect of Dead Space is an important part of advancing in the 
 game. Dismembering an enemy causes more damage then simply shooting them. So the player will shoot 
 off limb after limb, until the enemy is no longer a threat. It is brutal, and extremely satisfying.
 
  The music in Dead Space is a major part of the scary and fearful atmosphere, enemies will be introduced 
 along with a musical score that in itself will make the player feel a chill crawl down thier spine. 
 
  And the best part of the audio, at least for this reviewer, was the atmospheric sounds. The space 
 station will creak, and bend, and crack, and every little sound speaks wonders to the illusion 
 of fighting way through an abandoned space ship. 
  The story in Dead Space is simply amazing. It includes, love, death, a plot twist, and a shared 
 enemy. Grade A entertainment. 
  In summary, Dead Spaces delivers a unique experience that, in this reviewers opinion, should be 
 experienced by every X360 Owner. Prepare to lose sleep over this game, but it is well worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleD-luxe_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought this game would be as god-awful as watching an Uwe Boll movie. But when I actually 
 came around to the second level, I finally felt the tension of a possibly bad game distinguish 
 off of my shoulders as I began to really enjoy it. This is, in my opinion, almost as scary as the 
 original 3 Resident Evil's were back in the golden age of 2-d gaming... lmao : (
  .... pardon the frowny face, but I just didn't know what else to add there except for a Homosexually 
 grotesq smiley face, and that wouldn't cut it. Anyway, this game is pretty good, if not great. 
 It is a weird, sociopathic mixture of Resident Evil, BioShock, and Gears of War put together. Most 
 people with scoff at the "disgrace" but I gladly employ it.... with happiness.
  I actually give it a 8.4 out of 10, but none the less, an absolutely stellar game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Solid graphics, creepy audio, and gruesome combat make Dead Space a title no action fan can afford 
 to miss.
  
  Right from the beginning, you know the precise mood this game is setting. The eerie sounds in the 
 credits, followed by a semi-ominous message to the player set the mood before you even encounter 
 your first enemy. Any fan of Prey or the Condemned series will be in for a treat.
  
  The game essentially plays like a sci-fi dungeon crawler. The player navigates his way through 
 a giant mining vessel, battling alien mutants in some brutally satisfying combat.
  
  Visually this game is nothing short of awesome. You may not find the best graphics you've ever 
 seen, but the environments and texture designs are top-notch.
  
  The sound in this game also has great quality. The voice acting is standard for this gen, but the 
 music and sound effects do a great job at getting the theme of the game into the player's mind.
 
  
  This game has no traditional HUD, instead showing instructions via holograms projected on the screen 
 (more importantly, they occur in real time) . It may not do a whole lot by itself, but the mood 
 of this game is never lost. I didn't personally find it scary; I never jumped out of my seat or 
 even felt panicked, but this game is guaranteed to at least keep you on your toes throughout your 
 session. The character takes up a good amount of the screen, but with controls that really make 
 the player forget about his controller, this never gets in your way during combat. The only real 
 problem though is that because this game is third-person, the sense of depth isn't that great, 
 and it can sometimes make combat a little frustrating.
  
  That was really all filler though. The point I'm trying to convey with this interview is, Dead 
 Space rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denomaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Dead Space was characterized to be "Rapture Of Space" in lots of sites. I agree. Even though it 
 is a bit more creepier and made me jump more times than Bioshock did, I think it is a classic even 
 by the first game. Bring on Dead Space 2!
  G R A P H I C S : 9/10
  Amazing visuals and the blood is so realistic and the gore is so much, it is as if the screen was 
 bleeding. Here I have to include the amazing atmosphere which the perfect sound made happen, and 
 the Necromorphs' models , especially when they made me jump, well let's say i was in a code brown 
 situation... Isaac is a perfect model, and the setting is just jaw-dropping... Gorgeous Space more 
 like it...
  G A M E P L A Y : 8.5/10
  First lets start with the guns. Plasma Cutter is our standard gun, and a valuable one, since once 
 upgraded it helps alot. Then i would go with the Pulse Rifle. The shooting and aiming is pretty 
 good, but a bit repetitive after time and the combat feels a bit more dull after Chapter 6-7... 
 Even the variety of guns don't help this but still I LOVE the boss fights, which give most of the 
 points in this amazing game. But in the game it is as if you are the delivery boy of Kendra and 
 Hammond, and there is no real special and unique objective. Go there, do this, fight these same 
 necromorphs, go to same setting as before, reduce excitement...
  L I F E S P A N: 8/10
  Chapters keep getting longer, and it's amazing how the story goes, but if the campaign was a bit 
 more longer then I would be a happy man... No multiplayer or anything else gives this section an 
 8.
  
  Conclusion:
  Dead Space is the horror game of the year, beating Silent Hill Homecoming and the atmosphere is 
 like a movie, (Dead Space movie anyone?) But if only the missions had a variety and the campaign 
 was less confusing, then this would be the best game ever. These flaws can cost a game... Dead 
 Space 2 can make it up...
  
  More details...
  + Boss Fights. SHAMONA!
  + Isaac's suit, makes Master Chief look like a tramp
  - The ending "OMGWTFBBQ"
  - Isaac should 
 open a post office since he likes delivering things in the missions.
  - The Force Gun (sigh)
  
  Final Score: 9.0/10
  
  Must Buy / Buy , Rent, Avoid / Definitely 
 Avoid : Rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajanicek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Right from the beginning, this game is a nail biter. I always was nervous to turn a corner, wary 
 of what messed up creature was there to try to insert its tendrils into my neck hole. The disturbing, 
 smooth visuals, solid controls, awesome and varied sound effects including a wicked orchestral, 
 space symphony score make this game add up to be one of my favorite survival horror shooters to 
 date.
  A pet peeve of mine however is that Issac is unable to jump unless he's in zero G. Not even just 
 a little leap to get out of the way of a rampaging necro while I run out of ammo. Perhaps this 
 is because he is wearing magnetic boots so he can stick to surfaces while in zero G. but shouldn't 
 the magnetics shut off when hes inside?
  It seems like Issac is unable to make a decision for himself. Sometimes I felt like I was just 
 a marionette puppet acting at the whim of people barking orders at me through my com. system.
 
  I managed to break the game only once. Just after calling an elevator to come pick me up, I stepped 
 away from the door before it opened, and the elevator never came. I was unable to go anywhere because 
 all the other doors in the room were stuck on standby mode, and had to reload. This happened only 
 once during my 15 hours of play.
  In my opinion, the very end of the ending sequence is a little hokey and unnecessary. I guess they 
 felt it was on par with the horror theme of the game.
  With those minor gripes out of the way, the game overall is very satisfying. Boss battles are challenging, 
 but not punishing in the normal difficulty setting. Powering up the weapons, and armor is a neat 
 system, and a sort of mini-game unto itself. There are different paths you can use spending your 
 power nodes and I believe some paths are more efficient then others. There is a true sense of ass-kicking-nes 
 as you progress. Granted, if you play through using the Elite suit available as a free download, 
 (It was free when the game was first released) it takes away a bit of the challenge with respect 
 to inventory management. (The Elite suit opens all available inventory slots and also provides 
 a bit more protection) . The game has good physics. The bodies feel heavy when you use kinetics 
 on them, and throw them, but I don't understand why you are able to kick lazy boy sofa chairs around 
 like they are the Chinese food cartons from Half-Life 2. The achievements are rewarding to get, 
 but not impossible like some games I've played. Its not too difficult to get well over half of 
 the points just by playing through the game once. The achievements are not tied to multi player 
 mode because there is no multi player.
  This game is well worth picking up. I look forward to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The survival horror genre has had its fair share of successes in the recent years. From Bioshock 
 and F. E. A. R. to Resident Evil, each game creates the unique aspect of horror in their own way, 
 Dead Space is no exception.
  
  From the first entry into Dead Space, there is something clearly unique about it. Whether is the 
 engrossing storyline, the twisted images, or the innovative combat system, Dead Space will leave 
 a lasting impression on those who dare.
  
  When the Concordance Extraction Corporation loses radio contact with its mining ship the USG Ishimura, 
 engineer Isaac Clarke is dispatched on a mission to repair the communications array. Clarke has 
 a mission of his own to deal with, having recently received a cryptic message from a medical officer 
 serving on board. Upon arrival however, something appears to have gone horribly wrong on the Ishimura.
 
  
  Almost immediately, Isaac is separated from the team, by hideously disfigured monsters that were 
 the former Ishimura crew. These living dead, named Necromorphs require special tactics to put down. 
 The standard face removal has been thrown aside; only by destroying their limbs can they be put 
 to rest. This unique way of exterminating foes puts a new twist on how to dispatch enemies. 
  
  Along with the normal mutated humanoid crew, horribly disfigured fetus' make appearances, as 
 well as other more heavily armored foes. At several key points in the story, truly terrifying boss 
 monsters come in play, and these become some of the most epic boss encounters in recent memory.
 
  
  One of the first things noticeable in Dead Space is the lack of a conventional Heads-Up-Display. 
 Instead, vital information like health, stasis (which allows you to use special suit powers) and 
 ammunition are presented on Isaac's back and weapons respectively. The games RPG element allows 
 players to upgrade their armor, weapons and purchase ammunition and support packs. Maps and equipment 
 information can be selected real time by hitting the "Back" button. These simple systems keeps 
 players intact with the hectic world, and preserve the horror experience intended. 
  
  The ultimate goal is to escape the Ishimura, preferably with Nicole; but to get there a series 
 of tasks must be completed. Guided remotely, or by person players are sent to repair certain objectives, 
 refuel the engines, of course purge the heinous necromorphs, etc. The narrative is very-well presented, 
 both by ally communication and by audio/text/video logs, similar to those present in Bioshock. 
 Often enough, players will emerge into zero gravity and oxygen-less zones that force a change in 
 tactics. Learning what monstrosities and atrocities have occurred on the Ishimura will easily keep 
 players engrossed.
  
  What really rounds of the experience is the superb audio design. Although foes will not always 
 be visible, the snorts, pitter-patter and screams of the necromorphs will keep players on edge. 
 Perhaps most impressive sound design is from the space vacuum, as all sounds outside Isaac's are 
 muffled and hardly audible, while indoor sounds of pain and breath are amplified. 
  
  Dead Space manages to separate itself from the competition in the genre. The engaging story, innovative 
 combat mechanics and intense horror experience makes Dead Space stand out as a game that should 
 not be overlooked.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Dead Space is a brilliant game! Dead Space features really hi-tech fire arms, average 
 graphics for a Xbox 360 game, horrifying and ugly enemies, however Dead Space's objectives are 
 quite bland ir repetitive.
  
  Fire arms are like your best friend in a horror survival game. Without a one, you're close to dead 
 meat! Dead Space features multiple very interesting weapons such as plasma cutters, energy guns, 
 pulse rifles, contact beams and even a trusty flamethrower, with all weapons bearing a secondary 
 fire. These powerful weapons, actually feel powerful especially when they blow a leg off from a 
 Necromorph. Overall weapons, are very satisfying to use, particularly the contact beam.
  
  Graphics are alright, but nothing to really praise about. Like other Xbox 360 games, the graphics 
 aren't bad at all, neither perfect. The mood and atmosphere in Dead Space should definitely be 
 commended, it creates the perfect horror themed ideal location. Lastly for this section, the gore 
 in Dead Space is spectacular! When you stomp on a crumbling enemy, guilty please cringes in your 
 body, especially with alien blood flying everywhere.
  
  On the other hand, Dead Space's objectives are truly a let down. Most of them force you to go around 
 the ship, patching up and fixing componets. I think that Dead Space creators should have added 
 more interesting objectives and more characters in the game. However, Dead Space is a very fun 
 game and is perfect to play on a cold and dark night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is an outstanding survival horror game from EA. Set in space on a spaceship called the 
 USG Ishamura. Dead Space is one of the most atmospheric and satisfying games out there in the genre 
 with amazing graphics, lighting effects and sound effects. While playing this game you will find 
 yourself on the edge of your seat and fully immersed in its excellent storyline.
  
  Your enemies in the game are a breed of alien called the 'necromorphs' these disturbing creatures 
 are controlled in the game by excellent and intelligent AI and will do the best in their ability 
 to tear you limb from limb. In this game to dispose of your enemies easier you will have to use 
 a tactic called strategic dismemberment were you have to shoot off the necros limbs to dispose 
 of them a lot quicker and conserve ammo. The gameplay in this game is very similar to that of Resident 
 Evil 4 were an over the shoulder camera view is used and you shoot by holding down the LT button 
 to hold up your weapon and the RT to fire it. A lot of people just dub this game 'resident evil 
 4 in space' because of this, but this game is very different and is a game in itself. The game 
 does contain some mysteries like a survival horror and at points you will find yourself low on 
 ammo so I think this game does fit into the survival horror genre as some people just try to dub 
 this an action game.
  
  This game is extremely atmospheric and is guaranteed to make you jump at points as the extremely 
 smart necromorphs try to ambush you there are also boss fights and you can upgrade your weapons 
 and buy new ones and upgrade your armour etc. This is an excellent quality game and one of the 
 most atmospheric out there if you want a good on the edge of your seat horror sci-fi game then 
 this is the one for you, for me this is a contender for game of the year and is flat out awesome, 
 I could explain the game more for you but I won't ruin it for you, go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asmadeus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  this game was the first game to scare the crap out of me since resident evil 2, so far the best 
 survivor-horror game to date, I'm looking to you RE5 now, don't disappoint, the whole atmosphere 
 of the game, the sounds, especially the parts with no sound, the lighting had to be the most creepy 
 part of all, made this game unique, also the in-game realtime menu really placed a sense of urgency 
 that made you feel like nowhere is safe. hell! you're not even safe while saving your game! overall 
 this game rocks! there was a few things that i didn't like, like the clunky melee controls, but 
 that just adds to the horror of the game, the suit upgrades made you feel safer until the next 
 set of baddies came along and tore you to shreds! I loved the death cinematics of Isaac Clarke 
 each death was unique to the creature that killed you, the achievements in this game will have 
 you playing this game over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da2g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Turn off the light, close all the doors, turn up the volume and prepare for the most shocking and 
 scary adventure you have ever experienced on consoles! Creepy sounds, empty rooms suddenly filling 
 with weird gruesome monsters - you better have something to hold on. It`s not the graphics or size 
 what matters here, the selling point of the game it`s the climate of constant tension and its amazing 
 story. Authors did their homework well and presented us with playable compilation of the best sci-fi 
 productions like "Alien", "Event horizon", or "Space oddysey" and of course added some spice of 
 their own. Now alone in your dark room you can take part in events that will make your hair curl. 
 Dead Space will haunt you in your dreams from the moment you close your eyes. You don`t have it 
 yet? ...
  What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jek45
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin with this potential classic? 
  Well, the story comes first. You play as an engineer who is sent in with a team to fix a problem 
 on a large mining vessel in deep space. Of course, all is not right as you get seperated from your 
 team and you battle some absolutely hideous monsters. The plot is revealed as you play, and there 
 are some interesting twists along the way.
  
  The levels are very well designed. Some areas reminded me of Alien a little bit, and there's obviously 
 been a little bit of a burrowing from another great classic known as System Shock 2. You can't 
 help but feel a sense of tragedy and horror as you walk through the corridors of this once vibrant 
 vessel. I'm not kidding. The sense of isolation and hoplessness really got to me.
  
  The monsters themselves? Absolutely terrifying and fun to kill. The way you have to kill them is 
 pretty unique, in my opinion, and it really makes you want to conserve as much ammo as possible. 
 The bosses are pretty interesting also, but I won't reveal them because you should see them for 
 yourself.
  
  A must buy, in my opinion. There has been a lot of work put into this. Also, playing it over again 
 might be worth it if you enjoy it the first time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is an oddity in today's gaming world, it took a chance to make something different, 
 and ended up succeding. It blends horror and Sci-Fi and changes the way you have to play this third-person 
 shooter. It all ends up being one of the best horror/action packages to date.
  
  Dead Space takes place on the S. S. Ishimura, the power has been lost and no one seems to be on this 
 huge mining ship, so you must go check it out and fix what needs to be fixed since you are an engineer. 
 It is a simple premise for a 7-8 game, but what really won me over was the enivorments and character 
 designs that bring you in to this enthralling world of Dead Space.
  To me the enviroments ended up having a BioShock type feel because the overall world feels like 
 it used to be something and was even enjoyable, and now you're on board and it's broken and falling 
 apart. It all sets the mood really nicely for a horror action adventure.
  
  The rest of Dead Space is just as good (character designs, sound, graphics) , but the overall go 
 to A to B then back to A gameplay is overused and th meelee attacks were glitchy adn useless. This 
 are very small things to gripe about, anybody intrested in the horror genre at all well be in for 
 one of the scariest and intresting video game expierences available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolleyho
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  I was excited when I first heard of the making of this game. I imagined aliens meets resident evil. 
 To my surprise this game was exactly that, but with much better controls than resident evil. First 
 ill write about the few flaws in Dead Space. First I found that they tried to make the story too 
 surprising when it became predictable and a little cheesy. It's something we've all seen before 
 if u've seen enough movies. Next is in the Zero g rooms, I would get very motion sickness, and 
 I found out that I was not the only one who had this problem. Last is there seems to be quite a 
 bit of backtracking, one entired chapter felt like i was just walking back and forth from one room 
 to another, and got qutie tedious and tiring. These are just minor flaws in the game, and I am 
 sure will be overlooked because of the great qualities this game has. The atmosphere is unbelievable, 
 I literally felt that an alien was in every vent waiting to pop out on me. If I heard anything, 
 I would have to stop and figure out the sound before I went any further because I was that afraid. 
 This has to be one of the scariest game I have ever played. I'll be honest I even yelled an f bmb 
 at one part, and my hands were constantly sweaty while playing. The sound is amazing in the game, 
 and the combat was very refreshing. Shooting off limbs is alot funner than I thought it would be 
 in a game. Overall Dead Space is a must play and must have. You will not disappointed with this 
 game. Play it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is just one of These games that you can call Downright Amazing, it has this Environment 
 that just sucks you in and makes you want to play it, Exploring the Derelict ship Ishimura and 
 discovering what may have happened, the Atmosphere of the game is just great when I first started 
 the I game I was excited I just wanted to begin, and also im a fan of Horror Games and this combines 
 horror with sci-fi and some action I consider this game to be one of the bloodiest games I have 
 played, and if they consider making another Dead Space 2 then way to go I hope they make a new 
 one because this one was a good start for a whole new franchise and a whole new game, I say for 
 everyone you have to buy this game because it will be one of the greatest Experiences you will 
 witness and trust me you will not regret it ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkl322
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is easily in my top 3 of 2008. I love a good horror/action game and this fits the bill 
 perfectly. The story is well written (though if I thought more about it, I might have been able 
 to figure it out) , the controls are excellent, and the sound and graphics are amazing. You definitely 
 need to play this game with the lights down and sound turned up. 
  
  The game's most innovative feature is in it HUD. i. e. there is none. Your health meter, ammo etc. 
 is all shown on your characters suit which makes the game much more immersive and in my opinion 
 scary. You never get lost due to an excellent objective map and direction pointer. The game still 
 allows for some exploration as many of the side-rooms contain necessary items and ammo.
  
  The game is neither too long or too short and my only qualm is is the lack of diversificatino in 
 scenery. It seems like this game was made on a tight budget and its possible the developers did 
 not have the time/funds to expand on some of their better levels and/or boss fights. I hope that 
 the game is successful b/c with a budget on par with some of the bigger holiday titles I see a 
 truly epic adventure/horror game in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing and haunting audio/visual roller coaster, new original story is great, tools 
 as weapons!, disgusting creatures, dismemberment is gruesome, amazing boss fights
  
  The Bad: Not enough weapons, not enough creatures, it ends
  
  Well, well, well EA finally pulls 
 itself together. After this and the upcoming Mirror's Edge I think EA finally got some brains that 
 were full of new IP and original content. Dead Space is a superbly gruesome and atmospherically 
 terrifying game that goes above and beyond the call of duty (no pun intended) when it comes to 
 atmosphere, story, and game play ideas. The story is really unique and it's been ages since a great 
 new original story has blossomed in the horror genre. You are Isaac Clarke who is a repair man 
 sent out to the Ishimura to find out why there is no communications on that ship. The ship is known 
 as a "Planetcracker" and is carrying a mysterious relic called "The Marker" and Isaac finds everyone 
 aboard dead and the place deserted... well except extremely creepy monsters, a couple crazy doctors, 
 and his girlfriend... yeah its a superb story and it'll keep you hooked throughout, but won't really 
 unfold until the last three levels.
  
  Let's go right into game play; you can buy five different weapons (yeah this game NEEDED more weapons) 
 they are the plasma cutter, ripper, flamethrower, force gun, and contact beam, and the line gun. 
 They are all cool weapons yet there is a twist: They're TOOLS not guns. Isaac is a repair man, 
 see, not a one-man-army mercenary or ex-military dude. This guy was NOT trained for combat and 
 he must learn very quickly how to defend himself. This makes the game feel even more creepy and 
 makes you feel more helpless since you have to make due with what you have. What I loved is that 
 everything is displayed visually so there are no meters, bars, or gauges telling you your health 
 and ammo. Everything is displayed on you. You have your health bar which is a bar on your suit, 
 your stasis bar is on your back (more on stasis later) , your ammo is displayed holographically 
 when you're using your weapons and so is your flashlight.
  
  Everything in the game is easily accessible and the controls are well mapped out. You can use melee 
 combat by stomping on enemies or punching them. While you'll not want to do this since its a bit 
 clunky it saves your butt in hairy situations. The way you kill enemies is by dismembering them 
 to do extra damage. If you shoot their legs off they'll crawl to you, shoot their arms off and 
 they bite you to death, shoot one arm and one leg off they'll still crawl to you, decapitate them 
 and well they'll still try to kill you! If you get overwhelmed just use your stasis and slow them; 
 this is a must do for some creatures like the Twitchers who run ultra fast. The creatures are very 
 disturbing and are probably some of the most sick and twisted things created in a game I've EVER 
 seen. These things are nasty and you just feel the pain when you realize these were all once humans 
 (most of them) . There are also lots of cinematic sequences like when a tentacle arm grabs your 
 leg and it's dragging you down a hall while your trying to shoot it off. There are HUMONGOUS boss 
 fights, some turret gun sections etc.
  
  You'll NEVER get bored with the game since the scares vary so much. You'll walk down a hall and 
 a guy will be petting his dismembered leg then fall over dead, you'll hear a nurse laugh hysterically 
 and blow her brains out, people will be killed behind bullet proof glass etc. The game has a VERY 
 disturbing atmosphere and you really do get scared with all of the amazing ambient sound effects 
 that will keep you on the edge and make you jump constantly. Dead Space does everything differently 
 from other horror games since its all so surreal because of the way its done. You really do feel 
 abandoned on a ship that once was bustling with life. The graphics are also absolutely amazing; 
 these are some of the best graphics seen so far and they are breathtaking. There's not much I can 
 say except see it for yourself you'll be blown away!
  
  There are segments that are zero gravity and vacuums. Zero gravity sections have you jumping around 
 room solving puzzles and shooting things. These are very interesting and changes the pace a lot. 
 When you enter a vacuum you are on an air timer and if you don't have any spare air can you're 
 dead! You can upgrade everything via work benches by finding or buying power nodes. These work 
 like "trees" where you have to fill a path to that upgrade with nodes. Each weapon has different 
 upgrade specs and you won't be able to upgrade them all in one play through. In fact it'll take 
 about two play throughs to get all achievements. There is plenty to do in the game and the achievements 
 are not impossible to get (like in FEAR!!! or Burnout Revenge!!!) so don't panic.
  
  All I have left to say is that Dead Space is absolutely amazing and I'd give it a higher score 
 if there were more enemy types, more weapons, and just a bit more variety. There's enough to keep 
 you interested through a couple of play throughs and I hope there will be a sequel (wait... it's 
 EA of course there will be!!! Until we hate it...) There are six Dead Space comics available that 
 you can pick up for about $15 for the lot. I HIGHLY suggest reading these since they fill you in 
 about a few weeks before the game takes place. They have the same atmosphere and story telling 
 as the game and they are a really good read. Dead Space is one of the best horror action games 
 made and this will be a piece of gaming history, and I also look forward to the next few sequels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamchuff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Simply amazing, I can't express that enough. the graphics are awesome, 
 the music is great... well great as in creepy and sometimes you think you hear a monster. The game 
 play is great, the controls are easy to pick up, there are new things you have not seen in other 
 games: your menu is a digital hologram that is right in front of you, zero-g rooms, and best of 
 all the strategic dismemberment. Also they have this really cool feature that shows you where to 
 go so you don't stray to far from the missions path.
  
  The game starts out as you would figure a Sci-Fi horror game would. Your on a ship in outer space, 
 doing a recon mission to another ship that has had a comm. blackout, except this mission has a 
 twist... your girlfriend was on this ship. You show up with no weapons with your team thinking 
 this will be a cake walk. well you figure out right away this is no cake walk. One of the first 
 rooms you go into the lights blackout monster drops, and you get sealed away from your team. well 
 you get to watch your team member get torn apart limb from limb, well don't pay attention to long 
 because another scythe wielding monstrosity busts through a vent and you gotta run or die. after 
 you get your first weapon and you fire a few shots and see that the monsters wont die so easy, 
 you start shearing off limbs. i don't wanna write a walk through but this game is on that actually 
 has some replay value once you get rid of it your gonna wish that you didn't. the physics are great 
 the game play is great, and its full of moments that will make you jump. I think this game is a 
 groundbreaking experience all around. i don't really write reviews you can probably tell but i 
 had to tell people how great this game is. GO GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airmartin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Initially Dead Space looks like any other game in the survival horror genre. It's only after shooting 
 away the limbs you can truely see what makes this game so unique.
  
  The game puts you in the boots of engineer Issac Clarke who has been sent along with his small 
 team in response to a distress call projected by the industrial 'planet-cracker', The USG Ishimura. 
 The intro to the game sets the tone perfectly, leaving you as clueless and unaware to the horrors 
 that await, as the characters themselves. Your first encounter with the necromorph, as they're 
 known, is with your back to it as you run for your life defenceless, deeper into the deserted, 
 industrial mining station. This element of isolation plays a key role within the game and is further 
 emphasised with the simple yet effective HUD, with all your health and ammo stats displayed on 
 your armor and weapons respectively. Inventory and objectives are displayed via a holographic display 
 projected in front of Issac, preventing the tense atmosphere from breaking as you scroll the menus.
 
  
  The enemies themselves are horrific and leave you shocked even when the game goes off; however 
 one must truely admire the effort behind these designs to create such unforgetable creatures. Not 
 only are the alien human hybrids admirable but the only way to deal with them is just as special; 
 dismemberment. This new and unique way of killing enemies takes a nice spin on the conventional 
 head-shots we see in most shooters today. Not only does it make the combat unique is also increases 
 the tension of the game as you're panic induced shots begin to stray as you attempt to find the 
 legs just to stop the monsters sprinting at you in a rage. This method accompanied by the stasis 
 and kenesis abilities which allow you to manipulate objects and enemies physically proove for some 
 memborable encounters.
  The most impressive part about Dead Space apart from the intense combat and stunning visuals is 
 the overall atmosphere, which when truely taken advantage of with headphones or for the more fortunate 
 ones amongst us surround sound can deliever an unforgetable experience. The audio design is truely 
 somethign special from the low rumbles of the industrial space station to the terrifying shrieks 
 of the creatures you forever find yourself looking over your shoulder convincing yourself that 
 the roaring growl you heard must be the foundations of the ship and not something larger and more 
 organic.
  With a compelling story, astounding visuals, chilling atmosphere, desolate setting and unique combat 
 I think it's safe to say that this is one of the best surival horrors of year if not ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpalberg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been into these horror/survival type games but Dead Space is definately a must 
 play. The game is extremely thrilling and what really keeps you going is wanting to uncover the 
 mysteries within the plot. The whole dismembering concept is really cool and loaded with gore... if 
 that's your thing (it is for me) . A lot of the puzzles requiring Isaac's use of kinetics and stasis 
 are pretty innovative and can be a nice break in between scares. That's another great thing about 
 this game, it'll definately creep you out. You know how you know a game's scary? When you actually 
 feel safer holding a particular item. For example, any of the weapons with AOE secondaries give 
 you the comfort of knowing that if you hear something behind you, and see something in front of 
 you, you can just unload your clip into everything in the room. The only problem I had with this 
 game was its lack of difficulty/time of gameplay. When I played through the game on normal, it 
 took about 12 hours. After that I went to impossible and cleared it in 7, using only the starting 
 weapon. This aside, you really do need to play Dead Space... in the dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreozi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Havia mto tempo q no aparecia um jogo desses! Muito bom, pra quem term nervos de ao! apenas uma 
 crtica, no decorrer do jogo o mesmo vai ficando um pouco previsvel, mas nada que atrapalhe a 
 emoo e o desejo de terminar, para saber como tudo vai acabar! ###des ses, des-ses, disses, dresses, 
 fesses, dossers, teases, doses, messes, Desi's, daises, deices, deuces, douses, dowses, tosses, 
 debases, degases, desserts, dressers, Tessie's, dosser's, dossiers, teasers, eases, Duse's, daces, 
 dazes, disuse, dose's, defuses, demises, deposes, desires, devises, disuses, Hesse's, Jesse's, 
 dessert, dresser, lessees, Dasie's, Tessa's, Tessi's, Tessy's, daisies, deicers, desks, deuce's, 
 dowsers, tissues, tossers, asses, dense, deres, yeses, dices, dozes, dresser's, tresses, guesses, 
 Tess's, deists, desk's, dosser, tenses, testes, Darsie's, dossier's, teaser's, Dede's, Essie's, 
 ease's, Dasi's, Dosi's, Dee's, dace's, dessert's, Denise's, Denyse's, demise's, disuse's, Bessie's, 
 Jessee's, Jessie's, Lessie's, Nessie's, lessee's, Daisie's, deicer's, dowser's, tissue's, Dene's, 
 Erse's, Essa's, Essy's, Darsey's, Odessa's, Jessey's, deism's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conartjumper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Dead space is like no other zombie-killer you have ever played. And yes, it is a zombie-killer 
 because the recently deceased have come back to life. Dispute the category as you might, the dead 
 are back and want to kill you --- Zombie.
  
  Most know by now, that instead of headshots - dismemberment is key, a welcomed feature in my view. 
 What most seem to miss is the religious aspect of the game. Many view it as a rip on Scientology, 
 seeing that Unitology is the religion in the game/movie/comic. However, replace "Unitology" with 
 any other religious view (Christianity, Judaism, Catholicism, ect.) and you have a 'through the 
 looking glass' effect. The things that are happening on the USG Ishimura are the same things that 
 happened thousands of years ago, and continue through present day.
  
  In Dead Space, as in today's life, a lot is dictated by the churches' decision. The relic held 
 importance over human life - the arch of the covenant destroys it's guardians who are the only 
 people allowed to see it (each guardian has suffered the same ailments for decades.) 
  
  The stab that Dead Space takes at religion in general is refreshing. Putting ones' faith in any 
 object, seeking guidance through it, and prioritizing above life above all else - paints a perfect 
 picture of how religion has controlled the masses for centuries - and apparently centuries to come.
 
  
  **Read this before complaining**
  I am merely commenting on what I took from the Dead Space mediums. 
  
  I don't despise any 
 religion, but I think taking ANY text verbatim is ignorant - you were not there. (Huckleberry Finn 
 could have been real, but wasn't)
  
  My favorite point to make in any religious discussion: How many of you worship Jesus?? A lot? - 
 Ok, Lets look at the commandments - thou shall not worship any idol before me. Jesus was not god. 
 Some text say he embodied god - but most agree he was merely a son. Therefore, for centuries people 
 have been worshiping a false idol - so they went to hell.
  
  What does all of this have to do with Dead Space? Maybe you will play it differently - see the 
 cutscenes in a new light. Watch the video and see new meaning.
  
  I don't know - nor do I care. Similar feelings should have popped up while playing Assassin's Creed 
 - but apparently, you missed those...
  
  (I give this 6hrs till it is deleted) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I just recently got this game as a Halloween present to my friend. But instead of playing it, he 
 sent it back to me with a note, that read: "Thanks man, but I'm not that brave to take this game 
 on!" So, with every light in the house on, with a few friends and a shrink on speed dial, I bravely 
 booted up this game.
  
  First reactions were: This game completely lives up to the 'Dead' part of its name. You just want 
 to finish the game in one go so that you never have to boot it up again. Thats the only incentive 
 in mind when you play the game.
  
  But besides that, this game gives you a lot of other incentive to continue on, no matter how tired 
 you are. It draws you in until you willingly want to know the end of the plot. What happens to 
 the ship you're on and what happens to that alien-killing happy engineer named Isaac? 
  
  So with the plot part summarized in all its glory, lets move on to the graphics and game play part. 
 First up the graphics. Well mainly the graphics in this game are mostly consistent, but there are 
 times when your foes don't look very much in detail and their bodies seem to be a little faded. 
 But this glitch isn't consistent enough to cause any real disturbances. Other than that, this game 
 looks pretty awesome. But as the time passes and as you progress through levels, you realize that 
 its not your foes that are scaring you the most. Its actually the atmosphere thats scaring you 
 out of your wits. Yes, without the extremely lived up atmosphere with all the awesome graphics 
 and the audio that might drive you insane in the anticipation of something creepy, you might not 
 even feel scared of the alien foes that are relentless in their quest to bitting your head off.
 
  
  And with that said, its now time to discuss the AI. All-in-all, well its brilliant. Which means 
 bad news for you. They seem to come at you pretty slowly but that helps a lot in the overall killing 
 of the aliens. Because if those aliens were any faster paced, you would never see the second level 
 of this game. And with the innovative 'dismemberment' technic that has to be used in order to kill 
 you foes, it adds a unique touch to this game. For your opponents wont die just by having their 
 heads' blown off. You'll need to cut of all their limbs before they actually go down. Another innovative 
 touch is the positioning of your health bar, which is on your back. Your ammunition amounts are 
 also only visible on your make-shift weapons. This does a terrific job at keeping your screen (HUD) 
 clear while you blast the creepy-crawlies.
  
  So all things accounted for, this game is really scary and definitely not for the feint hearted. 
 But for those of you who are masochists, I really would recommend this game as a night time adventure! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Since this game has a great story and revealing to much would ruin the game for some, I would first 
 like to say I am NOT a fan of the survival horror genre but I LOVED this game, it truly ruined 
 my weekend in a good way! I could not stop from the time I started playing. I would say this game 
 was a 10 but for some reason I felt that some of the weapons just lacked something and I did not 
 have much of a desire to use then only when my main weapon ran out of ammo. With that all being 
 said this game has it all, great graphics, great story, it REALLY sucks you in. Only thing is that 
 I do not see it as a game that needs to be purchased, I felt that one play through was enough for 
 me. I do not know how you would of made the game different each play through besides changing the 
 difficulty level. Maybe some more choices that impact the story may of been a way to go. I really 
 hope a sequel is made to this franchise. This game may force me to revisit some survival horror 
 games again and give them a second chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: configme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Imagine if Marky-Mark and The Funky Bunch went back to making music, that's how awesome this game 
 is. I'm not one to get scared of video games (unless its fatal frame 2 or clock tower 3) , but that 
 doesn't matter, it's still a crazy god damn good game. It might take a level to get use to controls, 
 but that's expected sometimes, after you get use to em you're pro. The story alone is good (even 
 though there are plenty of movies that have the same scenario) and worth the time. Voice acting 
 is great along with audio, I never had such a great feeling with audio. It's like an orchestra 
 is in your room and you've instructed them to only play when monsters come out, it's great. There 
 is one tip that I have, when opening a door, always have your gun drawn and always look behind 
 you every 30 seconds, bound to be something there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kano-619
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  so this game is actually scary and the enemies are soooo cool sometimes you are shooting a guy 
 and suddenly a guy comes right behind ya and starts biting you, the only part i did not like was 
 the missions where the guy that regenerates appears because obviously you can not kill it.
  graphics:10
  gameplay:10
  story:10
  sound:9.5
  presentation:9.0
  lasting appeal:9.0
 
  overall:10
  you should at least give this game a rent because in my opinion it is going to be the best action 
 game of the year. it is a solid survival-horror and very decent shooter that will keep you at the 
 end of your seat all the way through.
  the nex is just for the count of words so dont pay attention to it.
  aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aaa aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMASTEVIC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Dead space is a horror action genre that I too be honest wasnt caring much for at the time. Also 
 the fact I never even herd about it until it came out. Then i start seeing positive feed, so i 
 went ahead and purchased it. All i have to say is this game will want you feinding for more!
  
  breathtaking visuals: my god... may i say more?
  
  shocking story: check!
  
  gore: 
 pfff, just wait until your walking down a hallway then notice that theres a blade/tentical sticking 
 threw you from a big ass "creature" that then rips all your limbs off before looking you dead in 
 the face and finishing it with a head decapitation. yea theres gore...
  
  guns/a. i: completely new from all aspects and amazing at that, the "ripper" is my bread and butter!!!
 
  
  level design: all types of gameplay strategies, zero gravity was a big eye opener for newness!
 
  
  i wont give away too much of the game just the fact its a resident evil 4 mixed with doom 3, beautifully 
 i might add!
  
  A MUST GET GAME!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  WOW I was excited for this game to come out and it lived up to the hype for sure! Almost a perfect 
 10 for me despite some minor issues with some glitches and things I would change a bit, but absolutely 
 a masterpiece!
  
  If you are a horror/gore/blood type person this would be the perfect game for you. I will admit 
 i got scared and jumped a few times when those necromorphs jumped out of the roof or air vents 
 at you, its some scary stuff!
  
  There are so many different monsters in the game, all of them are creepy and really cool. The ones 
 that are stuck to the wall and shoot out blobs with tentacles are a **** to deal with, as well 
 as the crawling alien head baby's that have the 3 tentacles out the top, I hated dealing with them, 
 but wow was it fun!
  
  This game is along the lines of the Alien movie, being on a plane and not sure what was hiding 
 or about to jump out gives you a sense of fright that you will enjoy if thats the types of games 
 you like!
  
  What is really cool it tapping down the right toggle knob a blue line comes up to show you what 
 directiong you have to go, which is GREAT because if you're like me and get frustrated when you 
 don't know what direction to go or what to do next its great that the game helps you out like that 
 because there are a lot of ways to go and you can easily get yourself lost and backtrack without 
 knowing it, so the guide-line helped a great deal!
  
  Only thing I would change to make this a perfect 10 is the camera angle, it doesnt allow you to 
 be back and elevated as a 3rd person, you're off to the right hand side so you can't see things 
 sometimes and that made it a pain on a few occasions when you are getting swarmed by monsters.
 
  
  The zero-g areas and jumping were a lot of fun, and using kinesis to move objects and stasis to 
 slow things down gave the game a really cool space-like feel that should not be missed. BUY THIS 
 GAME it is worth every penny, and that's not something I would say very often about a $60 game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy979
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  After waiting for the release and getting hyped over reviews, trailers, screenshots and updates 
 this little beauty finally comes out and was i let down?.....
  
  Not at all. I love it.
  
  With the level of detail that has been focused on with regards to the animation, backgrounds 
 and music/sound effects this game gives you a sense of 'being there', all you need is on screen 
 so there's no leaving game-play to change weapons, use health, check objectives etc. There's good 
 replay value with a suit and the further upgrading of weapons to really make those limbs fly! It 
 has a very Resident evil feel to it but without the cult following as the game is a bit short and 
 replay only lasting once maybe twice. 
  
  Achievements are pretty straight forward and no Multiplayer (Dead space 2 maybe?) . If your missing 
 Resident evil and need a game to give you that suspense and adrenaline until it's release, this 
 is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, extremely excited, hoping I would be scared, hoping it would put me on edge 
 around every corner. It nearly did it's job flawlessly. With a story that MOSTLY was very well 
 played out and always kept me in the atmosphere. Dead Space is a game that will scare everything 
 out of you and keep you coming back for more.
  
  First let's start off with what I didn't like. Chiefly the ending of the storyline. While the storyline 
 was very good throughout, the ending was a bit ambiguous and left plenty of loose ends as to what 
 exactly Isaac experienced. 
  
  *SPOILER ALERT* 
  
  However, if he didn't die at the end cinematic it would be well served to further explore the whole 
 even in a 2nd game. But even that was a little unclear to me (if you have an opinion feel free 
 to share it, I will listen) .
  
  Now let's get to the good stuff. The atmosphere created by the visuals and ESPECIALLY the sound 
 is completely enveloping. You will feel like you're in the game and the sound will get you jumping 
 even worse at those jumpy moments, which are frequent and varied enough that whether you're expecting 
 it or not, it'll probably get you. The gameplay's new spin on dismemberment makes the game different 
 from all the other shooters and gives you some gruesome satisfaction. Everything about this game 
 makes you feel like you are Isaac, especially the movements which are slow and more realistic than 
 most games. The changes in physics and reaction with the different environments is also excellent 
 and creates some intense battles.
  
  I'm sure I haven't gotten everything I wanted to say in this review, but my point has been made. 
 This game is well worth playing and should be in every gamers library (especially anyone that likes 
 horror) . Issac Clarke will not be forgotten, not because of how super human he was, but how HUMAN 
 he was and the amazing environment in which you play. Go pick it up if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erdude55036
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I read the scariest game ever made about a year ago in a magazine. I was like thats the perfect 
 game to play with friends and freak out. It was nothing like that. I am not trying to be macho 
 man im not a wussy it was just idk not scary. I think one of the scariest games ever is Doom 3. 
 This game was more like.... im to lazy to fix this so you do it and don't die along the way. It 
 was fun sorta but it was to repetitive. I think it could have been better and should have had more 
 variety of monsters. Also it is definately a rental game. When you beat it (which i didnt because 
 I really didnt think it was worth my time) you have nothing else to do other than get achievements 
 and when your done with that what do you have? I found that the fixing was quite annoying. Because 
 all you had to do was push a button and the day was saved!!! Also it definitely was not specific 
 on what to do. Some parts my friends and i were so complexed on what to do that we felt like idiots 
 once we realized how easy it was. But the game didn't really mention what to do so we were pissed 
 at the same time. All together, could have been scarier, could have had more variety, could have 
 had something other to do than fixing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Analog_Death
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space completely obliterated (and mutilated) every expectation I had for it prior to release. 
 It is a perfect example of borrowing the best elements from various artistic works, and refining 
 it into something that can stand on its own. My favorite game of all time is probably Resident 
 Evil 4, mainly due to the claustrophobic and urgent nature of the combat system and inventory management 
 (both of which are in this game with a few twists) . The combat is a bit more flexible allowing 
 you to run and aim at the same time, and the real time inventory menus are truly fitting for this 
 genre making something as banal as a peak into your inventory a potentially tense or deadly situation. 
 A few other game mechanics like stasis (mass effect-ish) and the tractor beam (half life 2-ish) 
 are used nicely and just differently enough to not seem like shameless intellectual theft. The 
 environments and visual aesthetic of the game are like a perfect marraige of Alien, Event Horizon, 
 with touches of Doom 3. The sound design is literally second to none, and significantly helps ramp 
 up tension when in battle, or turning a corner in ambiant silence. I also really enjoyed all of 
 the anti-gravity sequences and felt that it gave the gameplay and puzzles a lot of versatility. 
 This game is definitely worth your attention, and will have a place in my collection indefinitely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  It's simply amazing. The Game play is impressive, the story line compelling, and the suspense level 
 is through the roof. I don't know how many times I was sitting there wondering whether or not I 
 should go through the next door, knowing that I'm down to 3 pulse rounds and a handful of Plasma 
 energy reserves. I literally had to beat my way through a hallway at one point, while countless 
 Necromorphs flailed their bloody scythes around, ripping chunks of flesh and health away as I stumbled 
 to get to the next safe place. It's that kind of intensity that makes a game fun. When you literally 
 know you don't have a lot of ammo or health to necessarily know if you'll survive long enough to 
 get to the next objective point in the game (unless your playing it through easy) . Also, I enjoyed 
 the ability to upgrade weapons and armor (which is also notably similar to the way weapons were 
 upgraded in RE4) , with items known as nodes could be collected to aid in increasing your weapons 
 reload speed, capacity, and damage, like resident evil in space with telekinesis and great graphics. 
 With its dismemberment, difficult puzzles, and awesome weapons it leaves little left to be desired. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman060
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best games I have played. I know it is classified as a horror game, 
 but out of games in general this is just amazing.
  
  The graphics and sound are some of the best I have seen and heard to date. This game's graphics 
 are probably the only ones that come close to Far Cry 2. 
  
  The sound is what really makes this game building you up to certain areas and even if nothing is 
 happening you're still tense. The game was not all that scary but the atmosphere just keeps you 
 on edge even if you have played through the game a couple times.
  
  The story is amazing blending together some of the scare elements from some of the best horror 
 movies which are quite noticeable in the game and a very nice touch. There are 6 graphic novels 
 and a DVD movie that all cover the backstory to the game which are great in there own part, but 
 even without them the story really draws you in to every twist and turn catching you off guard 
 in some parts while some you might expect.
  
  Gameplay is excellent with all kinds of challenges and mini games in the game. Some parts take 
 you back to the good ol' Asteroid days and others you can play basketball with the games own take 
 on them. Strategic dismemberment and Zero-G are some of the more noticeable elements in the game 
 and are extremely well done to say the least. Each battle has it's own challenge and approach just 
 make each encounter somethin special.
  
  Surprisingly this game is one of the most polished I have played. Very rarely have I ran into glitches 
 and the ones that are there are not progress hindering. Many sequences and puzzles have been very 
 well thought out always having a way to solve everyone even if it is not noticeable at first.
 
  
  This is a game that if you're even remotely interested in you should pick up. If you're an Action 
 or Horror fan or this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  After getting my Panasonic 42" Plasma TV riged up along with Dead space and some Drinks and food 
 and the lights turned off at 9:00 at the night i enter Dead space.
  
  Dead Space is firstly a great game it has plenty of scares great grahpics and sound and a intresting 
 Story that is being expanded on by the Sequel that is in the works and the Animated Movie.
  
  The Story follows as you a Techician called Isaac Clarke who will battle a polymorphic, virus-like, 
 alien infestation within the game. These Necromorphs are the center of the games plot and as you 
 unfold the games story you will be facing a nice Selection of these guys.
  
  The games graphics are pretty good the creatures look great and are Reminiscent of other hollywood 
 monsters such as the Thing, Aliens, and Humanoids of Event horizon. And the Ship it self is pretty 
 cool with plenty of places to explore,
  
  The Sound design on the game is great also. It has a very nice feel to it and such and the sound 
 effects for the character and the monsters is also great and so is the voice acting,
  
  the Gameplay is great you can upgrade your character with new weapons and suits and you Progress 
 through the games 13 Chapters, and you can start fresh also if you finish the game with all your 
 armour etc from the last save.
  
  This game is Proof that EA can still make a good game if they try to and is a Must buy if you love 
 these kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ewaf27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space Review:
  
  From the minute I sat down and started to play Dead Space I knew it was a game for me. It's the 
 closest to perfection a survival horror game has come to since Silent Hill 2 or Resident Evil 2.
 
  
  The good things about this game are not limited by any means. I'll start with the all new combat 
 system. This combat system is designed around quartering the various monsters that you encounter 
 with futuristic mining tools ranging from a kinesis buzz saw to a flame thrower to a gun that shoots 
 a line of plasma a yard wide (called the "Line Gun" and my personal favorite) . You are also given 
 two modules to help with puzzles and combat. The first one you are given is Stasis. Stasis gives 
 you the power to slowdown objects such as malfunctioning doors, over-sized brutish monsters with 
 over sized novelty ribbon-cutting-ceremony scissors for arms, and other various uses for puzzles. 
 The other module you get is a kinesis module which allows you to mimic telekinesis. You know like 
 bending spoons, throwing conveniently placed cylindrical tubes full of a random exploding agent 
 at a group of over-sized brutish monsters with over sized novelty ribbon-cutting-ceremony scissors 
 for arms, and other various uses for puzzles. The game implements subtle RPG elements by allowing 
 you to buy new suits that give you more armor and inventory slots, enemies drop loot, and you are 
 allowed to upgrade your armor, guns, and modules with "Power Nodes" that you collect throughout 
 the game. You can add capacity, damage, reload speed, firing speed, and secondary fires on you 
 weapons. Your can get extra air, and health from your suit. Lastly you can get more distance and 
 duration for your modules.
  
  The next thing is the story line. The story line is probably the weakest part of the good parts 
 of this game but it is still pretty good and I don't like to ruin it for people so I won't tell 
 you any thing except that your name starts with an "I".
  
  The puzzles in this game are actually pretty good in fact there are some really really good ones. 
 None like the **** they gave me in Resident Evil 4.
  Not to say I didn't like Resident Evil 4 but the series ditched it's clever puzzles for ****ty 
 puzzles, and there is no valid excuse why the puzzles should have sucked that much. Unless Capcom 
 asked one of their personal elite assassins to kill the guy who made the puzzles difficult yet 
 intuitive and fun and mentally stimulating. Alas we were left with a game that was as mentally 
 stimulating as a package of Double Stuff Oreos. *Deep Breath* sorry about that I got carried away 
 any who where was I? Oh yeah puzzles.. yah they are good.
  
  And last good stuff that I'd like to comment on is what really makes this game. This last section 
 is something that I find a lot of people miss or rather a collection of things that people tend 
 to miss and I find that other game reviewers don't give enough credit to. Those things are as follows; 
 Intuitive game play, music / sound effects, Atmosphere, Story Pacing, controls, camera angles, 
 learning curves, and probably most importantly Immersion. Dead Space has mastered all of the above 
 categories and stands out in Intuitive game play. Maybe some people don't understand what that 
 is, allow me to explain. Intuitive game play means when you pick up the controller to play you 
 just kinda know what to do with out needing a tutorial. With Dead Space all of the controls are 
 as close to perfect as I've ever seen although I have one complaint about the controls. In al, l 
 if not most survival horror games that I've played, you have a button or button combination that 
 turns you 180 degrees to make running from monsters, or just plain tuning around, a lot easier 
 and I find this important because a third person survival horror needs you to move slow and that 
 means that you're gonna turn around slow and probably be killed for it. I died on more than one 
 occasion where if I had this magic button I could have survived. Other than that the atmosphere 
 will most definitely make you execrate some sort of waste by-product on to your couch or chair 
 but certainly you'll have to change your boxer-briefs unless you free ball in which case more power 
 to you.
  
  Graphics are good.
  
  The bad things about Dead Space is well... they were kinda hard to find. Although there are a few. 
 One is glaring the others note so much.
  
  The biggest problem is the mission objectives. They are insanely repetitive and the ones that didn't 
 repeat them selves are ridiculously hard. In one mission you have to go to a laser turret and shoot 
 asteroids so that the ship doesn't explode because that would be anticlimactic. And well it's REALLY 
 HARD like holy **** It took me 5 or 6 tries to survive only by the skin of my teeth and I don't 
 think I could have done any better than ending with one health left seriously the only way it could 
 have been harder is if you had a bag tied over your head and you were at the bottom of the Mariana 
 trench. If something is that insanely frustrating then don't put it in your game cuz that's just 
 gonna piss off the players. Perhaps the same objective but with a different less insanely difficult. 
 The worst part about this is that it appears again but only this time you have 10 more health and 
 now you're fighting a giant monster thats on the outside of the ship.
  
  Which leads me to my other problem with the game. The boss fights are all the same and incredibly 
 linear and there is only 3 of them. All of the bosses have clearly visible bulbs that explode and 
 that's pretty much all that it takes to kill all of the bosses. I guess it kinda makes sense because 
 you are suppose to take off every things limbs to kill it... except the last boss of course.
  
  Lastly there is something that I don't know if I like or not. If you press the right analog 
 stick down you get a line that shows you where to go and that makes the game really linear however 
 it is easily explained by the "It's the future" argument I mean you even have a 3d interactive 
 map. But this device keeps people from getting stuck and needing to think about where to find things 
 and it's something I particularly enjoyed from the Silent Hill and Resident Evil series. It didn't 
 make the game bad or unemployable and at times when you are given a choice on which direction it 
 didn't really punish you for not following the line but you did lose the luxury of having a line 
 showing you where exactly to go. I haven't played through on hard or "Insane" yet maybe they get 
 rid of that on higher difficulty levels. Perhaps they are catering to the aforementioned "Frat 
 Boy" Gamers.
  
  One minor thing is that the game played through the first time only took me 12 hours ish. But that 
 being said it's a game that you can rent and beat so you don't have to waste 60 bucks on it I how 
 ever will be playing the game through a few more times I'm sure.
  
  Last comments: Something that I was curious about as I neared the end of the game is will I get 
 all of my upgrades going into the second time through the game, and the answer was yes. Unfortunately 
 I could only keep it if I went through it on the medium difficulty setting again and I want more 
 of a challenge. Something like this will never make or break a game so it is neither good nor bad.
 
  
  In conclusion Dead Space is a must play game for any one that really considers them selves a gamer. 
 It's pants wetting, intuitive, mentally stimulating, innovative, action packed and most importantly 
 it's game immersion at it's finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mifflinite45
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is most likely one of the scariest games I have ever played for several reasons. First off, 
 the enviornment is exrtrememly haunting. There is a constant feeling of lonliness as you traverse 
 each area of the Ishimura. 
  
  There are constantly erie and chilling sound effects in the backround, sometimes very subtle, but 
 you will find yourself constantly looking behind you. You might find it difficult to walk to the 
 next area without spinning 360 degrees just to make sure that sound you heard isn't a necromorph 
 coming in for a sneak attack. Turn the volume up for this one!
  
  The creatures you will encounter throughout this game are straight out of your worst nightmares! 
 Not only are they just plain creepy, but they are smart as well making them that much scarier.
 
  
  The soundtrack to this game is terrific as well. There is a GREAT use of music in order to intensify 
 situations. There are some tracks that send chills down your spine.
  
  NOT only does this game do a great job of scaring the bajeesus out of you, but it also has terrific 
 controls which make the gameplay just downright fun. It is SO satisfying when you dismember one 
 of those creatures. 
  
  It also has a great system as far as weapon upgrading and inventory manipulation tactics. 
  
 
  I am really just scratching the surface of why this game is such a terrific play. You will not 
 regret picking this title up. It is just ONE of those games. Go out and try it for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RET2452
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are truly amazing. Hard to believe this game could have been made better somehow. Weapons, 
 game play, storyline all pass the test. Truly enjoyed playing this game from beginning to end only 
 stopping to take a piss and eat. Highly addictive and high replay value on impossible difficulty 
 mode. Only one thing I found strange about the game: Why is the final battle so simple? I found 
 some of the bosses from the first 6 chapters to be more challenging than the hive-mind at the end. 
 Though the beast was humongous and terrifying, I was expecting to be in for a much rougher ride. 
 Used nearly all my remaining credits to prepare for the fight. Turned out to be a big waste. By 
 the looks of the final scene of the game, dead space will return with more shocking attacks and 
 plot twists. Oh yea, PLAY THIS GAME IN THE DARK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allaroundfan_-1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  GAMESPOT cuts me off, so go here
  http://www. totalgamingnetwork. com/main/showthread. php? t=179322
  
  * Please note that any and 
 all insults are just jokes and as such do not deserve to be commented upon if you disagree with 
 them, but please do comment upon anything else you think I missed or disagree with me on (BTW, 
 I only covered the major sections of the game because frankly the other sections are just insignificant 
 to me. Once again, this is just one gamer's opinion and that doesn't mean I'm right, in fact I'm 
 probably going to be wrong more than right in your eyes, but I will feel totally justified in mine.*
 
  
  Rating scale: worst to best
  
  AAARGH- F- D-C-B-A-YESSS!
  
  Randomduded12 Review #2- Dead Space for PC/360/PS3
  
  TAGLINE: RESIDENT EVIL 4 IN SPACE!!!11!
 
  Sorry Manzi, but you are over enthused about this game. The story is far too reminiscent of every 
 single other survival horror game or movie that I can think of. It's like every game within the 
 horror genre requires you to get a part from here to fix problem across the whole stupid ship, 
 but to get to there you have to unlock a door below you, so you have to walk over there, but that 
 door is locked, so you have to find a way to open it, but that way at the same time can also be 
 blocked, etc.. In addition, the hero Isaac has various weapons he can use called stasis and kinesis, 
 but your review fails to mention them. WHY, may I ask? 
  
  Also the story doesn't adequately explain how or why a space engineer is given some pretty hardcore 
 military applicable weapons (he starts off with a modified tool-the plasma cutter, but progresses 
 to the Ripper, flamethrowers, etc.) other than he finds them or buys them, somehow knows how to 
 use them well, and little exposition is given regarding his chips for kinesis and stasis. Why the 
 hell are there stores that sell weaponry and ammo throughout a futuristic ship? Seriously, why 
 on earth would you wait to buy weapons right before a battle, instead be intelligent and stockpile 
 them, so just in case your local store has been mangled, you have the tools to survive the fight. 
 Besides, who other than military personnel would even consider purchasing these weapons? It would 
 strengthen the game so much more, to just include weapons stockpiles throughout the ship, but then 
 that would be another god awful fetch quest, but at least this would remove the limitations set 
 upon you by money or collecting money. 
  
  AAAARGH, this does not constitute a good story to me because it continues to rely on the old tenets 
 of horror movies and games, with little to no variance. The characters may be a little more complex 
 than other series, but they remain very blah and honestly, I do not care about them. You also commented 
 about the zero-g sections being innovative, to a degree I will agree with you, but the concept 
 is fairly similar to the Ratchet and Clank series with its magnetic boots, navigational puzzles 
 with magnetic strips, and enemies coming from all directions during these sections. Seriously, 
 evaluate the game over a longer period of time because even though it is a game, it does not deserve 
 free acceptance of illogical and just plain stupid elements. Also, make sure to ask Will (don't 
 know username, he is your boss) to actually check your reviews. There were a ton of typos and silliness 
 within your review.
  //
  Originally Posted by ThQp 
  you're complaining about certain elements to a story of a horror game set in space not being realistic? 
 I dont think realism was key in the development. 
  
  And a quick comment on your thing about Webs, of course he proof reads stuff. Don't be silly. 
 
  
  //
  
  Well, I recognize that the game was not meant to be utterly realistic, I still believe that a greater 
 sense of realism would have pulled me into the game and alleviated many of my problems with the 
 game. Also, I know Webs checks the articles, but it seems as though spell check went haywire because 
 "bag" language, or "suburb" graphics, or "the game has a new story never told before" just seem 
 redundant or poorly thought out. Yes, I have played Dead Space, I beat the game and just could 
 not see why everyone thought of it so highly. As for my comment about it being similar to RE4, 
 the controls are pretty much lifted from that game, add in limb removal from games like Soldier 
 of Fortune, a standard story with a very System Shock 2 setting, and you get Dead Space. All in 
 all your review was fine, but I disagree with the rating, so all I am doing is expressing my opinions. 
 Does that clear everything up? Perhaps, I'm expecting too much, but I do not want another cliched 
 (accent on e) story. I want something ground breaking or at the very least innovative in a way 
 another game has not already tried. 
  
  Overall, I think this game does not deserve a 9.0, more like a 7.5 or so which translates to about 
 a C on my rating scale. 
  
  If you want additional information please click on http://www. totalgamingnetwork. com/pa... view_deadspace
 
  to see Manzi's orginal review.
  Don't get me started on Doom 3. I'm saving that game for later.
  It seems as though you didn't 
 even read my article or you fail at comprehension, either way let me be redundant by retelling 
 my point of view. As for the whole equipment thing, what if the stores malfunctioned or something 
 during a crisis, such as the invasion of the necromorphs? 
  
  What would you do then? You can't get new weapons, refill ammo, etc.. Then Isaac's boned. That 
 is why I saw this element as one of the weakest points of the game. I don't particularly mind the 
 idea of an engineer buying equipment, but on a military vessel you would think there would instead 
 be already purchased weaponry and ammo hidden in stockpiles or equipment lockers or something, 
 so retaliation would always remain viable in case the ship had been invaded and the stores malfunctioned. 
 It just does not make sense based on the story's context to me. Remember LOGIC is God. I went back 
 and evaluated my earlier review and I will revise my opinion somewhat, but please understand I 
 never said the story was bad, I only remarked on it as just cliche (accent on e) when I thought 
 about it for longer than a minute. First off, the story will appeal to most of you other gamers, 
 but it probably won't always appeal to the cynics similar to me (I in fact did like the story, 
 except for the fact that I managed to predict it to the letter) who want to analyze beyond what 
 is necessary. 
  
  The ending was predictable in my opinion, *spoiler* your gf had been acting weird the whole time, 
 yet you never suspected her transformation into a necromorph? I was just waiting for the inevitable 
 typical cliffhanger, horror movie attack to spark interest in Dead Space 2 (interest for a sequel 
 this early usually means the first game had a cliffhanger ending that was not as much of douche 
 as Halo 2's) . 
  
  The story serves its purpose, but I never really lost myself within it and feared for Isaac (because 
 then I would be an over emotional pansy) . The characters are varied what with your crazies, traitors, 
 stalwart leaders who begin to question society, and the love interest but again I wasn't all that 
 shocked. However, I was surprised by the detail put into collecting logs and it was a smart way 
 to ensure that people who wanted more of the story could always find something, but again this 
 idea has already been used (Bioshock, can't think of any others right now) . 
  
  Dead Space is not a bad game, in fact a C roughly translates to give it a rental, if you like it 
 more than I did, probably go ahead and buy it. Dead Space got around a C, so clarification, I meant 
 above a C but below a B, which means the majority of gamers will like it, they just won't like 
 all of it. EDIT_ I have decided to revise some of my opinions regarding Dead SPace's score. I now 
 give it a B- because of continued evaluation of the game and analysis of my arguments. SO, go try 
 it and if you like it (typically if you like horror games/movies you will like this) buy it, then 
 **** bricks like Bender from Futurama in that new movie.
  
  I would consider Dead Space essentially a collection of some of the greatest design choices from 
 various games/movies, so the inclusion of unecessary plot devices such as money to buy makeshift 
 weaponry from tools or just plain ol' standard weaponry took away from a rather cohesive horror 
 game.
  Yeah I understand your point, but I did not want to ruin more of the *shock* ending for any readers, 
 so I posted the basic interpretation. I have deliberated further on this game and want to add more 
 explanation to my review. 
  
  What constitutes horror? According to games and movies cheap tricks, convoluted nonsensical stories, 
 the ability to heal immensely large wounds with little effort, LIMITED Ammo, a weak/unexperienced 
 protagonist, and lots of violence. Dead Space has all of these in some form or fashion, but the 
 changes to the formula become tiring. Allowing me to waste ammo like I'm in an action movie, doesn't 
 seem to be an element of the horror genre for GOOD reason. You are limited by the money you have, 
 so theoretically you could have more bullets than shoot 'em up, but this only weakens any sense 
 of terror you have because most other games wisely limit you to ammo already in the environment, 
 here you can really just go nuts and shoot the walls all day long, so long as you have enough money 
 and are an easily amused fool. 
  
  Isaac also has the ability to freeze enemies with stasis and move objects with his MIND also knows 
 as kinesis ( more like telekinesis, but I digress ) . These two things also weaken any sort of terror 
 you may have. Why would you be afraid when with the tap of a button you can fricking freeze an 
 enemy in place and take your sweet time to torture them and then kill their sorry asses? The kinesis 
 kind of makes me go WTH. Isaac becomes more superhumany than he already is, what with his ability 
 to plop healing down and miraculously stop dying from that limb he just lost. Having a superhuman 
 protagonist doesn't scare you, it only further weakens the threat posed by the enemies. At least 
 they gave a sort of meter to monitor how many times you could use these powers or else I would 
 classify this game as way too unhorror.
  //
  Quote:
  First off, the story will appeal to most you other gamers, but it won't appeal to the cynics like 
 me who want to analyze beyond what is necessary. 
  This is why I am a reviewer because I am not this statement above.
  //
  
  Being cynical isn't 
 a bad thing Manzi, it allows you to recognize faults within a game that you previously overlooked. 
 As such, the story was pretty interesting and had some good twists and turns, but it reminded me 
 of many other horror games/movies. Now this in itself isn't that bad, in fact the story was well 
 written, but it always had that feel to it where you think you could (in my case, I did, almost 
 to the letter) predict where the story was going. I do not typically like games where I can predict 
 the story, but Dead Space is an exception because it transcends some of the sterotypes of the horror 
 genre and provides a unique world to explore, just with some flaws that go unmentioned by some 
 reviewers. That's why I voted it as a fun, good gameworthy of buying on my poll. Oh damn, I forgot 
 the space in the poll. 
  
  Anyway, I in general agree with your review Manzi, I just think you should raise questions regarding 
 the plot or gameplay or something else of a game when they seem illogical. Like I said before, 
 anything that takes you out of the game and makes you realize that you aren't really in the world 
 should be noticed or remarked upon. A game gets incredible and damn near perfect, when it no longer 
 seems like a game. You no longer view the screen as a game, but you actually fear for your character 
 beyond what is normal. Naturally only a few games have transcended this point, but I think a perfect 
 game should never take you out of the universe it establishes. That is why Dead Space still deserves 
 merit for combining so many good ideas into one finished product, but it will never be commented 
 by me or any reviewer as a Perfect game. However, It could be used as a perfect example of a good 
 game within the horror genre. In fact better than good, IT'SSSSS MORE THAN GOOD, IT'S GREAT!!!!!!!!!!! 
 LOL Frosted Flakes.
  
  There is no such thing as an objective review. Reviewing something requires you to use your own 
 opinions and thus everything is subjective. I could easily have listed off the good/bad aspects 
 of Dead Space, but this would still require me to consider how the game affected ME moreso than 
 how it would affect my readers because I can't honestly say I've been in everyone's shoes and understand 
 their thoughts on something. Besides, I can't really help if I'm a cynic, it is an unchangeable 
 part of me now. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CFF-Skull
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Dead Space was an incredible adventure from beginning to end. The sudden twists and turns in the 
 story were greatly appreciated and certainly surprising. The greatest aspect of this entire game 
 was the amount of pop ups it had. There were many but they were spread well over the entire game 
 and made you think on your feet most of the time. There were a few let downs in the gameplay such 
 as the inability to really kill anything with you melee attack or curb stomp, which made it extremely 
 difficult to survive when you had no ammunition left. The length of the game was also very nice 
 and satisfactory if you take the time to look around for hidden things. Overall it was a great 
 game that many people should have on their list. If you have beaten resident evil too many times, 
 Dead Space will definitely give you a scare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponmaster01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Now before I do an official review on this game, I just want to get something off my chest. Here 
 you have a game that plays literally, almost exactly like Resident Evil 4, with the same laser 
 point concept, third person perspective, puzzle solving, and item distribution... and yet nobody 
 complains about it. However, take a game like Saints Row 2 and compare it to the Grand Theft Auto 
 series and Oh my god, they've gone and copied Rockstar! This game is so lame because it's like 
 GTA IV!
  
  I find that the people who take other video games who implement similar ideas from other game genres 
 for granted are being relatively prejudice against games that are actually fun, if they were to 
 give it a fighting chance. It's in this case that so many games end up behind the shelves at local 
 stores, and until somebody says something about it, it gathers dust. Now I know there are a lot 
 of people who enjoyed SR2 vs. GTA IV, I'm one of them to say the least. It just aggravates me that 
 other games with similar concepts don't get similar treatments, all it is is SR2 vs. GTA IV this 
 and that.
  
  Okay, now that I'm done ranting I can talk about this game.
  
  It's simply amazing. The Game play is impressive, the story line compelling, and the suspense level 
 is through the roof. I don't know how many times I was sitting there wondering whether or not I 
 should go through the next door, knowing that I'm down to 3 pulse rounds and a handful of Plasma 
 energy reserves. I literally had to beat my way through a hallway at one point, while countless 
 Necromorphs flailed their bloody scythes around, ripping chunks of flesh and health away as I stumbled 
 to get to the next safe place. It's that kind of intensity that makes a game fun. When you literally 
 know you don't have a lot of ammo or health to necessarily know if you'll survive long enough to 
 get to the next objective point in the game (unless your playing it through easy) . Also, I enjoyed 
 the ability to upgrade weapons and armor (which is also notably similar to the way weapons were 
 upgraded in RE4) , with items known as nodes could be collected to aid in increasing your weapons 
 reload speed, capacity, and damage.
  
  Dead Space is easily an amazing play, putting Resident Evil 4 to shame with a much more horrific 
 feel and mood. It's one thing to know that you have another person helping you as you progress 
 through a game, it's another when you feel truly alone against a horde of flesh-ridden manifestations 
 and a ship the size of 10 or 15 football fields. The Audio and Graphics even go so far as to set 
 the mood, with dark corridors and creepy sounds. I don't know how many times I'd look back and 
 double check, because I heard the prowling of claws teetering above the ceiling, or an eerie moan 
 some where ahead of or behind me.
  
  I have to admit, for a company that focuses primarily on sports games, EA really pulled it off 
 with Dead Space, making this game one of my top 10 must have titles for this year. You gotta at 
 least rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AARxAARxAAR
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I read on some forums and on info on the game that Dead Space was to be the scariest game ever 
 created or within the last few years. Well that isn't exactly true. It doesn't take a movie too 
 much to kinda scare me, but this game isn't scary at all. I got more scared from Resident Evil 
 2. This game has too many obvious moments that you can CLEARLY see something is gonna pop out at 
 you, so its nothing too special in the scary part, which really brought my enjoyment of the game 
 down a bit. You never really get to play a SCARY game and i was hoping for this chance to play 
 one and unfortunately that didn't happen here. 
  Now on a fair note, i rated it a 9. Because like most games that try to be scary, this one succeeded 
 with an attempt at it, there are some moments where you yourself get your limps shredded and it 
 sometimes catches you off guard and fair enough I jump a bit cause i don't expect it.
  Another reason I gave it a 9 is because of the visuals. They are simply stunning, and not much 
 can be said about it. Nowadays most games really strive for that REALISTIC look to it, and it really 
 brings it down because of how bad it really turns out to look, but this game has a futuristic game 
 play with graphics that will literally take your breath away. The blood squirts, the after death 
 dismemberment of the aliens, and the nice use of the new shooter style game much like Resident 
 Evil 4 did. It gives you a bigger view of whats going on around you.
  Now as for some bad parts, that new shooter style visual of your character really effects the game 
 in certain cases. Opening up your inventory and map screens is simple yes, but reading through 
 things is difficult due to the small print that is shown. The "text" logs are also a pain and i 
 have yet to bother reading them because i don't wanna waste my time squinting at the small print 
 to read it.
  A final detail and a bit unimportant, but a fair thing to say, is the idea of the main character 
 Isaac being a mechanic. That doesn't work out right in the end, because in this case, it indeed 
 did make the game a bit repetitive at times. Isaac go fix this and go fix that, DAMN a new problem 
 go fix it.... its a bit annoying at times and really made the game have repetitive feats. Like I 
 said, a small complaint, but a fair one to point out.
  That's about all i have to say about Dead Space. The game like any other has its ups and downs. 
 It deserves a high rating, but it in fact does have a lot of hype on the fact of it being scary, 
 if you are not easily scared and hoping for one in this game? Its not the game for you. Would i 
 recommend someone to buy/rent it? Absolutely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenzyd109
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, Dead Space isn't much of a horror game. It has the premise of a horror game; an abandoned 
 space ship lost in space, Creepy aliens mutants around every corner, and the limited ammo to make 
 you feel cautious, but it doesn't necessarily deliver. It feels that the developers didn't focus 
 as much on trying to scare you, but to make the atmosphere as beautiful (or disgusting) as possible.
 
  While many argue that Dead Space is scarier than Silent Hill or Resident Evil, it isn't, it is 
 just better presented. EA truly delivered in the graphics department, with maybe the best visuals 
 in a game to date. And in a "horror" game, that makes the difference between a horrifying experience, 
 and a boring wash-up excuse of a horrifying experience.
  
  I beat Dead Space in under around 9 hours, and it was a long 9 hours. The reason being the game 
 has a repetitive process. Find a lock door, get a way to open it, go through the door, fight a 
 wave of enemies, fight a boss, rinse and repeat. It isn't long enough of a game to be annoyed by 
 the repetitiveness, but a few plot twists evenly dispersed would be nice, rather than all at the 
 end. With a few mini games like the target practice and Zero Gravity Basketball, it gives you a 
 breather between the long hallways of mutant aliens that all look alike.
  
  The game is very cinematic, with absolutely amazing graphics and a great cast of voice actors. 
 Some of the greatest moments of Dead Space were in the video and audio diaries which reveal stories 
 of the crew on the ship... Especially the Captain's Diary (wink wink!) .
  The plot is pretty basic, not in a bad way though: You respond to a distress call, find the ship 
 completely abandoned, get on the ship, find scary aliens, and get the **** off! With this premise, 
 you can't really go too out of control, which makes the plot easy to play and enjoy. I'm on no 
 way saying EA stole the idea, but this game reminds me a lot of Event Horizon. For all who have 
 seen the movie, you can agree, for those who haven't seen it, go see it :) .
  
  This is a great 8 hour game that was stretched out to be longer, but in the end, it's all worth 
 it. Dead Space is a great game to rent, and if you like it enough, go buy it! With limited replay 
 value, I recommend Dead Space to any and all action, horror, and Sci-fi fans. 
  -Frenzyd109
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsic
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome, like resident evil in space with telekinesis and great graphics. With its 
 dismemberment, difficult puzzles, and awesome weapons it leaves little left to be desired. Better 
 AI makes the game unpredictable without making it impossible, and the fact that enemies won't die 
 unless you destroy every last piece of them or cut them in half causes the player to aim more intelligently. 
 The story was great and not too overbearing. The game wasn't too hard to complete, the only hard 
 part was the close range combat. Its not every day you play a futuristic horror game that is actually 
 GOOD and isn't just about killing different types of zombies endlessly. The lack of a HUD makes 
 the game seem a lot more movie-like without having a million cut scenes like in MGS3. Dead space 
 ranks right up there with bio-shock and is definitely worth all $60, so add it to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capthavic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  In the future all natural resources have been depleted and deep space mining is a lucrative business. 
 Entire planets are ripped apart and refined by mining ships called "planet crackers". The largest 
 is the USG Ishimura. On the latest planet a strange artifact has been found. But soon colonists 
 go mad and contact with the ship is lost shortly after planet crack.
  
  The USG Kellion is dispatched to locate the Ishimura and restore communications. You play as Isaac 
 Clark, engineering and ship system specialist. He volunteered to go on the mission after receiving 
 a garbled message from his girlfriend on the Ishimura. Things go down hill quickly as their ship 
 crash lands and Isaac is separated from the two surviving crew by gruesome monsters. Guess that 
 reunion is going to have to wait ^_^
  
  It will be up to Isaac to fix the ship, find his girlfriend, and unravel the mystery of the artifact. 
 Objectives are basically the usual fetch quests, but they at least make more sense then collecting 
 arbitrary crests. For example in order to keep the ship from crashing into the planet you need 
 to restart the engines. But this new course leads through a debris field so you must activate the 
 defense turrets. There is some backtracking between the eight decks but a tram system and nav marker 
 make getting to the next objective easy.
  
  Dead Space's hook is the aptly named strategic dismemberment. These enemies aren't you're run of 
 the mill zombies. They take a full clip to the body and still keep coming. Cutting off the head 
 will just make them wildly slash at you. Take out their legs and they'll just keep crawling. The 
 only way to put them down permanently is to cut off all their limbs.
  
  Luckily Isaac has plenty of tools at his disposal. That's right, tools. Nearly every weapon is 
 a mining tool. Such as the plasma cutter and ripper sever limbs with gruesome efficiency. Every 
 weapon also has a secondary function like firing mines. There is also a stasis module that can 
 slow down enemies for a short time and kinesis module to pick up and throw heavy objects. Weapons, 
 modules, and your suit can be upgraded at workbenches with power nodes found or bought at the stores 
 scattered around the ship.
  
  The streamlined interface really helps to keep you immersed in the game. Instead of a HUD everything 
 is shown on the character. Health and stasis energy are shown on back of his suit. Ammo counters 
 displayed on the guns. And inventory and messages are shown through holographic projections. These 
 projections do not pause the game and you can even rotate the camera around them.
  
  Dead Space is stunning visually. The art direction depicts the Ishimura as a gothic and utilitarian 
 mining vessel instead of the sleek, sterile look in most stock sci-fi ships. The view from outside 
 the ship is just spectacular. Sound is also impressive, whether it's the muted sound in a vacuum 
 or the clank of a pipe behind you. Animation is simply amazing as the wide variety of death animations 
 show the enemies aren't the only ones who can be dismembered.
  
  There are a few rough spots such as camera trouble in tight spaces. There is a turret mini-game 
 that's really annoying but luckily only shows up twice. And melee attacks are practically worthless 
 in a fight. But these issues are small nitpicks to what is an amazing experience. So turn down 
 the lights, crank up the speakers, and hang onto on seat with the scariest game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychomentalx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I almost didn't get this game. I was actually just looking for something to pass the time until 
 GOW2, RFOM2, and TC End War came out... man was I surprised. I played this game on Medium difficulty... not 
 just once, but twice! The graphics were AWESOME!, the story was AWESOME!, the scare level and atmosphere 
 were AWESOME! It took me almost 16 hours to complete the first time around. I'm thinking about 
 playing it on impossible difficulty for the achievement. But no matter what level you play this 
 game, the experience will certainly take your breath away. This is definitely one of the best games 
 I've EVER played! I'm really not a big fan of survival horror. Maybe my view would have been different 
 if more games were done this well. I couldn't find anything wrong with it. All I can say is I'm 
 ready for Dead Space 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPER-MAN_2005
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  If you have a pacemaker, you probably shouldn't play this game. I loved it. The story is good, 
 and the gameplay is different in a great way. Its like Gears of War meets Resident Evil 4, and 
 Bioshock, but mostly like Resident Evil and Bioshock. The story is lengthy with about 15 hours 
 of gameplay. You have about 7 guns to use, which can all be upgraded like in RE4. You can upgrade 
 your armor as well. And like in Bioshock, you can use telekinesis to throw objects. Its definitely 
 worth your money. Oh and when you beat the game, you get to keep your weapons, etc. The alien creatures 
 in the game are pretty scary looking, especially the one that looks like its on crack. It moves 
 super fast and growls. There isnt a huge variety of different monsters, but they are like no others. 
 I wouldnt suggest renting it at Blockbuster because those idiots only give you 3 days and then 
 you return it or get fined.. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrazr_live
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  In a word this game is nothing short of brilliant. Some of the best visuals ever included in a 
 game. Insanely horrible creatures from minds with great imagination. Totally immersive with revolutionary 
 ideas like 0 gravity gameplay which flips the screen around on you to create prospective. Just 
 the right length. I finished the game right at 16 hours but I spent time in the shooting range 
 and in the 0-G basketball court. The only thing sorta negative (and it's not really all that neg) 
 is that the Normal setting was actually kind of easy and I ended up with a HUUUGE surplus of ammo, 
 health, etc. at game completion. The hardcore gamer that hasn't played it but wants to should start 
 on the hardest available. The real genius in this game is how creative the idea, story, and delivery 
 are. I think the story might have been influenced by the people who believe in Scientology. Aside 
 from a great story and creative gameplay it has great puzzle type gameplay to it as well. I'm not 
 talking about the Silent Hill/Res Evil slide the boxes/place the coins type puzzles but real situations 
 that made you think about how to get past the level. Nothing too far out there but just hard enough 
 to make discovering the solution rewarding. I think that's what I like most about this game. Balance. 
 The DEVs balanced this game beautifully. Well, I've gone on and on about the pros but have listed 
 no cons. Honestly, if I listed anything it would be reaching to the point of inaccuracy or a complete 
 fabrication. In my opinion this game is Game of the Year worthy. Just like Bioshock and I was right 
 about that one too. I hope someone finds this useful. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zhaosuke
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and sweet, (as i wish to return to playing) but this game has totally 
 rocked my senses, from the hype inducing animated comic book prequels to the Downfall animated 
 film, this game has nabbed my attention left, right and bloody center. As i stated in my Dark Sector 
 review, Hype is a first step towards disappointment, once in a blue moon (Especially in todays 
 factory churning half arsed game releases) a game breaks this unwritten law, and in the case of 
 Dead Space, royally breaks the law. From the opening cutscene flying to Ishimura, to the first 
 encounter with the Markers ungodly creations, this game sets a new standard in gaming finesse, 
 violently poetic and pants wettingly atmospheric, in my humble recommendation, should you wish 
 to play this title to its true capability, get a massive HDTV, and a 5.1 surround sound system, 
 sit back and enjoy a landmark in real outer space horror! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishRage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I'll get the good out of the way first.
  
  -----------
  Graphics
  -----------
  
  Simply put, the game is beautiful, every step of the way its so amazing to look at.
  
  -----------
 
  Immersion
  -----------
  
  The lighting, the ambiance, the extra doodads that have been added (fans, vents, windows going 
 to space) bring a level of map depth that I haven't been apart of since Half Life 2. I felt like 
 the character would be feeling if this was a real event. 
  
  -----------
  PLOT
  -----------
  
  The plot is told in a manner that i really enjoyed. Your crew investigates a 
 large frigate that had an sos going out. The crew goes on board to find no immediate signs of life. 
 You uncover the story as you go in the form of video files, sound files, and text files. You piece 
 the story together of what happens. I applaud that! The way the pieces leave small gaps in the 
 story that you fill in with your own discoveries makes me WANT to explore to find out what happens. 
 Makes me look at everything in a new way!
  
  -----------
  Gameplay
  -----------
  
  The HUD is FABULOUS. There really is no feeling of detachment from this game, everything you use 
 to see your health, breath, stasis energy, ammo, weapon to choose, EVERYTHING is happening on the 
 character. Its the character activating everything, and switching everything, not some magical 
 gui.
  
  The weapons are very well done but nothing is far fetched, the stasis system is very cool but nothing 
 new. It may be used from other games but its implemented really well!
  
  The over the shoulder combat works extremely well and the controls are very smooth and well placed.
 
  
  -----------
  Sound
  -----------
  
  Sound, i feel that there could have been a little more work here. The ambient sounds could have 
 been a bit more creepy or plentiful but it is well done. My main point of joy in this topic is 
 the change in sound when going into zero gravity. Sound is much more rounded out in here. There 
 is more low and less high, which I LOVED. I really felt like there was a hull breach when a chunk 
 of the ship would go flying off. Fantastic.
  
  
  -----------
  Negatives
  -----------
  
  Now the (very few) bad parts
  
  Now, I'm all for creepy atmosphere. Some 
 blood here and there, hand prints in blood and such, but this game went overboard. I would walk 
 down a blood soaked hall way, into a blood soaked room where someone wrote a paragraph in blood. 
 I would head towards the elevator where "help" was written in blood. I open the elevator and wouldn't 
 you know it, a pool of blood in the elevator. Now I understand what all this blood is trying to 
 say, but blood words and blood everywhere made me stop noticing it at all. A bit overboard.
  
  I'm the kind of guy who takes every chance to save. All rpgs, all fps, if there's a save point 
 I'm hitting the yes button. That being said I must have spent over 30 minutes of my total time 
 playing this game just staring at the damn save screen. I go down a level in an elevator, progress 
 two rooms, save, complete objective, go back up elevator, get ambushed, save on that level, turn 
 in objective, go to 3rd floor of elevator, save, get objective... Etc..... Etc Etc 
  
  All in all, this game was, and is amazing. 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Gameplay - 10/10
  Sound 
 - 10/10
  Plot - 9/10
  Immersion - 9/10
  Multiplayer - N/A
  
  Overall - 46/50 
  
  or
  
  96%
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of those unique experiences that falls onto your lap and you have no idea what 
 to expect. Dead Space comes together amazingly with the help of a gripping story, awesome gameplay 
 mechanics, a killer atmosphere, beautiful graphics, and an arsenal of sounds that will scare you 
 to death.
  
  Dead Space's story goes far beyond the typical space horror game that people may think. It is about 
 an engineer named Issac and the crew he travels with to investigate the spaceship the USG Ishimura. 
 But theres a ton of backstory in Dead Space that is all relevant. What happened on the colony? 
 What does the USG Ishimura do? How did the Necromorphs appear? All of these questions are answered 
 in the comics that are only briefly touched upon in the game.
  
  There are no cutscenes in the game Dead Space. All the scenes happen right infront of you either 
 through characters on the other side of glass talking to you or through the video and audio feed 
 that plays while you move. The game has a few interesting turns and the game leads up to an amazing 
 final level and a final boss battle that works so well.
  
  The gameplay in Dead Space is done very well. The camera is over the shoulder which works extremely 
 well for all horror games. I was a bit skeptical of the dismemberment combat system when I first 
 started playing. I felt like it should of been more like RE4 in the sense that you could aim at 
 specific body parts. However, after playing I realized that what they did extremely added to the 
 horror. You have tons of enemies coming at you and you need to aim your gun by yourself at the 
 arms, the legs, or the head. So in that sense it worked very well.
  
  At the start of the game I was kind of getting sick and tired of seeing the same types of enemies 
 everywhere but after the 3rd chapter there are plenty of new Necomorophs that start to appear. 
 So if you have a problem with that early on just know it'll be fixed. The boss battles are also 
 very entertaining. The last boss just has the epic feel to it and the first boss is also a blast 
 to play.... just don't run out of ammo. 
  
  The weapons in Dead Space all serve different purposes and you will use different weapons on different 
 enemies. The only thing that these weapons have in common is that you will be splattering Necromorph 
 blood across the ship. The standout guns I found were the Plasma Cutter, the Line Gun, and the 
 Force Gun. The Cutter is basically a pistol thats great for shooting off heads, Line Gun a shotgun 
 that rips enemies in half, and the Force Gun is unique in the sense that its kind of a gun that 
 knocks back enemies and as a second function a grenade launcher type weapon. The other weapons 
 are also fun such as Ripper but I didn't find it too effective. Dead Space definately kills in 
 the weapon department. Theres only 7 weapons but they are all useful and they all felt like they 
 had alot of work put into designing them. 
  
  Finally, there is no pause button that will allow you to go into the menu and just take time to 
 relax. Theres the pause button that allows you to quit or change the settings. By pressing Y the 
 menu comes up and you are actually still playing when the menu is up. You can move along. By pressing 
 the X button you can heal which is such a nice feature because I don't think I could have navigated 
 the menu while being attacked by multiple Necrmorphs. There are also a bunch of audio and video 
 logs that are scattered around the levels that give you backstory.
  
  The atmosophere, graphics, and sound are all done extremely well. The atmosphere on the Ishimura 
 is tense as hell. You go around corners slowly afraid of whats to come. The ship being completely 
 empty of human life scares the crap out of you. At any moment something can come down and rip your 
 head off. The graphics are also stunning. I was shocked when I found out it wasn't using the Unreal 
 Engine because this game is one of the most beautiful games I've seen this generation. Finally, 
 the sound just takes you away. When you go in space the lack of sound but the footsteps of Issac 
 just brings you to another world. Its incredible. Also, the sound is scary as hell especially when 
 in dark places in the Ishimura. You'll hear wrench drops, screams, and monsters around you at all 
 times. The sound makes you unable to be relaxed for even a split second.
  
  Theres also no dips in framerate and no glitches that will detract from the game which is incredible. 
 At no point in the game did I experience any kind of problems technical wise which was shocking 
 because I can't remember the last game that had no technical problems.
  
  Another thing I loved about the game is the spawn points. Because you are frequently dying you 
 would hate to spawn all the way back at the start of a level so Dead Space just allows you to spawn 
 outside the door of the room you died in. Incredibly awesome.
  
  Dead Space was my first adventure in the horror genre and what an adventure it was. At no point 
 did I ever regret buying the game even though its a relatively short game which is the only major 
 problem the game has. The game clocks in at about 12 hours and I thought I was taking my time. 
 But thanks to replay value, achievements, and the impossible difficulty the game will still be 
 getting a couple more runthroughs.
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a new and unique experience that everyone needs to play. Either rent it 
 or buy it, you will not regret it. Everything comes together to make an amazing experience that 
 will not be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr0806
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead space is a mix between Halo, Doom, Bioshock, and Gears Of War. It takes different aspects 
 of each game and turns it to fit its story. All three games were and still are great games. The 
 game play was superb, and I like how instead of just running around shooting at aliens you actually 
 had dismember them, they feigned death which was awesome; right when you think that you have killed 
 everything in the room one comes at you and catches you off guard. 
  I liked the array of weapons and the fact that you could upgrade each one, but I think there should 
 have been more of a selection. Being able to upgrade and change your armor was nice aspect of the 
 game as well. 
  All in all the game play was great, you're on the edge of your seat the entire time. The only draw 
 back is that it is not multi player, but other than that the game is great and is a must to play.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Score: 9.5 out of 10
  
  There have been plenty of survival 
 horror games out in the world but if you played one, you get a feeling you've played them all and 
 it's because they really don't know how to scare someone. Until Dead Space came out. 
  
  This game will pull you in and mess with your mind till you either beat it or you put it down forever. 
 You are a member of a doomed engineering crew sent to repair a huge planet cracking ship named 
 Ishimura your name is Issac. When your crew first steps onto this immense ship you get a feeling 
 something isn't right. It isn't due to the fact that you don't find anyone at first it's the fact 
 that a lot of their personal possessions are strewed around the area like they were leaving. Let 
 me tell you this, the time that you first step onto the ship, that'll be the longest that something 
 doesn't happen because shortly after you will descend into the darkest depths of hell. 
  
  You'll be asked to go into a room and pull up a damage report of the Ishimura and right before 
 your eyes from the shadows something will kill two of your crew mates. Leaving you, your captain 
 and your friend, Get used to hearing their voices because till the later stages you'll hear no 
 other people talking than these two, when they talk it normally ends up in a argument that you 
 have no choice but to hear. In the beginning you're crew thinks that the crew of the Ishimura went 
 insane but than you realize that these things don't look exactly human. To be more exact if you 
 played the Halo Series they look like what the flood should have looked like. But it's revealed 
 that these things your fighting are aliens that were implanted in human hosts. 
  
  You would think that just shooting these things should be enough to kill them right? Well yes and 
 no These creatures are very resilient most of the time you have to do total body dismemberment 
 because if you leave them with their limbs they will still come after you. The odd thing is I've 
 noticed that if you shoot the heads of the creatures they will die sometimes than again they won't, 
 you can also use the Plasma Cutter and shoot one right in the middle and it'll kill them so it 
 seems unless they are different somehow it could be that the killing system may need some tweaking.
 
  
  Unlike many games nowadays where they will give you huge selections of weapons to use this game 
 will give you at most 7 if I remember right. They give you everything from a standard Plasma Cutter 
 (think of it as a pistol) to a Flamethrower to what I consider to be the most powerful weapon in 
 the game which is called the Contact Gun it's one of those weapons you have to charge but if you 
 can get it charged than you shoot them, it's very satisfying to see the enemies just explode. I 
 think it's the fact your on a contained area unlike going from planet to planet or galaxy to galaxy 
 that it feels so realistic with only afew weapons, but to counter the fact that you have so few 
 weapons they give you the option to upgrade at stations using Power nodes, these will be found 
 throughout the game and the best part is you can feel the difference in the weapons as you upgrade 
 them, Hell I went around using nothing but the Plasma Cutter after I fully upgraded it. 
  
  I'm not going to get any further into this game because I don't want to spoil it for those of you 
 who haven't played it yet. Now onto the good and the bad of the game. The good: The game is almost 
 perfect from the atmosphere sounds to the way the guns handle to the visuals and the story is the 
 best I've seen in along time. The fact it also scared the crap out of me is a huge plus. The Negative: 
 the game makers added a melee system to kill the creatures if you wanted to but to me it felt like 
 the melee system was too clunky so I only really used the weapons. Hopefully they will enhance 
 the Melee system when they release a sequel to this game. Overall this game gets a 9.5 because 
 with the exception of the melee system it's perfect. So if your in the mood to play a scary game 
 in the dark and you like space I suggest you get this one. But don't play it for too long or you'll 
 scare yourself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty_wTF
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Superbe !
  I really enjoyed it; loved the animation style, though I didn't like the CG in it as much, but 
 that's personal taste. I also thought the animated comic was really well done (even more atmospheric 
 than Downfall) . I'd actually say I enjoyed the two "spin-offs" more than the game... not that I 
 disliked the game, but I felt Downfall and the comic handled the story/subject matter better; scarier 
 and more tragic. Wow. You must have a lot of problem with real life. Motion blur is extremely realistic, 
 and it's how the world works. Anything that moves too fast in real life has "motion blur". If it 
 was completely frame by frame animation, it would look very, very fake. Also, it would make it 
 almost impossible to create the game.
  ---
  ^
  I agree with the above statement (select an action below) ______________ Report Abuse To Moderator 
 Quote Reply Quick Quote Quick ReplyWow. You must have a lot of problem with real life. Motion blur 
 is extremely realistic, and it's how the world works. Anything that moves too fast in real life 
 has "motion blur". If it was completely frame by frame animation, it would look very, very fake. 
 Also, it would make it almost impossible to create the game. ---^I agree with the above statement 
 New Message Next Page Previous Page Page 1Forums - Dead Space - the deadspace animation looks SO 
 lame...
  Dead Space Summary | Reviews | News & Previews | Images | Videos | Downloads | Hints & Cheats | 
 Related Games | Forum | Check Prices Dead Space for Xbox 360 Dead Space Summary Dead Space Review 
 Dead Space Reader Reviews Dead Space News Dead Space Previews Dead Space Screens Dead Space Screenshots 
 Dead Space Images Dead Space Pictures Dead Space Movies Dead Space Gameplay Videos Dead Space Trailers 
 Dead Space Downloads Dead Space Files Dead Space Demo Dead Space Patches Dead Space Mods Dead Space 
 Maps Dead Space Cheats Dead Space Codes Dead Space Cheat Codes Dead Space FAQs Dead Space Walkthroughs 
 Dead Space Hints Dead Space Similar Games Dead Space Forum Dead Space Message Board Dead Space 
 Community Dead Space Prices Dead Space Shopping Search: home | pc | xbox 360 | ps3 | wii | ps2 
 | psp | ds | forums | news | downloads | videos | tech | features GameSpot Forums - Dead Space 
 - the deadspace animation looks SO lame... Worldwide | About Us | Advertise on GameSpot |Terms of 
 Use | Shop for Games | Help | Site Map UK. GameSpot. com | GameFAQs. com | GameRankings. com | Metacritic. com 
 | SportsGamer. com Top Games: Fable II | Fallout 3 | Spider-Man Web of Shadow Privacy Policy | Terms 
 of Use 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESI_EVILZERO
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  where can i start with this game its a great game brilliant survival horror great idea for a survival 
 horror to take place "space" no where to go no where to hide basicly and no one can save you the 
 enemies are great and having to dismember them to kill them is a great idea too it adds to the 
 difficulty all the different shapes and sizes of the necromorphs are good the dark areas make the 
 game more intense and frighting making you wonder if there is gonna be a nercomorph waiting to 
 jump out and kill you the plot line and the story is very good i like that the weapons are pretty 
 good since you start of with a plasma cutter used for mining its just like a handgun other weapons 
 such as the ripper and the contact beam and the line gun are pretty interesting never seen anything 
 like it in other games the suit is pretty awsome i like the suit the helmet with the glowing coming 
 through the lines on the helmet but the graphics arnt as good they aint bad but there could of 
 been better graphics i guess everything else makes up for it. this game is really good and would 
 recommend buying and playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Basically one of the first things I must say about Dead Space is WOW. Dead Space is an amazing 
 game that just about anyone could get pulled into and like it a lot. And in my opinion this is 
 EA's best work that they have done in a long time.
  
  The story is really good and that's one of the things I really like about this game. It is really 
 written also in some game you get the feeling been there done that with a lot of stories well not 
 the one in Dead Space. To start out you an engineer named Issac Clark on a ship called Hellion. 
 You are being sent to repair the USG Ishimura and to find you girlfriend who is a medical officer. 
 That's all I'm going to say about the story it really pulls you in.
  
  The weapons are really great at first they are ok but become a lot better when you upgrade them 
 and do all the stuff you need to with them. The sound of Dead Space is really awesome and really 
 matches the atmosphere that you in and the graphics is another great thing about the game. The 
 voice acting is really good I thank everyone who plays it will appreciate it.
  
  Overall Dead Space is a really great game and one everybody need to pick up and play especially 
 if you really like these types of game. It's really worth the money and you want be disappointed 
 with it at all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigi2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  I had watched all the animated comics and the developer diaries, and i was liking the look of the 
 game with all of the unique selling points of the game such as Zero G and Strategic dismemberment. 
 I didnt really know what to expect from the game, when i first played it i really got immersed 
 in the game and didnt want to put it down but at the same time i was tempted because so it were 
 so creepy. I completed it on the medium setting in about 8 and a half hours, i thought it was quite 
 short but the time you are playing every part of the game is great, there is the right amount of 
 zero g in the game and its not overly gory which is good.
  The gameplay is very solid, especially in the combat, the whole dismemberment strategy brings a 
 whole new level of gameplay to comabt and you are always thinking about how to slwo or stop each 
 difeerant monster by cutting of their limbs, i loved the comabt and thought it was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  It's always interesting when a big publisher like EA decides to create a new intellectual property. 
 It's not often that they do it, and it always seems to turn out one of two ways: awful or amazing. 
 The good news is that you can count Dead Space in the amazing category, as everything the game 
 does it does very well.
  
  Dead Space is a sci-fi survival horror game that takes place aboard the USG Ishimura, a "planetcracker" 
 mining ship. It appears that in the future, Earth is disparately low on resources. So these city 
 sized ships go around the solar system, and literally tear apart other planets for their resources. 
 Communication with the ship has been lost, however everyone expects a simple communications system 
 failure. Enter Isaac Clarke, part of a 5 person engineering team dispatched to repair the communications 
 system. Clark's girlfriend is aboard the Ishimura, giving him even more reason to be on this assignment.
 
  
  Shortly after making visual contact with the Ishimura, a landing mishap damages your ship, and 
 leaves you stranded. Strangely, no one is there to greet you as you exit the docking bay and proceed 
 through the facility. Shortly after, your priorities quickly shift from repairing the ship to saving 
 your own ass as your team is attacked by a few Necromorphs, which are strange creatures that seem 
 to have taken over the ship. As you progress through the game, you will come across numerous audio 
 and text logs that can be used to piece together what happened between the time they lost communications 
 and now. The story isn't exactly memorable, but it is interesting enough to keep you pressing forward, 
 and there are some pretty cool parts.
  
  Games with plots such as these live and die based on the atmosphere they are able to create, and 
 Dead Space nails it. It appears they took some cues from System Shock 2, and created an extremely 
 eerie atmosphere. The environment and audio design go a long way to creating an overwhelming sense 
 of fear and dread. Plus, the ship feels very believable, with varying decks devoted to things like 
 oxygen and food production or medical needs.
  
  While the presentation is nailed, the level design has some problems. First, the game is almost 
 completely linear. Objectives typically consist of finding objects you need to fix broken ship 
 systems. Once you find the part you need, the door to the next area opens where you repeat the 
 same process. This can get a bit tiring after a while and the game certainly would have benefited 
 from more varied (and interesting) objectives. The game also has a fair amount of backtracking, 
 although you usually end up exploring areas that were previously inaccessible. One aspect of the 
 level design I was impressed with was the zero gravity environments. Some parts of the ship are 
 completely gravity free, allowing you to walk on pretty much any surface. These rooms can be somewhat 
 challenging to navigate, but they are fun nonetheless and add an interesting twist to combat.
 
  
  The Necromorphs themselves are also pretty interesting. There is a good mix of different types, 
 from small ones that aren't all that threatening to larger ones that absorb ammo like a tank. Plus, 
 there are some great boss fights thrown in for good measure. Although it is a bit disappointing 
 that you see most of them within the first couple of hours of the game. However, they all behave 
 pretty differently, with each requiring a different strategy to dispatch.
  
  Fighting the Necromorphs is a lot of fun thanks to extremely tight controls. It took a little bit 
 of time to get used to moving and aiming, but once you do the game controls great. You will be 
 taking on groups of enemies, shooting off their limbs with ease. Or at least you better be, since 
 shooting off limbs is the best way to take them down. EA has coined the term "strategic dismemberment" 
 to describe how the combat works. Shooting enemies in the body or the head is generally the least 
 effective way to dispatch them. In fact, shooting them in the head might be the worst thing you 
 can do, as it often results in the enemy quickly charging you, swinging wildly in the air. Instead, 
 you want to focus on removing limbs, such as legs, to slow enemies down and cause a lot of damage. 
 This goes a long way towards giving the combat a fresh feeling.
  
  Since your character is an engineer and you are on a mining ship, you end up using a lot of tools 
 as weapons. The purpose of most of these tools is to rip rocks apart, so using them on flesh can 
 be pretty brutal. The weapons ultimately do fit in to the typical weapon archetypes such as pistols 
 and shotguns, however they are well disguised and are lot of fun to use. In addition to your weapons, 
 your suit has a kinesis module that can be used to pick up and throw items as well as a stasis 
 ability that can be used to temporarily freeze enemies.
  
  Adding one more layer of depth to the game is the upgrade system. Everything from your weapons 
 to your suit can be upgraded using power nodes. These nodes are scattered throughout the ship, 
 so exploring is encouraged. On weapons, nodes can be used for improvements such as increased damage, 
 capacity, or decreased reload time. On your suit, you can use nodes to increase your maximum health 
 or air. They can also be used to enhance your stasis or kinesis abilities. The nodes are rare, 
 so picking what to upgrade will be a big part of your strategy.
  
  Last but not least is the game's presentation. From a graphics standpoint the game looks great. 
 Good use of lighting and animation bring to world to life very nicely. But what really impressed 
 me was the game's interface. Every menu in the game shows up as a holographic projection from your 
 suit, so you are never taken out of the world when you go into your inventory, or read a text log. 
 It probably doesn't sound like a big deal, but once you start playing you will realize that it 
 really adds to the immersion.
  
  Overall, Dead Space is a great game. The atmosphere is incredible, the combat is extremely solid, 
 and the presentation is beautiful. The game is only hindered by some overly linear level design 
 and a somewhat mediocre story. But neither of those issues prevented me from enjoying the experience. 
 Anyone who enjoys survival horror games needs to pick up a copy of Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan_johnson
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The title might not sound much but coming from me, that's alot!
  
  Anyway, about the game. I've waited for almost a year for this game and finally it comes out, and 
 I couldn't have hoped for better! But i'll bring it down into smaller chunks.
  
  STORY: The story really grabbed me. I was expecting a Doom 3 sort of thing, but it was amazing! 
 You Isaac Clarke, just an everyday engineer who is sent to fix a communication array that is believed 
 to be broken because no one is responding. The ship is called the USG Ishimura. But when you get 
 there terrible things start to happen. And you have to go from place to place fixing the ship so 
 you can survive.
  
  COMBAT: I loved the combat in this. Instead of the usual "Aim for the head" Approach to games they 
 took a much better path. Dismemberment. You have to shoot the limbs off enemys to kill them! It 
 doesn't sound like much but it can be great. Seeing as how enemys, such as the pregenant, have 
 places you really don't want to shoot. As with the pregenant, if you shoot it's body, these spider 
 like creatures start pouring out.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics seemed pretty good, until I got a glimpse into space. Then I thought they 
 were AMAZING! 
  Not much can explain the graphics, just see for yourself!
  
  SCRIPTING: Why did I put that in here? All games have scripting right? Well, this game has great 
 sequences were a tenticle can even come out of a hole, grab you leg, and start dragging you to 
 the end. And you have to dismember it which is very hard as they have made aiming very hard in 
 those bits. From boses to random encounters, the scripting is amazing.
  
  DIFFICULTY: Most games I finish on hard the first time through, not this one. I started on hard, 
 it was to hard, I went to medium, it was to hard, I went to easy and I finally beat it. I have 
 now done it on medium and moving onto hard. The idea is: Upgrade your character on lower difficultys 
 so when you get to the hard ones. Your character is an a** kicking machine!
  
  The only down side to this game is that not many people know or care for it. I tell my mates and 
 they say "If it's so good, why havn't I heard of it?" It's greatlly underappreaciated. Spread the 
 word:
  
  Dead Space is AMAZING, a must buy!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Truly some of the best work EA has done in quite a while. However, I want 
 to break this down a little bit just to organize my thoughts.
  
  STORY:
  Very well written. The plot is original enough to where it isn't a "been there done that" sort 
 of deal, and let me tell you it isn't. You start the game of the ship the Hellion as an engineer 
 Issac Clark and you are being sent to repair the USG Ishimura. As a sort of subplot, you are also 
 there to find your girlfriend who is a medical officer there on board. You get there and realize 
 that this will be no mere repair and go home mission and you are immediately sent on a desperate 
 fight for your life. So overall, you won't feel as though you've heard this sort of thing before.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Very original. To clarify, in most games, the goal to killing enemies is generally as follows: 
 get gun, point at enemy, fire half-clip, they dead. In Dead Space, the idea is that while firing 
 ammo into your enemies will indeed kill them, it takes too much ammo and time to do so. As a result, 
 the way to kill your enemy is to dismember them. This is an original point in game play that actually 
 drew me in because rather than just being very gratuitous it actually serves as a major point in 
 gameplay. 
  
  WEAPONS:
  Overall, I haven't actually spent a lot of time messing around with the weapons in this game. For 
 the most part, I got by using nothing more than the basic plasma cutter. I've heard that all the 
 weapons are awesome once upgraded, however, this takes a while, so again, I haven't gotten around 
 to messing with this much.
  
  SOUND AND GRAPHICS:
  Simply amazing. The sound is truly well done as it completes the atmosphere that is required to 
 give this game its full effect and appeal. The voice overs are well done and the monsters are also 
 well voiced. The graphics also carry a vital role in bringing this across and they do so magnificently. 
 Overall, great presentation.
  
  OVERALL:
  The game presents itself very well and it plays very smoothly. Some critics may complain that Isaac 
 feels slow and his movements aren't what you might expect them to be. Honestly, the guy is no more 
 than an engineer and thusly is no master chief like you may seem to expect and will not go bolting 
 around at Mach 3. I feel that the combination of creepy atmosphere, a fairly conservative (ie not 
 enemy spamming but not like 5-6 a level) supply of enemies, and the ability to completely deck 
 out your Isaac to be the best engineer possible easily qualifies it as one of my overall games 
 of the year, although we still have Fallout 3, GoW2, and a few others still to go before we call 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalcyonJedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Since seeing the first previews trickling out for Dead Space late last year, I was admittedly somewhat 
 skeptical of the entire concept; but after seeing the previews, clips, and animated comics over 
 the last few months it erased whatever doubt I had and replaced it with a sense of anxiety as well 
 as dread. 
  
  Why dread? Because while this game isn't crap your pants scary, it does project a heavy sense of 
 creepiness and caution. From the creaks and hums of the Ishamura's inner workings, the whispers 
 of unseen beings, and the scratching and scurrying of god-knows-what in vents and ductwork; this 
 game will make you nervously anticipate turning every new corner or opening each new door time 
 and time again. Because you really never know what might appear, I've often found myself gripping 
 the controller tightly expecting something large and hideous to appear around the corner while 
 the music builds to a crescendo; only to see that the game was merely psyching me out.... the music 
 fading away as I turn the corner to stare down an empty hallway. 
  
  For those of you unfamiliar with the story and setting of Dead Space, I can provide a brief background; 
 but I highly encourage you to go and watch the Dead Space Animated Comics. First, because they 
 are free to download from XBL and PSN; and second, because they are very good and provide a sturdy 
 foundation for the events leading up to the beginning of the game. 
  
  Dead Space takes place on a huge starship called the Ishamura, that is classified as a "planet-cracker" 
 class ship because of its ability to literally crack open planets and moons in order to more effectively 
 mine and strip the rock of precious ores and metals. On the most recent planet to be "cracked" 
 by the Ishamura, a small colony has discovered an artifact resembling an obelisk that some are 
 dubbing "The Marker". This artifact has been brought up to storage on the Ishamura, and subsequently 
 all hell has broken loose. The crew has been driven insane by some sort of alien life that accompanied 
 the marker, and this alien form mutates human bodies into disgusting and gruesome monsters called 
 Necromorphs. After the entire crew is almost eradicated by this life form, communication with this 
 enormous ship ceases; and a small repair crew is dispatched to intercept the Ishamura in orbit 
 and restore communications on the ship. 
  
  Of course, immediately after arriving all hell breaks loose yet again, and your character (an engineer 
 by the name of Isaac Clarke) is separated from the other members of your team, forcing you to make 
 your way through the dark and deserted corridors of the Ishamura in an effort to find out what 
 happened to them, as well as restore the ship's systems so that you can leave this nightmare behind. 
 Without spoiling anything further, rest-assured that you will have a healthy dose of white-knuckle 
 exploration in dark and confined spaces, as well as a good case of the heeby-jeebies from all the 
 creepiness that surrounds you. Did I mention this game is creepy? Just checking...
  
  visually, Dead Space is amazing. The attention to detail by the art crew is incredible, with drops 
 of water leaking from pipes, steam rising from vents, and the way that the decks and walls are 
 scored and rusted from years of use and abuse. But most of all, the first thing you will notice 
 is the complete absence of a traditional HUD. Everything you need to know is all built into the 
 scene: your health and stasis charge (more on that later) are displayed to you by power meters 
 built into Isaac's Rig. The Rig is the specially crafted suit that protects Isaac from environmental 
 hazards as well as physical ones. This means that Isaac can survive for periods of time in a vacuum 
 as well as in zero-gravity. The armor protection from the Rig also provides some relief from the 
 menacing Necromorphs that seem to stalk you from one end of the ship to the other. Scattered across 
 the ship you will find computerized stores that allow you to purchase ammo, items, and upgrades 
 to your Rig using credits that you also find scattered about from the crew that previously inhabited 
 the ship. 
  Upgrading your Rig is a satisfying accomplishment because you will actually "see" the improvements 
 made to the Rig by upgrading it. Your health meter will gain additional "nodes" that travel down 
 the spine of the Rig, and the plating on Isaac's arms and legs will accumulate with each upgrade. 
 Another interesting feature is that Isaac is not some badass intergalactic Marine or Shock Trooper 
 - he is merely a communications/ship technician with a job to do and is stuck in the middle of 
 all this. As a result, Isaac moves and responds fluidly to your commands; but does so with a bit 
 of a lumber that gives you an idea of the size and density of the Rig that he wears. It's hard 
 to explain, but it definitely conveys the idea that Isaac is just a man; not a superhero, and the 
 Rig is an excellent piece of equipment, but sometimes unwieldy.
  
  The sounds and music in Dead Space are equally as superb as the graphics - the sense of abandonment 
 and uneasiness creep into every note. The score will ramp up in volume and tempo in anticipation 
 of an attack or a possible surprise to the player, but it will also do this intentionally as a 
 false alarm, creating a sense of nervousness and white-knuckle controller gripping. The sound effects 
 and music definitely have their roots in the original score to classic horror/sci-fi films such 
 as Aliens, Event Horizon, and The Thing. 
  
  The control and inventory system is definitely innovative, in that everything you do is conducted 
 in real-time. If you need to check your inventory, use an item, or read/listen/watch a communications 
 log; it is all done without exiting to a menu or pausing the game - Isaac's Rig has a holoprojector 
 of sorts built into the chest, which projects everything out in front of him a few feet. While 
 it may sound confusing in writing, you have to see this to appreciate it - it is incredibly innovative 
 and completely immerses you in the game by not taking you out of the action. When watching video 
 logs that you find during your exploration, you can even pan the camera around behind the video 
 projection to see it reversed like a mirror. Similarly, the inventory screen projects out in front 
 of Isaac, and its cool to see his head move as if he is reading through the list of items in front 
 of him as you are looking through them yourself. 
  
  The game is fairly lengthy, with a total of 12 Chapters (so I've read) . I'm about 10 hours in and 
 currently on Chapter 6, but you hardcore gamers can probably blow thru it all in a weekend with 
 a couple of marathon sessions. I will say this about the overall play of the game after reaching 
 about the halfway point - it reminds me *ALOT* of Bioshock, and that by no means is meant to sound 
 like a bad thing, or even a potential rip-off. The resemblance to Bioshock is mostly seen in how 
 the story is presented to the player, through audio recordings and the occasional video log - there 
 are VERY few cutscenes thus far. But again - this is by no means a bad thing, and Dead Space stands 
 very solidly on its own. The one minor nitpick I have with the game is that after the 3rd-4th chapter, 
 the missions and objectives definitely start to take on a "Go to Point A and Activate Object B, 
 then proceed to Point C" kind of linearity. While the objectives are varied in type, you often 
 find yourself trudging through the ship to 1 objective only to find that it leads into you continuing 
 to Point B. Overall, it's definitely not a deal-breaker and on the plus side; the game ramps up 
 the creepiness and scares along the entire ride. 
  
  This is a definite must-play for all sci-fi/horror fans on either the 360 or PS3. For me, it was 
 one of those rare games that I went out and bought on release day rather than renting it first 
 because the reviews were raving, and for good reason: this game is sweet. Even though there is 
 a barrage of high-profile releases on both systems in the coming weeks (Gears of War 2, Fallout 
 3, Resistance 2, Call of Duty: World at War) there is absolutely NO excuse for this game slipping 
 past you - it has a great story, incredible graphics and sound, and definitely stands among the 
 best-of-the-best in the horror genre. The Resident Evil series better bring its A-Game from here 
 on out... there's a new franchise in town, and Dead Space looks to give its competitors a boot-stomp 
 as vicious as Isaac's [you'll see what I mean ;) ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beno121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  dead space is a fun game with coll monsters that you can blow to pieces. the main story is your 
 on go to repair a mining ship but when you get on the ship most people are dead you have to find 
 away off the ship. you get a thew guns to use mainly to blow limbs of monsters. the thing i like 
 is the zero gravity zone and the work bench here you can upgrade your guns. there is lots of things 
 that may make you jump out of your seat in horror. but its that excitement off whats going to happen 
 makes you want to carry on playing. the bad things are you go in the same part of the sip to many 
 times which i got bored of seeing the same room. the good thing is the monsters it's like all the 
 body parts can be blown off the head, legs, waist and arms to top it all of i say get this game and 
 you will have a great time for a week or two depending on how much you play the game you can complete 
 this game in under a day depending on what difficulty you play the game on :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is a game that, for me anyway, flew in under the radar. I had little to no interest 
 in the game until it released and I started hearing reviews. I'm not a fan of horror per se; however, 
 Dead Space overcame my dislike of the genre. It's quite simply a fine game.
  
  PROS
  
  While none of Dead Space's elements stand out as being extremely strong, the game is better than 
 the sum of its parts. The story, while not amazing, is solid, and the voicework is top notch. Gameplay-wise, 
 Dead Space is a lot of fun, and succeeds at making the mundane creepy, largely in part because 
 there are many things which are not mundane within the game. When you're jumping at things like 
 the sound of water turning on, you know the makers of the game have succeeded at their goal.
  A lot has been made of the fact that Dead Space has a built-in health bar on your suit, and that 
 you need to actually look at any given gun to see your ammo. While this is a nice touch, I don't 
 think it's quite as revolutionary as some people are making it out to be. After all, stuff like 
 that has been done before (eg. 
  some of the weapons in Halo have similar visual cues) .
  
  CONS (1 minor spoiler within)
  
  The biggest caveat I have with Dead Space is that your 
 character, Isaac, pretty much follows the Gordon Freeman school of acting. Which is to say, he 
 never talks. Ever. (Minor spoiler: and only once do you ever see his face) . Quite frankly, I'm 
 tired of this sort of thing. Too many games use this technique in an attempt to get the player 
 to "project themselves" into the character. Frankly, I could use a little less "projecting" and 
 a little more storytelling. This technique works fine for someone like Gordon Freeman, who doesn't 
 have a lot of backstory, but for someone like Isaac, whose main driving force is to try and save 
 the woman he loves, well, not so much. I mean, the player knows absolutely squat about his relationship 
 with her, or what she's like, or why he/she should even care for her. It makes for hollow writing, 
 as well as a complete lack of character development. It's a shame, too, since if Isaac and Nicole 
 had been better-rounded characters, Dead Space could have potentially gone from a very good game 
 to a classic.
  I mentioned earlier that the story is solid, and it is. It's very well executed. That said, it's 
 also something that's been done before. Take the plot of Alien, and you by and large have the plot 
 of Dead Space. A little more originality would have been nice.
  The final criticism I have is that there isn't a huge variety of enemies. I didn't count them all, 
 but I'd say there's only around a dozen or so. It would've been nice if there were more.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  In a nutshell, Dead Space is what you would get if you crossed BioShock with 
 Alien. While it's not as good or original as the former, it's significantly better than the latter 
 (having said this, one should note I dislike all the Alien films) . While none of its elements stand 
 out as significantly better than anything else, the sum of its parts is greater than its whole. 
 For anyone who likes horror or action it's a must play, and even people like me who don't necessarily 
 like one of these genres (in my case, horror) , it's worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidpro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game has you engrossed right from the beginning, I wasn't expecting such a great intro and 
 gameplay, although a 3rd person shooter, its not so clunky to play as Dark Sctor and easier to 
 control the character. Absolutley stunning graphics, great monsters, amazing sound effects. These 
 sound effect are loud, and this game is a gorefest sci fi shooter with interesting twists. The 
 weapons are great fun, and the combat sytem of dismemberment of alien monsters is innovative to 
 say the least. Stunning graphically, jolting cutscenes that keep you wanting more and more and 
 that is exactly what you get from this. This game is incredibley gorey. I never heard of Dead Space, 
 this was an impulse buy, and what an impulse I am glad I had. A must for 360/PS3 fans out there.
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing! Not only is the game play superb, it is from a technical standpoint 
 very well made! 
  Seldom I have played a game that kept me on the edge of my seat from the beginning all the way 
 to the end! 
  You play the role of Isaac. You and the crew needs to investigate a distress call coming from a 
 mining ship. Once there all hell brakes loose. The storyline keeps you wanting for more chapter 
 after chapter. 
  And this game is actually scary! In each room, every hallway or area is different throughout the 
 whole game, so you never know what to expect and is in that way never boring. 
  Now something about the graphics and level design, they are one of the best I've ever seen in any 
 game. I used to level design myself in the past so I know how hard it is to implement not only 
 attractive surroundings but also blend in 'puzzles' (like falling down bridges so you can cross 
 other sections) and that's extremely well done in Dead Space. Monsters are very well textured and 
 animated, on top of that add sharp looking rendering and AMAZING boss fights and you are coming 
 closer and closer in the direction of what Dead Space is.
  Now something about the sound. The sound is, you guessed it, superb as well! A lot of games fail 
 in this category, not so much how sound effects,.. eeeh sound but how they are implied in the game. 
 For example in Dead Space, when something happens far away, it actually sounds FAR away! So you 
 know the next time you hear loud screaming you know there something unfriendly close behind you. 
 I also found it cool when you enter actual space from time to time, monsters and shooting your 
 gun sound muffled. 
  Zero gravity has to be one of the most innovative concepts for this genre. Basically what it does 
 it let's the player enter areas where there is no gravity but you still 'cling' to the floor because 
 of your suit, but everything else floats around you, ammo, weapons even limbs and blood splatters, 
 AMAZING! But the coolest of all is that it lets you 'fly' to points that you want, let's say you 
 aim at the ceiling, once you fly to it you 'cling' to the ceiling which makes the ceiling become 
 the floor! So the whole level will turn upside down, you can do this pretty much wherever you want 
 in zero gravity environments.
  There's also an upgrade system, once in awhile you encounter a 'store' in the game that lets you 
 buy ammo or new weapons, store some of the items you found in the game and can't carry with you 
 in you inventory, upgrade your suit. Or a 'bench' that lets you upgrade weapons and your RIG (suit) 
 that you bought in the store. BRILLIANT!
  Another thing real quick is the HUD, most games of this genre the screen is cluttered with health 
 bars, armor bars, ammo bars, weapon selection etc etc. In this game that's all integrated in Isaac's 
 suit, his spine shows the health meter, the amount of ammo is clearly displayed on the current 
 weapon that you are using and the amount of stasis (which lets you slow down time and move objects 
 (called telekinesis, used in combat and to solve puzzles) . Your inventory, maps, objective etc 
 menu pops up as a futuristic floating screen IN the game which makes it feels more that you are 
 part of the environment.
  You also hardly never get lost or stuck thanks to a glowing blue trail that shows you where to 
 go next, this is activated by pressing down the controllers right stick. COOL!
  
  This game you definitely a MUST PLAY! You'll be truly amazed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sindath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Dead Space Review (Good and Bad)
  
  Good
  
  - All the weapons you can have feel very powerful when you use them
  
  - There is no interface 
 the game keeps you in the game its all virtually menu in your helmet to see what you have in your 
 inventory, Map, and Missions
  
  - Nice breed of enemies in the game, and the bosses are just a masterpiece to add to the game
 
  
  - One of the best horror games out there it always keeps you on the edge of your seat when your 
 playing and your always checking if you have enough ammo for the next room
  
  - Good story even though your main character dosen't talk at all really the story has a nice twist 
 at end. Not just a game where its shoot and kill game over.
  
  - Upgrade weapons and powers 
  
  - The Armor suits are a cool 
  
  
  Bad
  
  - The 
 map it's nice but sometimes confusing especially when your first starting out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linusoscar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Ok there's a lot to be said about this game. Graphics, sound, game play, are all above expectations 
 and this game if frightening! Im a huge fan of survival horror games Condemned, Silent Hill, Resident 
 Evil, Doom, etc but Dead Space takes the cake! This game is well constructed and beautifully designed. 
 The environment feels very real so it helps suck you in... sometimes i find myself looking around 
 marveling at the level design leaving me completely exposed to baddies looking to tear me to shreds. 
 Which brings me to another innovative design concept. there are no screens to pause the game play 
 to access maps, data logs, equipment/ammo, etc... you have to do it in real time through a projection 
 which comes off of your suit. This really works effectively to making you feel open to enemy attacks 
 and your hands will sweat as you fumble to access a new oxygen canister before you suffocate when 
 you are outside into zero atmosphere. The voice acting is better than most games out there and 
 the story is great too. One thing I like about this game is the character you play doesnt speak... not 
 many games do this but I think it is the best way to get the player immersed into the game and 
 story... I mean for me, when I hear the character I am playing speak or have thoughts of their own 
 I cant imagine I am that person... so when a zombie or alien humanoid jumps out to kill me I am 
 more or less completely removed emotionally from the character and subsequently not really frighted 
 at all. That doesn't happen in this game.
  The weapons in Dead Space are fun, the levels, although linear, are interesting and beautifully 
 designed. Dead Space offers upgradeable weapons armor and equipment too bringing the game as a 
 whole to that next level. 
  If you are looking for a game to dive into and that will creep you out yet satisfy your need or 
 blood and keep you entertained and on the edge of your seat this is it! You will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Its amazing... im in shock... Not just that game is amazing, which it is; But that EA have actually 
 created a game that isn't a movie cash-in full of glitches. It screams with quality, the graphics 
 are great the sound and voice acting is quality stuff. And its the first real game that actually 
 challenges Resi 4. You play as Isaac an engineer sent on a ship. (sorry can't remember the name) 
 To find out whats wrong. It turns out the ship is plauged in alien filth and it goes from a search 
 mission to a survival mission, as you find yourself running away from the nasties. The story is 
 pretty cliche and predictable, (i guessed the ending almost straight away) but that doesnt stop 
 the game throwing you into this amazing futuristic world. Its clearly based on films like John 
 carpenters The Thing, and Alien, which is great. The gameplay is 90% action and you get many weapons 
 to play around with, but you also get a couple of things that make this game diffrent. You get 
 an ability that can slow doors enemys or anything really, to solve puzzles or kill easier. The 
 other is a telekenetic device that lets you pick up anything (within reason) and again solve puzzles 
 or fire them at the alien scum.
  
  Graphics: Defo one of the top dogs on the market today. So of the creatures are sick to look at. 
 Plus lighting etc is amazing.
  
  Sound: Isaac doesnt say out, but the other voice acters are great. And the overall sound is top 
 stuff.
  
  Gameplay: Its resi 4 throwing you into a space ship. Theres also bits were zero gravity comes into 
 play and you jump round solving puzzles. It actually breaks things up abit.
  
  **** Box: Combat can get a little repetative at times. The lack of ammo. Just how easy the overall 
 game is knocks the scare factor out the window. Its only a 10 hour run threw first time. Why is 
 there respawn points?.
  
  Overall: This really is a great game. Not really scary but who cares when the game is this fun. 
 If you like horror games or action games this is the way for you. Not one to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breakitapart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  I am giving it a 9.5 because a 10 is for a game that totally rocks on every level. I would have 
 to say that the only weakness I felt was that it was not long enough. I think that anyone who likes 
 Space Horror movies to pick this up. The story was pretty neat and the game play and cut scenes 
 were top notch. 3rd person shooter view really is the crme de le crme of this game as you see 
 your character get pummeled left and right by these creatures that resemble The Flood from halo. 
 But unlike the flood you have to strategically dissect them limb from limb to kill them and survive. 
 Unlike Halo 3's lame campaign and utter lack of desperation- Dead Space has it all in spades. The 
 last time I was down to just one weapon and 1 clip was in the first Halo- Combat Evolved. That 
 was the experience of balance that made the game great. I felt that urgent need of desperation 
 in Dead Space several times and made it out alive. It's these moments of balance with a great interface 
 that make a great game. I really appreciate what EA has done on this new IP and look forward to 
 the next installments.
  Replay ability is also high due to the RPG elements incorporated in leveling up your armor and 
 weapons. 
  Just play it already- you will love it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superkiller27
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good that it made me want to post the 1st review in the 7 years that I created 
 my Gamespot account.
  
  Graphics:
  I don't know much about shadows and lighting and all the crap that demands a double Gforce 9800 
 bull/"$" but I think this game is graphically on par with the most recent games. Compared to Crysis, 
 I think this looks a lot better even though the environment reminds me of Doom3 technology/engine.
 
  
  The art design is probably what makes up for the fancy lighting and shadows or whatnot (if there 
 are even any flaws at all) . The environment is filled with details and many interactable objects, 
 sort of like Bioshock. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I was actually stimulated the entire game, there is barely any time where you can sit back and 
 chill. Monsters can randomly pop from ceilings and walls so you always need to have a lot of awareness. 
 Even when you are pretty sure that no monsters can assault you, say like when you're close to an 
 upgrade shop, there's always a chance something will come ramming you. In Bioshock, most of the 
 spawn points were somewhat predictable after the first few levels. In this game however, you never 
 know where they can come from. With the help of the really amazing sound design, you are always 
 on your toes during combat.
  
  There are tiny puzzles around the game that sorta reminds me of Half Life 2. Some of the HL2 puzzles 
 were really annoying and slowed down the pace of the game, but here it isn't too bad and are mostly 
 fun and easy to solve. The boss fights, if you can consider them as puzzles, seemed a bit dull 
 and too easy compared to the rest of the levels.
  
  The unique 3rd person view of this game makes it that much better. At 1st it is really frustrating, 
 especially on a PC. The compensation is that you get to see your character getting flopped by monsters, 
 it creates a truly unique sense of struggle when you actually see yourself being molested by a 
 big black zombie that's spilling maggots into your face compared to just having some white stuff 
 spamming your screen with the camera shaking like a vibrator. I've seen a lot of newbs complain 
 about how it's too hard to aim and shoot... I think you guys just suck at video games and should 
 just stick to easy stuff. I have no doubt anyone who played CS or any shooter that requires precise 
 aiming will only take 30 minutes tops to get used to the 3rd person view and do great LIMBSHOTS 
 instead of headshots in no time. 
  
  The storyline is also truly immersive, although not as original as some other titles. But that 
 doesn't really matter for this genre; they just want to freak you out. Compared to Bioshock though, 
 I still think bio`s story owned way more then this in terms of originality. 
  
  Sound:
  
  I never thought sound could be so realistic in a freaking video game. I don't even know how 
 they programmed it so perfectly. The music is just right, and plays at the perfect time. For example, 
 if there's a monster around you will hear some creepy lurking music as well as him making the sounds 
 as his body clings to the metal floor. Then if you turn around and shout WTF IS THAT "/$/$ the 
 music will instantly switch to some crazy OMFG"/$!!"/!" music to freak you out even more. Maybe 
 it is just spinning 180 degrees and detecting a zombie on the screen that triggers it, but whatever 
 it is... it's amazingly well timed. 
  
  In conclusion, this game reminds me a lot of Bioshock, as I mentioned it several times. They are 
 so much alike in every way, except Deadspace trumps it in almost every aspect. Perhaps they learned 
 from them; the physics behind corpse movements are pretty much identical. But whatever it is, they 
 got the right formula for it.
  
  I give this game a f"/$king well deserved 10/10. I don't know why Gamespot didn't give it a 10, 
 the retard reviewer didn't even point out a single flaw yet gave it a 9.0. GS should fire that 
 newb reviewer or just make him a Slave forum police or something. 
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy217
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't looking forward to Dead Space. I thought it would be another Resident Evil/Doom knock-off. 
 But I had to know my facts, so I played it at my friend's house. Man, was I wrong! It brings something 
 new to the table, like the story and graphics. It was totally scary. Much more than what I thought! 
 In my opinion, this game is a must buy! I also like the HUD. It's like a projection onto thin air. 
 It's like a screen within a screen! It was challenging for me considering I played it on the hardest 
 difficulty, but I had fun. The suspense that you know that there is going to be another freakish 
 mutant monstrosity around the corner. And 99% of the time, for some reason, you freak out when 
 it does appear. It is the randomness of the attack that scares the crap out of you. The graphics 
 are phenomenal and the story was well thought-out. I give this awesome game a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynecrow
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I'd like to say I don't normally write reviews but after playing this game I felt i needed 
 to share my thoughts. 
  
  I initially started playing this game on easy due to being scared purely by the hype, then after 
 about 3 hours I felt I wasn't doing the game justice. The (ugly & gross looking) creatures were 
 too easy to kill and the amount of ammo lying around was in abundance which didn't make it feel 
 like a survival game, which this is intended to be. So i started again on hard. Its worth noting 
 here you can't change the difficulty setting during a campaign and will have to start from the 
 begining again. But on hard it is now a survival! There is less ammo lying around and the creatures 
 take more to kill... you will now have to take off limbs strategically and use your special abilities 
 to conserve ammo. I was killed 2 times in about 50 mins on Hard and none in the 3 hours on easy! 
 
  
  The graphics in the game are brilliant, the lighting and smoke effects will keep you looking out 
 and chasing shadows, while on the edge of your seat! The audio is even better, the backing soundtrack 
 is worthy of any horror movie and the simple sound of a bottle falling from a table will make you 
 jump out your seat! Although being frightened I felt compelled to carry on, thats testament to 
 the story. 
  
  There a few little niggles though; it can be a little repetitive, a bit of back tracking (but there 
 are still surprises going over old ground) and there isn't a wide array of enemies. We shouldn't 
 dwell on these because the game does what it intends to do... Scare! 
  
  Play this game on hard to do it justice and be prepared to get scared! If that's what you want 
 from a game you must buy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mall69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely astounding graphics, basically the same bar, in relation to other current releases, 
 that Doom 3 hit when it was released in 2004.
  Awe inspiring science fiction environment, basically the same one that Doom 3 incorporated in it's 
 game when it was released in 2004... although no where near as immersive and thorough in detail. 
 Dead Space reminds you repeatedly that you're playing a video game and the desolate ship is there 
 for the single purpose of giving you miles of industrialized corridors to walk through where the 
 supply of mutants never dwindles... but, ironically, it does. There are far too many stretches 
 where there's just nothing to shoot at. 
  Idiotically stoic and silent main character, basically the same one that shot his way through hell 
 and back on Union Areospace's Mar's Research and Mining facility back in.... yep.... 2004.
  Audio and video logs scattered across the ship to help flesh out the story, add emotional impact 
 and depth to the characters and give you something cool to watch, basically the same ones that 
 were strewn around the Alpha and Delta Labs in Doom 3, which, if you've been reading this laughable 
 review, has already been established as coming out in 2004. 
  Alright, enough about Doom 3, just couldn't help myself. If you've played both games, it's painfully 
 obvious where the guys at EA Redwood found their inspiration, and unfortunately, came up just a 
 bit short. It is a great game, but, overall just a little disappointing. It's certainly not scary 
 and far to often relies on backtracking and silly horror game conventions that detract from it's 
 originality. The monsters pretty much jump out right on cue the moment you finally finish whatever 
 task, or mulitple thereof, you've been given. Walk to the where the key card's lying, no monsters; 
 pick it up... Bang, Smash, Gurggle-gurggle-scream.. monsters. Rinse, repeat.
  Strategically dismembering whatever's running at you to finally put it down definitely helps this 
 game along, and if not for that one unique concept, Dead Space would limp towards it's ending as 
 something beautiful to look at, but sadly indistginuishable from others like it. 
  Finally, with the PS3 and 360's online capabilities, it's almost unforgivable that a game like 
 this could get released without co-op play. This game screams co-op, but then again, zipping around 
 in a virtual science fiction world completely overun by shrieking, twisted mutants might have made 
 the developers of this game a little uncomfortable with the inevitable comparisons between this 
 and another game... released in 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warbringer_95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best ever! Get it. It is by far the scariest game I have ever played and one of 
 the few entries into the genre in the past few years. Not to mention the graphics are gorgeous. 
 Though the entire game (besides the still human character models, are somewhat lacking graphically) 
 is amazing, the story is by far the best part. The beginning and end are some of the best I've 
 seen, and the way the story is delivered is unique and keeps you immersed, since there are no cutscenes. 
 This means you are always vulnerable. And the game also does a great job of keeping you feeling 
 vulnerable. You are never confident that you will be able to handle whatever comes out of the vents 
 next. 
  
  Final verdict, 9 to 9.5. Get the game and play it in the dark with the surround sound cranked up. 
 It might help scare kids "trick or treating" this Halloween. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazowen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I may be biased as I am a horror fan but I found this game to be hugely addictive. The gameplay 
 is easy to pick up and not as cumbersome as some of the same genres counterparts. The story is 
 immersive and intriguing and will leave you begging for more. This brings me onto the only gripe 
 with the game is that it felt a little short. The graphics are some of the best I have seen and 
 plays out the violence sickly and lush all at once. I hope that this game is not a sleeper hit 
 and gives EA that boost to make more games in this series. Furthermore I hope it gives them that 
 push to make games not associated with sports and movie tie-ins as now they have proved they can 
 make fantastic games outside of there self inflicted pigeon hole. In conclusion if scary games 
 are what you enjoy, then I assure you that this game will fit nicely into your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwa3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Its what the titles says.
  
  Gameplay is like Resident Evil 4 - 3rd person survival horror shooter.
  
  Style - reminiscent 
 of Bioshock. Silent protagonist meets aggressive locals with an unraveling plot on a strange location. 
 all in-game graphics with no cutscene and very listen scripted camera control. Very Bioshock.
 
  
  Story - Cross between Alien and Event Horizon. You like those shows.. you are sure to wet your 
 panties at the game story.
  
  Basically in a nutshell as I break it down for yall.
  Good graphics.. NOT THE BEST. 8.5
  
  AWESOME SOUND.. 5.1 is the only way to fully utilise the 
 scripted sound effects. Horror is all in the sound. 9.5
  
  Balanced difficulty, Intelligent A. I. - does the job of zombie aggro relentless aliens. Don't expect 
 them to take cover and flank, but they definitely act the part. 
  
  Suspenseful story. Part Event Horizon.. Part Bioshock.. the story unfolds as the odds get stacked 
 against you. Its almost funny when you think about it. Can't say more. You are going to have to 
 check it out. Suffice to say, it's not mystery, but its engaging enough for you to care. 7.5
  
  Good action.
  
  Resident Evil 4 meets Bioshock meets Alien meets Event Horizon.
  
  
 Beautiful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxdiogo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game rocks in every aspect. The graphics are gorgeous, some times makes you stop playing just 
 to admire the bloodbath in the room, making you go deeper and deeper in the horror atmosphere of 
 the game. The weapons, the sharp controls, 0-G areas and combat, the intelligence of the enemies 
 and the new type of "cut their limbs" scheme makes this game shine even more. If you're a fan of 
 horror-survival games, you MUST play Dead Space, best game for 360 in my opinion. I don't know 
 why editors give Dead Space 9.0 and to GTA4 a 10.0, both have its bugs, and both are masterpieces. 
 And if you want to go deeper in the story, try the Dead Space Downfall movie, one more point to 
 Dead Space, since story has been one of the most attractive in games nowadays. Sorry GTA4, Dead 
 Space is the new sh*t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_rulez_500
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Dead space is an outstanding game that has every single aspect of it made perfectly. This horrifying 
 adventure will give you one hell of a good time 
  
  Graphics : the graphics in the game is remarkable. The details on Isaac's suit, the terrifying 
 looks of the necromorphs, and the amazing graphics of the bloody rooms that you play through.
 
  
  Sound : The sounds in this game are the best sound effects ever made for a video game. The scary 
 and chilling music, the screams of the necromorphs, the sound of Isaac's boots as u stomp and crush 
 those mutants, and the audio stingers, which kept me jumping throughout the game xD .
  
  Game-play : Great game play that you never get bored of tearing of those freaks limbs and crush 
 them. A great selection of weapons that gave you the pleasure to rip off their limbs with style 
 ^^
  
  Dead space is one of the best games I have played in my life and it shouldn't be missed by anyone.
 
  
  Great Job EA games, a perfect 10/10 for ! Dead Space ! =D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob_dAmAgE
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Have Isaac Clark, star of the recent space survival horror game "Dead Space" stand next to any 
 of the other characters in the game and you will see that he is significantly shorter, less physically 
 endowed, and even rather sheepish. The illusion being that Isaac is one person against insurmountable 
 odds that even he feels he has no chance against. Isaac is not your typical video game meathead 
 and for that reason more than any other, Dead Space gets my vote for game of the year. Personally, 
 I tend to always search out games that will completely immerse me in its narrative and hypnotize 
 me into believing that I'm really a part of this other world. Dead Space is one of the few games 
 similar to "Bioshock" "Kane & Lynch: Dead Men" and "Half-life" where once you set foot in its world, 
 it is impossible to leave until you've seen it to the end. Playing as a character that would rather 
 not be in the situation he/she is in is what I find most compelling about playing these games. 
 So many times during Dead Space did I ask myself, "What would I do in this situation? Who should 
 I trust? Do I resort to simple animal instinct or do I try and collect myself and try to think 
 my way out?" It is for these reasons why having a character like Isaac Clark is so detrimental 
 to a survival horror game. 
  Answering a distress call from a gigantic mining spaceship called the "USG Ishimura" a small group 
 of maintenance workers are thrown into a world of hurt. The Ishimura is a bloody mess of emptiness, 
 crawling with half-human/half- alien monsters know as "necromorphs" who want nothing more than 
 to rip you limb from limb. Upon entering the Ishimura, the power goes out, screams are heard, and 
 the next thing you know, you are now alone and separated from your team. 
  Combat in Dead Space is different from all other games. Since you are a miner, you really don't 
 have the typical firearms one would see on a soldier. Isaac uses augmented mining tools to help 
 him on his way. The plasma gun (a projectile blast of plasma) , the ripper (a saw like creation) , 
 and the contact beam (works sort of like a telekinetic shotgun) are fun and extremely satisfying 
 to use. When an enemy attacks, the idea is that you must completely mutilate it before it dies. 
 Called "strategic dismemberment," one must shoot off the limbs before the body can die. Other "non 
 weapons" include the ability to lift objects via telekinesis (kinesis) and the ability to freeze 
 enemies (stasis) . 
  Adding innovation to the game play are the "zero g" moments of Dead Space. No gravity means that 
 you will have to float around a particular area, fight off enemies and try and solve a particular 
 puzzle. Nothing compares to the thrill and nausea of jumping onto the ceiling and having your perspective 
 completely turned inside out, all while fighting off necromorphs!!!! 
  Another great thing about Dead Space is its complete lack of a heads up display. Everything you 
 need to know about Isaacs's health is visible on the back of his suit. Menu's are accessed in real 
 time by pressing the select button, and holding down the right thumbstick gives you a rather crude 
 (yet unbelievably helpful) laser pointed direction as to where you should be going next- so you 
 do not have to constantly be pulling up your map.
  Dead Space features tons of "jump out of your seat" scares, gore and action that must be seen in 
 motion to be believed. With a near perfect story, brilliant characters, innovative and fun game 
 play, Isaac demands you play Dead Space to the very cryptic end!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  As the game states "In Space, nobody can hear you scream" . However, that does not hold true for 
 my gaming cave where I spent the 12 hrs playing this game. If you were my neighbor, you probably 
 would have thought that I was getting tortured with all the screams and "F" bombs that I was letting 
 out while playing this game. Dead Space does a GREAT job of bringing the good ole days of what 
 it was like to play Resident Evil for the first time, just enough shock and creep effect to make 
 you sneak around every corner, and open every door with gun drawn. 
  
  
  I mentioned before, Dead Space is a brilliant mixture of a few other games. Elements from Doom 
 3, RE4, BioShock and Half-Life can all be found inside this sleeper of a masterpiece. 
  
  From Doom 3: The over all environment of being inside a dead ship, or ghost ship. It's dark, things 
 go "clank" and you only get to use your flashlight when you weapon is drawn.
  
  From RE4: I guess it is mostly the way you use your view, with the main character model being just 
 slightly off center of the screen, as if you are looking over his shoulder most of the time. 
 
  
  From BioShock: The way the story unfolds, mostly through audio tapes that you find, and text blogs. 
 Also, the way you are given to up-grade you weapons through a "store" where you can buy items such 
 as ammo, guns and med kits, to the use of a bench where you can add stronger attributes to the 
 weapons. Also, you get a special power unit that is very similar to something from BioShock. 
 
  
  Half-Life: I am talking about the original game, and Half-Life 2. From chasing a elusive "G-Man" 
 type character, to using a anti-gravity type weapon.
  
  
  Story: 9
  
  The story here is top notch, and is delivered in multiple ways, and the best thing about it is 
 that it's detailed, in depth, and never really interrupts the flow of the game. Most of the time 
 you can continue to play as you listen to audio files, or read text blogs. There are cut scenes, 
 but they seem few and fart between yet they do a great job of moving things forward.
  
  I felt the need to subtract (1) from this because at times, I was distracted by just playing the 
 game while I should have been listening to the story I am sure I might have missed some important 
 story line information a few times.
  
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Please do not do this game a injustice by playing on a standard TV. They may not be the flashiest 
 out there, but they are very clean, and have TONS of detail on even the smallest of objects on 
 the ship. The use of steam, smoke, flashing lights, darkness and textures really help submerge 
 the player into the reality of the ship. Character models are very well done, and your main dude 
 is very cool to look at as you upgrade this suit.
  
  I had to subtract (.5 ) from this simply due to that at some points, even in a pitch black room 
 the game was still just a little to dark. 
  
  
  Audio: 10
  
  
  I said this before in a blog, I moved my entire surround sound system from the living room into 
 the spare room where I play my 360 just for this game. The audio is simply AWESOME, it really makes 
 you feel as if there ARE things falling down, and running around you that you can't see. Some of 
 the monsters "moans and groans" will bring goose pumps to you as they sneak around behind walls, 
 ceilings and floors! I won't even mention the very quiet "whispers" and singing of "twinkle twinkle 
 little star" that you find in one level! The great use of bass really gives "weight" to objects 
 such as doors when they open/close, or when you push or drop things. 
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  In general, game play is smooth, and controls are easy to use. One of the neatest things I 
 fell the game does is brings your inventory to what I will call a "floating" screen, almost like 
 a picture-in-picture where You can still move, run or use your weapons as you look for something 
 in your inventory. It's very cool and helps bring the whole futuristic feeling to the game. Never 
 once did I fell like looking for things, or using items got in the way of playing the game, never 
 slowed it down.
  
  Using the various weapons was simply enjoyable, each one has it's own unique way of being used. 
 One thing that NEVER gets old is the ability to slow down a enemy so you can dismember it and watch 
 the pieces parts float away in slow motion :)
  
  Even though this whole game takes place on one ship, they did a great job of making each level 
 seem different. They did make use of "backtracking", but again they did it in a way that just did 
 not get old. 
  
  At times, you are forced to enter a "zero-gravity" environment, and I must say, if you get motion 
 sickness or are susceptible to vertigo, then those areas may be a little difficult for you. They 
 are done in such a way that what was up, is now down and left is right and just figuring out how 
 to get across a room can be a challenge!
  
  I had to subtract (1) here because at times I really wanted to carry, or use more than four weapons. 
 You actually do get to carry all of them, but can only have access to use four of them at any given 
 time. Anything that you have above the four, sits in your storage area, you can only swap them 
 out when you visit a store. 
  
  
  
  TILTT : 10
  
  In the end, for a game that was not even on my radar, I REALLY enjoyed this game from start to 
 finish. Took me a total of about 12hrs, 15 minutes, which I am sure can be done quicker, but I 
 ran around a lot just looking in ever corner and every door. Achievements are fun to get, and killing 
 in the game NEVER got old. This is one of the very few games that I started over again, right after 
 I finished my first run through!
  
  
  Overall. 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I had never even heard of Dead Space until the reviews started coming out. The average was around 
 9 when it first got released, so it definitely got my interest. After reading a few different reviews, 
 I decided I was going to just pick it up, as I needed something to hold me off until fallout 3 
 :)
  
  Now, despite knowing it had favourable reviews, I had no idea that it was going to be THIS good. 
 Honestly. The presentation of the game is jaw dropping. Graphics and audio are top notch, it's 
 easily the best looking 360 game I've ever seen. Yes, it's mostly close quarters, but even when 
 you're in a massive room with tons of details and things going on, you will NEVER SEE A SINGLE 
 FRAME RATE DROP. Oh, and have I mentioned, not one bug so far? No clipping? I wished more games 
 were released in such a flawless state. In the zero gravity areas, you'll be tempted to just stare 
 at how cool things look as they're suspended in space; limbs or dead aliens will bleed, dust debris 
 is everywhere and it's just a sight to behold.
  
  Folks with a good surround sound system and who aren't afraid to crank it up are in for a treat. 
 Best sound and music of any game I've ever played in my life. This is the cream of the crop of 
 audio, and it's quite important for a survival horror action game like Dead Space, and let me tell 
 you now, they nailed it.
  
  As for the gameplay, Dead Space obviously borrows quite a few elements we've seen from other games, 
 as well as it's story, but to me that's fine. Games always build upon other games, it's expected, 
 but Dead Space not only does this flawlessly, but manages to add quite a few elements of its own 
 in the mix that are instantly recognizable.
  
  One of those elements is the holographic displays of Isaac, you, the main character, and also of 
 the ship itself. Your inventory, map, or video feeds from other characters in the game are all 
 projected from your suit a few feet away from your head, and you can rotate the camera to see different 
 angles. It's beautiful and simple, and it's one of those inventions you wonder where they had been 
 all this time. Most of the ship's computers are also displayed in this fashion, and although it 
 probably doesn't sound like much, it really looks awesome and adds to the immersion of the game.
 
  
  Getting back to the actual gameplay, you have your typical survival horror action elements here 
 but with a lot of new stuff tossed in the mix. You'll get plenty of scares, and the game's made 
 me jump quite often and I don't shock easily. You'll spend a lot of time blasting away aliens and 
 there are a few puzzle elements in the game as well, and I personally find they are perfectly placed 
 and aren't too difficult; perfect just to give you a break from the shooting elements. Now, blasting 
 away wierd aliens has never been this much fun as you have quite an arsenal at your disposal, and 
 thanks to the store and workbenches, you can upgrade them to make them more powerful, have more 
 ammo, reload faster and so forth. You can carry 4 at a time but have access to much more. The store 
 itself allows you to buy ammo, weapons, health packs, armor suit upgrades and things of the sort, 
 but it also allows you to store stuff if so your inventory isn't always full. There is quite a 
 bit of inventory management to do if you want to remain effective, but it's not tedious in the 
 least and serves to add more to the gameplay strategy.
  
  There are also other goodies you have at your disposal, such as the kinetic system that allows 
 you to pick up objetcs from a distance or throw them at enemies (sort of like the gravity gun in 
 halflife 2) and also a statis system that allows you to slow down enemies or objects. For example, 
 when I get swamped by a gang of enemies, I'll slow down a few of them, rendering them harmless 
 for a few seconds, giving me enough time to find cover and kill off the rest. Statis is also necessary 
 for certain puzzle elements in the game, as is the kinetic system, but what's nice is that you 
 can use these things throughout the game as you see fit in BATTLE, not only for solving puzzles!
 
  
  I'm probably missing quite a lot of detail but if I can leave you with words of wisdom, it would 
 be these: if you enjoy survival horror games, or even games such as gears of war (3rd person shooters) 
 and don't mind being scared, you simply have to play this game. Contender for game of the year 
 FOR SURE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  WOW, what an amazing game! This is definitely one of the best games out there. I'm not a fan of 
 many horror games but Dead Space's presentation and gameplay made me love it just as much as other 
 horror games like Resident Evil 4 and Bioshock.
  
  The first thing that instantly grabbed me were the beautiful graphics and in-game HUD. The game 
 looks terrific and it's filled with lots of detail. The ship's levels are eerie and dark in some 
 spots and bright and colorful in other spots. You can sense the horror of what happened to the 
 people on board from the bloody broken locations. The enemies also look totally gruesome and creepy 
 but they're not quite as memorable or disturbing as enemies from games like Silent Hill. As for 
 our hero, Isaac's armor looks totally kickass and he animates very realistically. I was also quite 
 impressed with the famed in-game HUD. It is absolutely SEAMLESS. Everything works really well and 
 it looks great in action. The video logs and menu system is projected in the air in front of you 
 which is quite refreshing to look at. My only gripe is that the text for the text logs look a bit 
 small and hard to read sometimes. Anyways, the in-game HUD is one of the most innovative features 
 of the game and it's extremely well done. Hell, even the loading screen will keep you immersed. 
 Beautiful game.
  
  Even though the graphics look great, the audio is the big winner here. The voice acting is superb, 
 the ambient noises are extremely chilling and the music has its creepy moments. The audio is definitely 
 what scared me the most out of this game. The combination of the monster screams and jolt of music 
 during those sudden confrontations was what had me jumping up. Some reviewers said the game wasn't 
 scary to them but I totally disgree. I think they didn't play with the sound up because if they 
 did, this game was totally immersive and scary as hell. It's quite similar to playing Bioshock 
 where the visuals don't scare you quite as much as the audio. The voice actors for every character 
 you meet is excellent and all the various audio and video logs are also really well done. There 
 isn't a single weak link in the entire game. So pump up your volume if you want the full experience. 
 If you have a good surround setup, that's just icing on the cake.
  
  The gameplay is superb. The controls are super smooth and feel absolutely perfect. Everything from 
 aiming to moving felt responsive. Reloading your weapons is quick and navigating the menus is easy 
 and simple. Every single weapon is powerful and fun to use. Deciding on which weapons to use is 
 a personal preference since every weapon is extremely effective against all the monsters in the 
 game. The alternate fire mode is also pretty cool like the kickass rotating turret on the Pulse 
 Rifle. The ability to check your objective destinations with a click of a button made the game 
 super easy to navigate so you'll never get lost. That made me instantly enjoy exploring the ship 
 because I can always check where I'm supposed to go anytime I want. Sweet. The Stasis and Kinesis 
 powers were also implemented well in both battle and puzzles. They were fun to use as well. I also 
 enjoyed the various Zero-G sections which added some variety to the experience. Btw, Gametrailers 
 mentioned that there are no hotkeys and they are WRONG! There's a dedicated button for Health items 
 which helped a lot in certain battles. I guess their reviewer forgot to read the tutorial? I also 
 like that the game is split up into chapters. Each chapter is about 1-2 hours each depending on 
 how quickly you want to get through each level. This structure made the game easy to digest in 
 chunks but the inability to return to previous sections of the ship was a bummer. Anyways, this 
 game plays like a dream.
  
  Finally, the story. Good story with a few twists and revelations. It won't win any awards but it's 
 very well presented. The majority of the game is spent understanding what happened to the Ishimura 
 (similar to Rapture's downfall in Bioshock) . It's nothing that will stick with you but I gotta 
 say that the ending is still floating around in my head. It was quite haunting. I'm really glad 
 I got the LE bundle because it came with the DVD and graphic novel so I'll be digging into those 
 to understand the story more. EA has definitely created a very interesting world that needs to 
 be explored more.
  
  Overall, Dead Space is an excellent game. It's awesome from the beginning to the end. I didn't 
 experience any frustration with the gameplay or exploration at all. The entire experience was seamless. 
 The story was good, the graphics and audio were superb and this game just felt great to play. I 
 loved it all. They got a winner here. This is a MUST BUY folks!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Dead Space was a game I did not pay a lot of attention to as it appeared to be just another generic 
 space / sci-fi shooter... and that is exactly what it is: Generic story, somewhat formula based 
 twist, not that many different enemies (with great boss battles though) , all the great graphics 
 (including shadow and lighting) we would expect. Saying all of that makes it sound like it is derivative 
 and boring, at best standard. That, however, is not at all it.
  
  Whilst it is true that there isn't much in this game that you have never seen before it is how 
 it all fits together that make the game great. 
  
  First up, the environment and graphics combine to create a wonderfully scary setting, and although 
 after a while you realise that some things won't hurt you, this realisation is matched with the 
 game changing and becoming scary for other reasons. The setting and the characters which you encounter 
 work well of each other to convey a truly generic but engaging story.
  
  This isn't Bioshock, although you could be forgiven for mistaking the two for each other (bar of 
 course one being fps while the other is a tps) , in that the story was sort of new (unless you've 
 played System Shock, in which case you kinda knew what was coming) but rather it is the same as 
 Alien (the movies) overall: Alien thingy get's found. Aliens are near thingy. Aliens are powerful 
 and kill everything. You get to clean it all up. But just like Aliens (so movie two) there are 
 times where you will jump at least partially out of your skin. What makes it so is the sounds, 
 the lighting the slow controls (no adjustment for sensitivity) and the violence of your attackers. 
 
  
  Like Bioshock however, you get to upgrade yourself ... well kit yourself out with some weapons 
 and although you don't have plasmids, you do choose how to make your guns behave. Just like Bioshock 
 you get to choose which way to go, but unlike Bioshock there is a little more choice involved ... 
 although that choice can be quick arbitrary. Unlike Bioshock though, some of the guns are just 
 ... crap. The Force Gun does damage, but does not sever limbs. Things that are shock seem to die 
 at some stage but not for any discernible reason... presumably because you shot it. The Flamethrower 
 I did not try, but i gather it is rather pointless, and the biggest gun (Contact Gun ... Point 
 Energy?? i forget .. something generic) also doesn't seem to have the kick one would look for. 
 The Pulse rifle, which from watching the prequel movie I assumed would be useless ended up being 
 one of the best guns, bar the first one you get, which is the Plasma Cutter - single shot, not 
 very wide beam but very effective ... which really was my favorite all up. The pulse rifle i only 
 ended up using late in the game after the shooting range where it shone. There are two other guns 
 ... one is a circular saw, which is neat but doesn't do enough damage and the other is the Line 
 Gun which is an awesome supplement when the Plasma cutter runs out of ammo.
  
  Something that makes this game unique though is the lack of HUD. It is handled really well and 
 works. Like Doom 3, interaction with world computers and such is key to completing the game, but 
 unlike Doom 3 here it is much more superficial.
  
  The environment and missions ... Okay, reading other review it sounds like you're running around 
 backtracking a lot and such, and although that is true it actually is not that repetitive. It fits 
 with the setting and so going through the same room a fair few times is fine. Also it doesn't happen 
 that much later on, although you do re-visit the first level, and in fact some levels (areas) are 
 played repeatedly, but with different purposes and although you are on the same deck, you have 
 access to different rooms. Also some chapters have unique things, like one level you shoot down 
 asteroids after a bit of a space walk. It is true that they are all mostly the same, but then they 
 aren't all "pick up these items" or "go there and get rid ofrather all the missions tie in to 
 the overall "get ship functioning again so we can all get out of here" scenario.
  
  NPCs are for the most part great. There is one though, who has a pet necromorph who keeps coming 
 back to life (the necromorph that is) and this enemy is used a few times ... the last time being 
 very painful bordering on frustrating. Overall though, the NPC are tops, and some of the things 
 that happen to draw you in are wonderfully disturbing. Enemies as I mentioned before are not that 
 numerous, there are maybe 10-12 unique enemies, ignoring the boss battles, so variety on that front 
 isn't there, however again it fits in with the setting so you don't notice it too much until you 
 think about it. Also then you realise that it isn't that much of a bad thing, and that there are 
 more enemies than i originally gave credit for ... make it 16-18 i guess.
  
  So ... there are obviously issues: one boss battle takes place through multiple rooms, hallways 
 and the enemy just won't stay dead. This must have been in the final quarter of the game, and it 
 is harsh. What it highlight was not so much that the game is intense as that the player does not 
 know how the game world works, though it might have been just me: I assumed i was supposed to outrun 
 the enemy or trap him but that was not the case, when obstructed it just went through the vents 
 and was again right there. In the process i noticed that the kinetics (gravgun by any other name) 
 was very imprecise. In another section i did not realise that "taking cover" from oncoming asteroids 
 (which you don't see coming) meant "stand next to wall". 
  
  The other thing that is a negative is that some "boss battles" are painfully hard because you're 
 suddenly operating a cannon instead of just a gun. Another "game world" specific thing is jumping 
 to surfaces isn't always obvious.
  
  There is a lot to this game though and there is a lot of variety. A lot of those things I didn't 
 like i would not like no matter what, and in honesty, having been in the game where they are was 
 nice. It made things more interesting.
  
  One piece of advice though: the game has little re-play value (to me at least) and "easy" really 
 is very easy. Even if you aren't the most battle hardened player "normal" should be adequate. 
 
  
  In conclusion ... having not followed the game until about two weeks before its release I was very 
 happy with it. It took me about 16 hours to get through, on easy, which ends up being a bit of 
 a cake walk. The game is very well made and user friendly. The only really really really annoying 
 thing was that saving the game takes ages. I'm sure that will be fixed with a patch though. I don't 
 know for sure, but it might also be that i kept a save per chapter... normally i only keep one 
 save game. I would say that this might really end up being the best Xbox shooter of the year... 
 however for me it has also been the first (Bioshock was last year :) ) . Compared to Bioshock i 
 would say they are on par. (Although, i did not trade Bioshock in as soon as i finished it ... 
 ) . Depending on what you look for this might have stacks of replay for you. I don't aim to get 
 all achievements, and also, i finished it in under a week so taking it back meant i end up getting 
 Mirror's Edge for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerOlmy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Been debating how to best describe this game since beating it. I think the best description I can 
 give is that it didn't disappoint me in the slightest, but it also didn't surpass any of my expectations 
 either. 
  
  Overall this is probably the best single-player game I have played this year and it was thoroughly 
 enjoyable. The combat was memorable and introduced a refreshing change from the standard "head 
 shot" mentality of most games. Dismembering a charging necro or shooting one of their explosive 
 appendages and watching the ensuing mayhem is quite enjoyable. 
  
  The atmousphere is amazing, the lighting is one of the best parts of this game. There are several 
 cases where the lighting tricks you into seeing something in your peripheral vision even though 
 nothing is there, it really ads to the tension. The sound effects and voice acting are also top 
 notch, which is saying a lot since many of the recent games have had terrible voice acting IMO. 
 Play this game with the lights off to achieve the full effect and you will not be disappointed.
 
  
  The story was top-notch and well thought out. I was thoroughly immersed throughout. My only complaint 
 is that there was some repetition and backtracking, but that can be overlooked due to the fact 
 that even retraced parts had been reskinned and detailed. The ending is obviously a cliffhanger 
 since there will be a sequel, but many of the loose ends were tied up by the end so you don't feel 
 disappointed.
  
  Overall an amazing game, I would recommend this to any fans of shooters, survival horror, or just 
 plain good story-telling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarPro818
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  A couple of minutes into this game and I was totally immersed. This game will drive you insane 
 from paranoia due to its realistic and disturbing graphics and the haunting noises that constantly 
 make you jerk around in fear of one of the horrific creatures. The fact that you're just a terrified 
 engineer who has no idea of what's happening and the fact that you're stuck on an alien infested 
 ship in the middle of space makes you feel so helpless and alone. Every time you punch or fight 
 off the creatures you always make a fearful scream which just shows that you're not playing as 
 some 'super alien-exterminating commando guy' (like from Doom) but as a scared and vulnerable person 
 who is constantly being hunted. Though, the game does start to lose its helplessness around half 
 way through the game due to the heavy arsenal and the suit upgrades you can obtain, which makes 
 the game a bit too easy and begins to make you feel like you're the hunter, instead of the hunted 
 which takes away a lot of the fear. But that doesn't mean you won't still be immersed, because 
 the story line will keep you guessing till the very end even if there are some plot holes here 
 and there. Not to mention there are also a lot of unexpected quick frights that make you jump out 
 of your seat right till the very end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theodin211
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the greatest survivor horror game that I have ever played. Buy it, play it 
 a lot. You will love it. I love it. Play it by yourself at 2:00am and you will not be disappointed. 
 The graphics are unreal. The sound is terrifying, the game play is fun. The mutilations are satisfying, 
 and the weapons and anti gravity effects must be seen to believe. Play it, don't rent... buy. Yeah, 
 that's right I said it! Buy it. This game is a true masterpiece, and I think that multi-player 
 capabilities would have been fun. 
  
  This game is easily the greatest survivor horror game that I have ever played. Buy it, play it 
 a lot. You will love it. I love it. Play it by yourself at 2:00am and you will not be disappointed. 
 The graphics are unreal. The sound is terrifying, the game play is fun. The mutilations are satisfying, 
 and the weapons and anti gravity effects must be seen to believe. Play it, don't rent... buy. Yeah, 
 that's right I said it! Buy it. This game is a true masterpiece, and I think that multi-player 
 capabilities would have been fun. 
  
  This game is easily the greatest survivor horror game that I have ever played. Buy it, play it 
 a lot. You will love it. I love it. Play it by yourself at 2:00am and you will not be disappointed. 
 The graphics are unreal. The sound is terrifying, the game play is fun. The mutilations are satisfying, 
 and the weapons and anti gravity effects must be seen to believe. Play it, don't rent... buy. Yeah, 
 that's right I said it! Buy it. This game is a true masterpiece, and I think that multi-player 
 capabilities would have been fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otacon6669
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  How does EA do it? They come out with a new game every 5 seconds and still manage to make a good 
 number of them absolutely amazing. Dead Space is one of those games. My first conclusion that this 
 game was going to be good was that almost 3 minutes into the game, your teammate gets his face 
 ripped off, unlike most games where it takes a good 20 minutes to get into the action *cough* *cough* 
 metal gear solid. The atmosphere is immersive and scary as hell, and the objectives actually seem 
 different every time you get a new one, the only downside to the game is that after you beat it, 
 you can only replay it with all your equipment on the same difficulty, which means if you want 
 to do the impossible difficulty your starting from scratch, all over again. The graphics are probably 
 the greatest seen on the 360 to date and even with dozens of drooling, blood driven, arm flailing 
 aliens exploding, trying to kill you, and being shot in little pieces the frame rate does not drop 
 ONE BIT. Smooth, excellent graphics and highly atmospheric, action driven gameplay make this game 
 the best game on the 360 you could possibly buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juan756
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically a mash up of the best elements of resident evil, fatal frame, doom 3, silent 
 hill, Bioshock and system shock 2 among others. At first i didnt buy into the whole thing, mostly 
 because of my aversion to EA branded games. But since army of two, i; ve started to rethink EA and 
 its franchises. So i got the game. 
  
  To veterans of the genre, you'll quickly pick up on all the games this game borrows from. But that 
 does not mean the game itself is not good. I'm actaully amazed that such a clear cut example of 
 interactive copy cat-ism (ahahah) comes out as such good game. I guess if you cut and mix parts 
 of the best, something good ends up as a result.
  
  So the ambiance is similar to system shock and bioshock (down to the prerecorded stuff) , the enemies 
 give you the creeps (as in silent hill) , the violence is over the top (residentevil4) and so on. 
 
  
  The really nice things i liked most about it are the zero gravity areas and the nooxygen parts, 
 which make you feel even more anxious.
  
  In the end, you feel like you've been here before, but youll enjoy it nontheless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drivemuse
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  This is just an amazing game.
  
  I'm not going to try and write an epic review, quick and to the point.
  
  If you loved Resident 
 Evil 4's gameplay, Bioshock's storyline, blood and gore, and some RPG aspects such as leveling 
 up and item management (similar to RE4's system) you WILL love this game. 
  
  The weapons are so satisfying and fun, the enemies are creepy, and the game sucks you in with it's 
 excellent story. There are so many clever little touches that just round it into one perfect package. 
 Such as a "halflife2/bioshock" style Kinesis, clever navigation, clear objectives, excellent animations/graphics 
 etc. The lack of ANY on screen Heads Up Display really makes a huge difference!
  
  I HIGHLY suggest you buy the tie-in anime movie "Dead Space: Downfall", it really makes the games 
 story alot clearer and you will be sucked into it's story alot more.
  
  It's shaping up to become my new favorite game.
  
  Buy it ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosnitsttam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is an excellent new IP from EA. No, that's not a typo. One of the mega publisher's in 
 house development teams actually created a compelling new franchise. One that plays great, is beautifully 
 detailed, has excellent sound and is extremely effective at scaring the crap out of you.
  
  If you don't know the story, check out the previews for all the details. What you need to know 
 is that this is far and away the creepiest game i've played since Silent Hill 2. The sound design 
 ALONE gives me shivers. There are a couple of flaws that keep the game from being perfect (the 
 missions and some loot scavenging) , and really picky gamers are bound to take these issues and 
 blow them out of proportion (see the OXM review) , but they are minor annoyances since the game's 
 primary focus is to deliver tight gameplay while scaring the CRAP out of you (which it does in 
 spades) . The game also boasts incredible graphics that run smoothly throughout and help to further 
 immerse you in the experience. Make no mistake, Dead Space is more than worth your time, even if 
 its only a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmola
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I played the first five chapters of this game with a smile on my face. Nice graphics, beautiful 
 sound and some marvelous dismemberment.
  But I'm not gonna write what's good about this game, because everyone else has already done that, 
 instead I'm going to write what I think other people seem to miss.
  
  There are like 10 different kind of monsters in this game (if not less?) . This means that the only 
 way to raise the difficulty is to add more monsters. And that's what they do.. for every chapter 
 they just add more monsters. Why not add more kinds of monsters, or maybe some more tricky puzzles?
 
  Another thing I think is really dull is that every single chapter works like this: "Hey, you have 
 to do that thing that gets us out of here. Oups, something went wrong, you have to go get that 
 other thing that makes the first thing work so that we can get out of here.. oups, you did all 
 that stuff and it didn't really help so we have to transport you to another area of this space 
 station so that you can do the exact same thing again, but with more monsters"....
  
  another problem with this game is that when you push the button to open a door it sometimes takes 
 a while for it to open. This is because the console has to put the room in it's memory, that's 
 kinda normal.. BUT, if you're chased by 5 really angry aliens you don't want the door to take it's 
 time to open. You'll die!
  
  Still I think this game is worth playing.. but I do think it's overrated.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space has really refreshed the genre of horror action games. If your a fan of that genre, 
 you know that so few games pull it off just right. Every now and then there is a truely amazing 
 game that DOES get it right, and Dead Space is one of them. Most recently it was Resident Evil 
 4, and that was almost 4 years ago. 
  
  Dead Space really does feel like RE4 in alot of ways, except it's a next gen game. The third person/ 
 over the shoulder camera is similar, and the buying/ upgrading feature is also there and is such 
 a nice feature. The events also may remind of the movie Alien and its sequel Aliens where a team 
 investigates a cut off space colony. But this is its own game, not a ripoff of another. 
  
  The way this game is designed makes the player often feel vulnerable but also in control. That 
 creates the suspence. The combat is brilliant with "strategic dismemberment", so this game isn't 
 lame to play. The real plus about this game is you get to manipulate the environment and the player 
 really needs to think things out carefully at least some of the time. You also have an indicator 
 that guides you to your objective, so you never feel lost. At the same time, the game isn't constantly 
 showing you the way because you have to stop and active the guide manually. 
  
  The only complainable thing about this game is that the save system is really generous but it's 
 not an autosave system so you make the decisions really. Other than that, the game flows well, 
 it never gets boring and it's an intense experience. Two thumbs up for this remarkable display 
 of quality and talent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is definitely a candidate for game of the year. This game is absolutely amazing. It's 
 so addictive that you find yourself wanting to keep playing over and over again even when it's 
 over. The graphics are great. The game play is easy to get a hold of. The storyline is phenomenal. 
 I mean it's a reconstruction of the old virus makes zombies and you have to figure out why concept, 
 but I feel that dead space puts a new twist in that concept. If you can remember the old game for 
 PS2 called Run Like Hell. Well Dead Space is a superior upgrade to that game. The monsters in this 
 game are horrifying to say the least especially the bigger boss types, but as the game goes on 
 and your weapons and armor upgrade and you become one bad ass space man. You also become less and 
 less afraid of the critters. The only thing I wish they would of put in this game that would of 
 made me give it a ten would have been to give Isacc Clarke a voice other than that it's definitely 
 a game I'd recommend to everyone. I really hope they make more of these games if they can or at 
 least throw it on the movie maker list because it would make a great horror movie. Another great 
 part of this game is the depth of this game. Like you're always backtracking to go get items and 
 bring them back to do something. Sometimes this can get annoying, but not in this game because 
 when back track there's always something new in your way. The scenery of space when you're outside 
 the ship or looking out the windows when you're on the flight deck is absolutely spectacular. Please 
 go out and get this game, but also get some depends because you'll be messing your pants. Trust 
 Me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyg756
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  EA.. That name doesn't make me happy. I loved the look of this game since i saw the announcement 
 trailer way back. But when i realised EA was involved i was expecting it to fail horribly in reviews. 
 It didn't though and as happy as i am that it didn't, i think people are still avoiding this cuase 
 EA is involved. Don't worry about that, this game is a ace survival horror game and the gameplay 
 is surprisingly good, its probably the first ever survival horror game that doesn't have controls 
 that suck. However that has its downside i just completed the game on HARD not NORMAL or EASY. 
 Hard felt about right, not as hard as the hard mode on many of the resident evil games, but it 
 did get noticeably hard near the end. Saying that though, my point here is that you should play 
 the game on HARD mode for a challenging experience, depending on who you are, you would have to 
 be quite poor at games to struggle on Normal.
  
  The reason for this is you get quite alot of help. Seven kick-ass guns, a suit of armor that can 
 be upgraded, a locater that shows you exactly where you should be heading by pointing at doors. 
 It's impossible to get lost and for a survival horror game thats really unusual. Resident evil 
 for example barely helps you atall and you get lost all the time. So is this really a survival 
 horror?. Let me tell you a moment from my playthrough and i won't include any spoilers, i'll just 
 explain a moment from the game.
  
  Basicly theres this *OBJECT* that you have to move down to the bottom of this huge room. So i begin 
 moving it, as soon as i move it an inch i hear screams. Its enemies and there are ALOT of them. 
 WIth my guns fully loaded, i fight the crowd of enemies for about 7 minutes by the end i have barely 
 any health and no bullets left for any of my guns, except my least useful one which i have about 
 3 bullets for, that probably wouldn't kill one enemy. So i stumble back over to the *OBJECT* and 
 begin moving it again, i move it about another inch.... more screams. Obviously i got ripped to 
 peices. Now you may be thinking that i have called the game too easy and then just explained what 
 sounds like the hardest moment of any game ever, but it wasn't hard. After my first try i was able 
 to think of methods to kill them without getting hurt, or wasting too much ammo. I walked out of 
 the room with full health and full ammo for most of my guns. Thats not action thats surviving and 
 it feels extremely rewarding to move on in the game knowing that you have just done somthing you 
 thought was impossible.
  
  I would of gave the game a ten if it just had a few more scares. It had many "jump" moments but 
 it seemed to be more based on throwing enemies at you than making you jump which is fine. But i 
 personally would have preferred more moments... like... the... you know?. Well you won't unless you 
 played it. But good luck with that bit, hopefully you won't scream too much like a little girl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a rare new IP from Electronic Arts and thier first foray into the survival horror 
 genre. If this game is any indication of what EA can do when they try to do something different 
 then all gamers should rejoice!
  You open play as Isaac Clark, an engineer by trade, sent on a rescue mission to the Ishimura, a 
 huge mining ship. Naturally, chaos ensues.
  
  Graphics - Top shelf. The game is beautiful and free of glitches. Frame rate is tight and there 
 is no pop-in issues despite often being able to view across great distances.
  
  Audio - Utterly spectacular! Only the mighty Bioshock is even close in comparison. From the creepy 
 slithering behind you to the nerve-wracking cacophony of an engine room, you are there! The sound 
 of the game creates an ambiance that totally immerses the player. Simply perfect.
  
  Story - This is the only area that prohibits a perfect score for Dead Space. The storyline is not 
 terrible but nothing special either. You have seen the script before and you will not be surprised 
 at the outcome. The game is absolutely loaded with "jump out of your seat" moments and disturbing 
 and eerie scenes however. You will be on edge throughout the entire game.
  
  Gameplay - Dead Space borrows a few good ideas from other great games (kudos to Bioshock again) 
 and melds them into thier universe. You, or rather your equipment, have an assortment of interesting 
 and useful skills such as Kinesis (moving objects) and Stasis (freezing opponents) . The various 
 weapons at your disposal are also very innovative and fun to use. What Dead Space brings to the 
 table that is different is Targeted Dismemberment and Zero Gravity. You are not only encouraged 
 to tear your enemies limb from limb but you can't really kill them efficiently any other way. The 
 Zero Gravity element puts you in an environment quite unique to Dead Space. Moving and fighting 
 in Zero Gravity is great fun and is very realistically designed.
  
  In all, this game is excellent. Regardless of a lack of multi-player you should still get 15-20 
 hours of high level single player entertainment. This is as good of a game as there is out there 
 and a legitimate triple A title. Dead Space is money very well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmattox63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Note to parents. This game, in my humble opinion, is too scary for younger audiences. If your 7 
 or 8 year old is asking for this one, make sure to take a nap as you will no doubt be dealing with 
 Jr.'s nightmares. For older audinces, to truly get the most out of Dead Space, play it late at 
 night with the lights off and the sound up. Dead Space is unsettling and makes you want to stay 
 up a little longer to reach the next save point. (Note to player: save often... God knows what is 
 lurking around the next corner or behind that next door.) For me, the only critisim I can find 
 is the repetitive, 'Push button get ganked' mission style. EA has put together a product that puts 
 most of the Hollywood scare pics to shame. It's no wonder gaming is making 2:1 money over movies. 
 Way to go EA!!
  
  I personally can't wait for them to start working on a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAgangster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  great game, with great graphics and gameplay, just the sense that is the brother of bioshock because 
 the thriller an the parts that you get scared, parts that are realy a combination with bioshock, 
 like the dark parts or the sense of terror, mutated humans and weapons, just cant get enough cool!!! 
 1111 11111 11111 11111 1111111 111111 11111111 1111111 111111111 111111 1111111 1111111 1111111 
 111111 11111 11111 1111111 11111 11111111111 111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111 1111111111111 
 1111111111 111111111 11111111 1111111 1111111 1111111111 1111111 111111111 1111111 1111111111 1111111 
 1111111 11111 1111 111 11 11111 11111 11 1111 1 1111111 1111 1 11111111 111111 111111 11111 111111 
 11111111 11111 11111 111111 11 11111 111 1111 1111 11111 111 1111 111 1111 11111 11111 1111 1111 
 111 111 111111 111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200166
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I have waited for long long time. The grapic are amazine. uniqeue weapons af fasfaf 
 adsfaf afafa fafa adf kljlk oij kjh poi'k bjn; i;'ji okjlb jk; hoThis is a game I have waited for 
 long long time. The grapic are amazine. uniqeue weapons af fasfaf adsfaf afafa fafa adf kljlk oij 
 kjh poi'k bjn; i;'ji okjlb jk; hoThis is a game I have waited for long long time. The grapic are 
 amazine. uniqeue weapons af fasfaf adsfaf afafa fafa adf kljlk oij kjh poi'k bjn; i;'ji okjlb jk; 
 hoThis is a game I have waited for long long time. The grapic are amazine. uniqeue weapons af fasfaf 
 adsfaf afafa fafa adf kljlk oij kjh poi'k bjn; i;'ji okjlb jk; hoThis is a game I have waited for 
 long long time. The grapic are amazine. uniqeue weapons af fasfaf adsfaf afafa fafa adf kljlk oij 
 kjh poi'k bjn; i;'ji okjlb jk; hoThis is a game I have waited for long long time. The grapic are 
 amazine. uniqeue weapons af fasfaf adsfaf afafa fafa adf kljlk oij kjh poi'k bjn; i;'ji okjlb jk; 
 ho 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is simply put, phenomenal, from the control scheme, the character fluidity, the crazy 
 looking mutated monsters, the weapons, audio, ambiance, atmosphere, lighting, and game play. I 
 could go on and on but you get the point. 
  
  I did not expect much from playing Dead Space at first, but once i started playing it it blew me 
 away. The audio and ambient sound effects are so well done that it creeped me the hell out while 
 playing the game in the dark with the sound cranked up. Great job EA! The graphics are beautiful 
 and the ability to upgrade the awesome weapons and your RIG suit is a plus.
  
  The levels are very well laid out and I LOVE LOVE LOVE the fact that there is NO hud!! It's so 
 easy to get immersed in the game. Loving it! Going to replay it on hard once I finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillydowhap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I would like to sum this up in just a short phrase. This game is Intense. It's a mix of Bio shock, 
 Resident Evil 4, and Doom 3. I cannot believe the intensity this game has. I would buy it over 
 and over again. Coupled with the armor you can get off the marketplace it makes this game absolutely 
 amazing this is a must buy for anyone looking to get the crap scared out of them. I have played 
 the game through then had my wife do the same it is awesome to watch somebody playing for the first 
 time so many times she just jumped and let out a blood curdling scream because something moved 
 or jumped out. I loved it. If you know anyone who likes the survivor horror genre this is a must 
 have. I work for a game shop and tell everyone who wants a good horror this is the game that they 
 need. Check it out everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstorm72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  As you can probably tell by my score, I love Dead Space. This is one of the scariest games I have 
 ever played but at the same time its gameplay isn't compromised in favor of atmosphere (I'm looking 
 at you Silent Hill and early Resident Evils) . The terror of this game starts as soon as you step 
 aboard the mining ship Ishimura and doesn't let up until the credits roll. The atmosphere the game 
 sets from the very beginning is both amazing and terrifying. The sound design alone would be enough 
 to make you jump out of your skin. Sounds dying survivors, the creaking of the ship and the unearthly 
 howls of necromorphs create the best sound design I have ever heard. The setting of the game also 
 sets the atmosphere very well. The Ishimura is not on anyone's vacation destination. Every nook 
 and cranny of the ship contains something terrifying, from blood splattered medical wings to dark 
 and rusty engine rooms, every room will have you tensing up. The graphics of this game are no slouch 
 either. While they are not quite at the gears of war level, they are darn close. One thing that 
 adds a lot to the emersion of the player is the fact that there is practically no HUD. All indicators 
 a shown in the in game environment, for example you health bar is shown right on the characters 
 back. This really makes you feel immersed in the environment. One neat feature that really ratchets 
 up the tension is that going into your inventory doesn't pause the game. Not being able to pause 
 and heal really adds a lot tension to otherwise standard battles with enemies. While all of this 
 sets the atmosphere of Dead Space, it wouldn't mean anything without the gameplay to back it up, 
 and Dead Space delivers. The controls are very similar to Resident Evil 4, which is a good thing 
 because they were top notch. There are a good amount of enemies and they are all entertaining and 
 though. The dismemberment system also adds a lot experimentation to fighting enemies, ensuring 
 that the battles don't get repetitive. Boss battles, puzzles and some unique abilities like stasis 
 (freeze time) and kenosis (basically a gravity gun) ad some variety to the gamplay.
  
  For all the praise I have given Dead Space, it still has some issues. For one, while the gameplay 
 is awesome the objectives are usually pretty bland. Almost every objective is a variation of the 
 ''go here, do that'' formula. Not giving the player a satisfying reason to traverse the horror 
 filled ship is a little bit of a let down. Another small issue I had with the game is that there 
 was a little to much back tracking for my taste. For example, a lot of times when you finish an 
 objective, you will have to go back the way you came to get back to the now unlocked door/tram/puzzle 
 etc. It doesn't take away from the game experience but it is some thing that can be improved in 
 the inevitable sequel. 
  
  I really can't say enough good about this game, it has solid gameplay, great graphics, a chilling 
 atmosphere and an awesome story. The small faults in the game are nothing compared to the amount 
 of stuff this game got right. If you like shooters, survival horror games or just like being scared 
 you have to pick this game up, you won't regret it (unless you plan on getting a good nights sleep, 
 then you will regret it) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticx416
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The pringle's slogan goes good here. seriously. once i popped the game into my xbox it was hard 
 to put down. the atmosphere of the game just seems to suck you into it, always making you wonder 
 whats around the next corner. best game i've picked up since GTA4. i have now sacrificed nine hours 
 to this game and am more than 3/4 through it, i can tell you that the story behind it is good enough 
 to keep you interested and the game play is not too hard and not too easy so as to allow you to 
 be challenged without frustrating you. and this whole shoot for the limbs idea is smarter than 
 you think. it seems i have trained myself to shoot at the body and the head, so as i entered this 
 game i found that i rather enjoyed cutting off limbs in order to kill these beast. i definitely 
 say pick this one up, one of the best horror games of recent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmccarthy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I see everyone throwing 9's and 10's to this game, sorry folks, I don't agree. First, the good: 
 the game looks incredible, the environments (initially) are beautifully constructed, the dark atmosphere 
 (as well as the use of strobe lighting, alarm lights and other flashing lights) really give you 
 a sense of tension. The airlocks (and lack of sound in them) are awesome. The weapons are great, 
 the enemies look great too... BUT after about 5 hours, it becomes clear that the game is about as 
 predictable and boring as it gets. Run here, open door, get item, run back to other spot, unlock 
 door, pull lever, lever doesn't work without item, run there, get item, bring back, pull lever. 
 All the item fetching and backtracking really put me to sleep. Now, they throw in enemies smashing 
 through air ducts, walls, windows etc. to keep things scary and it works, for awhile. But after 
 about an hour, you can predict just by looking around a hall or room where the enemies are going 
 to "surprise" attack from. It just all becomes really repetitive. Dead bodies become necromorphs, 
 so you learn to be careful walking past them, air ducts will always smash open when you walk near 
 them etc... my other main complaint is the main characters movement. He's slow and his turning is 
 even slower. Things hitting you from the side? Well, just take five seconds and turn around and 
 shoot it. Painfully slow. Overall, I wanted to really love this game but I think anyone with a 
 TRUE, realistic look at the game will realize, it's a lot of hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Many great games have one or two features that make them great. Dead Space got it right by taking 
 great things from many games and making one of the best shooters I have ever had the pleasure of 
 playing.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful and unlike many 'dark' games this one does not leave you feeling 
 like you are looking at an empty screen. The darkness of the game adds to the ambiance of the game 
 in a way that keeps you on the edge of your seat. The lighting, vacuum and haze effects are perfectly 
 done to add to the immersive atmosphere. Best of all the great graphics do not come at the expense 
 of long load times or graphics issues. The graphics are smooth as silk and wonderfully done. The 
 user interface is wonderfully done, as are the communication other displays.
  
  Sound: The sound definitely adds to the entire experience and does exceptionally well. Dead silence 
 or just a light breeze can be quickly interrupted by a creature bursting through an air vent. Whatever 
 environment you are in the sound seems to fit perfectly. The voice acting is also exceptional. 
 You can quickly pick-up on a characters personality just by the inflections in their voice. Wonderful 
 job with sound.
  
  Control/Gameplay: I love the control layout and in many ways feel it is rather innovative. The 
 gameplay is awesome as well. There are many rooms that you should explore that are never part of 
 a chapter but contain useful items and information (voice and text logs) . Taking your time on each 
 chapter will net you extra equipment, money and the ever valuable 'power node'.
  
  Story: The story in extremely immersive and I will say no more then it pulls you into the game. 
 Just as a great novel makes you want to continue reading long after you should have went to bed, 
 this game's story will do the same thing.
  
  Replay Value: Considering there are 3 levels of difficulty when you start out and once you complete 
 the game you get a forth, properly named 'Impossible'. Gives the game good replay value. Many achievements 
 can only be obtained by playing the game through multiple times. The best replay feature is once 
 you have beaten the game you get a 'save' that allows you to replay the game at the same difficulty 
 but will all of the gear plus loads of bonuses. I am on my second time through and having even 
 more fun then the first time through.
  
  Recommendation: This is simply one of the finest FPS games I have ever played. I do not play online 
 a lot and the developers did an awesome job of giving me many reasons to play this again and again. 
 If you like Sci-Fi, Horror and FPS games you will love this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taris772
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The game has beautiful graphics and is a lot of fun. Plus an intriguing, blood splattering, limb 
 ripping story. You play as Issac an engineer who along with his entire crew is sent in to investigate 
 the HELLHOLE that is the USG Ishimura. Be pre-paired to have a bloody, scream filled good time 
 as you start to unravel the mystery that is Dead Space. This game has a lot to offer to survival 
 horror fans both old and new. The ability to upgrade weapons, your rig, and also the various powers 
 you gain though the course of the game leaves almost limitless possibilities as to how you as a 
 player can proceed though the game. If you are looking for an amazing game, with good voice acting, 
 great visuals, and a fantastic story (that hopefully will only get better when "Dead Space Downfall" 
 comes slashing its way onto DVD on 10/28) then this is the game for you. It is up to you.... and 
 remember "There's No Help Coming." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WouldYou-Kindly
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I got it October the 10th of 2008, a generous donation by Andre, mom's boyfriend, to help get my 
 mind off The Who and BioShock, and, though it kills me to admit it, it actually did. For the short 
 amount of time I played it, I found the game terribly amusing, but also, terribly horrific. I say, 
 boys and girls, that this game is not for the weak of heart [Mii-lovers, please leave the building] . 
 If you'd like a taste, I can say that one of the more... oppressive parts was when I witnessed a 
 man trying to kill himself by smashing his head against a wall with all the strength he could muster 
 [and succeeded, at the expense of myself viewing his brain matter splatter all over the place. 
 Yeah, this is a videogame] .
  As most of you know, I'm a fanatic for the videogame by the title of "BioShock" [2k] , and it is 
 absolutly my favourite videogame ever, and I must say, the first time I played that, I found it 
 shocking and very scary, like a horror movie. Those splicers shared the fother mucker out of me.
 
  And now that I've played this wonderful new discovery, I can say that BioShock is nothing comared 
 to this, and even though BioShock remains my favourite game, I can say that Dead Space is absolutly 
 one of the most terrifying games I've ever played in my life, and also, the content of which is 
 extremely heavy and really mind-weighing. It's been a while since I've played such an engaging 
 game [because I'm too spoiled by Assassin's Creed [ubisoft] 's beautiful graphics to try anything 
 else] , and I must say that overall, I think I've found a game I can be terribly fond of. I normally 
 am not one for the Sci-Fi videogame and am more into the historically-related, but this game is 
 pretty incredible so far. I love Rated-M games, by the way. The graphics are magnificent and the 
 storyline has held me. And I've never screamed aloud while playing a videogame either, which is 
 another first this game has brought. I'll tell you all when I beat it.
  
  Cheers to EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Silent hill, resident evil basically set the standard for the survival horror but with a new IP 
 comes a new chance to push the limits of it all, we have dead space from EA and when you take a 
 crack team do we get what we really want and what they promise? well lets see...
  
  STORY:
  
  You play as Isaac Clark, basically your everyday guy who goes on a repair mission 
 to a giant "planet cracker" to repair what him and his crew believe to just be a downed transmitter 
 but discover something much much worst.
  
  I basically found the story to be taken from so many horror movies thrown into one, but they pull 
 it from the right horror movies that did indeed pull off horror. You will find many references 
 to Aliens, Event Horizon, Supernova, The thing, and many more. Without giving to much away, the 
 story is told through videos and audio logs so it won't break the feel of the game being so immersed.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Now this is where they pull a idea from half life by having the main character never EVER SPEAK 
 just grunt and moan when he gets hurt, but the game plays the cutscenes while you move the character 
 and everything is in game, the menus, the HUD everything is just great, I personally love the fact 
 that you are not using "real guns" but more of tools that the miners use. My other few grips over 
 the game play are that the text files are hard to read and the font is too small, and the melee.... sucks.... big.... Also 
 zero G totally changes the gameplay from how space games are going to be played because seeing 
 the first zero G moment really gets the blood flowing especially when you start to lose your orientation 
 the first few couple of times. Sound:
  
  Another perfection done right, the sound of each light, each yell, each horror element is amazing 
 and the creepyness sets in perfectly when you go into zero G when everything becomes mufflied and 
 you can't hear a thing but your heartbeat as it speeds up from when you know you will be attacked. 
 Try playing this in 5.1 with the lights off because the sound is what really helps with the scare 
 factor.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Now this was really where the game shined, the lighting is scary, the details of the necromorphs 
 are very very disturbing especially seeing the first time when you see each and everyone of the 
 different kinds. Personally the graphics are spot on but I did on a few occasions experience some 
 framerate shutter when a lot of enemies on screen. also each area has a diverse setting from the 
 hydroponics to the bridge everything feels right. CLOSING WITH CONS:
  
  ok overall this is by all a great game but I beat this in about 9 hours and 58 minutes and 42 seconds! 
 extremely **** fast even though I walked a whole whole lot I was very disappointed with the last 
 level, because it closes very fast and is overall done with what we expect from horror movies but 
 honestly it takes a few steps from the darkness, great game but TOO SHORT, oh my god it was so 
 short! and there is no multiplayer to speak of and the replay value only happens due to the fact 
 of the achievements! anyways if you need a good game for a scary weekend rent this because it will 
 scare you. I would not suggest on buying it. So rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  One thing comes to mind when playing this game. This is what Doom 3 should've been like but never 
 was!
  
  From the instant, deep horror setting to the amazing outer space graphics, this game is a classic.
 
  
  If you are a fan of Alien, Event Horizon or Doom or any other space-themed horror movie or game, 
 this is the game you've been waiting for. Clearly a hell of a lot scarier then any game I've played 
 in a long while. Get it, lock your doors and shut out your windows...... this is a proper Halloween 
 treat. (even makes you forget about the bad economy for a bit) .
  
  The sound is one of the best atmospheric sounds I've heard in a game. When you're walking outside 
 the spaceship, thankfully you don't hear the *whoosh* of the space ship as you might have heard 
 in the Aliens movies... there's absolutely no sound in space since there's no air. The game faithfully 
 and accurately represents this by you only hearing your own breathing inside the space suit. This 
 as you can imagine adds greatly to the atmosphere especially when some goon starts hacking you 
 to bits and you don't even hear it coming.
  
  Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPOYoung
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I just spent the last 20 hours striaght playing this game. (10-23-2008) How do I begin? Graphics. 
 Amazing, so smooth i wonder if im watching a tv show at points. Never any glitchy spots. The way 
 the developers made the UI is so clever. It provides an interesting twist in the game, people who 
 go to the inventory to heal in games like oblivion will be disappointed to learn that everything 
 is real-time. No more last minute inventory life saves. Monster detail is incredible, i enjoy being 
 able to see the agony on the heads of the dead people the necro's have taken over. The diffeculty 
 is amazing too, i never ever once thought to myself, holy crap this is hard. there were times where 
 i said wow hard, but because i sold ammo to get the next siut, or because i didnt cut off limbs 
 and had to use medkits. The ambeint sounds are creepy, youre always on edge, the only respite is 
 when you are in a vaccum but we'll get to that later. The question of whats going to happen is 
 always on your mind when you walk into a room and hear strange, almost singing, or footsteps, or 
 screaming. Your charactor Isaac is perfect for the story. He is just a guy sent in to fix the ship, 
 but turns out to be the "hero" of the story. He knows very little about guns, doesnt know how to 
 kill people with his bare hands. When in melle he just swings as hard as he can, and you can tell 
 from the grunts and from his wind up. He doesnt have shileds or super strength. Just his suit and 
 his plasma cutter. The level designs are great too. In many horror games i have fallen into the 
 "What is this room/area/place doing in here?" It wouldnt make sense. An armory in a school? Stuff 
 like that, but in Dead Space everything makes sense, well as best as i can make it. I have never 
 been on a spaceship.
  I also enjoy the clever way the covered up the load times on the trams. You know its a load time 
 but it gives you a chance to look where youre going and take a deep breath. 
  Zero G. Amazing, this was pretty much hitor miss, and they hit a grand slam. It awesome jumping 
 to get places, dodge bad guys or other hazards. and the vaccume is great to. No sounds but your 
 breathing. Its so realistic its crazy. And after coming back into the ship and getting air its 
 so realistic that i find myself taking a deep breath, like man that was close. I could spend hours 
 on this review, but im just going to leave it at that. If you wanna know more, spend the money 
 and buy the game. Its so worth it, even if you hate horror games. One of the best buy i have ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space kind of went under the rader when it first came out. As the reviews started coming in, 
 that would soon change. Dead Space is an amazing game. All aspects of it are great. The graphics 
 are almost life like and sometimes you will find yourself staring at the screen in a daze. The 
 vioce acting is also great and helps the story out. The story is pretty good, and it gives room 
 for many twists. You take the role of Issac, a mechanic who is sent to fix comunications on the 
 U. S. Ishumirua. Once on the vessel, things go down fast. You have to go around as Issac trying 
 to survive will doing other things to help your fleet and girlfriend. The gameplay is perfect. 
 To kill the enemyies you must shoot off there limbs, witch is easy because of the awsome targeting 
 system. There are also many different guns to buy and upgrade. Once you start upgrading a gun, 
 you get to choose to make it better at holding ammo, or fire rate, and even its damage. This make 
 every gun better in its own way. You also get to upgrade your suit witch is super cool. The display 
 of health and all other information is displayed on your suit, witch means no pause menus witch 
 is great. This can also be hard thou, because to use an item sutch as a health pack, you have to 
 use it in real time on a holographic screen produced by Issacs suit systems. The hologram system 
 is great and it leaves you always on the lookout. You never feel safe in this game and it makes 
 for great gameplay. Its super scary and it will have you screaming on the top of your lunges about 
 every five or so minutes. This is the best horror game in its class and should be for a while. 
 It has great gameplay and awsome graphics. I suggest this game to anyone who likes amazing games 
 and horror games. Pick this game up as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game and I have to say that it was great! The graphics are great. The weapons 
 selection and variation is very good. The whole inventory system works well and keeps you engaged 
 as to how to upgrade your weapons effectively. There are many gotcha moments in the gameplay where 
 you know somethings going to happen but you're still shocked when it finally does. Different enemies 
 have varying weaknesses so you find yourself adjusting strategies based on your current foes. I 
 think the only slight weakness is that the middle of the game has you completing sub-missions which 
 are fairly contrived; but, the still fit in with the story-line and it all works out. As far as 
 the story itself goes, it has some wonderful twists and turns that keep you guessing as to exactly 
 what's going on. There are some great surprises which leave you feeling very satisfied by the time 
 you reach the end of the game. I will always remember the famous Asteroid Blast part of the game. 
 It took me a couple of hours to get past that. Definitely one of the more difficult mini-games 
 I've come across. If I were to compare this to other games that I've played, I'd say that F. E. A. R. 
 and Bioshock come the closest. The plot twists remind me a lot of Bioshock ("would you kindly...") 
 and the horror aspect and battle techniques reminds me a lot of F. E. A. R. This game definitely ranks 
 up there with those two so, if you're a fan of this kind of game (and keep in mind there's some 
 significant gore an language in this game) you will definitely enjoy Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM330
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Dead space starts out as a crew goes to a ship to see what has happened. The game makes you think 
 that the ship's communicator is down, when in reality the ship is under attack and under quarantine. 
 From there is killing and shooting abroad. The game play is stunning, as your view is behind the 
 main character to the left of him. The graphics are sharp and on point. Each part of the levels 
 have new details that keep you interested. The controls are easy to learn and it takes about 5 
 minutes to get a grip of the game. My personal favorite part happens to be the shooting aspect. 
 It's easy and bad ass to blow away deformed monsters and watch their bodies blow up. The game is 
 hardcore blood and gore, but if your like me then you'll love shooting anything and everything 
 that comes into sight. Overall this game is worth playing and a very solid shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Very good graphics. Good not great atmosphere but where were the scares they talked about? I had 
 more hart jumping moments in DOOM 3. Speaking of DOOM 3. Take that story change it a bit and you 
 have Dead Space. OK now back to the lack of scares. I watched a lot of clips about the making of 
 this game and it seemed there main goal was to make a really scary game. Well better luck next time. The 
 Necromotphs were cool. The ambient sounds were nice. The music didn't do it for me at all. I expected 
 lots of things jumping out at me but that rarely happened and when it did it was not effective. Im 
 not that hard to scare. Bioshock creeped me out. Dead Space left me sleeping like a baby.
  
  The Zero-G fights. If you picture yourself floating across the screen shooting things guess again. Basically 
 all you can do in Zero-G is wall jump wile things float around you.
  
  Upgrading equipment. Well it's as fun as it sounds. You have a crappy weapon until you upgrade it. By 
 the time you get it upgraded to the max you are halfway through the game and have 6 more week weapons 
 to start updating.
  
  The saving grace of the game and what makes it fun. Finally! Is the fact that you can start the game 
 over after you have beat it with all your equipment and upgrades plus a few other things. Now you 
 can kick some booty.
  
  So all in all it IS a fun game. It's just not a scary game. At the end of the day who dosn't like 
 chopping limbs off of monsters!? Not me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalLordDCLXVI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  First off, the games story totally encapsulates you. The music, lighting effects and use of suspense 
 make this game an a truly terrifying experience. Its not as resource management based as say older 
 Resident Evil games, but you cant go hog wild. On normal difficulty, the game gives you just about 
 the right amount of resources, so far I haven't been starved for them.
  
  The game also gives you a reason to play through it more than once. The game gives you an RPG type 
 upgrade system which carries over to a new game. The upgrade system is all based on finding and 
 buying power nodes which you place in your guns and special powers. I would recommend watching 
 IGN's piece on power nodes as they give an in depth description of how to exploit them to their 
 full potential.
  
  Over all, its beautiful, gorey, terrifying and fun. Dead Space, although not entirely original 
 is totally immersive. The game is like walking through the depths of hell and will always have 
 you on the edge of your seat.
  
  GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  As a big resident evil fan, i was reluctant to traverse something new at first, but after seeing 
 some gameplay i had to get this. Turns out this game is more immersive than any RE game and right 
 on par, if not better than RE 4.
  
  Gameplay is excellent, the monsters are scary, and theres a good variety. Theres some really good 
 set pieces i wont spoil. This game is really exciting, not just to play, but even to watch. Graphics 
 are superb and sound is also. 
  
  The thing i like better about this game over any RE game is the controls, you can strafe and shoot, 
 run backwards etc. AND this doesnt make you feel overpowered at all. I also love the navigation 
 system- which kept the game going for me by telling me where i needed to go. I only needed check 
 one puzzle out online, the rest can be figured out and are quite clever.
  
  Weapons are awesome and fun to use and upgrade. Having no HUD is a great idea and works beautifully. 
 Gore in the game is really good, just watching yourself die is fun.
  
  The story is also excellent.
  The only negative i have with the game is the cannon portions which 
 attempt to give some vasriety to the game end up being annoying and not well done. They could have 
 done something else to change things up, for example, have a shootout with someone human? just 
 a thought.
  
  To sum, this game is the best survival horror game ive ever played and it is really top-notch. 
 Buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CitizenKen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Around this time of year (Halloween) it's great to find a solid survival horror title that has 
 a few shocks.
  
  The story is not wholly original. It evokes the sci-fi thriller heritage of films like John Carpenter's 
 The Thing, Alien (s) , Event Horizon, etc. That being said the experience is a lot of fun, with a 
 Gothic atmosphere, great production design and decent writing. The environments beg to be explored. 
 The projected H. U. D. interfaces for inventory and map are the most interesting I have seen in a 
 horror title and don't remove you from the game.
  
  There are a few corner of the eye moments that take me back to when I first played Fatal Frame 
 and the use of limited light is well done.
  
  I liked how the zero gravity component was handled and moving on the exterior of the ship was very 
 cool.
  There are a few scenes in which you confront characters behind glass panels in another room becoming 
 a witness. It almost reminds me of a wax museum experience, where characters or events are exhibits. 
 It was a good choice for the lead character to be a technician rather than a soldier.
  
  I thought the objectives and solutions were too linear and I would have liked to see more choices. 
 A certain points you are a custodian sent to fix something, rather than a technician or engineer. 
 Close quarter combat is a little tough and can confuse easily (maybe this was intentional) .
  
  As a horror fan I enjoyed it. I got caught up in the collateral marketing (website, comics, 
 dvd, etc) and was in the right mood for it. I wouldn't put it up there with Resident Evil 4, or 
 Eternal Darkness. But with its mood and visuals I might play it again and would definitely be interested 
 in a follow-up title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhailv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  My 2 thumbs up for this game would need to be extremely brief as I need em to get back and set 
 my controller ablaze for some quality, action in one of the better console games to come out in 
 soemtime.
  
  Dead Space promises to deliver. I've only played it for an hour last night, but I can't wait to 
 get back home from work and jump right back in. Good graphics in a game is extremely important 
 to me and this game is a visual treat. Great lighting and effects and the "bad guys" look "bad 
 ass". You can't help but being reminded of Doom 3, but this game has a lot more to offer. Doubt 
 if the different environments will ever get monotonous and some of the cut scenes and battles are 
 truly stellar. The audio will keep you on the edge of your seat and might occasionally make you 
 fall off !!! Combat is always satisfying and the A. I is almost freaky. I'm waiting to see how the 
 story unravels but so far I'm completely hooked. 
  
  Worth every buck spent. Period.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is probably the first survival-horror game made by EA. But I don't know for sure. If 
 you've seen any of the trailers, you already know the basic style of the game.
  Dead Space puts you in the role of Issac Clarke, an engineer who's job mainly consists of repairing 
 spaceships, such as planet crackers. Planet Crackers are gigantic spaceships the human race use 
 to mine other asteroids or planets for their resources.
  
  When he is sent, along with two others, to respond to a distress call from the USG Ishimura, the 
 largest Planet Cracker ever built, things take a turn for the worst. The crew of the Ishimura are 
 all either dead, turned into Necromorphs, dying, insane, or dying AND insane (many insane characters 
 become a part of the story) . Necromorphs are the race of creatures you'll fight for the duration 
 of the game. They are wonderfully designed, being menacing and scary. Most of them are morphed 
 bodies of crew members or babies, but with blades for arms, or tentacles that shoot lethal spores, 
 or on some occasions, stomachs full of smaller Necromorphs.
  
  Alot of the game involves strategy. Some of the creatures are killed more easily by certain weapons, 
 and some are more sensitive in different body parts. But the main thing to consider is strategic 
 dismemberment. The limbs of every alien can be cut off to kill them much easier. If you went around 
 only shooting these guys in the torso, you would run out of ammo fast. There are often times when 
 you'll be clenching onto minute amounts of ammo remaining for your gun. That's when the game gets 
 really intense. 
  
  There are plenty of scary moments in the game, and lots of scripted scary moments, but sometimes 
 there are predictable and cheap moments with crappy scare tactics. They make you go, "Oh man, this 
 game is starting to feel like a gay teenage horror movie...". But luckily, it isn't. The story 
 is actually excellent. The game consists of 12 chapters, each one in a different part of the Ishimura 
 with a different main objective. The story has twists, turns, and backflips galore, and plenty 
 that catch you off guard and think you're watching something directed by Martin Scorsese (the twists 
 are THAT good!) . 
  
  Throughout the game there are stores, upgrade benches, and save stations. At stores, you can purchase 
 weapons using credits found around the ship or store anything in your inventory in the safe. At 
 benches you can upgrade your weapons or suit using power nodes found around the ship. Save stations 
 are where you can save your progress, and don't worry. There are plenty all over the place.
  
  Some sequences and puzzles in the game take place in Zero-Gravity. That's where alot of the 
 fun comes from. You can jump from wall to wall, and sometimes get dizzy from the constant camera-flips 
 and forget where down was in the first place. But in a good way. Other parts are in places that 
 have no air. A timer will pop up and you have to wither leave or recharge your oxygen before the 
 time runs out or you suffocate and die. And you sometimes have to fight enemies with no air. And 
 it's so perfect, because all you hear is Issac's heartbeat and breathing, and when you shoot it 
 sounds like shooting underwater. And you actually believe that that's what it would be like with 
 no air.
  
  Dead Space feels somewhat familiar. Actually, it is. It's a cross between Resident Evil 4, Bioshock, 
 and Half-Life. Anyone who's played Dead Space and any one of those three games knows why, and you 
 will to, when you play this. Because you have to. Because Dead Space is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAxe54
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Like i said Dead space has a very strong ambition, but it doesn't quite go the way they planned. 
 You start off as Isaac who (Not to plagiarize Xbox Mag.) has taken a vow of silence. At the first 
 half or so, you actually might jump a time or two, but frankly after that it just tries too hard 
 for inconvenient situations to piss you off. The game tries to make Isaac like an Everyman, so 
 it feels more like a horror than a spartan yawning as he blasts limbs off of aliens. But then what 
 the hell is up with your crew mates? For one they can't kill anything, and they stay in one place 
 for basically the whole game, and order you to do their grunt work. The dismemberment is the highlight 
 of the entire game. It really feels like something original in a horror Game. The missions are 
 excessive and seem endless, but luckily there are plenty of Necromorphs to enjoy killing... That 
 is unless you missed a locker to open and are out of ammo, which you will most likely find yourself 
 in more than once. While it tries to stick to horror, it takes a pretty cool turn into mystery, 
 which was why i wanted to actually finish the game. The story is really interesting thanks to audio 
 and video logs. (I couldn't read any text in the game) Besides the inconvenience, ammo shortage, 
 and crappy crew members, The only real horror you would find is not at least giving this game a 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgesxr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Lately there has been a lot of crap coming down the wire, making me wonder if 
 I should by a PS3 so I have more variety. Well I still want a PS3, but this game has brought back 
 to being an XBOX fan.
  
  Although it is not a perfect, it is very close. I can't wait to see more games like this. I like 
 First person better (Doom 3) , but honestly, I would give up crappy games like hour of victory to 
 play this 3rd person game any day. I am happy with the fact that the game looks good and plays 
 good. Lately there have been some game that look great, but don't hit the fun factor for me at 
 all. If you like jump out of your seat and have the ^%#@ scared out of you, then you need to play 
 this game.
  
  
  Good - GRAPHICS, Lighting, Originality of weapons, Sounds, innovation, customizing.
  
  Bad 
 - Close Quarters combat is annoying at times, but does not change the amazing fun you will have 
 playing this game. Play it in the dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerrsty138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space was a game that when I saw previews of, I was left unimpressed. All of what was shown 
 were concepts we had all seen before. 3rd person shooter, desolate space, aliens, horror themed, 
 badass space suit. There are a plethora of games that feature these aspects, but after experiencing 
 this game, I can say the difference between those games and Dead Space is that Dead Space combines 
 all of these things effortlessly and is an amazing, atmospheric experience.
  
  The story in Dead Space is nothing astoundingly original, but it's better than most of the junk 
 that's out there. A ship known as the USG Ishimura has cut off all communication after drilling 
 for resources on other planets, and your character, Isaac Clarke (named after 2 science fiction 
 writers) , is sent with the rest of his crew to repair the ship, and it's also a chance for Isaac 
 to find his girlfriend who's sent him a cryptic message from the ship. Nothing too original, but 
 it gets the job done, and it's done in such a way that it's enjoyable. Cutscenes are minimal to 
 keep you immersed into the atmosphere that the game delivers.
  
  The graphics in Dead Space are one of it's most impressive features. They're amazing on a technical 
 and artistic level. The textures look great, the monsters look great, the USG Ishimura looks good, 
 there's really nothing to complain about, graphics wise. Everything remains atmospheric, and the 
 lack of a traditional HUD adds to that atmosphere. 
  
  In zero gravity, dead bodies will float about, blood will float out of creatures you have killed, 
 and it's a very poetic thing to watch. Considering we've never really seen blood effects like this 
 in a video game done so well, this is simply astounding to watch if you actually stop to notice 
 it.
  
  Sound design is another great aspect of Dead Space. From what I've read, each monster has it's 
 own set of triggers tied to them. Depending on how close you get to these monsters, music will 
 start playing and you'll hear their groans and moans, and it's more intense the more difficult 
 the monster is to kill. It's something you probably wouldn't notice unless you're told, but it's 
 impressive, nonetheless. Also, in areas with no air, it's almost silent. You can hear everything, 
 but it's very muffled, almost as if you're underwater. Great attention to detail with the sound 
 design.
  
  Gameplay. The most important part of any game, and Dead Space's gameplay is where it shines, right 
 next to it's creepy atmosphere. Pull the left trigger, and you'll aim. Pull the right trigger, 
 you'll shoot. Simple yet effective; except this time around, your basic weapons are revolved around 
 shooting small lines and you have to strategically dismember your enemies. See something on your 
 enemy that could potentially cause you a LOT of damage? Cut that sucker off. It's simple, new and 
 satisfying. Along with the shooting mechanic, you have 2 melee attacks. A punch (more of a swipe) 
 and a stomp. Neither work exceptionally well, but thankfully you won't have to use them much other 
 than breaking open boxes for ammo or items.
  
  Dead Space is definitely a horror game. It's not the scariest piece of video game horror you'll 
 ever play, but it's fun as all hell to sit alone with the lights out and play this. You never know 
 what's going to be around the corner, and it goes out of the way to make sure you're immersed, 
 with impressive results. It takes me back to RE4, but Dead Space definitely has a much better atmospheric 
 vibe.
  
  This game is a definite buy. Aside the fact that it's an amazing experience the first time around, 
 there's a new game plus mode and difficulty settings. I've already played through this game twice, 
 and I plan on doing it more to get all of my weapons and gear upgraded, and to go for the achievements.
 
  
  So whether you're a 3rd person shooter, horror, adventure or action gamer, you honestly can't go 
 wrong with Dead Space. Dead Space is the type of game that people are going to be talking about 
 for a while, simply because of how good it actually is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaysgrand
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the Hype because it's WAY MORE worth while. The ad's and video clips about this game 
 don't do it justice. I haven't finished it yet but felt compelled to give my view now. I am so 
 glad i decided to buy this game. It instills fear, excitement, and awe around every corner, with 
 every bullet fired, and with every kill you make. It plays heavily on the fact that traditional 
 killing isn't going to cut it. Starts out great from the start and keeps you going. Even my G/F 
 is compelled to watch as I play and she loves it. Its keeps me fearfully suspense full every second 
 that passes. This game is GREAT. Don't pass this one up. The weapons are great and non traditional, 
 the enemies are very unpredictable, and yet I am fully expecting this game to scare the beegisus 
 out of me. This is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I really liked playing this game, and I have to say the story, voice acting, and generally the 
 tech aspects were top notch. There were a few times a glitch appeared, when carrying canisters 
 into areas where they didn't expect you to take them sometimes they would disappear from your kinesis 
 field and then reappear when you re entered the room, floating in mid air (in a normal gravity 
 area) . 
  The best part of this game is the combat, and you get many many chances to fight things. Another 
 good thing about this game was the variety of enemies, even if later in the game you got the usual 
 'same monster but stronger because of its red eyes' thing. I played through the whole thing with 
 the initial pistol weapon, and the idea of targeting limbs makes the game a lot of fun. Boss battles 
 are generally fun, if somewhat frustrating (the giant butthole looking one is what im talking about, 
 the 'leviathan') But i played on 'hard' and would recommend that setting as it was not too difficult 
 and it made the game very engaging without seeming overwhelming. A lesser difficulty would have 
 made the game repetitive, as you do a lot of fighting, and using certain stategies on certain enemies 
 is a lot more fun than just blasting everything in the same way on Normal or Easy. The story is 
 very predictable with the exception of very early in the game, where they try to mislead you.... I 
 won't spoil it. But the latter part of the game is very predictable, too bad.
  In conclusion, the strongest aspect of this game is the combat. This game is not a horror game, 
 and while there are a few creepy settings early on when you are trying to figure out what's going 
 on, this is far from survival 'horror', a term used too loosely. I even saw a game site say "Gears 
 of War" was a horror game. It's not, and neither are the new Resident Evil games. They are action. 
 If you are scared by growly monsters, than Red Riding Hood and Goldilock's 3 Bears are Horror stories. 
 
  A fun game, but a definate RENTAL. No multiplayer, and I doubt you will want to go through it again 
 after you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew0824
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Dead Space to come out for a year, and it does not disappoint. The first 
 thing that you'll notice about this game are the graphics. They're among the best I've seen on 
 the 360. Not only are they artistically very well done, but they're technically perfect. I have 
 yet to see one single graphical glitch in this game.
  
  So yes, the graphics are very impressive as is the audio, which is very creepy and immersive. But 
 where Dead Space really shines in the gameplay. Similar to survival horror games like the Resident 
 Evil series, resource management is definitely part of the game. It may not seem so at first as 
 the game gently shows you the ropes for the first few levels so you get the hang of the mechanics 
 before it starts throwing wave after waves of tough, smart, and fast enemies at you. 
  
  Don't be fooled by their zombie like looks though - these monsters can think. They won't walk into 
 traps. They'll constantly flank you and they'll use the airducts (which they can access, but you 
 can't) to sneak around and get the drop on you while you're distracted fighting others.
  
  What makes the gameplay unique in Dead Space is a combination of the weaponry and the tactics required 
 to succeed. Issac (your character) is an engineer, not a soldier, so it's appropriate that most 
 of his weapons are actually engineering tools (there is only 1 firearm in the game) . From the laser 
 cutter which is your first weapon and will last you the whole game, to a hydrazine torch (flamethrower) 
 to a force gun, etc. each weapon has a unique use. There are more weapons available than you can 
 carry. You can carry a maximum of 4, but can switch out at any store and you're nver that far from 
 a store. Figuring out which weapons to use against which enemies is part of the strategy. The other 
 part is the way you fight. Going for head or body shots like in a normal shooter is useless here. 
 The only way to defeat these necromorphs is to cut off most or all of their limbs. This makes combat 
 more precise than most shooters. It also makes fighting multiple enemies very challenging since 
 both accuracy and speed are a necessity. Fortunately the game gives you a power which can slow 
 down time in a small area, but it must be used sparingly as you only have a limited amount of it.
 
  
  Another power you have is a telekinesis like ability. Unlike the time power, this one has infinite 
 uses. Unfortunately, although it's fun to use, it's mainly used in simple puzzles like picking 
 up and plugging in batteries. It can be used in combat, but most items, other than explosive canisters, 
 do so little damage that it's hardly worth using. More could have been done with this power in 
 terms of gameplay, but it's a minor issue with so much else to keep you occupied.
  
  I also want to quickly mention zero gravity. This is the best use of it I've seen in a game. You 
 will be in zero-G several times in the game. In fact, zero-G is the only time in the game where 
 the telekenesis power fully comes into play with some interesting puzzles. Zero-G combat is hectic 
 and you'll need to have your head on a swivel since enemies can, and will, come at you from the 
 left, right, front, back, and (unique to zero-G) , above and below.
  
  The story is pretty interesting, though it doesn't really pick up speed until near the end of the 
 game. Before that, similarly to Doom 3 and other games, you'll mostly learn about the disaster 
 that stuck the Ishimura by picking up video and audio logs of its crew. However, I strongly suggest 
 that if you are intersted in the story, that you download all 6 of the animated comics available 
 for free on Xbox Live. They tell the backstory of the game and lend the story much more depth.
 
  
  You owe it to yourself to play this game if you are interested in the science fiction and/or survival 
 horror genres. Or if you just want to play a fun 3rd person shooter with a different, more precise 
 take on combat, some amazing looking (and acting) monsters, beautiful environments, and that sense 
 of immersion that only a combination of great art, music, and technical skill can achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I'll leave the description of the gameplay up to Gamespot, their rating is fair and true. Instead 
 let me describe in other terms what this game is like.
  
  You get dropped right into the game knowing you're in for trouble. It's deep, it's dark, and full 
 of danger. More than I thought it was going to be and the character development with the completely 
 original storyline (although it looks a bit like the movie Event Horizon, trust me its not) really 
 drop you into what truly feels like another reality. The gameplay more than matches the genre in 
 fact it adds depth, and with a very well thought out upgrade system for your weapons and armor 
 it feels mightily well balanced.
  
  Once you play the game through, you'll get new items for your next play-through including an entirely 
 new suit of armor. 
  
  Do yourself a favor, if you're a grown adult and you like sci-fi horror BUY THIS GAME! It's well 
 worth the sixty dollars. This is Halo for grown-ups. 
  
  Very important - go to the Dead Space official website and watch the comic book series. They're 
 not very long and they'll explain A LOT of the story for when you actually play the game. Then 
 when you're actually in the suicide room you'll know how it all fell apart. 
  
  Game of the Year Award Nominee!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  this game is crazy. i got this game from gamestop the same time i got lego batman. uh guess which 
 i was playing for the first 2 days until i finished it? yea this game. This game is freaking scary 
 as a mo fo and the ending if you get there is one of the saddest, coolest, and scariest endings 
 i have ever seen in a video game, and ive played all the survival horrors. The way you kill the 
 necromorphs and such a cool inovative way to kill things i was killing them for hours until i was 
 out of ammo. The technique is called dismemberment, and you have to cut off their limbs if you 
 want to kill them. The plasma cutter is the first gun you get, and it can go sideways to shoot 
 off legs, and vertical to cut off arms. It is so cool! For Acheivement wise, if you are a hardcore 
 gamer and will play this game alot in one day, you will get about 600 in that day. I got 645 on 
 my first day so yea. YOu get most from just beating the game and killing bosses through the missionsa 
 and you get achievements for beating missions so its crazy. The plot is one of the best ive seen 
 in a while, and man its good. The beginning hits with a bang and the ending is the best ive seen. 
 There are so many twists in turns in the game u will become dizzy. This game is so crazy and suspensful 
 that you might want to play with a friend haha and that is exactly what i did. I invited a friend 
 over for 2 days so we could finish it, because it was creepy as a mo at night. So if you are like 
 a teen play this with a friend! GREATEST GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Combine space zombies, a three-mile long space-mining vessel and one regular engineer just looking 
 for his girl and a chance at survival and you got Dead Space in a nutshell. This space opus is 
 no clean futuristic slice of optimism, from the very first cutscene you know this is a twisted 
 world and one that shows a bleak portal into humanities future. Despite a well-hidden message poking 
 at the potential of a frowny face future Dead Space is a joy to play and one of the best survival-action-horror 
 games in recent memory.
  
  
  In the year 2414 mankind has resorted to mining whole planets for resources by using planet cracker 
 space vessels. These gargantuan ships serve as a floating mini-city essentially designed for harvesting 
 planets. The USG Ishimura, the crown jewel of the Concordance Extraction Corporation (CEC) fleet, 
 has gone down and sent out a distress signal. As Isaac Clarke, you and a few others go to the Ishimura 
 with the intent that it'll be just another routine check-up. However the ship has come under an 
 infestation by the Necromorphs, basically space zombies. Like all reanimated sacks of flesh, they're 
 not here for tea and crumpets, they are mindless creatures bent on doing you bodily harm.
  
  
  The story does go a ways to develop more and while it may not be the most epic tale you've 
 ever witnessed keep in mind it's a horror game. The plot isn't the main draw here. Also the characters 
 are somewhat flat but they get the job done and they carry the plot well. Isaac is mute and rather 
 bland, but hey, I'm ok with silent stoic protagonists.
  
  
  As a third-person survival-action-horror game, Dead Space may initially seem like just another 
 game in the genre. But it does a lot of unique things and nails the most important thing a horror 
 game needs; genuine scares and a great atmosphere. You'll hear metal clangs and pings in the distance, 
 the resonating pit-pat of Necromorphs as they move about in the ventilation system, the unsettling 
 hiss of gas vents; Dead Space has some of the best sound design and the ambient noise is a remarkable 
 achievement. If you have surround system I can only imagine how much better the audio will be. 
 Even without a fancy-pants surround system setup the audio package delivers. The ambiance of the 
 ship is just immaculate and constantly excels; you'll never feel quite safe and any of the sounds 
 you hear can be possible Necromorphs or just the ship itself, you never know.
  
  
  The Ishimura itself is one the best examples of level design, functionality and aesthetic architecture 
 I have ever witnessed. Prominent, but subtle, Gothic style architecture permeates throughout with 
 buttresses and ribbed structures; but outshining the fine details is the vastness and exceptionally 
 well made levels. Some rooms are really cavernous and, for example, when you're in the engine room 
 it feels like an engine room. The claustrophobic catwalks, huge tanks scattered about and the layout 
 of the whole room feels like how an engine room on a space ship should feel, you can imagine engineers 
 swarming everywhere measuring temperature readings and inspecting the various mechanisms, that 
 is without the Necromorphs around of course. Levels are designed for playing through as a Necromorph 
 battleground, of course, but they are easily envisioned as fully practical areas on a fully functional 
 planet cracker vessel.
  
  
  All this amazing sound design and wonderful level structure are not the only highlights in Dead 
 Spaces audio-visual spectrum. The music is adequate with requisite orchestral shrills and whatnot 
 in all horror themed media and the voice acting is solid. Sound effects are robust and grisly as 
 well. The sound of slicing off Necromorph limbs is satisfying; it sounds squishy and gruesome. 
 Graphically Dead Space is just as great as the audio. Impressive lighting and some top-notch animation 
 really hammer home the immersion. While it's overall quite dark and dank, visibility is never an 
 issue. Also the game runs at a steady framerate with no dips at all.
  
  
  Feedback is an important part of horror games and it is so in Dead Space. Hitting a pack of Necromorphs 
 with the powerful line gun is one of the most satisfying things in gaming. The wide rounds shred 
 through their limbs like a hot knife through butter and they crumple to the ground (you know, being 
 legless and all) with blood and gore splattering every which way and they let out a bone rattling 
 shriek on top of the macabre wet sound of limbs being dismembered it's awesome. Dead Space's combat 
 is full of such moments and it remains intense and the tight controls only help to amplify the 
 brutal encounters. If you were worrying about the third-person control scheme and the overall gameplay 
 don't fret. Dead Space is ingeniously paced, from each hefty chapter to every pop-out scare moment 
 and you'll never get bored.
  
  
  Generally what you'll be doing is carrying out sub objectives in order to do a more significant 
 task. In the medical bay for example there is a barricade blocking the way further onward. So you 
 have to go get some thermite and a shock-pad in order to create an explosive that will obliterate 
 the barricade. Fetch quests? Yup; this is survival horror after all. Don't worry though, the objectives 
 are quite varied and getting lost is rendered impossible with a handy map that has a suggested 
 pathway labeled in it. Also you have the ability to press the right analog stick at anytime to 
 activate your RIGs (Isaac's suit) navigation system, this will create a bright blue line that will 
 show you where to go. There is also some backtracking, but it's not very extensive and rarely becomes 
 a nuisance.
  
  
  There are also a few zero gravity and outside-in-space sections. Zero-g areas are a bit gimmicky 
 but there aren't enough of them to make them feel irritable, in fact they are a good change of 
 pace. You can jump on almost any surface and watching debris and bleeding bodies float around weightlessly 
 is something you have got to see. Out in the cold vacuum of space the whole game switches perspectives. 
 The color palette takes on a heavily saturated hue and the sound gets muffled and muted, absolutely 
 astounding. Necromorphs are scary inside the ship, but outside, they are a gazillion times more 
 frightening, even better is that vacuum sections are sparse in occurrences, so each feels like 
 a pleasing nightmare.
  
  
  Dead Space is so immersive through its top-notch atmosphere and quality sound design; but further 
 enriching the captivation of the world is the complete lack of a HUD. Every menu is shown throw 
 a hologram that is projected from a slot in Isaac's. Your health is a blue meter on his spine, 
 in the vacuum of space your air timer is projected on your back and every audio, video and text 
 log you find is a hologram. When your going through your inventory you can move around and the 
 hologram menu is in real time, so you're subject to attack at any time.
  
  
  Everything just feels right when playing Dead Space. As a sci-fi game it feels futuristic, as a 
 horror game it feels scary and as a third-person shooter it feels intense and terribly fascinating. 
 The level of polish EA has put into this game is easily seen as well. In zero-g areas things float 
 and bounce around as you would expect, the controls by default are extremely tight and the game's 
 pacing and level design is pristinely thought out. It's one of the few original games to come out 
 this year and from EA nonetheless, the only reason to pass it up is if you're afraid of a rocking 
 good time and if you're squeamish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boozessed
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The upgrading of your character is sweet. The monsters look amazingly scary. Really fleshy. The 
 first game I have played where the graphics are actually visible on the monsters. It is supper 
 clear that the monsters have bones and skin. It is sick and scary as "A-ch". A really fun game 
 if you love the doom series. The guns are sweet though the first time through you will not have 
 time you use and upgrade them all. The upgrades are very effective as it truly makes each gun more 
 decimating. The lighting effects and audio is amazing as everyone is agreeing on. I wish you could 
 spend more time outside the ship. I suppose that is why it is so good. As the old doom series showed. 
 It is such a treat when you get to go outside the ship or walk into a vase room with windows. The 
 game finishes strong with the story being strong enough for this type of game... ie. compared to 
 doom. The action and monsters escalate until the James Cameron style over the top ending. A game 
 well worth enjoying and you will play it through again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin716
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is amazing, i was never much into survival horror, people think that the games story 
 is too cliche. I disagree, the problem is we are in a society that has so much on our hands we 
 tend to forget that its hard to create an original game, and so we just compare it to the closest 
 one... Like halo. Oh look flood, and necromorphs... same thing ive played it; if you think this i 
 am sorry, i am a big halo fanboy and im not afraid to say it but at the same time, dead space surprised 
 me and hooked me in. I have no regrets in spending my money on dead space.
  
  Ambient noise, talking
  great atmosphere
  your entertainment for horrors this year... dont even 
 bother with saw 5... just buy this game
  and a great element of rpg with customization with weapons and armor what more can you ask for... oh 
 thats right blood and gore... lots of blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The door takes a suspiciously long time to open. I have my laser cutter out and ready to fire, 
 certain that a necromorph is on the other side. As the door ascends I fire a shot into the room, 
 hitting the wall on the other side. Looking around, I see nothing. Credits are waiting on the floor 
 before me. I take a few steps into the room when a fleshy tentacle bursts out of the wall, grabbing 
 me before I can try to evade it's attack. It drags me in quick motions towards the hole from whence 
 it came. Frantically, I hit the A button... nothing. As I fumble with the buttons I push down the 
 L trigger. Isaac whipped out his gun and I fire two full clips at a yellow spot on the tentacle. 
 Only about 6 of my shots hit, but I was left alive and had a racing heart beat that I never thought 
 a game could give me.
  
  These are the kinds of scares that Dead Space can deliver. Sure, it has the classic popping out 
 behind walls and windows, but it's more than that. The environment is a gorgeous, harsh mistress 
 that can rend you limb from limb even easier than the zombified crew of the USG Ishimura ever could. 
 The game is scary. It does have a lot of action, but isn't that what you want?
  
  The graphics in this game are astounding. When I purchased the game I had the assumption that since 
 it's on a dark space ship, I would be treated to the usual black and gray color scheme. The game 
 basically hit me over the head and told me to stop being stupid, it's smarter than that. Even though 
 the game takes place on a space ship, the different areas can be very unique from one another.
 
  
  Every element comes together to create a fantastic, real experience. As said, there is no pause 
 when navigating menus or accessing a store. It all lends to an atmosphere that is eager to point 
 out that just like someone on a derelict spaceship, there is nothing to help you. You're vulnerable 
 and outnumbered.
  
  You aren't a space marine or a super soldier, you're an engineer. You don't have a shotgun, you 
 don't have unlimited ammunition. You can buy more powerful weapons from the in-game stores, but 
 ammo can become very scarce, and you will have to manage. Let your creativity shine, do whatever 
 it takes to kill them before they kill you. You have kinesis and a stasis unit to take out your 
 enemy. Although it's not as effective as a gun, freezing and beating a necromorph to death is very 
 satisfactory.
  
  Don't let this scare you though, the game doesn't set out to eff with your mind or make it impossible 
 to proceed.
  
  You can upgrade your guns and equipment via power nodes that can be inserted into empty circuits. 
 You can upgrade such things as capacity, power, and reload for guns, as well as health and ammo 
 for your suit, which you can upgrade with schematics found throughout the Ishimura.
  
  The story is fantastic as well, it sets up a universe where you really do get the sense that the 
 situation is bigger than you, and this fits well into the rest of the game.
  
  It's epic, it's scary, it's gory, it's fun. This game definitely deserves your attention. I implore 
 you not to let this game slip through your mind in the midst of the Fall storm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space puts you in control of one Isaac Clarke, a ship repairman going on a routine mission 
 to fix communications aboard the ship USP Ishimura, a large planet cracking vessel that can strip 
 an entire planet of it's resources.
  
  But immediately upon arrival things aren't as they appear, active and full of the ships crew; no 
 it's more than that, upon arrival your ship containing your two other crew members, crashes into 
 the ships holding bay and are forced to evacuate immediately.
  
  A few more crew members join you of which their names are not mentioned, you follow them with nothing 
 but a small protective suit and your head visor glowing a bright green hue.
  You follow your crew into the next room to try and start communications with the ships crew or 
 repairs, a command is given for you to move into the room on the other side and release a security 
 lock, unfortunately upon doing so it sets off the ships emergency security lock down procedures 
 and some rumbling noises are heard in the room above.
  
  Guns at the ready, the room goes black and red, the red coming from the emergency system above 
 the doors; and a horrible looking creature pops out of the ventilation system above and immediately 
 kills a member of your team, the others scurry for safety, only 2 of your 5 other members are alive.
 
  
  This sets the stage for Dead Space, and it's up to you to find out what's going on with the ship 
 it's self and fix it and get the hell off of it.
  But enough of the introduction, lets get to what you came here for, my review.
  
  This game, 
 a first for it's flagship title, Dead Space, presents it's self in a hostile space environment 
 where monsters lurk everywhere and they have to be dealt with.
  Things to praise about this game are numerous and almost too many to count.
  
  An easy one 
 is the graphical presentation, with it's crisp and clear visuals beautiful look at the world in 
 space on the outside of the ships many window's, the armor on Isaacs suit or the look of the ship 
 looks magnificent.
  Nothing is really out of place on the graphics it's self, and I challenge anybody to complain about 
 them.
  
  Another is the sound design, creepy, spooky and sometimes non-existent sound really set the pace 
 for your heart to leap out of your throat.
  The cold vacuum of space where no sound can be heard, is evident by only Issacs breathing and the 
 resounding vibrations through his boots and suit.
  His grunts, growls and screams when injured or hurt, let you know that he feels every impact that 
 he's dealt and sometimes seeing him hurt kinda gets to you.
  
  Also the Necromorphs, the crew of the Ishimura that have been turned into hideous monsters, have 
 scary growls, howls and screams when they attack and are attacked back, sometimes the appear from 
 behind and maybe game over for you if you aren't quick enough to notice.
  
  The weapon system is nice as well, they are all items that one would expect to see on a repair 
 mission, all of them are very useful for combating the Necromorphs. One item is the first you get, 
 the Plasma Cutter, shoots bolts of plasma in a steady line and can be used both vertical and horizontally.
 
  Other weapons can be bought as well and serve mainly one function but all have an alternative 
 fire mode.
  
  These can be all bought at the store in game at store stations, not only are some items available 
 right off the bat but some actually require you to pick up schematics or blue prints for items 
 to be downloaded into the store so you can buy and use them, items such as the medium medical gel 
 or large gel packs and even new suit upgrades; not to mention buying and selling items and storing 
 them for future use.
  
  But the real bread and butter is the combat system for Dead Space.
  The creators or developers 
 have dubbed it, Strategic Dismemberment; and that is true in every sense of the word.
  Just shooting the Necromorphs in the head or the body isn't enough to kill them, these aren't zombies, 
 but seemingly highly enhanced parasitic organisms that cannot die by normal means.
  
  You will have to make your aiming true and hit a joint or their leg and torso to sever them and 
 tear them apart before they die.
  But there is a catch, blow off it's legs and it comes crawling to you on it's mangled arms or limbs.
 
  It's pretty cool to actually send their limbs flying off and watch em struggle, but I'm evil like 
 that.
  
  Of course you aren't the only thing that's limited to dismemberment, if you're low on health or 
 make one wrong move or step, something of yours is going to fly away from your body.
  Be sure to keep that in mind on some of the more powerful Necromorphs.
  
  The story however 
 is deep and engrossing, it's a mystery that deals with an alien life form that's been awakened 
 on the planet below that was scheduled to be mined but something went wrong.
  
  The combat just for melee before I end my review, is something to be desired, his swings are wild 
 and uncoordinated unfortunately and is only for use under extreme circumstances, but not recommended, 
 well perhaps for the little baddies.
  
  I've just completed to game recently and I have to say that I did not expect the shock twist of 
 an ending, this is something that'll scare the pants off of you for sure.
  This game belongs in your collection.
  
  I am proud to give this game my full 10/10 rating, 
 this game is just epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haz2000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  From the moment I started playing this game I knew it was a great game. From the story to the action 
 and the weapons and the amazing environment you can't stop playing. It's an addictive game for 
 the horror fans like
  myself. The game play is amazing ; you can choose from
  many weapons and use magic to slow down enemies for a few
  seconds then dismember them or blow 
 them up. The action is very challenging but you can adjust the difficulty in the settings. The 
 sound and the pacing are excellent with a lot of detailing which makes the ship looks so real. 
 you can also use magic to move objects and solve puzzles during the game. You can also upgrade 
 your weapons , magic and armor at the store located all over the ship. you can save the game at 
 the saving stations .
  I strongly recommend this game to every horror fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  First I will go with the graphics, which I are just gorgeous. They go well out of there way to 
 make this pretty even though it is a very dark game. Everything has little things that you can't 
 really see unless you stop to take the time to look at it. Too bad you are too busy killing the 
 things that are high detail. Even the world you live in has plenty of thought into it. The ship 
 itself is designed for mining, so there are large mechanical devices everywhere, but only small 
 spaces for the humans to get around it. Other places seem more designed for human comfort which 
 changes the way the enemies come at you. All well thought out.
  
  OVerall game play was paced right. You don't really know what is coming at you next, how many will 
 be... etc. So you take your time. You aim carefully too, because ammo is scarce. This gameplay is 
 second to none and has to be, no multiplayer and all. 
  
  My only real gripe about the game would be the lack of controller adjustment. This is a big thing 
 for me and EA is getting really bad about not giving you much for control options. I like legacy 
 sticks, back on PS1, that's what we had. Now I'm stuck with default. In my instances I sold this 
 game to a kid and am getting it for computer, but I had to beat it first. Now with computer, I 
 can pick any controls I want. Overall, great game. Wouldn't change anything about the game itself, 
 just the controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legacywolf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Deadspace to me is a surprisingly good game. At first I did not actually plan to buy this game 
 as it looks exactly like Doom (used to) . However, after looking at some gameplay videos and reviews, 
 I realised that Deadspace was a complete new experience and is a must-buy. With the absence of 
 the classic HUD screens unlike other games, it always keeps you in the game and there is climax 
 all the time. Deadspace actually took away my phobia of playing a horror game. Actually in my opinion, 
 I dont find Deadspace as scary as Doom. The necromorphs are more like mutated alien zombies which 
 are in my way. That's not really scary. But, the combat in Deadspace is really fun, shooting off 
 the limbs of necromorphs. The gameplay is really realistic too. Now, the negative things about 
 Deadspace. Although deadspace gives really good combat play, there is not enough varieties of enemies. 
 All the enemies requires you to shoot off a limb to kill it, repetitive gameplay, not very good. 
 Sometimes I know when something is going to jump out as I can always hear the sounds of the Necromorphs. 
 Therefore I rate it a 9.0 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Buy this game right now.
  That said let's start the review. 
  Dead Space is a sweet mix of the Doom 3 story and Resident Evil 4 gameplay. The new dismemberment 
 system highly touted as the brand new gameplay mechanism works well but isn't so new. At the end 
 of it all you still have to shoot your enemies to put them down, now whether you shoot em in the 
 head as in RE4 or the limbs like Dead Space doesn't really matter. 
  The weapons are ok, and none of them pack a really huge punch, but this is a plus. Isaac isn't 
 a soldier and you aren't stranded on a warship, so the weapons suit the game quite wellin any 
 case a powered up plasma cutter does a lot of satisfying damage so you won't miss Rocket Launchers 
 and their kin.
  The bosses leave a lot to be desired. With the exception of the last boss they are all fairly lame 
 and they are all very easy. No real challenge in any of them. They also follow simple patterns 
 eating away at the challenge. It doesn't help they are all virtually the same. I have seen a number 
 of comparisons to RE4 and I would like to say that their bosses shadow Dead Space's without any 
 doubt at all.
  Isaac himself is an excellent character. All character models are fantastic. He doesn't talk. well. I 
 won't get into that, but he rocks anyway. The enemies are very creative and all look and move well. 
 The production values are top notch and show what can be done on a next gen when the money and 
 time is right. Isaac dies in many gruesome fashions and shakes off enemies in a number of desperate 
 and believable ways. You need to die a lot of times deliberately to take in all the treats this 
 game has to offer.
  It is also a great spectator game. My girlfriend enjoyed watching me play. It felt like a movie, 
 looked like a movie and brought out emotions like a movie. Good job EA. The leveling system is 
 cool and the HUD is the best ever. I expect to see many games attempt to copy this new hologram 
 system. None of the game's puzzles are unnecessarily difficult, and the objective guidance system 
 makes it accessible to everyone. The objectives themselves are well thought out. 
  Another minor qualm; how do the other NPCs get around the ship without dying? Kendra, Dr. Kyne 
 and that other loon doctor. Hammond had some guns and got his ass tore up. neway that's paltry.
 
  An easily recommendable game.
  9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripSe7en
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  I never write reviews. Others tend to do it better than myself. however, I found this game worth 
 the time to tell others that this is THE sleeper hit of this decade.
  
  If you remember playing the first Resident Evil for the PS and can remember all the times you jumped 
 from your seat and had to dry your sweaty hands off during pauses, then you will feel back at home 
 once again as this game takes a solid trip back in time to the future where SURVIVAL Horror is 
 exactly that; SURVIVAL Horror.
  Inventory Managment once again plays a role in this game as it is important to pick what weapons 
 and items you want to bring with you between checkpoints (Stores) and when you are in the frantic 
 of a battle the pause button will not save you... as you must use the Inventory HUD to use health 
 in the heat of battle with no interuption which only adds to the tension of being on the verge 
 of death.
  
  The environments are 100% superb and possibly the scariest yet in any game/movie with spectacular 
 lighting (or lack thereof) to give glimpses of what you may wish you hadn't saw. The sound (which 
 has truly made the game) is so eerie that you almost want to leave a light on...
  
  The difficulty is perfect, you WILL die, probably a couple times each chapter, but the save system 
 is flawless so you wont find your self repeating areas all that much.
  
  Like I mentioned earlier, I don't write reviews. This is my first in nearly 5 years which should 
 speak volumes for the game which in my opinion should win GOTY. You will not be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asapp7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Dead Space is like the best horror movie ever but you are actually interacting with it so its even 
 better. It's a game ddeerrrppp. Dead Space is really gosh darn good if you like Resident Evil 4 
 you will love this and if you haven't played it then you'll still love dead space, oh and u should 
 play RE4. Graphics are beautiful and the way you can dismember everything is awesome. sound is 
 great the way the music creeps up on you, it makes you want to walk very slowly because you don't 
 want to go through the doorway because boom the music cues and a necromorph pops out.
  its not the same scare twice. In GTA4 they couldn't show bloody footprints but in this they show 
 baby monsters and you can kill them, yes they are clones but still. I dont get how one got cut 
 and not the other. dont get me wrong I love gross and controversial thing but does not make since. 
 Play Dead Space so you can poop your pants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProOtter
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  All I can say if fantastic - this game is truly a master of environment. It will get your heart 
 going and keep it going. A brilliant combination of sight and sound that immerse you like no game 
 I have ever played. I have to admit that I want someone else in the house when I play - that good. 
 
  
  From the moment the game begins it does not let you go. You do take out many of the same enemies 
 over and over but some of the AI is quite intelligent and I don't remember the last time I have 
 looked over my shoulder quite so much.
  
  One enemy stalks you in the vents over multiple rooms; growling, snarling and scratching just so 
 you know it is following you. I love the experience this game brings. Great weapons including a 
 saw blade you control for 8 seconds or so that is fired and.... does some nice damage. This is a 
 great and unique game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epiphone1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to pick a place to start with suck an amazing game. Dead Space is one of Electronic arts 
 first idependent projects with the goal of hopefully being one of the scareist games anyone has 
 ever played but I can tell you thats where the game didnt deliver from random screams or erie sounds 
 to necromorphs (an alien race that started from the virus infecting corpses and reanimating the 
 body) sneaking up behind you its all been done before and from a huge fan of survival horror this 
 game didnt deliver what previous games had accomplished. In any other subject this game delivers 
 perfectly, the form of combat in this game is called strategic dismemberment and this means you 
 have to sever every limb from the necromorph to succesfully kill it. If you shoot off its legs 
 it will still crawl towards you, if you shoot off an arm it will attack you with its other, you 
 sever its head it will swing violently at you. This brings a new and exciting form of gameplay 
 that will satisfy most people. The game is set on a ship called the USG Ishimura which is a ship 
 that goes to non inhabited planets and tears them to shreds for valuble minerals and resources 
 for earth and other populated planets. You are Isaac Clark who is an ordinary engineer sent to 
 fix the communications on the Ishmura and find your girlfriend Nicole with a team of five which 
 quickly gets numbered down to three. What Isaac doesnt realize is the hell he had just entered. 
 Almost idmediatly after getting on the ship you are forced to run for your life from the Necromorphs. 
 There is also a comic book series and animated cartoon that goes along with the story to help explained 
 what happened to the people on the ship and why this happened. The weapons you encounter in Dead 
 Space are not really ment to be weapons but rather mining tools for the crew. Since the game is 
 set in space there are portions of zero gravity segments that are just simply amazing, ecspecialy 
 when the bodies of your foes just float around and their blood just floats out in globs.
  To other people this game could be definetly terrifying but for a veteran of survival horror movies 
 and video games, this game just didnt deliver anything new on the scare factor, but it does add 
 new things to everything else and thats what made this game simply irrasistable to me and should 
 definetly be a must buy for your list this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  2 most important things you need to remember in survival guide from USG Ishimura, cut their limbs 
 and move your a$$ as fast as you can. 
  
  Dead Space from EA Redwood Shore is the greatest action adventure i've ever played. every aspect 
 from this game never disappointed me.
  
  The Story, be Issac, an engineer, sent off to the deep of space to fix the communication problem 
 in a massive mining ship, USG Ishimura (american ship with Japanese name? well, i don't give a 
 sh! t) for the first it seem to be a simple mission, until he and all of his teammate 'dead on arrival'. 
 Some unidentified life form have kill and turn almost everyone on USG Ishimura into monsters. Issac 
 and his fellow must struggle and fight with death to get the hell out of the ship. the story is 
 amazing and really depressing (i never want to be in issac's shoes) it is equal to the amazing 
 story of Bioshock.
  
  The Gameplay, i'm never disappointed with EA's innovation in gameplay and that is what happen in 
 this awesome game! The strategic dismember feature is a great innovation! no more headshot to do 
 greater damage, just shoot the limbs or dismember those aliens (cut the legs and hand would be 
 enough) . The other good thing is no confusing puzzle like japanese's survival horror game. the 
 puzzle solving is innovative so it won't make you bore. Other amazing thing on this game is the 
 absent of HUD on the screen. all information you need is provided on Issac's RIG, a super computer 
 on issac's back that tell you the health meter and the tools capacity. This game actually a shooting 
 game but you don't get guns to shoot (only a pulse rifle available) instead, you get engineer's 
 tools like cutter (the most important weapon) , line gun (a saw) , flamethrower, and many more. Other 
 tools you'll need is kinetic module (to move things without touch it, like telekinetic) , statis 
 module (to slow enemy or moving object) , and magnetic shoes. Magnetic shoes is important to keep 
 issac on the surface on zero gravity condition. You can upgrade your tools, armor, and weapon with 
 collecting nodes and upgrade it at upgrade bench, you can buy items like med pack, air can, or 
 ammo on store (of course you need to collect credits scattered on the ship)
  
  The Graphics, i must tell you that i really amazed with Dead Space's graphics. Its amazing!!! i 
 really like the dark, gory environment of the ship with full of blood and dismembered bodies. Every 
 section of the ship have its own environment, its awesome! for instants, this game can compete 
 with Call of Duty 4 or Assassin's Creed.
  
  Minus point... well, there is little problem like Issac doesn't have any reaction to the environment, 
 he will keep walking when he facing a wall or reach the end of a platform, he won't react when 
 he smash walls or glass, but that is not a problem. Details like Issac will breath heavily when 
 he runs out of air and he'll move slowly when his life support is in critical level is awesome.
 
  
  so... Dead Space is a higly recommended game, its simply a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  There is only one thing to say about this game. Get it. The story, graphics, gameplay, and immersion 
 in the IP universe are nothing short of amazing. I was uncertain at first, whether to pick this 
 game up. I am glad I did. It is not only a blast to play, but the lack of any "traditional" HUD 
 makes things that much sweeter. I love the health meter and ammo built into the suit or gun display. 
 Ammo is spread out well, health packs are plentiful and the puzzles are the perfect balance. The 
 thing that this game excels in is scare factor. Play this in the dark with surround sounds or a 
 GOOD pair of headphones and you WILL get freaked out a few times. 
  
  
  Now, not all games are perfect. The only gripe I have is I can't figure out how to map an oxygen 
 tank or a health pack to a hotkey to I don't have to go into my inventory to "use" the item while 
 enemy's are hammering me. if there is a way, the weak 7 page instruction guide does not help.
 
  
  
  All summed up: This game is a perfect blend of fright and fun. If you like addictive gameplay and 
 a great narrative, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NX75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Dead Space puts together some of the best action, scares, and storytelling to make a really fantastic 
 and atmospheric shooter. As Isaac, a technician sent to repair the the huge "planet-cracker" mining 
 ship USG Ishimura, which has recently failed to respond to communications, you quickly discover 
 the crew has been infected and transformed into disgusting and deadly creatures. Like games such 
 as Doom 3 and Bioshock, audio and text logs left behind by the crew shed light on the events that 
 led to this catastrophe, and do a great job of slowly revealing the well-written, complex and ever-thickening 
 plot, and giving character to both the transformed and surviving crewmen.
  
  The environments aboard the Ishimura are brought to life by some of the best graphics and sound 
 seen to date. Every room seems painstakingly detailed and thought out; even tiny details like the 
 scribbled wall-writings of terrified and unstable crewmen are mostly legible, adding another way 
 to get a sense of history with the ship, as though people really lived there. The sound design 
 is just as great; the frenzied screams of rapidly-approaching monsters are terrifying, the powerful 
 weaponry is booming, and the flopping, severed limbs and entrails left behind from that equation 
 sound as slimy and gross as they appear. The ambient noise has many layers and sets a perfect mood, 
 while the music is never distracting, but always gets your blood pumping when things go crazy. 
 One of the best things about the music is how the stingers are tied to your point of view, meaning 
 the music will match, and not spoil, your surprise as you turn to find something sneaking up on 
 you. It's a great touch.
  
  While the game does lean heavily on tried-and-true methods of horror, they still prove to be quite 
 effective most of the time. On the normal difficulty setting, the enemies you fight, especially 
 early on, aren't actually very dangerous to you, and that takes some of the adrenaline out of the 
 encounters, but those situations are so well executed you're still likely to find them quite scary.
 
  
  Once you quickly raise your weapon to respond to the sudden threats, you'll notice the combat in 
 the game is really solid. It's very satisfying and gross to shoot off the monsters' various limbs, 
 and thanks to very responsive and well-mapped controls, you only have to worry about fighting the 
 enemies in the game and not your character or controller like in some other games of this type. 
 There is a good variety of enemies to fight on your adventure, and each one is a pleasure to fight 
 and suggests a slightly different strategy or weapon to take down effectively and while conserving 
 as much ammo as you can.
  
  Most horror games leave you with little ammo with which to defend yourself, but on the normal difficulty 
 setting, there's perhaps too much ammunition to be found in Dead Space, especially near the beginning. 
 The game provides a large amount of pickups from defeated enemies, be it more ammo for the guns 
 you have equipped, or money, which can be spent at the ship's many store terminals for new and 
 better suits that offer larger inventories and more protection from damage, new weapons like a 
 flame thrower and beam cannon, health packs, ammo, and power nodes.
  
  One of Dead Space's coolest features is the ability to upgrade each of your weapons and abilities 
 using those (appropriately hard-to-find and expensive) power nodes, affording you the option to 
 focus on powering-up your favorite weapon, or putting the priority on raising your maximum health 
 or air supply (for when you need to cross through the vacuum of space) as you progress.
  
  The game should last you about 15 hours the first time through, which is a good, long stretch of 
 time. Through it all, the game never seems to rely on the same scare tactic twice, staying fresh 
 to the end. It's also worth noting that the game encourages multiple play-throughs. Beating the 
 game will unlock new items, database entries, and power nodes for use your second time through, 
 and even unlocks a harder difficulty setting. The surprises will lose their edge if you remember 
 them well enough, but the game's other strengths are definitely enough to carry the adventure for 
 a second or even third trip.
  
  All in all, Dead Space's stellar controls, graphics, sound, story, scares, and combat make the 
 game very easy to recommend. This is a truly great game full of thrills, chills, and spills that 
 you won't forget for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Why should you play Dead Space? I will give you 3 reasons. 
  
  First: there really isnt a game quite like it from a sound standpoint. No matter where you are 
 in the game, the developers took great pains to ensure that you are scared. It works. Whether it 
 is a pipe hitting the ground somewhere or the far away screeching of an Necromorph, you will be 
 on edge. Even if you are playing with the lights on, which no true fan of the horror genre shoudl 
 do, you will still have more than your fair share of jumps. Words cant do the audio of this game 
 justice, it must be seen/heard to be appreciated. 
  
  Second: the weapons are a lot of fun and tie in perfectly to the combat system. Depending on what 
 kind of player you are, you can come up with many different ways to take down an enemy. you can 
 use the "force gun" to knock and enemy to their back, and then charge up a shot on your "contact 
 beam" to blow them away. Or, you can take out their legs with your "plasma cutter", and while they 
 are down you can barbecue them with your flamethrower. the strategic dismemberment system forces 
 you to think about combat differently. You have to be a tactician. I find that because of this 
 unique feature, killing enemies becomes much more satisfying. It is as visceral as it is brilliant. 
 
  
  Third: the game looks great and the environment is a believable one. I cant overstate this. Not 
 enough games give the kind of attention to detail that you see in Dead Space. The USG Ishimura 
 is well realized as a derelict "planet cracking" ship and every corridor and room you enter is 
 presented with care. Whether it is a well lit, massacred cafeteria, or a dank and flithy storage 
 room, it all looks and feels authentic. The zero-g and space vaccuum environments are also superbly 
 crafted and the sensory deprivation you experience there is a great addition to the game. 
  
  All in all, Dead Space has a lot to offer. There aren't any glaring negatives that I could 
 find. If I were to make a small complaint, it would only be that backtracking takes place a lot, 
 and maybe there could ahve been a few more boss battles. But I was having such a good time with 
 the game that I didnt really care about these things. Backtracking has been a staple of the genre 
 since the early silent Hill and Resident evil games. Dead Space is a tense thriller that will keep 
 you on edge until the final scare. You won't regret forking over $60 for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xado
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I want to say first off, I have been longing for a great Horror game for some time now. I actually 
 rented Silent Hill Homecoming a few days before I found out about Dead Space and was about halfway 
 through before I popped Dead Space in. Needless to say I havn't played Silent Hill again since 
 and I am currently rocking out on chapter 7 of Dead Space. I have played many games similar that 
 have tried to pull off a solid experience but there has always felt as if more things drag and 
 make you feel like you are at work rather than enjoying a great game. In this case completely opposite. 
 Everything evolves enough to make a noticeable difference from the intensity of battles to a huge 
 sense of urgency to arrive at your next destination. By far like many have said before me the Music 
 and Sound effects are Superb! Could be the best I've heard to date that immense you more deeply 
 into the game so much more than just about every other. The Voice acting is excellent. Storyline 
 is definitely solid and keeps your mind active putting yourself into the position at hand. Combat 
 is very fluid, nice array of weopanry and armor upgrades, and yes the interface is the slickest 
 yet being able to move and enter combat while your mission-item (inventory) -video holograms are 
 up. One of the only things I can say I wanted to see a bit more planetary environment and other 
 areas rather than the ship you are cleaning house on other than that this is a must buy or rent 
 for any fan of Horror-Sci-Fi lovers. Can't wait to check out the Dead Space DvD that is coming 
 out soon. I bet money that Dead Space just hit it on home for EA with this Mother!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolenraug
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I'm about 5 or 6 hours into Dead Space and, so far, it's a decent game, but it isn't blowing me 
 away. I feel like I've seen it all before. To me, Dead Space is Resident Evil 4 set in a Doom 3 
 environment with John Carpenter's The Thing making it's first appearance since the 1982 film/early 
 2000's video game. Each of those are fantastic in their own right, but recycling them leaves Dead 
 Space a little lacking in the "ground breaking" department. The zero G is interesting but, at the 
 same time, nothing to clear your schedule for. The sound design is fairly good, but I think that 
 was overrated as well. 
  
  Overall, my verdict is this: I'll finish the game, but then I'm pretty sure I'll be trading it 
 in for credit. There's not too much for replay value for me. Give it a rent if you're iffy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Take the dark moody feel of a silent hill, the detailed atmosphere of bioshock, and the gritty 
 feel and gameplay of Resident Evil, put the scenario in a hell inside a spaceship, and you have 
 Dead Space. It may sound a little over the top or like a hollywood B movie, but like most great 
 games, what makes a B movie bad often ends up making a surprisingly great game.
  
  The game feels more like Resident Evil than anything. From the controls to the shooting system, 
 it's very clear their primary goal was to make this feel like the classic RE4. Dead Space has the 
 same basic item and inventory systems only w/ a slightly deeper upgrade system, which is nice. 
 The weapons offer a good variety and are almost all rewarding and fun to use. 
  
  The scenery is top notch. The graphics are great especially the well done lighting, something that 
 really sets certain scenes over the top and makes you pause just to look around and appreciate 
 how great some of the scenes look. 
  
  The music and pacing is top notch and sets the player up for a very thrilling experience. My biggest 
 worry was that the game would get boring due to the nature of it being on a ship, but they did 
 a great job of mixing things up just enough so that you never get bored of what you are doing or 
 looking at.
  
  Dead Space is a little short and has no online offers so I say it's a 10/10 for a rental but not 
 worth a purchase unless you are a major fan of survival horror games.
  
  But do yourself a favor and play this game, either way. And turn the lights off, it's a great pre-halloween 
 treat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whizzo3030
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  being a huge horror movie buff i can say that this game freaks the hell out of me, borrowing elements 
 from event horizen, the thing, and alien its all rolled together in a disturbing package with tight 
 gameplay and solid graphics and sound. the only downside to me is the fact that u cant re explore 
 areas which you have beaten ala bioshock style, it would have been fun to take time to go back 
 and soak in the visuals a little more threat free. On the other hand the fact there is no hud on 
 screen and everything you do is in real time adds to the suspense, meaning that when you go into 
 your mad or inventory the game does not pause. zero gravity is also badass as well as getting through 
 the vacume chambers. I also like the death animations for issac there are times when he is decapitated 
 and dismembered something different for the genre. overall this game is fun as hell and even better 
 in the dark....... buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undrpsi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the teaser and pre-quel video's. Couldn't wait for the game. Have been playing 
 it for about 3 days now and it's pretty good. The graphics and game play are pretty good but the 
 storyline is only OK. If you are looking for a "Bioshock in space" you're gonna be dissapointed. 
 I don't like the way you upgrade the weapons/suit/stasis... seems like an afterthought. I do like 
 the 'hit em with stasis then cut off their limbs' attack method... that's pretty cool. The shooter 
 portion is MUCH better than Mass Effect or Lost Planet but not as good as GOW or Bioshock. I am 
 not trying to run thru it as fast as I can... I like to spend my time and find all the bits. The 
 sound effects are pretty good and, as I said, the graphics are good too. This is a solid 8 and 
 I am happ with the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peteysurf311
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  First off Isaac should be the hero of every engineer worldwide! What a badass. The graphics are 
 great, brutality is off the scale. There that's taken care of. Here's what really makes the game 
 though, the sound. Holy crap man! Crank up the volume, I promise it will knock you socks off. For 
 one thing, the wispering can get to you: search and rescue (some of you know what I'm talking about) . 
 Then you have the incredibly loud screams while your being attacked, also don't forget the scittering 
 in the air ducts, the gurgling blood, and the slithering of the dying. Quite crazy. I would recommend 
 using headphones in a dark room. I use Bose headphones and it's crazy scary. Get  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is one game after so many years that made me scared the hell out of me after the Resident 
 Evil series (1,2,3) . This game shows how the space based horror games should be made. Dead Space 
 kept the survival theme to its high standard. Limited inventory space (which is so crucial) , conservation 
 of ammo and every single item is necessary for game completion. I just finished upto chapter 4 
 and I am still focused about the whole mystery of Ishimura (The haunted space ship) . The twisted 
 plot is excellent. The best part of the game is the strategic dismemberment which puts the typical 
 headshot strategy to shame. Each monster have different areas and weaknesses. The inclusion of 
 this strategic dismemberment made gameplay even more interesting. Also its worth notifying that 
 the player starts with nothing in hand (he is just an engineer, not a soldier) . I will tell nothing 
 about the plot, I will leave that to the owners of the Dead Space. So far my most intense moment 
 is that I had to run in zero gravity with no air and dodging asteroids outside the space ship. 
 Also I liked the asteroid shoot em up part.
  
  This game also makes a big step graphically. Instead of not including any HUD, the developers introduced 
 hologram images and health bar notifications in the suit, which let players think they are actually 
 in the game. Everything from inventory control, viewing maps, reading data, all done while standing. 
 That means that you cant browse the inventory while fighting monsters unlike other games, or else 
 you are dead meat. Also checking inventory is not advisable in zero gravity and zero air unless 
 you are bound to use oxygen tanks. The whole space environment is awesome. Also you wont hear any 
 sound outside the ship in the space (which makes gameplay more intense provided you will not be 
 aware when and where the monster will appear.
  
  The horror themed sound is truly epic. The sounds actually made the game even scarier.
  
  One 
 thing I didnt like about this game is missions are quite repetitive. Also the developers should 
 have worked on monsters doing surprise attacks, coz i feel its not enough to scare the hell out 
 of everyone. Maybe I am too careful, coz I always keep my handgun aimed while moving so I can kill 
 anything as fast as i can , if I am ambushed. Its all about gamers' preferences. Another thing 
 is that I can easily recognize which dead one will stand up in front of me, so I just shoot them 
 down before I go near them and let them make a surprise stand.
  
  Although this game has minor flaws the game still made me crap my pants. I am just imaging what 
 would happen if this flaws were gone. Anyways, buy this game. Those who are not horror fans, please 
 rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I know this won't add to much more then the gamespot review but anyway.
  
  First off this is coming from someone (me) who loves survival-horror games. Silent Hill, Resident 
 Evil, etc... etc.
  
  Now for me i haven't found many good survival horror games in the last while. But now that DeadSpace 
 is out and on coming is Left 4 Dead and RE5 i have hope.
  
  This game is truly amazing. The storyline is awesome, graphics are very good, and the atmosphere 
 really puts you in the game.
  
  If your a survival-horror fan, and even if your not, pick this game up. Its a must have. If you 
 have second thoughts, download the demo or whatever but you will not be disappoint.
  
  The game start out with you heading to an obviously known ship that aparently is in need of repair. 
 Unfortunatly something goes wrong. Now the beginning of this game is the most heart-pounding event 
 that starts the game off so well, and the terror and sense of fear only gets higher and bigger.
 
  
  And yes you start doing missions and what not. But theres also side missions and objectives and 
 upgrades and equipment you can buy etc.
  
  I recommend this game be played with the lights off and with a high volume. You'll get so wrapped 
 in the game that ever corner you take will be tearing you apart with fear and will test your nerves.
 
  
  Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echonian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Right from the opening sequence of Dead Space, you can tell it's got a lot going for it.
  
  The story puts you in the shoes of Isaac Clark, a deep space engineer, as him and a small team 
 investigate the USG Ishimura, an enormous planet-cracker that has lost contact with earth. 
  
  From the moment you arrive, things go wrong, which may be predictable in a sci-fi horror game, 
 but the execution is what makes this game special. Soon you are fighting for your life against 
 the reanimated bodies of the former crew.
  
  Survive the necromorph attacks, investigate what they are, why they are on the Ishimura, and try 
 to find a way of escape. The entire experience is incredible.
  
  Ok, to start, the graphics are amazing in this game. There are occasional glitches, but nothing 
 major. The lighting is superb, the environments amazing, especially the zero-g ones. Enemies can 
 be dismembered, their limbs spewing blood as you blow them off with a number of creative weapons 
 as well.
  
  From a machine gun, to a force gun, to a remote-controlled circular saw, the weapons are almost 
 all re-purposed mining tools, besides the one gun used for security purposes aboard the ship.
 
  
  The atmosphere and story allow for an incredibly scary game. If you have the difficulty too low 
 for your skill level, it will not be scary at all, and seem too much like an action game. That's 
 the one thing I will warn you about.
  
  I won't ruin the story beyond what I have, but it is great. Get this game.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Sound: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissMorphine
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me Start this review Saying. Dead Space its an AMAZING and INCREDIBLE game. i know what you 
 might thinking. but thats an EA game and everybody knows their games are GARBAGE. well think again. 
 this game is surprisingly good. it has a pretty good story. excelent controls. really good Visuals 
 and Sound Effects.
  
  DS reminds me of the old school SH games. we all know that the SH games are really moody and atmospheric 
 and in these games you afraid of what u "cant" see bc its all dark and theres lots of creepy noises 
 coming from everywhere and it gets your heart rate really high so high that u can hear your heart 
 pounding in your ears. well thats exactly what DS manages to do really well. u exploring a ship 
 infested with nasty n fugly creatures. u walking throu dark hallways and as u walk u see shadows 
 hear weird sounds coming from behind you and that will keep you watching over your shoulder 40% 
 of the game.
  
  If u played RE4 u will remember the Over the Shoulder 3rd person view and if u shot your enemies 
 in the legs they would fall down and u could take your time and finish em off. well u can do the 
 same thing here except that u dismember your enemies. of course u can just shoot em in the chest 
 but u dont really wanna do that cuz they can take 10 shots n still be trying to kill you. so here 
 the dismember of your enemies takes a really important role bc after all this is a Survival Horror 
 game u have to save every bullet u can. and belive me u gonna have a hard time finding ammo and 
 supplies.
  
  Besides your weapons that u find during the game. u get Special Powers... Stasis. u can paralize 
 enemies for a few secs so u can take your time aiming and go for the head and save a couple of 
 rounds or when u get outnumbered this can be a really usefull asset. one thing that i really love 
 about this game is that u can get caught with your guard down really easily. you in a **** so obviously 
 it has tons of ducts. so if u trying to take down a fow and u fail he can get into the vent system 
 and appear behind you. so if you gonna shoot. u gotta shoot to kill cuz u dont really wanna be 
 standing still in the dark looking for the enemi u couldnt kill and then get surprised by someone 
 else or shooting some other alien n get caught or killed by the alien in the ducts.
  
  So by now u must be thinking man this is a RE4-RE5 rip off. this game doesnt bring anything new. 
 well it might be true but it is really fun. specially when u reach some parts where theres Zero 
 Gravity. u can make some super jumps and theres lots of stuff floating around. specially enemies. 
 and one thing that this game manages to pull really well... is to give you the Ilusion of safety. 
 what do i mean? well when u think that u are safe in a room suddenly u have to face 3-4 enemies 
 at the same time.
  
  This game has some interesting Boss Fights i would like to give you some details but i think its 
 better if i dont. the ending is really good. i really cant wait for DS2. i think DS could be GOTY 
 material but too bad it wont be. too bad. anyways DS is a pretty solid game u should give it a 
 try. at least rent this game u wont regreat it.
  
  Graphics - 9.0
  Sounds - 8.5
  Fun Factor - 9.0
  Replay Value - 8.0
  
  Overall - 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beastcake
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been following this game for quite a while. And, I've got to say, it delivered. One of the 
 things I like of this game is that there is no bulky heads up display. Most screens are displayed 
 in real-time, meaning, everything around you is still in full-motion and keeps you in the action. 
 Your health is displayed as a bar on the back of Isaac and your stasis monitor is shown as a semi-circle 
 on the right of the health bar. One of the frustrating things is the inability to restore your 
 stasis meter on the run. You can restore health using a health item by simply pressing X without 
 aiming. It can be fruserating if you accidentely press during during gameplay and using up one 
 of your items. Most of the enemies you will face will drop some sort of item but at the rate you 
 exhaust your ammunition it levels out. I always seem to run low on ammo in the most isolated locations. 
 The pricing of buying items gets hard to decipher whether you want health items or ammo, since 
 its hard to aquire both. I jumped quite a bit during my play through, it was very exhilerating 
 but overwhelming. Especially when your overrun by enemies, which happens quite excessively. The 
 sound in Dead Space are something to reckon with. Hearing wierd sounds from a distance keeps you 
 on your toes. This game really makes me feel like I'm in my own horror movie. Theres not really 
 any music unless you are encountered but it creates an eerie experience when its dead silent. The 
 gameplay is very simple and grounded, which makes it tons better. I don't like when games have 
 like a billion button combinations, it just gets downright confusing. Overall this game provided 
 an exhilarating experience from start to finish. Though there is not much replayability beyond 
 beating it on the hardest difficulty, it has set an awesome standard for future horror games. I 
 suggest this game to just about anyone who has enjoyed the Resident Evil series. EA has captured 
 the scary atmosphere that has been absent from horror movies recently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkslade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is good. the map layout i thought could have been done better, and the way you travel 
 in the same rooms constantly gets annoying. i do like the frequent save points as they are not 
 few and far between. the ammo is good, the gameplay is solid and the atmosphere is done well, except 
 for the pop up map and recordings that you listen to are frustrating when you move the rotate with 
 you. the creatures you battle against some are the same and some vary. the game is definitely worthy 
 of a purchase just for a different taste of a genre which is need of some change. I do like this 
 game but i still feel like this is missing something that would make it a top notch survival horror 
 game. this is just my opinion on the game as i have played it under ten hours so far but will continue 
 to play it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentKayos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  If I had to pick what Dead Space reminded me of I'd first say "The Thing" followed closely by Sunshine 
 (The movie that's set in space, not Little Miss Sunshine) . Now if you've seen either one of those 
 movies and if you've enjoyed either one of those you'll probably like Dead Space.
  
  First off, I'm not going to talk much about the story of Dead Space due mainly to spoilers that 
 I want to avoid. Anyhow, Dead Space's protagonist, Isaac, is part of a team that has been sent 
 to the USS Ishimura to investigate the reasons behind the communication failure that has happened. 
 Long story short, sh*t goes down and you're fu*ked.
  
  Dead Space takes a lot from other games to tell the back story. Most of it gets told through video 
 disks and audio tapes, much like DOOM 3, System Shock and Bioshock. These video and audio logs 
 bring a sense of humanity to the nameless faces that line the corridors. The story over all is 
 plotted out well, but at times I felt it could have done more to explain certain aspects. Dead 
 Space's universe could have been as diverse as Bioshock or Halo, but little is known other than 
 the dealings on the USS Ishimura.
  
  The graphics in Dead Space are some of the best on the Xbox 360.
  
  My jaw literally dropped 
 during the opening sequence as the planet appeared on the view screen with all of the debris floating 
 around.
  
  I mean the production values on the game are really good. I've very rarely have come across glitches 
 and the ones I did see are very minor (texture clipping) . One thing I did see is that in some areas 
 there are noticeably low resolution textures. It doesn't take away from the game much, but it sure 
 is noticeable.
  
  Now, you ask me, how's the gore? It can be described in one word: awesome. Every single enemy can 
 get dismembered and oceans of blood will flow. Hell, even after the enemies are dead you can
  
  stomp on them, ripping limbs off until all that's left is a pile of bloody body stubs and a 
 torso.
  
  Speaking of dismemberment the whole game revolves around it. You can shoot arms, legs, tentacles, 
 ball sacs, etc Each limb that you sever the creature reacts accordingly. Take out legs, the beast 
 crawls, take out the arms, they attack different ways.
  
  One problem I have with the combat is that sometimes it can be a little too difficult. The game 
 throws into a room with four or five monsters in it and then they lock the doors. The enemies vary 
 in difficulty but when there are 5 tentacles whipping your face, it gets a little tough.
  
  With that said, you won't be fighting enemies in every room. In fact there will be times where 
 you'll travel through multiple rooms without a single screech of a creature. During those times 
 you'll mostly be doing fetch quests, which include a lot of back tracking.
  
  Once everything is said and done the game will clock in around 10 hours. Once you beat the game 
 your character stats cross over into a new game. It will take you multiple runs through the game 
 to actually upgrade your character and weapons.
  
  Overall the game is great. With very good production values and a story that would delight horror 
 fans as well as sci-fi fans, I think it deserves a buy, especially if you're a fan of those genres.
 
  
  For the full review and more go to my website at kayos. pcriot. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  There haven't been a lot of succesful additions to the survial horror genre in the past decade. 
 Resident Evil and Silent Hill have made some successful changes to their formula, but there really 
 hasn't been any great newcomers.
  
  Until now.
  
  Dead Space is a masterpiece. It brings all sorts of new ideas to the genre, and doesn't go wrong 
 with any of them.
  
  1st is the removal of the H. U. D.
  While Dead Space is hardly the first game to do this, it's the first to implement it so successfully. 
 Almost everything you need to know about your ammo or health can be read right off the back of 
 your armor. 
  
  2nd is the way in which mission objectives are displayed. There's is a holographic screen that 
 is projected from your armor's chestplate. It only takes up a small square of the screen, and for 
 the most part leaves enough room for you to continue your regular tasks.
  
  These two things together maybe don't sound like great innovational strides, but in a survival 
 horror game where immersion is everything, it's possibly the greatest idea we've seen in gaming 
 in a long time.
  
  The controls are tight. Maneuvering never feels clunky or unbalanced. The run speed is perfect, 
 and by that I mean it's just enough to get you a few steps ahead of your opponent and give you 
 a few extra precious seconds to finish him off.
  
  Weapons also work very nicely. Each have a very useful purpose and feel great to wield. It's hard 
 to pick a favorite, but the use of the cutter tool as the primary weapon was a great choice. It's 
 all about strategic dismemberment.
  
  I can only make two complaints about Dead Space.
  
  1. Once in a while, in the Zero-G areas, body parts floating around the environment will pass 
 through walls or dissappear. Minor clipping issues.
  
  2. If you move (or destroy) one of the human corpses lying around the various rooms, the next time 
 you come back to those rooms the bodies will be back to normal in their original positions.
  
  Overall:
  
  Dead Space is nearly a perfect game. Despite some very minor problems involving 
 the human corpses, it's easy to become fully immersed in the environment the game sets up for you. 
 The controls, lighting, weapons, etc all work amazingly, especially when you put them all together.
 
  
  Dead Space will be the survival horror game all others are compared to for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdumanml
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Everything thats been said by the critics from gamespot has been accurate. I have only played the 
 first 6 chapters and i was affraid it would be a short game but it has not been disappointing. 
 Amazing graphics and yes at times i did jump in my seat or my heart took an extra beat. I strongly 
 recommend at least renting this game to see how you like it. The scenes from start to finish are 
 breath taking and spectacular. I remember getting tired of the the resident evil like games but 
 this is a refreshing new type of game in its genre. i hope that the developers and the entire production 
 crew work again together  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is one of those few special games that is just too good to put down. From start to finish, 
 you will be highly entertained, terrified, and amazed at the same time. The environment is dark 
 and beautifully designed. It is very detailed and very fun to play in.
  
  The combat system in Dead Space is original and brings a good strategy element to the game. In 
 order to execute your enemies, you need to sever their limbs by using any of the various weapons 
 in the game. This is a lot of fun to do and it makes for some excellent blood and gore sequences.
 
  
  The story is enticing and very well executed. It feels as though you are playing through a science 
 fiction/horror movie epic. It is also very, very frightening and at times it will scare the you-know-what 
 out of you. This game is one that you just need to play in order to appreciate how good it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCOPE123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is perfect. The sound, the setting and the gore sets up the great story 
 that this game tells. I haven't beaten it, but so far it's been amazing. It's got to be the only 
 game that you try to die when you run into new creatures just so you can see what happens. The 
 gore is unlike any game I've seen. I thought GoW was top notch in that category, but this game 
 put it to shame. My favorite parts are when you are in no gravity and you cut up an enemy. Their 
 arms and legs float around the room while the blood slowly poors out. The weapons are also very 
 creative. The secondary fire for each weapon makes each one unique. If I had to choose a favorite 
 weapon, it would have to be the ripper. It's very satisfying when you dice up a creature with it. 
 I recommend this game to anyone. Turn out the lights and turn up the sound and enjoy a gory and 
 immersing ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armydude101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is a great game. First I want to address an issue or two that many people might find 
 while reading reviews to decide wether or not to get it.
  
  Backtracking is not as big an issue as it may seem. I was a bit skeptical, but my fears were put 
 to rest. When you play through an area once, not all areas are unlocked right away. They become 
 unlocked as you progress through the game. Plus, the enviornment usually changes in some way, and 
 your running for your life, so you may not even notice. And besides, it is appropriate for this 
 sort of game.
  
  Okay, onto the actual review.
  
  The presentation of Dead Space is very immersive. There is no HUD, only holographic projections 
 off of your armor. This allows for even more scares. And when you go to your map or inventory, 
 it doesn't pause (You need to actually pause the game, but it won't help you) . 
  
  The graphics of Dead Space are among the best this year. The holos, the characters and Necromorphs, 
 the gore, all of it is pure art. EA outdid themselves.
  
  Even better than the visuals is the sound, which makes you on edge the entire game, even when there 
 are no enemies. Again, pure art. 
  
  And you can't have a immersive game without an excellent story, and the way it is told, which Dead 
 Space has in abundance. The logs you find all over and sometimes cryptic messages scrawled in blood 
 on the walls, all make you feel very much alone and immersed.
  
  Loading is very fast and seamless, and you won't be waiting for very long if you die. The main 
 menu is very simple and to the point. A New Game, Load Game, and Options menue. Same as ingame, 
 all the information you need is very east to find.
  
  Resource management, something all great S-H games need to excell in, and Dead Space is no exception. 
 You have a limited inventory, but you can store excess items in a Safe at the Store that you can 
 access at other stores throughout the game. Ammo usually isn't a problem. There are two guns you 
 should always have ammo for are the Plasma Cutter and Pulse Rifle. Any other ammo you find is usually 
 relative to the weapons you currently carry (you can carry 4, extras must be stored at the Store 
 Safe.)
  
  You can upgrade your weapons, equipment (Stasis and Kinesis, used to slow down fast objects and 
 enemies and to pick you and throw things, respectivley) , and armor ( dubbed RIG) , with an object 
 called power nodes. These little things are key to success. They cost 10,000 creds to buy but you 
 can usually find these laying around. Tip: Always keep at least one on you at all times. If you 
 come across a room that needs a node to be opened, use it. It's worth it.
  
  First time through, I played on Medium, and it lasted me about 11 and a half hours. In a lot of 
 places I didn't die alot, but you can be killed prety quick if you aren't careful (I was careful- 
 most of the time) and some puzzles may get you killed several times before figuring it out, but 
 it isn't usually a problem because...
  
  The save system is awesome. There are save points all throughout the game, and, naturally, you're 
 going to want to save as often as possible. But, say there was a save point a ways back and you 
 die? Usually not a problem, because the game reloads you pretty close to the area you were just 
 in.
  
  And the DLC suits are great (I'm on X360) , and I used the Scorpion Suit (200MS points) so that helped 
 a deal. If you don't use one, you're going to need to manage your inventory a lot more carefully.
 
  
  My playthrough:
  Difficulty: Medium
  Time: 11 1/2 hours
  Difficulty: Just right
  Scares: A bunch. Very intense in some places.
  
  All in all, a great game. Now for some issues 
 I found. (Negligible at best, so no worrys.)
  
  I only saw one visual hiccup, and that's when Issac (Player) sat down in a seat and his back stuck 
 through it.
  
  There are two sequences in the game designed to mix things up, but they can be a real pain in the 
 butt. They require you to take control of a Asteroid Defense turret to first time, shoot objects, 
 and the second to shoot an enemy. Both are extremely annoying, but the second is easier than the 
 first.
  
  And you can't change the difficulty when starting a new game with an old save, probably designed 
 to make the unlockable Impossible mode to become to easy, but subsequently makes all other modes 
 to be very easy. Like in the begining, you start with no weapons (you have to find the first one) 
 but when replaying it you have your guns still. Not really a problem, just something to point out.
 
  
  Dead Space is a great game, and things may be looking up for EA. If you like games like Silent 
 Hill or Resident Evil, chances are very good that you will love Dead Space.
  
  Score:
  Visuals: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  Difficulty: Just Right
  Replayability: 9
  Resource Man. 9
  Story: 
 10
  
  OVERALL: 9.5 (Not Averaged)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrogMon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  "Blow off their limbs!"
  -No really, do it!-
  So after playing for four hours straight, I realized that this is possibly the greatest sci-fi 
 survival horror shooter of all time. No other has been so immersive and kept me as interested as 
 Deadspace. The timing on scare elements and the ominous noises make the game that much more frightening. 
 Another plus, is that the game is truly gorgeous. Possibly my favorite feature would have to be 
 the zero-g combat and blasting guys with the beam cutter. So fun! The selection of weapons allows 
 you to combat the necromorphs in whatever way you see fit, from burning them with a flamethrower 
 to mutilating them with a pulse rifle. Overall:
  Gameplay - A
  Graphics - A+
  Sound - A+
  Replay Value - B
  
  Verdict:
  A must for sci-fi survival horror fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty_Mo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  An amazing game it reminds me of the atmosphere of Bioshock with its engrossing storyline and amazing 
 graphics. As soon as you land on the Ishimura it all starts. As Isaac Clarke right at the start 
 your separated with nowhere to go except deeper in the necromorph infested ship. At every corner 
 you had to be weary because you never know what could pop out. The weaponry within the game was 
 really unique and it worked out really well. The enemies you face were once the inhabitants of 
 the Ishimura, now turned to creatures known as necromorphs. This game is not your normal survival 
 horror either the only way to kill these crazy creatures is by sever their limbs from their body, 
 so if you just shoot of their head they will still be running at you. The deeper you traverse into 
 this ship the crazier and more dangerous everything gets. 
  
  All I gotta say about this game is just buy it, dive right in and just hack away at those necromorph 
 fiends and show absolutely no mercy cause they wont :]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanfish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  So I got this game the day it came out and I have 2 opinions of it. The first is DO NOT play on 
 a standard definition TV. The second is holy hot Wednesday! This game scares the crap right outta 
 you. Now to explain my first opinion. I tried playing it on my 32 in. SD tube T. V. and no scares. 
 With just the stereo speakers and the "gritty" graphics this wasn't scary. So I got my VGA cable 
 out and decided to try it on 1280x1024 and I hooked up my 5.1 surround sound and let's just say 
 I had to put on my brown pants. This game is beautiful both on the audio and video ends. Some parts 
 of the game in SD were scary. More of the shock scare you get from a haunted house. But when you 
 move to the 5.1 sound, I was terrified to walk into a room. The video end of it is just amazing. 
 Blood is smeared into walls, floors, ceilings, and even urinals! All in all this game is great. 
 I say pick it up ASAP. My only problem with the game is that you are an errand boy. You fix one 
 thing and another problem appears. It kinda feels like GTA4. Do this mission, go fix that, go blow 
 up that thing, etc. This is my only problem with the game. Other than that, PICK UP THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quickspic12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  So lets go, I have the review you NEED! First off lets start with what EA Promised to deliver with 
 this game. EA promised top of the line graphics, BIG SCARES, a new mind set for survival horror, 
 AMAZING sounds, etc. We'll start with the Visuals, TRULY STUNNING!! whether you're watching the 
 intro to the game in open space, or whether you're watching asteroids fly by through the large 
 windows in an atrium, you will leave this game and hours later be thinking about how amazing it 
 looked. It delivers on all aspects, lighting, facial construction, character animations, and even 
 the surrounding environment on AND off the ship look above any other game.
  Delivered- Yes
  
  Next on my list of things is Sounds, we'll touch on this because it works completely based 
 on the visuals. The sound is simply just as amazing as the games graphics. The way that the two 
 flow together to make such an amazing world and environment. They seem to mesh together better 
 than peanut butter and jelly. Not only are the sounds of the environment great, the voice acting 
 was done extraordinarily well. All of the characters seem to make you feel what THEY feel by the 
 spectacular movie like voice acting, there were times I felt as though I was watching a movie rather 
 than playing a game. No matter how you look at it, the sound of this game is perfect.
  Delivered- Yes
  
  Now then because I mentioned the amazing voice acting above, I'll talk about 
 the story. This stroy draws a lot of bits from older horror/sci-fi movies but manages to make it 
 something all its own. Its massive backstory that EA has put out (Comics, Movie) has really helped 
 us delve deeper into the world of Dead Space. All the logs in the game that you can pick up also 
 really make you feel for what happened on the USG Ishimua. Be it a list of dead from the captain, 
 or a video blog from someone on the ship who has seen horrible things, these logs make it fun and 
 interesting to look for them. Sadly enough I missed three of them my first go through and am now 
 only missing one. The story truly is something to love, EA did an amazing job with creating this 
 games plot, characters, and the surrounding stroy.
  Delivered- Yes
  
  Next we are going to talk about these Big scares that EA promised. Well, we're gonna put it this 
 way. If you are extremely jumpy, you MAY get scared. Truth is if you're looking to be scared, this 
 isn't a scary game. There were I believe only two areas that simply surprised me, not scared me. 
 There is a BIG difference. Scare factor was one of the things I was hoping EA would deliver on, 
 sadly though they simply did not carry this out.
  Delivered- No
  
  Now we can touch on possibly the BEST thing promised with this game. Early on EA said, they did 
 not want the standard aim for the head mind set people are used to. They wanted something that 
 required more refined movement to add to the tense gameplay. Strategic Dismemberment was what they 
 decided to name this mechanic. It not only Looked great, it was very satisfying. To use stasis 
 on an enemy and watch him slowly come at you, while you tear his limbs off one by one and watch 
 the armless, legless heap of meat fall to the floor, call me sick but this is possibly the most 
 fun I have had in a game in a LONG time. The game already was pretty intense in the more difficult 
 modes, but then to add having to take limbs off instead of just a head, this made it all the more 
 enticing and tactical. This new idea may have single handedly reinvented the survival horror genre 
 by adding this simple core gameplay fun factor. Delivered- YES!! I have played this game a total 
 of three times so far and am on my fourth go through right now, the replayability is great. I have 
 quite literally, seen something new each instance of playing through this game, yes there are the 
 scripted pieces of the game that you will always see, but there are rooms, and small scripted animations 
 that you may miss if you aren't paying attention, however the small animations do help make up 
 a great feel to the game. The extra rooms are also great because then you don't feel like you are 
 playing through the game the same way every time. I will agree with gamespots review that doing 
 some of the backtracking in the game is a bit tiring and makes the world feel smaller than it actually 
 is. However when you do backtrack, most of the time the world in which you're revisiting has changed 
 a bit, be it different lights being out, more blood and such around, etc. Over all the game is 
 astounding. I went looking for errors and glitches and all that I found were small collision detection 
 errors. If you are standing too near a table and look down a bit too far, it throws you back about 
 a foot or if you are walking around a corner too close your gun will get caught and you wont move. 
 small collision errors, but not too bad. Other wise no glitches I experienced. Framerate was very 
 steady, unless you're blowing a lot of crap up, you will not see this at all. It keeps a pretty 
 steady rate.
  
  Now I will just touch on this briefly because, well, I cant go without saying something. Do you 
 remember the days of GIANT bosses that stay fun and look really GREAT!!! Remember NO MORE!! Dead 
 space has some of the best boss fights in a long time. I think that it has been since the 90's 
 that I have played bosses that top you in scale on such a large amount that you go "OH CRAP!!" 
 The second you see it. You get that sinking feeling that you're going to just get torn apart. Whether 
 you die or not, the bosses are really fun and cool. Ill admit I died once fighting the boss on 
 chapter 6, however I beat the final Boss first go. I went through Normal twice to get fully upgraded, 
 Played through hard, and am now on the unlocked IMPOSSIBLE mode getting the final achievement. 
 Over all this game Delivered, and not just slightly, it delivered on an EPIC scale. I was really 
 afraid this would be another game that let down on its completion (cough Alone In The Dark cough) 
 but it made me happy I spent the $60 dollars on it. No matter what kind of game you like, Dead 
 Space is the game for you. I hope you all enjoyed my review of Dead Space. This is not my first 
 review, If you liked my review write me or request me as a friend on here and I will start picking 
 up on more reviews that you NEED to read. Thanks and have fun playing Dead Space.
  
  DELIVERED - YES
  
  Written By: Nicholas Ramirez
  
  My gamercard is at my gamespot profile 
 if you would like to see my achievements also my gamertag is 
  Ramirez Rapture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StevenPunisher
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  By far, one of the best games of '08 and a great survival horror in general. This game rates up 
 there with the suffering series and silent hill. Top notch presentation. Wonderful story telling. 
 Pants wetting atmosphere, and gore out the intergalactic ass. The story was a great one dealing 
 with religion, mans un quenchible thirst for resources and a man who has the survival abilitys 
 of a Grizzly bear on PCP with a laser pistol. The story kicks of with you're carecter ( Isac ) 
 on board a shutle bound for the Ship sailing under USG Ishimura. You're shuttle takes damage and 
 crashes in the shutle dock and then, big suprise, youre stuck! You then have to fight you're way 
 through a horde of monsters who look like somone threw oout crumpled suffering and silent hill 
 fan art that F*** in that same dumpster.
  
  The monster design was good. Some were men who had been riped in half, others were newborn babies 
 with hentai-esc tentacles growing out of their spines. The gun design was great as well. All and 
 all. THe must have survival horror of 08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jailinx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  From the creepy and ominous theme song played during the opening intro, to the amazing ending, 
 this game is well worth playing. From the moment you start the game you get the creepy feeling 
 that there is always something around the next corner or something behind you. You are surrounded, 
 behind enemy lines and unsure of who to trust. 
  From the flight deck to the bridge to the hydroponics lab. Adventures inside the ship and zero 
 gravity jumping outside the ship make this game visually astonishing. The only downside to this 
 game is that the music tips you off to enemies you would not have noticed otherwise. An increase 
 in the sound and beat to the eerie music lets you know that you truly are not alone (as opposed 
 to the suggestion that you are not alone throughout the entire game) . 
  That's not to say that this game is all business. Take a breather from mutilating the already mutated 
 crew by playing some zero-gravity basketball to gather your wits for the astonishing conclusion 
 to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_Tevis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  You should be playing it right now, why aren't you? Just go, go on now, go kill some necromorphs, 
 it's your god given duty. I'm not playing it because I'm to afraid to play it by myself, and my 
 friend isn't here and he doesn't want me to play it without him. This game, is phenomonal (sp?) . 
 I don't really like to play survival horrors that much, I like to watch my friends play, but I 
 never like to play them, they're always so boring and dull to me, this game just blew my mind out 
 of my head. I stayed up all night last night playing, I just can't get enough, it's utterly mind-blowing. 
 It's RE4, to the max times 12000000000, to the infinite. It's better than any game of any similarity 
 I've ever played. It's incredibly innovative, the HUD-less style is great, it makes the experience 
 feel that much more real, the silence that sometimes settles over the game, is more disturbing 
 than you can know without experiencing it. The audio is fantastic, building amazing suspense and 
 tension, and keeping you jittery and aware at all times. The story is great, it's a pretty new 
 idea, I'd say. I'm sure it has some similarities to some story out there, but you can do that to 
 almost any story, so I'd say this one is as close to new as can be. I personally, got very attached 
 to the characters in the game, even the people you hear about, and follow via finding the audio, 
 video and text logs scattered about the ship. The game creates fantastic scares, moments where 
 you want nothing more than to be away from where you are, and for it all to end, because you just 
 can't handle it. 90% of the time I was playing I had my gun held up and ready to fire, I wasn't 
 taking any chances. At first, I thought, ammo won't be a big deal, I've got 300+ shots for my cutter, 
 I was horribly wrong. I run an average of 20 shots for it at any given time, and usually anywhere 
 between a half-clip to a full-clip for any gun I've got on me, making conservation, and versatility, 
 and the ability to use your stasis and kinesis INCREDIBLY important. Incompetence with these tools 
 guarantees your death. To sum this up, just get the game, at least rent it, that's what I did, 
 I don't have the money to buy it, but I had to play it. Get it for a week or something, play it 
 like crazy, go for the achievements, just give this game a try. It deserves that, if not your eternal 
 soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killsbabies
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  dead space was amazing. I played through in medium and even though it plays like most fps games, 
 when you combine it with the music, great story, ambient sound, timing, strategic dismemberment 
 and a few interesting battles it combines for a great experience. One of the most fun mechanics 
 of this game is the ability to do strategic dismembering of an enemy, this tactic can often, in 
 seconds, change the tide of a battle. The EA team has taken an old idea and added a few tweaks, 
 such as bosses that grab you out of no where and force you to attempt to shoot them while dangling 
 or being dragged down a hallway or being stuck in a room with 5 baddies, limited ammo but the ability 
 to take them down with a few shots. This game forces you to stay cool when things get hectic as 
 enemies don't go down easily by just shooting blindly in there frame. but even with all this good 
 there are still a few cons. first of all there's no kind of live play, yes i know the argument 
 and how would that work, but still for a player like myself it matters a lot towards replay value, 
 i mean how many times really could you play through the same game and not have it ruin the experience, 
 even with the achievements on xbox. the second is the scarcity and huge amount of nodes it takes 
 to upgrade youre ablilities and equipment. it would take endless amounts of replays to complete 
 it all. other than these few little nitpicking things this game was awesome and a great experience 
 all gamers definitely owe it to themselves to at least rent it just to check it out, not to expect 
 anything groundbreaking just a quality game thats worth the 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Dead space is by far, one of the best horror/survival games I have played to date, it takes many 
 things done before, Maeks them better than any done before, throws in a fresh setting and youve 
 got yourself a winner. Dead space takes place in the future where resources are depleted on earth 
 and people have resorted to "planet cracking" where certain ships will open up a planet and take 
 its resources for the people of earth to use. One of these ships is the uss ishmura, the biggest 
 ship of its class and has cracked more planets than any other. On one mission though something 
 goes awry and a distress signal is sent. That is where you come in. you play as issac clark, A 
 engineer who is sent with a crew to find out what is wrong with the ishimura, you also find out 
 in the beggining that issacs friend nicole is on the ship, and he wants to make sure shes alright. 
 While on your way to the ship youre ship is hit by an object and you crash into the sihimura. As 
 soon as you set foot inside the ishimura you know there; s something wrong, nobody is there and 
 you can see traces of blood. Soon enough a creature attacks youre crew and you are set apart from 
 your remaining crew. As soon as you start playing the game youll realize this game is beautiful, 
 and it really is, the game has great lighting effects and the monsters look great, but what looks 
 better is your character, with the small deatails on him from the armor to the weapon he is holding. 
 The game also runs smoothly and never drops low in framerate which is even better. The weapons 
 in the game are very fun to play with a selection such as a plasma rifle and many mining tools 
 which makes you realize that issac is not a trained fighter and is hanging on to survive. you can 
 upgrade these weapons at a work station with power nodes which are scatrtered throughout the game, 
 though you will not max out all of youre weapons first try. The monsters are very scary and will 
 pop out when you dont expect to. You will realize in the game that head shots dont do the trick 
 to kill the necromorphs, you need to use strategic dismemberment to kill them, which is shooting 
 off their limbs until they die, whether its meleeing them to death, curbstomping them, or blowing 
 them to bits. You have to powers at and in this game stasis which is like slowing down certain 
 objects depending where you aim and kinesis which lets you pick up, move or throw obejects. The 
 voice acting in this game is great for writing that is on par to other games, and the story is 
 gripping and will not let you go, it is creepy and sad with many twists and turns, you can understand 
 whats going on with audio logs, text logs, and video logs, similar to bioshock. The game plays 
 out in third person with no HUD, and 98% of what you do is in game, youre health is on youre back 
 youre ammo is on youre gun, youre stasis meter is on youre back as well, and youre item selection 
 is in game making you always on your toes. The game sound effects are amazing, with necromorphs 
 crawling in vents and when you are in space you can only hear you breath and the sound of youre 
 gun, which ups the creepiness factor. The only bad thing i can really point out on this game is 
 its length, which i completed on easy in 7 hours and on hard in 8 hours, and even though you can 
 replay it with all youre weapons and uprgades from the start you have to play the same difficulty 
 which isnt fun, if a game does not have any multiplayer or any other game mode, then it should 
 at least be a lengthy game, one other small thing is that the game has a few bugs in which i died 
 in zero gravity for no reason whatsoever, but it only happened once out of many times in zero gravity. 
 Overall if this game was longer or had a survival mode, it would be perfect but it is just short 
 of it, this game is worthy of a play for any horror fan especially of the esident evil series. 
 good luck and remember in space, no one cvan hear you scream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qure20
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  the most craziest and intense and nerve on the edge game i have ever played surprises in this game 
 are like the amount of fish in the sea not only that the monsters have an amazing A. I in them the 
 environments are impressive the details are in incredible and the weapons are shockingly crazy 
 slice your way or beat the Crap out of your enemies
  
  creepy sound tracks which makes your nerves tingle and your hair stand i am a hardcore horror gamer 
 and this is the first time i get more jumpy in a game
  
  but an amazing game to the core as i said earlier
  
  a little more
  
  puzzles are nice 
 to deal and some of the objectives are repetitive and the updates are nice in this game tho they 
 should have added some extra ammo here and there in the game i would love to see if they come up 
 with a movie for this amazing game or some kind of a animation 
  i read and checked the comics its worth looking at and it gives you heads up on whats going on 
 in the story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Resident evil series were great because there was no one that give a good fight against them but 
 when bioshock came to the market someone was starting to be a true rival of resident evil and then 
 came dead space a true game that finely revive the Sci-fi Shooter games and did it perfectly.
 
  
  What I think is that bioshock and dead space have a lot in common they are placed in different 
 places bioshock is placed in the deep ocean and dead space is placed in the space places where 
 we never thing that living dead could be that is one of the things that revive the Sci-fi Shooter.
 
  
  Dead space have beautiful scenarios and a fresh and original ideas like bioshock. People that never 
 want to this games try this two games and like it at the moment (like me)
  
  Dead space is unique and its a game you most buy to your xbox 360 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 10
  Presentation - 10
  Sound - 10
  Replay/Lasting Value - 7.5
  Premise/Story - 8
  Gameplay/Mechanics/Physics - 9.5
  
  Total 9.2
  
  I was quite skeptical 
 about this one. There are few 360 games out there that are truly "Great" and even fewer games that 
 have gotten a rise out of me in terms of a good scare. Dead Space is a legitimate scare fest. Whenever 
 I think of scary or spooky games I think Fatal Frame, Resident Evil or Silent hill and some of 
 the great scary movies made to games, (The Thing) . Dead Space can be added to the treasure list 
 for many reasons. After about two hours of playing I noticed myself feeling queasy and sitting 
 near the edge of the couch to "see" better. I actually had to stop playing because I felt a bit 
 too on edge! Around every corner I would stop and stare almost indefinitely at the collage of lights 
 that seem to ruin one's sane perception of the situation. The music is absolutely, positively horrifying; 
 Almost to the point that you want to just lower it or shut it off. It does such a good job of distracting 
 the player from the true goal. Graphically, Dead Space is on par with Gears in terms of sheer detail 
 and beauty. The absence of a traditional HUD is something that was a universe altering effect and 
 I won't be surprised if EVERYONE did it this way from now on. The game menus are fairly easy to 
 use and the kiosk purchasing system is eerily reminiscent of Bioshock. The story is pretty cliche 
 as far as sci-fi goes; but, that is almost an afterthought next to the other achievements this 
 game spills over with. Get ready to STOMP your way to the end and enjoy a pretty gory frightening 
 feast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sergeant_Jason
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I have been followind Dead Space from the moment I heard rumors there was a survival-horror game 
 borrowing a few pages from The Thing. I was apprehensive, this being an EA game, as they tend to 
 churn out midlevel games fulfilling half of their potential. I guess they're turning over a new 
 leaf From the diesel beginning to the  ending, this games scares; 
 and it's fun! Combat is simple, as it should be for a horror game (how scary would Silent Hill 
 really be if you wall-ran through it as Rhy Hayabusa?) , yet addictive. It's deep enough that it 
 requires you to use both weapons and abilities in fast-paced strategies to survive at times. The 
 enemies are too outlandish to make you dread walking down your own halway, but the images within 
 this game stick with you. Enemy design is fantastic. There are a few minor touches they could have 
 added, and maybe a random mutation generator for the common grunts, but towards the middle of the 
 game the majority of bigger, badder, and freakier enemies appear. Despite the amazing visuals (which 
 never once got choppy or had an error in any way) , I'd say the game's strongest point is sound. 
 Even though you know that this being a game, that scampering you here isn't actually one crawling 
 in the vents looking to chew straight through your neck, the entire game is drenched in foreboding 
 fear... until that scampering noise circles around behind you and it pops down out of the vents. 
 I really like the fact that you can't actually hide from these monsters. Lock the door behind you? 
 They'll literally crawl into the vents and force their way in. I honestly did not find a thing 
 wrong with this game. No gripes, simply things that could have been fleshed out to an even more 
 ridiculous extent. Even the story goes along well (if predictable.... what isn't predictable these 
 days? Everything's been done, and if you don't do it... well then the story's  
 I've had a few friends simply stop playing this game because it was too weird, and too scary **** 
 :p) . ANYONE WHO LOVES SURVIVAL HORROR OR EVEN A GOOD SHOOTER WITH SCARES ON THE MENU NEEDS TO BUY 
 THIS GAME!! do they have bigger font for that last part?
  BUY IT!!!!
  
  ps if you're somewhat squeamish, rent it first perhaps. THEN BUY IT!! or else a necromorph will 
 come to you in your sleep rip your spleen out and gag you with your own intestines...... it's his 
 version of giving you a hug 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobalt75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  The game is similar in style to Bioshock and Doom3, in fact its a combination of the two. The storytelling 
 is well paced with a clear mission for the hero at the very beginning. The details are filled in 
 throughout through an ingenious holographic display that doesn't detract from the action. The weapons 
 could have used some more thought, IMO the best weapons are the first 2 you get. Some of the weapons 
 are completly useless however. I didn't find it very scary but it is gory with plenty of bodies 
 and dismemberment. Playing through on medium provides an almost efortless difficulty, so easy mode 
 should be a cakewalk for novice gamers. Graphics are amazing, on par with Gears of War or Ninja 
 Gaiden II. The lack of multiplayer is questionable in this day and age, so I wonder if it will 
 stay in my collection for long or what replay value it will have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocomotiveKY78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  so far im gonna have to say its a buy if you like games like doom and quake or even prey, you know 
 the type dark lit hallways noises coming from all over the ship and you don't know where the next 
 zombie is comming from, they set the tension in this game very well i was impressed. Lets just 
 hope the rest of the game and the story line hold out to make this a nice break through hit for 
 360 cause i don; t think this game is out for any of the other systems. So i gonna keep pluggin 
 away at Dead Space for the time being it see if its gonna hold up to its expectations. But if the 
 game turns out to be killer does that mean the movie of the same title is gonna totally suck ass. 
 God i hope not because my wife and i are big horror movie fans and im planning on seeing it at 
 the movies that and Max Payne. ill cry if they both end up sucking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Nerevar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about dead space that hasn't been said about instant clasics such as Alien and the 
 Resident evil series. This game was a supprise for me, I was appreshensive about this game mainly 
 because of the dismembering. I wasn't to sure of how it would fit into the game play. But once 
 I picked up my first mining tool and blasted my foe to shreads I realized what a great game I had. 
 As for the graphics, their pretty much top knotch. In HD some the space and Zero-G parts can look 
 Amazing! The Zero-G physics are good as well, to shoot a body in half and watch the blood, pour 
 out in tiny spheres is simply stunning. The AI and the subsiquent atmosphere they create is a cold, 
 dark dreadfull place, just how I want it. The armor and weapon upgrading system is an RPG's element 
 that was a grat add in to the game. This fast paced mind blowing game is worth buying for sure. 
 The only flaws I found, were few and minute. The difficulty is kind of turned down. When playing 
 on Normal the game is a bit too easy. On hard that may be a different story. Another flaw is the 
 close fighting, dont get me wrong pistol whipping is VARY satisfing. But its clunky and slow, also 
 if you meele a foe, more that likely you will be harmed in the process. All in all Dead Space for 
 the X-box 360 Blew my mind and passed all expectations. 
  
  -9.3- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkilnik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is gaming design, production and technology at it's best.... absolutely amazing. I think 
 it is MORE then fair to say, anyone who played this, and thinks ANYTHING along the lines of "This 
 sucks" has to be a moron. It's not opinion, it's fact. If you don't like the freaking genre, don't 
 play it. 
  
  Things I liked : Customization. Gives you a unique twist to the game, I went through the game with 
 just the plasma cutter, mostly because it's the only gun I could properly aim (laugh out loud) . 
 And I ended up getting the achievement for it. There wasn't really any part of the game that you 
 where just standing around. Cool little gadget/powers to get the job done. THE FACT, that it's 
 actually really HARD on Hard mode. (Which I played through on the first time) . EVERYTHING has a 
 chance to kill you, if your not paying attention.. OFF GOES YOUR FACE. And how about the fact.... 
 your not any super hero... your just an engineer... a human. No shields.. no super genetic DNA.. 
 no BigFreakingGun. It made me feel... alive. And the sure creepy sounds. And the bosses weren't 
 really gods either, pretty much, if you new how to kill them they where dead in a minute or two. 
 Good array of enemies. Smart enemy AI, and like I said, a real challenge.
  
  What I didn't like : At times, the camera angle, especially with things like the brute, but it's 
 not bad most of the time. Okay, like I said... he is no super hero BUT COME ON, he freaking knocks 
 the living CRAP out of those things.. fall down for Issac's sake! Typical stupid allies who stand 
 around and do nothing, I would rather watch them be torn to shreds. AT TIMES... it just seems a 
 bit overwhelming.. and count on that bit of luck to get you through.... maybe it's just the difficulty... 
 I don't know how easy the game is on easy.... if it's really easy.. just ignore this. 
  
  So really... THIS GAME IS AMAZING, especially to play in the dark, I recommend it to any blood-thirsty 
 people out there looking for a real challenge and looking to play a Sci-Fi game that isn't gay 
 and boring like Halo.
  
  Graphics : Just put your hand in front of you. Same difference. 
  
  Sound : There is something 
 making sound.. all the time... love it. 
  
  Story : Very well thought out. 
  
  Replay : Some, well.. a good bit I guess.
  
  
  Like I said. This game is good, that's a fact. 
 
  Best game in it's genre and will be for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trav3577
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, I am not one to review many games, but I felt compelled to do so with Dead Space. 
  
  This game is amazing from top to bottom! Graphics will incredibly submerse you into the world and 
 the game play has been pulled from such likes as Gears of War and Resident Evil.
  
  I love the way the main character, Isaac, does not have any special abilities or is able to fight 
 like a marine. He is an engineer, and uses his wits to make crude weapons, like the neat little 
 flamethrower. Of course, the pulse rifle, line gun and plasma cutter are the only weapons I have 
 acquired so far, but I am here to tell you, I would be happy with these weapons alone! I love the 
 secondary applications on the weapons, especially with the line gun that can create a small mine 
 type field that destroys anything within the vicinity of it.
  
  The creatures, or Necromorphs, are insanely aggressive and intelligent. I love how they will retreat 
 and attack from the side or behind when they know they are lost with the fight. 
  
  One last thing, I also love the way you see what madness has come into the crew members still "somewhat" 
 alive, whether they bash their own head in or slit there throat while laughing, this can be an 
 ultimately disturbing atmosphere.
  
  As I said in the title, this is one of those games that you need to have in your gaming library 
 and I would not hesitate to buy this game if you have not already. You will not be disappointed. 
 Enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: To_Ashes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space was one of those games that had a lot of hype to it. Being that the game was a horror 
 game, it needed to have scares and many of them! This game delivers all that with amazing game 
 play. As you can see the camera is very solid that it goes over the shoulder view just like Resident 
 Evil 4. The game play is just simple and gets to the point. Follow objectives, get objective, proceed 
 on. But that is the beauty of this game. You will have to back track a bit on the scale of each 
 chapter. But I find it very well done as you can go back and you will never expect what to come 
 to you from a room that was clear before and becomes a room that has many creatures waiting for 
 your arrival! 
  
  Overall, Dead Space should not be missed out by any horror genre fans. It will please you on your 
 whole way through the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jural
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Dead Space since it was first announced. I'm usually disappointed, I was 
 not with Dead Space.
  
  Ok first off lets get the negatives. One no cover system, I just can't believe any game this day 
 and age would not be released without one, truth is Dead Space does not need one. Two zombies, 
 why does every game today feel the need to have zombies yeah thier "alien" body snatchers but can't 
 I just have some plain old aliens that don't re-animate the dead? Four no multi player now granted 
 it, dead space does not need it and a bad multi player experience is worse than none but multi 
 player if done right adds replay value to any game. Last "magic", call it what you want telekinesis 
 stasis are just not needed, it is almost a cheap way out so the developers did not have to make 
 puzzles... need to slow down machinery throw something in the gears, need to grab something in 
 0 G's jump at it and grab it on the way by, something in your way, pull it, push it, lift it, blow 
 it up, or use machinery.
  
  That out of the way, you have to understand I had to find something wrong with this game. Honestly 
 it raises a new bar not just for the Horror genre of gaming but all games. It is polished, fluent 
 just over all well put together. The graphics are beautiful, lighting is fantastic. The game play 
 is perfect in my mind, I've read reviews complaining about close quarter combat but I've had no 
 problems. I actually like that the menu when jammed up against a wall makes you have to turn your 
 head to view it all, speaking of which the menu system is beautifully done. Loading times are kept 
 to doors, myself I've yet to see "chug". I really enjoy the movement and turning speed, they seem 
 natural. The atmosphere in a vacuum and 0 G's is crazy.
  
  Honestly this game is fantastic. I hope more developers pay attention to Dead Space. This game 
 is definitely recommend to anyone I know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerNY1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Something made me go out and get this game first day it was out, which is something I rarey do 
 and it was such a great decision. This game reminds me of Doom 3 and Alien. It's got alot of original 
 elements to that make it an awesome horror game... it plays like a movie though and if horror is 
 your genre in gaming, get this.
  The Sound is great, I got scared when creeping down a long dark lonely corridor and I bumped into 
 a canister... The voice acting is first rate too.
  The story is original and the script is very well done.
  Lasts years horror game was BioShock, 
 this years ought to be Dead Space.
  The visuals are very good, the monsters are grotesque... I even had one flip me the bird after 
 I killed it... See the posted picture in my blog for proof, just `cause it's damn funny.
  Get this game if you liked Doom 3 or Alien the movie or even if you like lurking about creepy space 
 stations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philip2112218
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I never heard much about this game until i played it. A very fun game though!! Graphics are great, 
 blood is incredible, and the story line is pretty good. The only downside I would have to say is 
 that you cant play co-op. If there would have been co-op this game would have been so much better. 
 But besides that this game is still very good probably one of the best games i have played this 
 year by far. The aliens look great and look incredible. The weapons havnt been used before in previous 
 games which is sweet and blowing off the aliens limbs is so much fun. The line gun is alot of fun 
 to play around with. The graphics engine used in the game is top-notch. The best thing about the 
 game is being able to curb-stomp the aliens when there on the ground lol it never gets old!! Great 
 game worth the money!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADfan911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space... a game that lives up to it's name. I have played games like Resident Evil, Silent 
 Hill and a few other horror games in the past, but this one blows them all out of the water! Filled 
 with twists, scares, and a seemingly infinite amount of gore, Dead Space is a must have for any 
 gamer, period. The weapons, being very creative in aspect and in use, are nothing short of amusing. 
 Who hasn't played a shooter game and not saidMan, I wish I could blow that guy's leg off and 
 watch him squirm..."? I sure as hell haven't! 
  
  Also, with great graphics and a superb storyline, Dead Space has a bright path for the future, 
 if the creators intend on releasing a follow up. This game keeps the player compelled in the story 
 from beginning to end, almost gluing the very player to his TV screen. Playing this on an HDTV, 
 however, is a must if you wish for the full horror-fest experience (and a good sound system if 
 needed) .
  
  However, after about a few hours of gaming, the player might realize that the missions remain the 
 same and that not much changes through out the game. Even so, the game doesn't cease to entertain 
 the player in ways of gameplay and graphics.
  
  In general, Dead Space is a must buy for the common shooter or horror/survival game fan, and for 
 others, at least give it a try. Believe me, you won't be disappointed... 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zizuu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  
  Dead Space takes place on the Nishimura, a massive ship that actually cracks planets into small 
 pieces, then strips said pieces of every available resource. Apparently the Nishimura cracked the 
 wrong planet at some point, because the game begins sometime after the corporation that owns the 
 ship has lost contact with the crew. Assuming that it's just a communications malfunction, the 
 company sends out a repairman to investigate. However, when Isaac Clarke reaches the ship, it quickly 
 becomes obvious that there's more going on than just a broken transmitter. While we haven't played 
 the game from the beginning, we have to assume that the dead bodies and blood all over the walls 
 were a sure sign that something wasn't right.
  
  this my first review and i didnt write before about any game but because i love this game so i 
 thought to write about it to give the full score. perfect everything, the best game its really good 
 in shooting, graphics, playing and the style of the game is so nice. i think this game will be the 
 game of the year. just one thing its had to be done in this game i think it will make it better 
 that the levels are a little bit the same sometimes if they did it other levels it will be so nice. i 
 am sorry for my bad english i just tryed to explain the things about this beautifull game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noconsole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Now when I read Gamespot's review first, I noticed in hind-sight that they were DEAD-ON with the 
 term "nerve-wracking" audio. Very clever term to use, yet it is still a massive understatement. 
 Notice I have less than 10 hours spent playing, and I'm almost too scared to go on. This one monster 
 with a deep howl keeps moaning in the background and keeps me thinking, "Oh, great! he's gonna 
 jump out at any second....." And thats where I'm at at time of review. beginning-mid point of chapt 
 5. Up till now, if I didn't have to play a "nerve-wracking"-ly hard game of asteroids, this would 
 be a 10. I'm still trying to figure out where GS thinks things get repetitive, but like I said, 
 I'm obviously not done yet. I cant wait to see the rest of this game!!! Stand-by to stand-by with 
 a follow-up on completion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an amazing game. #1 its scary and is very gory. #2 the storyline is great, And #3 
 it has some of the best graphics for a X360.
  This game will blow your mind. Not only is the game scary and challenging, this game never gets 
 old at all. You can replay it again and again and still have fun. The monsters that you kill are 
 pretty sick, and you have to shoot their limbs off. If you're a big fan of gory games, then you 
 will love this. The weapons are unlike any other game also. One weapon is a saw blade that you 
 can slice enemies up with. This is an easy way to defeat the monsters. Another awesome thing about 
 this game is that it has an amazing story line that keeps you immersed until the very end. If you 
 are a big fan of the resident evil series, silent hill series, or horror game series than you will 
 love dead space. It is an amazing game that has some of the best graphics that I have ever seen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cryopoet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I've only played through a few hours of the game thus far, but those were an impressive few hours. 
 Any game that can give me the creeps the way Dead Space does deserves some kudos. From the grotesque 
 enemies to the lighting and sound effects, Dead Space really seems to grab the player and shake 
 him at all the right moments. 
  
  Lets face it, some of the scares are all too predictable (lets see, I went down this elevator a 
 few minutes earlier just fine, so I assume a monster is waiting on the other side of the door now 
 that I'm going back up it.) At least even the predictable scares are executed masterfully. 
  
  As for the controls and combat mechanics, I love the dismemberment system, but think the melee 
 attack controls could have used a bit more tweaking as it is sometimes hard to tell if you are 
 in the right position to stomp or punch at an enemy, and even then there's no clear way of knowing 
 which limb you will hit.
  
  All in all, amazing environments and smart enemies ensure that this is a game I will recommend 
 to my friends and likely play through more than once myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentvelvet
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Okay, I thought this game looked cool, but was juts going to be another doom or quake. Not that 
 those games are bad, but I thought it would be the same type of game. I WAS WRONG. This game is 
 F-ing amazing, besides the amazing graphics, sound, gore and storyline, the game is actually something 
 different and in an amazing way. The taking off of limbs is flawless and really works well, and 
 then whole feel of the game is like you are playing a movie. It's Alien mixed in with Sunshine 
 and Event horizon, times 100. This games is truly a work of art, I have never been so scared and 
 hooked at the same time. I love resident evil and doom and quake, but this game scared me so bad 
 in the first five minutes of playing it, I had to actually stop playing, cause my heart was racing 
 too fast.... I am not kidding, *spoiler* some creatures pretend to be dead and when you come up 
 on them, they freaking jump up an attack you, haaahaha.... so scary, I know all the reviews are 
 amazing, but I was still weary of buying it only cause I thought it would like every other horror 
 game and get old after while.... honestly, I could play this 40 times over and over again, and show 
 it to friends who have not seen it. My dad came in and asked me what movie I was watching, the 
 music, sounds and graphics are make you feel like you are actually on a spaceship with aliens. 
 Well done EA, after all your terrible game bugs and slow servers, EA used to suck, now I am a big 
 fan. Dead space is awesome, so if you are still waiting to buy it, I promise the second you play 
 for 10 minutes, you will wonder why you did not wait at Walmart at midnight for this game. This 
 is the first game where they have put a lot of time an effort into releasing a next gen game, fully 
 immersive movie feel, like those old sega cd games with actually actors haha... I mean gears of 
 war is amazing and Fallout 3 is too, but this is the first game I have really said WOW!, this is 
 as good as a 600$ PC graphics card game like crysis, anyone who had a 7,8,9 or 2 series GPU like 
 me, knows that computer games graphics like Crysis and Call of Duty are 10 times as sick as 360 
 or Ps3, but a lot more exspensive., but now the 360 has Dead Space and Gears of War2, two games 
 that will go down in history!! BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnie06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  I first want to say that I've only been playing the game for a few hours, so don't be surprised 
 if I'm Overly excited. Dead Space is probably one of the best survival horror games I've played 
 in quite some time, aside from the Resident Evil series. I hear all this talk about Dead Space 
 not being up to par with RE4 and let me tell you this, it well surpasses it. I loved RE4, but Dead 
 Space does something that RE4 didn't do, for me at least, it made my jaw drop at almost every breathtaking 
 visual it has to offer. Of course the visuals aren't the only thing that make this game great, 
 just like the gamespot reviewer said, it has a great sense of urgency and priority to it. You either 
 have to be in a safe area to access your inventory, do upgrades, or just be able to know what you're 
 doing. I found myself in my inventory at one point, thinking that it was safe, and out of nowhere 
 one of the Necromorphs came popping out, freaking me out xD I described the Classification as "guilty 
 pleasure" because I couldn't help but to curb stomp and break off any limbs of fallen enemies. 
 The gore and blood is so great! The action is great as well, no hitches or any problems that have 
 made me think otherwise. The story seems okay, i haven't gotten in too far yet to be reeled in 
 as i was with RE4, but I'm sure that will come soon. The actual inventory does take some getting 
 used to, I'm still figuring out how the whole holographic set up looks and feels. Overall Dead 
 Space well exceeds my expectations when put against great Horror games like RE4 and MAYBE the first 
 Silent Hill. You might not be too scared, maybe just jump when the Necromorphs attack, but in the 
 end you'll love this game. Well, I'm off to go play some more =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThAdEa82
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Finally. A game so well done, it's almost over-cooked with goodness. I've never been so scared 
 playing a game. The gameplay is original, the graphics are stunning, and even they story is very 
 nicely done. It has that futuristic twist that I like and is seen in detail within the game. The 
 monsters themselves are creepy, but not scary... what is scary is when they pop out at you when 
 you least expect it. This game is so creepy and un-nerving that even sparks that shoot out from 
 some faulty equipment sometimes make me jump a bit. I found this game to be much scarier than many 
 other popular horror games out there. Zero gravity is nice and the sound effects while in space 
 are interesting to note. Even the achievement list looks good if thats your thing. What else can 
 I say besides pick this game up asap. It is definately one of the better games that will be out 
 this year. I'll be taking my time playing and enjoying this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_spawn627
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by telling you this is a first impression review. Just got up to Chapter 2.
  
  I'll start off by saying, it's true when they say it's easier said then done. 
  
  Controls 
 5/5
  
  Controls are exactly how you expect it to be like. Though sure something could have been changed 
 or improved on... but if any of you have been like me and have been reading up on all the information 
 on Dead Space.... you'll know what you think the controls would feel like. And it is exactly that. 
 A lot of people complained about you not being able to quick turn and such... but I feel that adds 
 to the mood.
  
  The layout isn't at the least bit confusing. You can easily get used to it within the first 10 
 min or so. And I'm glad you don't HAVE to go to your inventory to use health packs. They conveniently 
 made the X button your health pack. Not to say you can't manually do it.
  
  Sound 5/5
  
  Man oh man the sounds in this game are eerie yet fantastic. You can't complain one bit. It's 
 quiet enough to give you the edge of your seat feel yet at the same time there's a quiet suspense 
 like BGM so you're not exactly bored. 
  
  If there was one thing I'd have to complain about is the fact that the music doesn't really get 
 fast paced with enemies if YOU haven't spotted them yet. If they spot you and are RIGHT behind 
 you then the song will immediately start crashing about. But if there was an enemy limping around 
 the corner you wouldn't hear anything increase in tempo unless you spot it.
  
  Graphics 5/5
  
  Man is it fantastic. Looks GLORIOUS. I mean... from the moment the game starts 
 it's just breathtaking. There's constant usage of light's in this game. A once bright white Medical 
 Room will immediately turn to pitch black with only an orange siren while hordes of enemies come 
 out from every which way.
  
  One thing though... make sure you play this at night. If not then the glare from the sun will make 
 it damn near impossible to see anything. Though I don't know why you would be playing it during 
 the day anyways.
  
  Gameplay 5/5
  
  Well... if the sound is great, graphics top notch, and controls are as easy as they are fun... I'd 
 say the gameplay is going to have to be pretty damn awesome. Though at times you'll find yourself 
 thinking that it's pretty easy once you spot your enemy... that isn't true after you go further 
 in the game. Sure one or two enemies are easy to handle. But if theres a horde of them as more 
 are sprouting from every vent.... theres going to be a little challenge.
  
  I will say ONE thing though. Do NOT. I repeat DO NOT turn your volume down after the first scene. 
 I thought it was too loud... but after playing... I noticed that without the loudness... it ruins 
 the mood. So keep it at least 5 volume levels above what you're normally used to.
  
  Story 5/5
  
  Though it's only been an hr or so into the story I can see that it's not going 
 to disappoint. Remember to collect all logs you find as they add to the story and make for a great 
 Universal picture quality like attraction. That's all I can really say though as I'm not too far 
 into the game but from what I can tell... well... let's just say.. I'll be playing this to better 
 understand the story for a good 3-4 playthroughs. 
  
  
  Well all-in-all this is one game you should not pass up as the story, graphics, the easy to use 
 interface, and the overall eerieness of this whole scaretastic ride known as Dead Space is just 
 way too much f*cking fun.
  
  Happy gaming. And HAPPY HALLOWEEN (well early Halloween) !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empty319
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Horror game but Dead Space takes all other games in the horror 
 genre and gives them a firm boot to the head. This is a game that didn't draw my attention until 
 I accidentally clicked on the trailer link. But after what I saw I knew I just had to have it and 
 I must say it hasn't disappointed me. With excellently creepy environment, amazing music, and space 
 zombies that want just die Dead Space is by far the best game of 08 thus far. And this is coming 
 from a game made by EA a game company that has in my opinion hit rock bottom and broke out the 
 drills. But, Dead Space is proof that there is always the possibility that out of the junk comes 
 a gem, or in this case a spaceship full of space zombies.
  
  For all those who haven't bought this game, GO BUY IT RIGHT NOW!!!!!! I don't care if you have 
 to sell your Kidney or sister, just get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HBOMB29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  WOW IM CURRENTLY ON CHAPTER TWO, when i get more time im playing after work tommorrow, graphically 
 is AMAZING one of the top 5 on the xbox FOR SURE SOUND AND SMOKE COMING OUT OF THE PIPES AND AIRDUCTS 
 LOOKS LIKE REAL SMOKE controls i love how u dont HAVE TO PULL UP THE MAP you can just click right 
 analog and a path will come up to where you need to go next for a split second story is great bottomline 
 you cant go wrong with it, and i have this and FALLOUT 3 and i can tell you as a fact the first 
 hours playing both FALLOUT 3 until you leave your home is BORING AS HELL and graphically the people 
 look just like oblivion no worse no better but imma give it time, the FIRST HOUR HELL FIRST TEN 
 MIN OF DEADSPACE WOW, soon as you get on the isha then you go into other room to access the computer 
 and BAM GO INTO QUARENTINE LOL i wont spoil what happens but lets just say you better be QUICK 
 on your feet , bottomline on the 24 GO BUY THIS GAME definately in the running for game of the 
 year, and im not a survival horror dude but only game close to this scary id say or creepy was 
 silent hill 2 on ps2 and not the restless dreams the original silent hill 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me start with this ea may always seem like a evil company that only goes with terrible games 
 to average but then there are these type of times where ea gets it right such as now with dead 
 space. dead space well basicly u are sent on a mission to check out a ship with distress calls 
 and what not thats just there and damaged for some reason so u go to check out the ship u end finding 
 yerself fighting aliens that will tear u apart. and now u start to escape alive a ship that u were 
 going to check yerself huh guess people are dumb but anyway. The graphics in this game amazing 
 wit very high end textures and lighting affects basicly what u want in a good survival horror game. This 
 game features a horrifying soundtrack and i say that in a good way to make u and enjoy and come 
 back for more. The gameplay is very well done it lets u explore blasting or slicing limb from limb 
 from these creatures which is awsome and there are awsome puzzles and there are even cool zero 
 gravity sections which are awsome as well. The ai is also great to put u in a challwnge when needed 
 and not dumb enough to just stnd their. The one thing funny i found are the boss battles ranging 
 from diffuclut to impossible pretty much it took me forever to beat some like chapter 5 but i managed 
 to get through it. The game is pretty long and has great replababilty such as with achivments which 
 are great on this game and other stuff. Well anyway go and buy it its a master piece huh a ea master 
 piece thats new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vetren_999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while, a true gem shows up, tipping the gaming community on it's side. Dead Space is 
 one of these treasures, a survival horror game developed by EA.
  
  Overview:
  You are engineer Isaac Clarke. After a mining corporation loses contact with their finest Planet 
 Cracker the USG Ishimura, a ship that breaks open planets to harvest resources, they send you to 
 fix it's communications array.
  Problem is, when you get there, everyone is dead, the ship has been overrun by Necromorphs (alien 
 zombie things) and your only way out has been destroyed. Sounds cliche, right? Well, the story 
 gets better from there. The game lasts a good 12-15 hours, with a surprising amount of replayability.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  Dead Space's graphics are, in a word, amazing. Plays on the lighting draw out long and forboding 
 shadows, and the textures are some of the most detailed I've ever see. The amount of detail in 
 the environment is astounding, from bloody notes scrawled across the walls, to discarded soda cans 
 and magazines that you can read the covers. The Ishimura feels like a very alive (Ha.) place. Animations 
 are splendid, Isaac and the Necros move fluidly, with a grace that could come from an alien zombie. 
 The only really bad thing about them is when Isaac is in a Zero G area, the animation for when 
 he collides with walls seems stiff and sudden, but it's a small gripe.
  
  
  
  Audio:
  The devs have really mastered this. High, long violin notes keep you on edge, while creepy ambiance 
 makes you wonder if it is actually ambiance. Voice acting is superb, crew members actually sound 
 desperate or insane, or both. My favorite part is in vacuum areas. Sounds that are outside of Isaac's 
 helemt, such as footsteps or roaring Necromorphs, are muffled and barely auidble, while Isaac's 
 heartbeat, breathing, and grunts of pain are ampilified.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  Ah, the best part. Dead Space plays alot like Resident Evil 4, but with an emphasis on survival. 
 I played on Hard, and I constantly found myself running low on medpacs and ammo, and the variety 
 of weapons kept things interesting. Strategic dismemberment is implemented really well, forcing 
 you to stay calm and take aim at joints instead of wild body shots, which just waste ammo. In the 
 game, you can find Power Nodes, which lets you take your equipment to a work bench and upgrade 
 them how you see fit. The uprade paths are rather like skill trees in RPGs, forcing you to make 
 choices on how you should better your weapons.
  
  
  
  All in all, Dead Space is a truly excellent game that dosen't come around too often, and any self 
 respecting survival horror fan should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memrie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  In 1997, "Event Horizon" featuring Laurence Fishburne and Sam Neill made its way to the big screen 
 with little fan fare but did not disappoint sci-fi horror fans. Both "Dead Space" and "Event Horizon" 
 take place in a distressed space ship. Help arrives... and the horror begins. 
  
  The two stories diverge at this point, and "Dead Space" begins to shine in it's own light. The 
 ominous mood is set with a fantastic theatrical introduction that commands attention and makes 
 you forget that your about to play a video game... and then seamlessly, you begin to to play the 
 game itself.
  
  The game play is solid. After 10-15 minutes, controlling our hero became second nature thanks to 
 the automatic tutorial HUD display that shows us how to use our abilities.
  
  If your a graphics junkie, good news, this game is stunning! If you have a HD television, you are 
 in for a treat. The Animations are fluid with the main character, enemies and your environment. 
 The lighting used is one of the best, if not the best I have seen in any game. Oh, and your eyes 
 will pop when you step foot outside the ship!
  
  In most horror films, ambiance is set through background music and other sounds. Make no mistake, 
 "Dead Space" nails these audio cues. The vacuum in space inhibits sound to travel... but your in 
 a metal suit or armor. Here's a treat, when outside the spaceship, just stop and listen to the 
 game. Subtle details are noticed and separate this game from the pack.
  
  In the end, this game is an experience and fun to play, even if you catch yourself flinching or 
 screaming frequently! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is exactly what Dead Space is to me. A horror sci-fi behind the shoulder shooter; with great 
 pacing and just enough to get you by. I've falling in love with the look and feel of Dead Space. 
 If you're a fan of third person shooters like Resident Evil and Darksector you'll definitely will 
 enjoy what Dead Space has to offer.
  
  The story begins as you playing as Isaac Clark and your team has received a distress sign to see 
 what has happened on this ship. As soon as you get on board all hell breaks loose. It's your mission 
 to figure out what went wrong and what happened to the people aboard on this ship. You'll be with 
 other members of your team. They'll be guiding you on tasks to get you through the ship. But once 
 you arrive you'll be split up and you'll be left alone to begin your journey on this ship. 
  
  The graphics on this game is mind blowing some of the best I've seen lately. The environments 
 look amazing inside the ship and you can tell the developers put a lot of work on the polish of 
 this game. Dead Space could be this year's Bioshock from the look and feel of this game. 
  
  The controls are just about right for this third person shooter. It doesn't feel out of place 
 and you will adjust quickly. If you're on the fence on this game don't be if you're a fan of the 
 horror shooter genre you'll definitely love this game. If you're not too sure about it give it 
 rent. This is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simulator_Shock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Dead Space is an awesome sci-fi survival horror game that flawlessly blends in together elements 
 of Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Alien, and Event Horizon. 
  
  The game starts off with you playing as an engineer named Issac who's team is responding to an 
 ships distress call. Influenced by Alien, The ship makes a rough landing and quickly discovers 
 that mostly everyone aboard the ship has been killed and mutated into horrible grotesque creatures. 
 
  
  To make matters worse, your team is attacked and you get separated and have to fight you way out 
 using any weapons you stumble across while trying to figure what the hell's happened. 
  
  The gameplay is heavily influenced by Resident Evil 4 with a behind the shoulder view and aiming 
 system. However instead of just mindlessly shooting at the bad guys like in most games, you actually 
 have to dismember their limbs to kill them. Usally the smaller ones will only take a few hits to 
 kill, but the bigger and badder things will be more aggressive and require you to be as precise 
 as you can and cut off their limbs. The aliens in this game like to hide in vent shafts (again 
 like Aliens) and surprise you by jumping out from behind to ambush you. I'm not kidding, there 
 were quite a few times when I had a monster in my sight and then another one came and hit me from 
 behind. I turned around and saw that he had jumped out of a fan vent in the wall. You really have 
 to watch your back in this game, I'm not kidding these things come at you from everywhere. 
  
  Similar to RE4 this game also has a weapons upgrading system where you can find terminals that 
 let you upgrade your guns, suit, gadgets etc. You can only upgrade them by finding node pieces 
 which are scattered all over the place. 
  
  Graphically speaking this game is beautiful (in a good way) I mean all the "cut scenes" and such 
 are all done in real time, which does a real nice job of making you feel immersed in the game. 
 As you explore the ship you find lots of audio logs, text logs, etc which fill you in on what happened 
 before you arrived. The Sound effects in this game are incredible. Serisouly this is some of the 
 very best sound effects I've experienced in a video game. you hear creeping moans from the aliens 
 as they scatter and hide about, you also hear things dropping on the floor or crashing around, 
 very very good production values, its very much like a big budget hollywood movie. Again very great 
 light and shadow effects. 
  
  This game is definatley one of the bigger ones to come out this year. It's very immerisive and 
 fun to play. If your a fan of survival horror, sci-fi then pick this game up ASAP, you won't be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jester6276
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  So far the enemy is not only fast unlike normal zombie games. But there smart as well sometimes 
 hunting in packs that will attack from the front and the back. But also the fact that you have 
 to cut off the limbs to kill them is nice. Head shot will throw them off they will just start swinging 
 around all over the place but that also when the close combat will comes into play. Also unlike 
 more Horror survival games this one lighting is just right unlike Silent Hill which is so dark 
 even with the flash light sometimes you can't see where you are going. This game is a fine balance 
 of Dark and light and special effects that will make you hair stand on end. The controls are a 
 little sticky at first, i think that was to give you the feel of being joe six-pack though and 
 not a super space marine. My only grip about this game so far is inventory space. But this can 
 be upgrade though the use on the work bench. Other then that so far the game is worth the $59.99 
 price tag a must buy for anyone that like Silent Hill or Resident Evil Games. hit 15 hours on the 
 game and still going strong. The upgrade system for suits and weapons is great as well. You have 
 to think out what to upgrade next and once you plug in the power node you can not remove it. Weapons 
 all seem worth it and all have their own job. Flamethrower for the little guys that have no limbs 
 and small swarms Plasma cutter is great for arm and leg shots. Line cutter is great for group control 
 is slowing down a pack of bad guys. Pulse Rifle for needing a extra punch against hordes of long 
 range targets. The list goes on and on. So far there has not been one useless weapon. Ammo is not 
 in short supply but though melee attack as mean. guys gets to close hit him with a melee and send 
 him stumbling back and shoot him in the legs. Even small boss can get beat back if there in your 
 face. Large boss better just stay back and cut them up. Still after 15 hours will scare you and 
 make you jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm where to start? This game is so bad ass. It is definitely worth the $60 no doubt about that. 
 I say if you are reading this and you don't have a copy of the game as of right now, you are missing 
 out on one of the best horror 3rp person shooter games and need to go buy it ASAP.
  
  Im not gonna lie, I was never really a big fan of horror games. I had played a few here and there. 
 The last one I had played was Doom 3 which was not bad but I was never really into them. 
  Then comes Dead Space. When I first heard about it I just thought oh another horror game, but as 
 I started hearing more and more about I realized this game was gonna be BETTER than other horror 
 games.
  
  Graphics are straight up 10/10. They are top notch.
  Sound is also a 10/10. I have surround sound system + 15" sub..... the sound was rediculously nice.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10. Only small complaint is the camera rarely is a small issue sometimes you can't see 
 where u want to when in zero-G space.
  
  Overall I give this a 9.5/10. So like I said, buy this you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirza4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  One of the most amazing graphic games i like intensity of the game too much blood though. And i 
 wish i have little bit more of ammo for my plazma cutter, the camera angle is perfect no complaints 
 on camera graphics are really good weapons are really good except u know they really neveer give 
 u enough ammo for your weapons. And i think for a close quater combat they should give us a knife 
 or a sword it would be more fun to chop monsters like that other than ammo and a missing sword 
 game is perfect so who ever like horor games this is probably best one jet. BUT THIS GAME IS NOT 
 FOR WEAK OF HEART it is scary and intense at moments and sometimes to gory and way to many human 
 body parts laying around, like it's a meat market lol. i wouldn't recomend this game for anyone 
 below 18 i just have beaten chapter 2 and i like it more and more as i go trough it good game with 
 good story line and lot's of substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teacher4tc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok I have been playing this now for 2 hours and first of all the art book is very nice I thought, 
 The game has a nice beginning story line and does not leave you guessing, you realize what is going 
 on as soon as you start the game.
  
  The graphics and sound are very clear, I am only playing right now on EASY mode, I have to admit 
 I started it on HARD mode and WOW it was challenging. So there are no glitches and the reason why 
 i have had time to write this is because I am stuck right now on the game, ( and very tired) any 
 way this game is like nothing I have ever seen as far as gore and it does have some serious weapons, 
 as you go through you can upgrade and buy additional items, Each time you kill a demon (or what 
 ever) you will receive points and then you can buy and upgrade, 
  
  Well I don't want to spoil this so, Is it worth to go get YES! and I very happy Yes... any questions 
 just ask see ya next time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  let me star off by saying that this game shouldn't be avoided just because EA has released it. 
 hopefully all of these positive reviews will give it some recognition. okay, so, the graphics to 
 this game are really good. the texture looks very smooth a gory, yet beautiful, in a weird way. 
 the most original idea about this game is strategic dismemberment. you have to be very careful 
 about what you do and be sure to kill them correctly, so they won't crawl after you and get you. 
 now, I'm only on the first chapter of the game so far. but its pretty good so far, I like the entire 
 story line and the ideas they had for this game. everything may seem very badass, but there's a 
 bit of romance in it as well. and I must say, the environments looks amazing. nothing has looked 
 THIS real in a very long time. and another thing is that you actually have to think about doing 
 stuff. you have to go further backwards to do stuff in order to get further. and the voice acting 
 is excellent. the only thing I don't like about the game is that you walk a bit too much. I've 
 only been able to kill about 10 necromorphs. LAME! other than that irking me, the game's atmosphere 
 and environment are very immersive. go out and but this game whenever you get the chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbo888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the game for about an hour, but so far it's great. Right off the bat you're in 
 the front seat of the USG Kellion, en route to the USG Ishimura which has lost contact with civilization. 
 The visuals in the beginning are amazing.
  
  Once you get into the ship, the simple fact that you know what is happening doesn't help. The monsters 
 are unpredictable, popping out anywhere. Sometimes if you look, you can see them crawling hastily 
 through the vents, snarling at you. Sometimes they don't come out and move away, sometimes they 
 do. Sometimes the lights go out and it's pitch black. It get's extremely tense when that happens. 
 You can hear whispered voices of people. I still haven't figured out if they're nearby people hiding 
 or if it's some voice log. Either way, they don't speak coherently and are definitely crazed from 
 what has happened.
  
  The "strategic dismemberment" is awesomely fun. If you can get your shots right it's pretty easy 
 to take down an enemy rushing at you. They move fast, so definitely take out their legs first. 
 Sometimes you find ones playing dead. So far every one I haven't actually killed myself that's 
 laying on the floor has tried to surprise me. Give the ones on the ground a shot before you move 
 over them because they are most likely just playing dead. 
  
  The monsters look amazing. Some are still wearing the uniforms of who they used to be. They have 
 arms protruding from their back that stab and slash at you. If you let them get too close they 
 will rip you in half, literally. 
  
  Overall I give it a 9.5 because not many games deserve a 10. I can see the dismemberment getting 
 repetitive, but it does not take away from the overall gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmath4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Great Great Game... I usually don't get scared or creeped out from games... but i can't say that 
 anymore... if you love thrilling games edge of your seat action and a great storyline with great 
 graphics then the least you could do would be to rent this game! Now with every game comes its 
 problems... But these problems are far and few between... a little dark at times but you need that 
 so not so much a problem... The biggest one is repetitive missions... but don't let that stop you 
 from playing it so go out and grab your copy.... But before you do that think about how much that 
 you wouldn't be wastin your money. Its Great its great its Damn good.... so to sum it up the key 
 things that make this game good are... Great Story line, Graphics are immersive, Scary and creepy 
 but adventerous... Edge of your seat action. Very Bloody and Violent, With the cutting off arms 
 and legs and being ripped to shreds to the Zero Gravity that has never been in a game before... 
 so sit back get comfortable.... and dissapear for 20 hours... Happy... Horror Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorblood42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome the graphics & gore are incredible! Getting me primed up for Aliens Colonial 
 Marines!!
  The weapons in this game are sick! I am 1/4 way thru the story and its getting better and better! 
 Haven't ran into any bosses yet tho but plenty of Necromancer/creatures!
  The no gravity areas are cool blood floating around and body parts everywhere good game for October 
 release!
  this will be a great tittle to give Bio shock a run for its money! Especially if they add to it 
 with down loadable content like new weapons and new story's missions! The navigation system is 
 really neat also on dead space the heads up display!
  Good job electronics arts i always was a fan of your games & software.
  All of the Medal of honor 
 tittles were great!
  Can't wait to see what future projects are coming up
  So keep up the good work and if you need any betas checked out you can count on me:)
  This game 
 is a must for any horror fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has been amazing since it entered my Xbox 360 console. The graphics are really, really 
 good. The sound is incredible. The story line is great. Everything about this game has surprised 
 me. Coming from EA, I was not expecting great results but an ok shooter. This game has surpassed 
 that expectation. The greatest part of this game is it doesn't go along the road that every shooter 
 has traveled. It is different in every way from the hud to the gameplay mechanics. I honestly believe 
 that this game could be game of the year. I so may be as a lot of the expected holiday games aren't 
 out until later this month and next, but I firmly believe this game has the substance to take home 
 the awards. I have been excited about this game for some time now. Pretty much from the time I 
 have seen it previewed at E3. I am so glad EA has not disappointed myself and countless fans. My 
 faith in EA is being slowly restored. Thanks EA and Redwood Shores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpipkins06
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  D E A D S P A C E ! ! ! 
  
  This has to be one of the best games I've played in awhile. Dead Space has a great story full of 
 fantastic characters. The gameplay is outstanding... I'm lovin' the no HUD display, kind of gives 
 it a more realistic, movie feel. The whole "dismembering the enemies" thing is awesome too! I'm 
 glad to have finally seen a game where you can actually shoot a creature in the arm and/or leg 
 and see it fly across the room, lol. Also, Iasic can die like 1,000 different ways. People don't 
 really appreciate a good death scene until they have seen 1,000 different ones. The graphics and 
 sound wrap this baby up. I personally love the over the shoulder camera angle, BUT it can be a 
 little hard to get used to in tight spaces. Take my word, if you like the suspense/horror genre 
 get this game... you will N O T be disappointed, unless of course you are crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RajHoOT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite movies in the last few years is Danny Boyle's Sunshine. I love the movie because 
 it is beautiful, immersive and an original take on the genre. Dead Space follows in line with this 
 movie (along with other Sci-Fi classic such as Alien) using it's surroundings, graphics and enemies 
 to show you something you've never seen before. And yes, the game is terrifying. Another great 
 thing the development team did are the sound effects. Everything in this game sounds amazing, and 
 the mix itself fluctuates depending on what you are doing creating very tense moments out of little 
 things, making you feel like you are part of the world.
  
  The boss fights in the game are some of the best I've ever seen. The artwork and character design 
 are completely innovating. If you are on the rocks about this game, my opinion is go out and buy 
 it. It is more than worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boney614
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Hey SUPLAX, go back to school and learn the English language and then come back and rewrite your 
 review. 
  
  
  Dead Space is an amazing game. The minute you start playing the game you can tell that Dead Space 
 is a work of art; from the character models, visual effects, and the level of detail. I've only 
 played this game for about an hour so I'm not far into it but i can tell you that you will be sitting 
 at the edge of your seat with a death grip on your controller. The sound of the Necromorphs in 
 the vents will send goosebumps across your body. The 3rd person perspective works really well except 
 when your in a small corridor surrounded by these nightmarish creatures, things get complicated.
 
  
  This is a must buy game and is worth 60 dollars. After I log some more time into this game I'll 
 be back to write a full review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  After finished Silent Hill: Homecoming 5 times i tough:
  "Well it will take some time until another great survival horror game". And i was wrong, this game 
 is simple amazing. There game is a whole new way to play a horror game. The visuals are amazing, 
 very disturbing in some parts a should say, the game scenario is in a starship and then you think 
horror in space ? that sucks prob something like AlienWrong again. The team who made the game 
 , made it well, i normally dont get scary easily but this game are insane. Another nice thing is 
 the weapons, you can upgrade then with a credit system , very nice add. The sound are outstanding, 
 and the gameplay is very good too.
  This game of course is not even close to get recommended by kids with less then... 20 years old.. 
 LOL
  Is a very good game but just for mature people.
  I really liked the game as a lot of people but rent it first just in case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrenadeG-loves
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  if you want to be scared this halloween then you should definatly pick this game up. its scary, 
 its fun, its entertaining, and best of all its got dismemberment. go pick this masterpiece up and 
 i asure you, you wont be dissappointed and if you some how are, well then maybe your just not a 
 gamer. the graphics are absolutly beautiful in a freaky scary kinda way, the gameplay is a horror 
 thrill ride that will leave you on the edge or your seat the entire time and the audio, well lets 
 just say youll have trouble getting to sleep after hearing the shreiks, screams, and the sound 
 of dimemberment. for the friends of the horror fans out there this would make a perfect gift just 
 make sure you pick up a copy for yourself cause nobody like to be left on the couch with out a 
 controller in hand. the down sides to this game are few and far between the close combat can be 
 a bit of a hassel but hey thats what happens when your stuck in a narrow hall way and big scary 
 things are out to get you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  DEAD SPACE
  The name itself gives you a bit of a chill (at least for me) This is EA's new horror game which 
 is a bit out of line for EA since they really haven't done any real horror before. I'm pretty sure 
 some of you are like "Ugh! EA made it, it's probably going to be crap"
  Well you are wrong. EA did a very fine job with this game. 
  WARNING! THIS NEXT SECTION IN BRACKETS 
 CONTAINS SPOILERS!
  [You take the roll of space engineer Isaac Clarke who is sent with a small security team to the 
 USG Ishimura, a giant mining vessel that command has suddenly lost contact with. During docking 
 you collide with an asteroid and therefore crash inside the ship. You quickly find something has 
 gone horribly wrong as you find, literally, gallons of blood everywhere and corpses. (I should 
 mention this game is incredibly gory and violent, with death animations having the aliens rip, 
 bite, or smash your character into pieces)
  Anyways you find the crew has been horribly mutated into these creatures called necomorphs and 
 they attack and separate you from the rest of the crew and then begins you fight for survival.]
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are easily some of the best i've seen. Everything from the ship to the aliens and 
 Isaac's suit look sharp. Another thing they added that increases the fear factor is lighting. There 
 are many rooms that are dimly lit by failing lights, rooms that have light provided only by the 
 giant planet the ship is orbiting around, and rooms with no lights at all.
  
  AUDIO: 
  Amzing. The sound of Isaac as he stomps around is realistic, the screams of the necomorphs, and 
 the sound of equipment humming also help boost the fear factor. The music is also well done making 
 an even more morbid atmosphere. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay in DEAD SPACE is very good. An interesting feature is strategical dismemberment. Instead 
 of having the classical headshot, doing that to the necomorphs would probably do nothing more than 
 piss them off, you will have to take off key limbs to stay alive. If you shoot off one arm, it's 
 no big deal for the necomorph, it will just bite your head off. Take out its legs and they will 
 crawl towards you. The only way to kil these guys is to literally tear them limb from limb until 
 here is nothing left for them to attack you with. Another cool feature is stasis which slows down 
 an object for a while, be it a necomorph to rip apart at your leisure, or to stop a malfunctioning 
 door. In the game there are also work benches that you can use to upgrade your weapons or you suit 
 if you collect the proper parts.
  
  SUMMARY: is a great game that is scary, intense, and loads of fun. One problem though, you will 
 have trouble getting you parents to buy it because of its very high gore levels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawk218
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When you step back and look at all the previous games that have come out recently, you dont see 
 many new horror games. There are plenty of sequels to previous horror games, but after awhile you 
 can start to get tired of seeing the same old thing even though it has a new story, weapons, and 
 etc. We now finally get a new installment.
  
  DEAD SPACE
  The name itself gives you a bit of a chill (at least for me) This is EA's new horror game which 
 is a bit out of line for EA since they really haven't done any real horror before. I'm pretty sure 
 some of you are like "Ugh! EA made it, it's probably going to be crap"
  Well you are wrong. EA did a very fine job with this game. 
  WARNING! THIS NEXT SECTION IN BRACKETS 
 CONTAINS SPOILERS!
  [You take the roll of space engineer Isaac Clarke who is sent with a small security team to the 
 USG Ishimura, a giant mining vessel that command has suddenly lost contact with. During docking 
 you collide with an asteroid and therefore crash inside the ship. You quickly find something has 
 gone horribly wrong as you find, literally, gallons of blood everywhere and corpses. (I should 
 mention this game is incredibly gory and violent, with death animations having the aliens rip, 
 bite, or smash your character into pieces)
  Anyways you find the crew has been horribly mutated into these creatures called necomorphs and 
 they attack and separate you from the rest of the crew and then begins you fight for survival.]
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are easily some of the best i've seen. Everything from the ship to the aliens and 
 Isaac's suit look sharp. Another thing they added that increases the fear factor is lighting. There 
 are many rooms that are dimly lit by failing lights, rooms that have light provided only by the 
 giant planet the ship is orbiting around, and rooms with no lights at all.
  
  AUDIO: 
  Amzing. The sound of Isaac as he stomps around is realistic, the screams of the necomorphs, and 
 the sound of equipment humming also help boost the fear factor. The music is also well done making 
 an even more morbid atmosphere. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay in DEAD SPACE is very good. An interesting feature is strategical dismemberment. Instead 
 of having the classical headshot, doing that to the necomorphs would probably do nothing more than 
 piss them off, you will have to take off key limbs to stay alive. If you shoot off one arm, it's 
 no big deal for the necomorph, it will just bite your head off. Take out its legs and they will 
 crawl towards you. The only way to kil these guys is to literally tear them limb from limb until 
 here is nothing left for them to attack you with. Another cool feature is stasis which slows down 
 an object for a while, be it a necomorph to rip apart at your leisure, or to stop a malfunctioning 
 door. In the game there are also work benches that you can use to upgrade your weapons or you suit 
 if you collect the proper parts.
  
  SUMMARY: is a great game that is scary, intense, and loads of fun. One problem though, you will 
 have trouble getting you parents to buy it because of its very high gore levels.
  
  DEAD SPACE: "No one can hear you scream, except what is killing you" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
