-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/deadliestcatchalaskanstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Skiff slalom missions are fun for a little while.
 Planning your season and adapting your strategy on the fly can be engaging.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Crashes with alarming regularity.
 Frame rate is appalling.
 You don't get to do any of the fun stuff that your crew does.
 Water aside, the visuals are horrible.
 Multiplayer game is even worse than the single-player.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Navarre Corp
Developer: Liquid Dragon
Genre: Fishing
Date: Jun 17, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This disappointing strategy game isn't nearly as engaging as the Discovery Channel show it's based 
 on. 

   Deadliest Catch , the fourth season of which is currently airing on the Discovery Channel, is 
 an exciting documentary-style reality show in which crews fishing for crab in the Bering Sea do 
 battle with nature and risk their lives on an almost-daily basis to get their jobs done. By contrast, 
 Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm is a slow-paced strategy game of sorts, in which you captain one 
 of the aforementioned crews and do battle with choppy frame rates, console-freezing bugs, and dangerous 
 levels of boredom while scouring the sea for something resembling fun.  

           Don't let the pretty screenshot fool you, the water looks far better than anything else 
 in the game.      

  Your first port of call in Deadliest Catch will be the Missions mode, because you have to beat 
 the first four of its 20-plus challenges to unlock Career mode. Those four challenges are interactive 
 tutorials in which the star of the show, Captain Sig of the Northwestern, talks you through the 
 basic controls necessary for navigating and maintaining your chosen boat while fishing for crabs 
 and managing your crew.  

  After choosing one of five boats to captain, your first job in Career mode is to hire a crew. There 
 are plenty of potentials to choose from, and while all of them are capable of getting the job done, 
 the guys demanding a larger slice of the season's profits are invariably worth the money. You need 
 a deck boss, three deckhands, and a bait boy to start fishing, and somewhere in that mix you need 
 guys who can double as engineers, cooks, and medics. Before leaving the harbor you can also stock 
 up on fuel, crab pots, and bait, as well as carry out any necessary repairs and upgrades. All of 
 these chores are dealt with via a menu system that's functionally sound but not even remotely interesting. 
 The controls are easy to pick up, but that's mainly because, in Career mode, you simply don't have 
 to do very much.  

  As a captain in Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm you never leave the wheelhouse of your chosen boat, 
 and you spend the majority of your time performing mundane, repetitive tasks. You check the crab 
 survey information on your map to locate good fishing spots, you mark your intended fishing locations 
 using a plotter, and then you control your boat's speed and course as you travel between them, 
 making sure to slow down when your crew is attempting to retrieve pots that you left to soak earlier. 
 Controlling your speed and course is occasionally made challenging by bad weather, but if you turn 
 your autopilot on and take advantage of the option to speed up time, you can bypass the worst of 
 it before you encounter anything resembling gameplay.  

  It's the other members of your crew that get to do all of the "fun" stuff, though they won't lift 
 a finger -- not even to save an overboard colleague from drowning -- unless you tell them to. With 
 the push of a single button you can set your crew to one of four modes: drop pots, retrieve pots, 
 chip ice, or rest. That last one is especially important, because tired crew members are more likely 
 to have accidents and potentially put themselves out of action for the remainder of your season. 
 More specific orders can be given by using a rudimentary conversation system to interact with your 
 crew one-on-one, but these are rarely necessary unless you're experiencing mechanical problems 
 that your engineer hasn't noticed or need to coordinate the rescue of a man overboard.  

           You're the only member of the crew who never gets to set foot on this deck.      

 
  Each season lasts as long as it takes for the fleet of boats you're fishing alongside to meet 
 its quota, and your goal is simply to make as much money as you can. Catching a lot of crabs is 
 obviously a good start, but there's certainly more to a winning strategy than that. For example, 
 because keeping crabs in your hold for too long will ultimately kill them and make them worthless, 
 you have to time your visits to port in such a way that you maximize your profits without losing 
 too much time that could be spent fishing. Some of the ports get really busy, especially toward 
 the end of a season, so you also need to carefully choose where you dock to avoid having your cargo 
 die while it's waiting in line. The strategy portion of Deadliest Catch can be engaging enough 
 to suck you in for hours at times; it's just unfortunate that it's hidden beneath a thick layer 
 of poor production values and repetitive gameplay.  

  If you feel the need to put your crab-fishing prowess to the test online, you can do so in a multiplayer 
 mode that supports up to eight players and replicates the structure of the career mode almost exactly. 
 The main difference when you play online is that while you can still fast-forward your boat to 
 move around the map more quickly, doing so doesn't actually advance time. This is a problem for 
 all kinds of reasons, one being that every hour in the game takes around two minutes of real time. 
 Pots are normally left to soak for at least 24 hours (48 is ideal according to one of Sig's tutorial 
 videos) , so even games that are scheduled to last for just two days take a long time to get through -- a 
 lot of it spent doing nothing. Incidentally, searching for a quick match unsuccessfully will cause 
 your screen to go black indefinitely, so you'll need to restart your console before you can try 
 again.  

  Some much-needed variety comes in the form of unlockable missions that test your skills far more 
 than the Career mode does. Not all of them are fun (parallel parking a crab boat in a crowded harbor 
 springs to mind) , but chasing whale poachers through rocky waters in a Coast Guard cutter makes 
 for a welcome change of pace, and the five slalom courses that you race through in a skiff are 
 arguably the most fun that the game has to offer. Other unlockables include a hook-throwing minigame 
 that's fun for about two minutes, and a seemingly endless supply of low-resolution videos in which 
 you can meet characters from the show and check out different areas of the featured boats. Most 
 of the videos are short and disappointing, and lack any of the action that makes the  Deadliest 
 Catch  TV show so compelling.  

  The poor quality of the videos is very much in keeping with the rest of the game's presentation. 
 The frame rate is never anything but horrible, and the visuals are inconsistent to the point that 
 the impressive water looks like it's from a completely different game than the clumsily textured 
 land masses it surrounds. Default audio levels are all over the place as well, and while you can 
 customize them, doing so shouldn't be a requisite for being able to hear one thing without risking 
 being deafened by another.  

           Skiff slalom missions offer a welcome diversion from the plodding pace of Career mode. 

  Rounding out this disappointing package are bugs that can bring your play session to a premature 
 end without warning. The most frequent of these simply cause your console to lock up, but occasionally 
 the problems get a little more creative -- by forcing your crew members into looping animations that 
 prevent them from doing their jobs, for example.  

  Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm absolutely reeks of unrealized potential. There's fun to be had 
 here, but you have to work harder than all of the Northwestern's crew combined to find it, and 
 the haul won't even come close to meeting your quota.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: atony12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  ok im gonna get right to it. If your lookin for some heavy action arcade like game than dont even 
 bother reading this because this is a realistic crab fishing game... not how many people's heads 
 can i chop off.
  
  Gameplay: Well if your a fan of the show or even have a slight interest in crab fishing than you 
 will highly enjoy this game. Its all about what crab fishing really is sometimes exciting when 
 your in those storms where it really boils down to personal skill, and other times where you just 
 want something to happen. You get to choose from several different boats that you can see on the 
 show. You also alternate between king crab and opileo crab with each season the weather will get 
 more unstable (basically the begginning of the game is really boring but push through it and it 
 gets better) there are some fun missions you can do to if you get bored, you can even play as a 
 coast guard cutter.
  
  Graphics: the water looks excellant and acts like real water, definately the most realistic water 
 effects. the ships are modeled very nicely but you may notice the crew and other items (like crabs!) 
 are done a little weird.
  
  Audio: not much to say here. You start the game up to listen to bon jovie's "Wanted Dead or Alive" 
 blasting. and in game its basically the drone of your ships engine, the work going on deck, and 
 those pesky seagulls that you get to listen to.
  
  Multiplayer: play a season of opie or king crab online. there is already a very popular crab fishing 
 league up that works with the game developers to (hand out some cool prizes) . Real dedicated guys 
 on there you wont have problems with immature kids ramming there ship into yours.
  
  You have to at least rent the game you never know you might love it but if you are interested in 
 crab fishing or just love the show you will love this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  I have rented Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm, and it is definitely a game that can suck away hours 
 of your time. It is entertaining, especially once you get all of the controls down and learn the 
 ways of the game.
  
  However, there are very many flaws in the game which must be addressed. I hope that if there is 
 a sequel or another game made, that they address these issues and make it better.
  
  As said before, the frame-rate is very bad. Even when it seems to go 'faster', it is still crawling 
 compared to other games. And sometimes, especially during storms, the game turns into a nice slideshow. 
 Which is NOT a good thing.
  
  The game needs to be more interactive. Throughout the game, you just instruct crewmembers to drop 
 pots, pick up pots, chip ice off the boat, repair things, cook food, sleep and so-on and so forth. 
 You just pilot the boat and give instructions. That's it. The little animations and unpredictable 
 events that can happen on the deck of your ship are entertaining at first, but you will soon tire 
 of seeing your crew dump yet another pot into the sea... you will also quickly become sick of crewmembers 
 whining about being cold. I think that the player should have to do things on the ship, rather 
 then just watch things be done.
  
  Another problem, is that you can't give individual commands, for the most part. You can't tell 
 one crewmember to go to bed, for instance. If you tell them to go to bed, they ALL go to bed. I 
 was hoping you could get your crew to sleep in shifts, or something like that, to be more productive. 
 As far as my knowledge goes, that's what they do on the crab boats in reality.
  
  Yet another problem is that when you hire your crew, you can't assign a specific crewmember to 
 a specific role on the deck. Sometimes you'll end up with guy who's bad at hook throwing, throwing 
 the hook. It will take 5-6 tries to catch the bags, when they are only 7 feet away from the boat. 
 And Good God, prevent injuries as much as possible. It isn't fun to only have 3 crewmembers on 
 deck, trying to drop pots or gather them. It isn't easy, and takes FOREVER. Seriously. One time 
 I had a single guy at the crane, then he went to the platform, then baited it, and then dumped 
 it... where were my other crewmembers, you ask? Broken fingers and such, that's my answer.
  
  Technical issues plague Deadliest Cast: Alaskan Storm. You will experience your console locking 
 up, black screens, crewmember animations looping over and over again so they won't do anything 
 else, and even corrupted save files. No game worth 60 dollars US should have this many technical 
 problems. Not only that, but the engine and graphics are extremely dated. The water physics and 
 appearance are fantastic, and the boats look okay, but the land... don't get me started.
  
  Overall, the game is a decent attempt at making a realistic Deadliest Catch game. However, technical 
 issues, a dated engine, and some annoying little things keep it from being a truly good game. I 
 rented Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm because I like the show, and felt that it was a unique idea. 
 It half captures the feel of the show, and its definitely a unique idea... but executed poorly. 
 
  
  In the end, I don't believe that Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm is worth 60 dollars. I say that 
 if you enjoy the show, and like the idea, then give it a rent. If you REALLY like it, and feel 
 you won't get tired of it, I'd still recommend even then waiting for a price drop and/or an update 
 of some sort... the technical issues and bugs in the game can keep your from playing it, and end 
 with you turning off your 360 in disgust.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game puts you at the helm of a crab boat off the coast of Alaska. If you've seen the show, 
 you'll be very eager to compare your skills in the game to the real-life activities of the fishermen. 
 If you haven't, it's going to play more like a difficult simulator than anything else. Then again, 
 that's one of the reasons why I liked the game -- you have to learn things and adjust your ideas 
 as time goes on. It's not just another trigger-happy explosion-fest. It actually has a plot! And 
 it sets you outside in nature. A game based on the working world, that actually looks like it? 
 I'm glad to see it. There are plenty of things to do, and the only thing I would correct is the 
 small font they used to do the onscreen instructions. However, everything else balances it out -- 
 you get to go from finding places to put the crab cages so you'll round up the most, to rescuing 
 another boat in danger, to piloting home through a crowded harbor. A different kind of game, and 
 one worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicMatt777
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Yea, I dont know, I just really liked this game, plain and simple. The graphics on the water are 
 intense, sometimes it actually feels like im on the water. Other graphics could have had a lot 
 more work.. like the land for example, haha. If you are not a patient person, I would not recommend 
 this game, it is more for fans of the show. So if you are not a fan of the show, I wouldnt recommend 
 getting this. Unless you like crab fishing, or want to try it, try it out. Its pretty much as close 
 as you can get to being a captain without setting foot on a crab boat. The timing on the sounds 
 could be better, like for example, when the pot hits the deck the sound comes in like a second 
 or two late, long enough to notice. It is a really relaxing game, its nice to play before you go 
 to bed or when your just waking up. This isnt like Guitar hero, halo, or call of duty or something, 
 just a crab fishing game. If that doesnt sound good or cool to you, I would suggest to steer clear. 
 Overall, though, I really like this game and I find it really addicting. Good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starbob171
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Look, the bottom line is you have to be a big fan of the show or you wont have any fun. The best 
 part of the game is hauling the pots which can be very tricky at night and the most boring part 
 is setting them. It's fun to make descions and things like that. Don't think when your buying it 
 it's Call of Duty 4 or Rock Band. YOu have to love the show and then you'll get a good kick out 
 of it. Make sure you rent it first. YOu either like or not. Just remeber you have to play on Realistic 
 or it's not fun at all. If you don't play on that level just keep going to the same spot and you'll 
 always have 100 king crabs or 700 oppilo crabs easily. You get 45 gamescore in one part of a tutorial 
 which helps you a lot and make sure you sell your catch about half way through the season to prevent 
 dead loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Well when I heard about this game I was like huh?.... wtf? And I was like well there's one that will 
 fall into the sucky list of games. And well I was right although it might be a little better than 
 I expected because it has some nice visuals but at points there is huge frame rate drops. I mean 
 it's just as casual as fishing... which in all honesty means it's pretty boring. Not to mention the 
 greatly complex controls, and the voice acters sound like a machine there is no tone to there voice. And 
 also a screen will pop up when they want to say something and sometimes it isn't even important, like 
 a guy will say"Wow didn't see that coming."or something stupid like that. This dude also pops up 
 to say some words to you but he isn't helpful at all. But it is what it wanted to be a realistic 
 fishing game. Thats just repetitive as anything. All you do basically is throw out the cage (s) wait 
 24 hours pick up cage (s) then throw them back and go sell your Lobster you cought yea it's just 
 that damn fun. And some of the stuff that makes the controls so complex is some of them are just 
 worthless and really not needed. Like one that makes the turning thing go straight that really isn't 
 to important. But one of the good things is although it's repetitive at first the gameplay is fun 
 but then it's just like ugh... But when I say the controls are complexm; that doesn't mean that they 
 just through you in they really try and help they give you like a hour long tutorial, which is pretty 
 helpful in the end. The characters look plain and most look like normal fishermen.... hobos. I'm not 
 kidding most of them look like homeless dudes. I made a team of all hobos. The old dude got really 
 mad at me though he annoyed me. Also another con is that the boat is pretty hard to keep at the 
 right speed to pick up the Lobsters.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer:~~None~~
  
  
  
  Re-play Value: I know what you are thinking he hated the game so he will obviouslly say there is 
 no replay value, but when you think about it if you like fishing games or really just fishing alltogether 
 you'll acually have a litle bit of fun with it but for all the others you.. well... you just want.
 
  
  
  
  End It! All in all this game isn't good unless you like fishing. At the first when you complete the 
 tutorial you might think hey this could be kinda fun well play for about 1 more hour and then you'll 
 change your mind. But if you do like fishing then rent this one, if you don't, I highly recommend 
 you pass on it.
  Real Score:5.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  If your like me, the Deadliest Catch show is one of my favorite things on TV. When i heard about 
 this game, I knew i had to give it a try. I got this on day one of release, and I play this a lot. 
 Let me get to it. 
  
  Graphics: Technically and Visually, graphics are not good at all. I would say they look more like 
 a late PS2 or Xbox title in HD. The water does look nice, but the way it goes straight through 
 the deck from the bottom of the boat seems a bit unrealistic.
  
  Sound: Well, there isnt much to hear out on the bearing sea, but the one you thing I was expecting 
 to hear was more of the crew in a more, well, violent manner, as in the show. Instead, you get 
 animated voices which are repetitive and have no flow or excitement.
  
  Gameplay: Now, despite the reviews, I like RTS and Simulation games, so this kinda feel in between 
 both. As in the review, he brings up how the boat is hard to control. Okay, its a very large crab 
 fishing boat with over hundreds of thousands pounds of oil, crab, and bait, of course its going 
 to turn slowly. Other than that, the game itself does suck me in and I find it a much enjoyable 
 experience. 
  
  Overall: In my opinion, its a game to at least rent, and Ive come to find most people think its 
 about right, but not their style. If your not a fan of Simulation games, with no high octane action, 
 this isnt the game for you, but if you love being the captain of a bearing sea crab bout, and deciding 
 the fate of your crew, this game will do excellent in your 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Ice chunks form on all sides of your ship, commanding all the attention of your crew for the task 
 at hand. The quota has to be filled, but your boat also needs to stay afloat, so your crew is safe 
 from your wrath -- for now. After the ice has been cleared from the boat, you and your crew get to 
 the real task at hand: fishing for crabs. Don't get too excited, but don't get too cynical either.
 
  
  It's hard to sell a game about crab-fishing to groups of gamers that are used to action-packed 
 games like Halo 3 or Metal Gear Solid 4. At first glance it seems akin to offering vegetables to 
 child. Why would a testosterone-fueled 18-34 male want a game about fishing? Short answer is that 
 Mr. 18-34 probably doesn't. But a deeper look into the game reveals surprising depth for gamers 
 out there that want to step back from action and have a more chilled experience.
  
  After a lengthy tutorial gets you acclimated to controlling the boats, you're not ready to set 
 sail for the Bering Sea quite yet. Crew members must be hired and provisions (bait, gas, fishing 
 pots) must be purchased. With fresh supplies and an experienced crew, you plan out your fishing 
 strategy. Checking your plotter, a device that allows you to check crab population, you map out 
 your strategies to hit areas with the highest density. Marking your map with your planned strings, 
 (swaths of sea where you drop your pots to "soak") you and your crew make haste for that location. 
 Once there, your crew gets to work, as do you. Getting the boat into position, you ring a buzzer, 
 giving your workers the green light to drop the pot into the sea. You continue this strategy for 
 a while, and your employees are starting to tire from being overworked. Yet, you need to get these 
 pots down as soon as possible -- meeting the quota is paramount to any sleeping concerns of these 
 peasants. Not soon after, one of your workers makes an error due to lack of rest, resulting in 
 a steel pot being dropped from a crane and onto a fellow employee. The aftermath is not good -- the 
 injured employee was your deck boss and your most trusted and experienced crew member., who is 
 now out for the season. The effect is much like a weigh scale. On one of the arms you have the need 
 to meet the quota, and then on the other, the need to protect the safety of your crew. Finding 
 the right balance is the challenge.
  
  Even with a key crew member down, you're still able to continue. Completing your fishing strategy, 
 you head back to harbor to find a replacement for your fallen deck boss. Luckily, there are still 
 some unemployed, willing hands, which you promptly hire. Getting back to sea, you begin to retrieve 
 your hauls. The first couple of hauls only bring in a miniscule number of "keepers" (adult crabs) 
 and it continues along most of your strings. Frustrated, you radio other fisherman to see how they're 
 haul has been going. Listen closely, because not all of them are looking to help. This particular 
 fisherman tells you that their fishing has gone great, even though they might have been fishing 
 along the same strings you have been. Knowing how the fishing has gone for you, you make note to 
 disregard whatever they say in the future.
  
  As you're about to finish picking up the last of your ill-fated pots, something happens. Everything 
 stands still. You figure it's just a temporary lock-up. Tapping the guide button multiple times 
 proves fruitless, so you reluctantly turn off your 360. It's just bad luck, and hey, you saved 
 just before the freeze, so everything's kosher. Minutes later, it happens again. And againad nauseam. 
 Progressing through a complete season of crab fishing seems impossible up to a certain point because 
 of the technical difficulties that continue to muck up your experience.
  
  Glancing at screenshots of the game, shrugging it off as a quick, sloppy cash-in on the TV show 
 would be an easy conclusion. Nothing looks particularly good and there is plenty that looks bad. 
 Hauling in your catch of crab, the detail on the fish passes scrutiny while in the pot. But when 
 dumped into the catching tray for your crew to sort, it becomes this amalgamation of brown slime 
 and gunk that looks laughably bad. Re-creations of the different boats seen on the show are faithful, 
 but technical prowess is something Deadliest Catch does not have.
  
  Graphical limitations aside, Deadliest Catch is surprisingly competent. In so far as games are 
 vehicles for excitement and action, the game falls on its face. Where it finds its footing is in 
 its unique setup that is unlike anything else on the market. Unique might not mean great or even 
 good, but you could rent much worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patches88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Me being a huge fan of the show, I couldn't wait for this to come out, and this game was very fun 
 right from the start. However, for those who are not patient, i wouldn't recommend this game. however, 
 once you geet past the half hour or so (in real time) of setting pots, you really start to feel 
 like a true captain with all the decisions you must make. Also keep in mind that the first few 
 seasons may be calm to give you a feel for the game, but when you're about to start your second 
 round of crabbing seasons, the weateher gets bad, and the game just gets more and more fun! When 
 you get going through 30 foot seas and all the bad stuff starts happening, it almost feels like 
 your really there! If you're somewhat patient and have 60 bucks to spare, give Deadliest Catch: 
 Alaskan Storm a try- you wont be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeliriumLP16
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you combine choppy game play, less-than-stellar frame rates and terribly small 
 on-screen writing? The answer is: Deadliest Catch: Alaskan Storm. Discovery Channel's "Deadliest 
 Catch" is one of the most exciting television shows currently on the air. One would think that 
 a game modeled after that same show would contain the same intensity, that isn't the case. Deadliest 
 Catch: Alaskan Storm is a game with a promising concept; Command a crab-fishing vessel and its 
 crew while battling 40 foot waves and ravaging storms on the Bering Sea. Sadly, Alaskan Storm doesn't 
 quite deliver. The game commences with a cut scene in which an overturned vessel is on the brink 
 of being swallowed by an ocean (no pun intended) of monstrous waves. The shot changes to the Coast 
 Guard Cutter "Mellon" as a rescue chopper leaves the deck in search of the capsized ship. The chopper 
 flies into the darkness and the scene ends. That's about as exciting as this game gets. Soon after 
 the scene ends the player is sitting at the wheel of the Northwestern, a real-life crab-fishing 
 boat. A video box appears and a clip begins to play in which the Skipper of the Northwestern, Captain 
 Sig Hansen, instructs you on the coming activities, these videos continue to pop-up from time to 
 time. This is the start of a tutorial, which seems to take about as long as an entire Alaskan crab 
 fishing season. The tutorial is full of repetitive messages and commands, in which on screen prompts 
 give instructions on how to complete the task at hand. The instruction prompts frequently have 
 you sailing half way across the Bering Sea to complete some random task. The sailing might possibly 
 be the most painful aspect of the game. When the camera is trained on the outside of the boat, 
 the game tends to get very choppy, pausing and freezing quite frequently, a problem that might 
 be expected to occur during a PC game, but not Xbox 360. As you continue to progress through the 
 tutorial, more prompts will appear. The only problem is, once they appear, they tend to stay on 
 the screen until the task is completed, engulfing half of the viewing area, making completion of 
 the aforementioned task (s) very difficult, and sometimes on the verge of annoying. The tutorial 
 touches on everything from basic control and operation on the boat, to unloading and selling your 
 catch. Good luck reading anything on the screen though, as the writing is unbelievably tiny; a 
 problem that plagues the entire game. Once the tutorial wraps up, you're thrust out on your own 
 to build your own crab-fishing empire. Once you've selected the proper crew and taken care of anything 
 in need of attention, you're given the opportunity to embark on your first season of fishing. Things 
 go pretty much as expected from here. You're tasked with selecting an area to fish, plotting where 
 to drop your pots, and the only thing left to do is set a waypoint and use the "fast time" feature 
 to steam to the area you've chosen, and drop your gear. The occasional breakdown, malfunction, 
 or crew injury will occur, and every once in a while a distress call will broadcast over the radio 
 from a sinking ship. If you're in the area, you can offer your assistance in the search, rescue, 
 and recovery operations, although that occasionally ever happens. This is pretty much the extent 
 of what's going to happen in the game. There are a handful of mini-games which, at times, are amusing. 
 The game has it's moments of fun and excitement, as well as horror and despair, but they're few 
 and far between. One thing that does catch the eye are the surprisingly well crafted water and 
 wave effects. They can bring you to the edge of your seat on the brink of a colossal wave, or they 
 can dazzle you as your ship glides across calmer, more tranquil waters. But that alone isn't enough 
 to make the game appealing to the casual gamer, and the bottom line is: if you're not a devoted 
 fan of the show or Alaskan crab-fishing itself, this game will probably have you sleeping before 
 you're even granted access to the wheelhouse. It's realism and detail might appeal to some, but 
 if you think you will be interested, it would be a wise decision to rent it first, and make your 
 decision from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollada
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  When you first start out the hour worth of tutorial from Sig Hansen gets a little old but Sig is 
 that man so Its cool. Anyone who thought this game was going to be all glitz and glamour like a 
 FPS or RPG is and idiot in the first place. Its a game about fishing for crab that all it is its 
 not involving guns and stuff there isn't going to be much excitment to this game. The only thing 
 that bothers me in this game it that they didnt' make the graphics superb and they really had the 
 opportunity to do so. And when the crab fall out of the pot and they turn into a sheet and it looks 
 all fake it really disappointed me. The look of the water it pretty sweet when it gets stormy and 
 the stamina system and all that is pretty sweet, the ship customization really kinds sucks, i recreated 
 the Cornilia Marie and you have to keep the CM on the front of the ship.. really stupid but a minor 
 drawback. Other than that, I love the show love the game. If your not sure rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I'll cut right to the point: This game is a simulation. It's not a boat racing game. It's not a 
 heart-pounding FPS like Crysis. It's primarily a game that simulates what Captain Sig and the fisherman 
 go through to catch crab in the Bering Sea. If you like Deadliest Catch (the TV show) and what 
 they do to catch crab sounds like fun to you, this game is probably what you should reasonably 
 expect it to be. Nothing more, nothing less.
  
  The largest part of your time will be spent laying and pulling pots (crab traps) . There are boat 
 upgrades, crew management, destination planning, and other activities, but the vast majority of 
 your time is spent with the setting and pulling of pots. There are crew injuries and breakdowns 
 that distract you from that activity, but basically it is what it is: setting and pulling pots 
 and filling your crab hold before the season ends.
  
  I like simulation games. And I realize that economic simulation games require "work" (i. e. pulling 
 pots) to get your "reward" (i. e. upgrading your boat and so on) . That is supposed to be your reward 
 ... like killing Bowser in Mario Bros. or something. :) I've also realized (over the years) that 
 simulation games have a limited audience and therefore, limited budgets. You won't see Crysis-like 
 graphic in this game. 
  
  Is it worth the $60? It is to me. I like Deadliest Catch on TV, there are a ton of videos of Captain 
 Sig and the boys, and I enjoy simulations (which don't get made as often as they used to) . Don't 
 buy this game just because you think Captain Sig is cool. Buy it only if you like simulations and 
 if the Deadliest Catch extras are worth it to you, otherwise, you could be disappointed. But, I'm 
 having fun with it and have no regrets ... Primarily because, it is what I expected it to be.
 
  
  *Added after Gamespots rating*
  
  I think it's ridiculous that Gamespot rated this game a 4.0. They need to balance their reviewers' 
 opinions a little more to get a consistent, fair rating scale. To rate this game a 4.0, when (at 
 least from my experience) there are no obvious technical issues, is totally unfair and out of line. 
 I can understand that if you like fast-paced games this one is not for you, but 4.0's are reserved 
 for abject garbage and this game is far from that . It's more likely that Gamespot is beginning 
 to lose focus in their rating system. Look at all of the other sites' review scores for this game 
 and look at Gamespot's ... it's way off. 
  
  How can the video reviewer say that the game (I quote) "can suck you into for hours at a time if 
 you're not careful", then give the game a 4.0? The reviewer was obviously determined to give this 
 game a lousy score (and Gamespot obviously lacks the editorial awareness to recognize that) . I'm 
 to the point that I don't even pay attention to Gamespot's ratings any more, I just look at Player 
 Reviews and IGN's Reviews. Hey, when Gamespot can rate games like "Diner Dash" a 9.1 while rating 
 games like this a 4.0; there is something terribly wrong here. The rest of the site is great, but 
 their reviews are becoming VERY unreliable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  If you read my review summary, then you'll have noticed I said this is just a boating sim. And 
 that IS exactly all it is. In the spirit of Deadliest Catch, you'll do everything they do in the 
 show, well, from the Captain's chair. So in other words, it's a boring game accessible to only 
 a select few. I will split the review into the following sections: Pros/Cons, Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, 
 Value, and Achievement Junkie.
  
  Pros
  -It captures the concept of Deadliest Catch.
  -The wave animations of the ocean are fairly realistic.
  
  Cons
  -Pacing is totally off, 
 it goes way too slow.
  -Very repetitious setting Pots and then picking them up later.
  -Not worth $60, maybe $40 at most.
  -Nothing "next-gen" about this title.
  -Terrible Acting.
 
  
  Gameplay: From the get-go you will be presented with 5 missions that teach you the basics. The 
 premise of each season is pretty simplistic. At the start you'll arrange your fishermen, buy necessities 
 (fuel, bait, cages) , set pots (and eventually pick them up again) , and sell whatever you catch 
 when you feel the need to. Repeat this for another mind-numbing hour or so, per season, and you 
 have a pretty slow game. As a captain you can tell the crew when to set pots, when to pick them 
 up, to chip ice off the boat (when in colder locales) , or go to rest. The crew is fueled by Energy 
 and Morale meters and by having them cook and sleep, you can balance your jobs to make your crew 
 more effective. Steering the boat is relatively slow, and you are always underwhelmed by the speed 
 you will traverse the seas (and yes, I do understand why they are going slow) . Thankfully you have 
 the option to speed up time on your planning screen, so while setting and picking up Pots is really 
 slow, at least you can fast track your way back to port, or to the next chain of Pots.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics are fairly terrible. While the wave animations are nicely done, the 
 waves don't look great at all. The land textures are moreso terrible, since the mountains and most 
 terrain just looks like polygon blobs with a variety of mud plastered on them. The boats seem pretty 
 true to the show, but alas, the crew looks like stick figures and a variety of animations are missing. 
 As you spend countless hours just floating along slowly, you'll have to listen to the seagulls 
 always flying above your boat. For some reason, the framerate also drops occasionally which is 
 questionable since this game is so... rough looking.
  
  Value: If you buy this game, you better be pretty sure you want to. For $60, this game is definitely 
 not worth it. The fact it doesn't do anything new but provide you with a sim that you could probably 
 find on the internet, is sad. On top of that, the multiplayer is bare-bones from the menus to the 
 actual game. You can only talk to a single person at a time, and even then, you can't talk to them 
 unless you go through numerous screens. MP games also take from an hour to more, so you'll be dissapointed 
 you even tried. On top of the normal fishing, you have Missions which provide a bit of variety. 
 From saving boats to parking a boat, you'll have heart-pounding excitement the entire way through. 
 Who knew parallel parking a boat could be so FUN!? Any way you put this game, it boils down to, 
 "How hardcore of a sim fan are you?"
  
  Achievement Junkie: The achievements are pretty easy from the get-go, but in the end you'll be 
 wondering why certain achievements aren't unlocking. If you have to rent the game or such, make 
 sure you know how to get the 3 or so achievements that are confusing. In other words, wait a bit 
 until the forum communities discover how to unlock these achievements, and then invest a couple 
 hours in this game. Albeit, there are better games for better achievements, as this game is way 
 too slow. If you really have to rent it for some reason, make sure you have a DVD next to you to 
 watch while you play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
