-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dead or Alive 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/deadoralive4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Finely tuned, fast-paced fighting action expertly combines depth and accessibility.
 Big selection of well-designed characters means there's a fighter for everyone.
 Great online play provides near-limitless challenge for competitive players.
 Compelling unlockable extras and achievements.
 Gorgeous presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few graphical flaws.
 Online lobby system is cute but feels needlessly tacked on.
 Some stability and lag issues when playing online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.6, 91 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 9,969 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Developer: Team Ninja
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Dec 29, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tecmo's long-running fighting game series hits the Xbox 360 with its best installment to date, complete 
 with plenty of complex and interesting characters, outstandingly good visuals, and great online 
 play. 

  Fashionably late to the Xbox 360 launch, Dead or Alive 4 is an impressive feat of a fighting game 
 that boasts some excellent, fast-paced action in addition to terrific good looks. Best of all, 
 you can play it online over Xbox Live, virtually guaranteeing you'll find tough, unpredictable 
 competition at any hour. Back when the old Xbox first debuted in 2001, Tecmo's Dead or Alive 3 
 served as one of the system's showcases, at least as far as its graphical horsepower was concerned. 
 However, 2004's Dead or Alive Ultimate took a much bigger step forward, mainly because it introduced 
 the ability to compete against other players online. Dead or Alive 4 is similar to that game (right 
 on down to the near-identical menu system) , but it adds several new characters, new moves and abilities 
 for returning characters, and a beautiful new coat of paint to all the proceedings. It doesn't 
 defy the conventions you've come to expect from playing other fighting games, but it's about as 
 slick, fully featured, and exciting as fighting games get.  

          DOA4's lightning-fast fighting action is better than ever on the Xbox 360, so get online 
 and start getting beat up.     

  DOA4 doesn't reinvent the wheel. It's nearly identical to Dead or Alive Ultimate in terms of its 
 feature set, and the gameplay itself also arguably hasn't changed much, depending on how you look 
 at it. On first impression, this is good old Dead or Alive, all right. The fighting is really easy 
 to get into like always, and if you're a veteran of the series, you can still rely on many of the 
 same moves and strategies that have served you well in past. Yet the more you play, the more you'll 
 pick up on the combined impact of all the numerous new and changed moves for returning fighters, 
 unique layouts of the different arenas, and tweaks to the fighting engine. Essentially, this game 
 has a smoother, more tactical, even faster, and simply better feel than its predecessors. More 
 importantly, the gameplay is some of the most highly refined and dynamic that you'll find in any 
 fighting game these days. And because of the substantial selection of playable characters and good 
 assortment of interactive arenas, there's a lot of variety where it's needed.  

  At the heart of every match type in Dead or Alive 4 is a contest between two fighters trying to 
 knock each other out using various punches, kicks, throws, and reversals. There are tag-team matches 
 where you may control a pair of fighters by quickly switching between them during the bout, but 
 even these boil down to a one-on-one fight. As you'd probably hope from an intense martial arts 
 competition, aggressive tactics are the order of the day -- overly defensive or hesitant players 
 tend to get slaughtered. But those who punch and kick with reckless abandon are also easy targets, 
 since reversals and well-timed counterblows can be used to crush careless opponents. A healthy 
 roster of nearly two dozen unique fighters is available (a handful of them are hidden at first) , 
 and though their moves and fighting styles are all different, the same basic controls apply to 
 everyone. These controls are deceptively simple, but by using simple directional motions on the 
 D pad together with three action buttons -- one for punching, one for kicking, and one for guarding 
 and reversals -- it's possible to perform many dozens of different moves as all the various characters. 

  In practice, the typical DOA4 match has a good flow and rhythm to it, as well as a blazingly fast, 
 silky-smooth look. There's a heavy emphasis on swift, painful-looking strikes and combos. All fighters 
 are readily capable of stunning their opponents or knocking them clean off their feet, the perfect 
 setup for a devastating string of follow-up attacks. As the showdown unfolds, occasional reversals 
 and throws make for spectacular, often decisive twists. At the default settings, a typical best-of-three-rounds 
 match can be over in less than a couple of minutes, but there tends to be an awful lot of action 
 crammed into that short space of time.  

  The expanded roster of fighters is definitely one of the main attractions. All the old favorites 
 are back, like ninja gals Kasumi and Ayane, Ninja Gaiden's more-famous-than-ever Ryu Hayabusa, 
 shapely pro wrestler Tina, and Bruce Lee clone Jann Lee. And they've got plenty of new tricks up 
 their sleeves. Dead or Alive 3's Brad Wong, a master of drunken fist kung fu (and a lush) , and 
 Christie, a scantily clad assassin, return after a hiatus and pack some of the more interesting-looking 
 moves of the bunch. The new fighters include Kokoro, a demure karate expert specializing in open 
 palm attacks much like those of Virtua Fighter's Akira; Eliot, a teenage boy who looks like a girl 
 but whose praying mantis-style martial arts are unmistakably effective; and La Mariposa, a masked 
  luchadora  packing powerful kicks and stylish grappling moves. It would have been nice if DOA4's 
 roster included a couple more fighters who... well, actually looked like fighters, rather than the 
 outlandishly dressed, dollfaced young ladies that dominate the lineup. Nevertheless, chances are 
 you'll find at least a few characters who appeal to you, even if the game's anime-inspired character 
 design and its fantastically proportioned female cast won't win over everybody.  

          Insert pun here regarding the game's big, well-rounded cast of characters.     

  In 
 stark contrast to all the other fighters is Spartan-458, a not-so-hidden character who's basically 
 Halo's Master Chief but with a woman's voice and no guns, and who debatably deserves her own paragraph 
 just because she's got something to do with Halo. She's a neat bonus for Halo fans, who've never 
 seen the Master Chief's signature armor looking quite this rugged or realistic. She's even got 
 her own nicely detailed arena to fight in, modeled after the opening level of Halo 2 and complete 
 with plenty of vehicles you can't drive but can knock unsuspecting victims into. Too bad this statuesque 
 lady is relatively underdeveloped as a fighter, since she just doesn't have as many moves to work 
 with as most characters. One of her grabs, which involves shoving a sticky plasma grenade into 
 the foe's gut, looks amazing. But most of her other attacks are lifted from the game's bigger characters, 
 and she doesn't move or take hits differently than the other fighters despite all that armor. Still, 
 the more fighters, the merrier, as long as there's a balanced lineup in the end. DOA4 seems to 
 accomplish that balance surprisingly well. Though the quicker characters are easier to learn, everybody 
 seems highly viable in the right hands. To put it another way, when playing online through the 
 course of several hundred matches against random live opponents, we were pleased to routinely encounter 
 just about every fighter in the roster, rather than the same several characters over and over. 
 See? We didn't give the whole paragraph to Spartan-458.     

  Incredibly enough, the arenas in DOA4 stand out nearly as much as the characters. The series pioneered 
 the concept of interactive multilevel environments back in 1999's Dead or Alive 2, and has kept 
 building meaningfully on this exciting concept ever since. In DOA4, not only can you kick your 
 opponent through glass windows, down flights of stairs, and off of rooftops as you could in past 
 Dead or Alive games, but now you can launch your foe head over heels across railings, or better 
 yet, straight into traffic. One of the best-looking stages resembles the Vegas strip at night after 
 a rainfall, and it's all the better because cars will come swerving down the road that you're fighting 
 on every now and then, sometimes plowing into the combatants and blasting them up high into the 
 air. Another inventive stage can best be described as Jurassic Park, since it's jam-packed with 
 various dinosaurs, some of which aren't so friendly. There's a great level set in a marketplace, 
 where you can smash the opponent into or through all kinds of different kiosks and fruit stands, 
 and another really pretty stage up high in some Japanese temple. Some tightly-enclosed stages are 
 also available, including ones where getting shoved into the walls causes extra damage, making 
 bouts fly by faster than usual. At times, the extra damage caused by environmental effects can 
 seem excessive, but the variety is great to have overall. DOA4's arenas sure beat the traditionally 
 flat, lifeless backdrops that typify most fighting games.  

          Don't get too caught up gawking at the pretty scenery or you'll get your face smashed into 
 it.     

  A good way to get your bearings with the game is to dive right into the story mode, where you pick 
 a fighter and quickly clobber your way through eight rounds against different computer-controlled 
 foes. The "story" part of story mode unfortunately is a misnomer, since the story for each character 
 typically amounts to a couple of brief, meaningless exchanges with other fighters followed by a 
 tough last battle and an ending cutscene of some sort -- basically the same format Dead or Alive 
 has used for years. For what it's worth, some of the endings are pretty amusing, and successive 
 plays through the story mode is not only how you access most of the hidden characters, it's also 
 the quickest way to unlock all the different costumes for each fighter (some have just a few, others 
 have closer to 10) . All told, story mode is fun and offers some good incentives, but it's a missed 
 opportunity to further flesh out these characters' personalities and interrelationships. Not that 
 you'd probably expect much of anything like that from a fighting game.  

  Most of the other modes are pretty standard, too, but they're executed very well. Survival mode 
 is one of the best, because the game keeps throwing fighters at you so quickly. The moment you 
 defeat one, the next jumps right into the arena and presses the attack, so you're constantly fighting 
 against a never-ending wave of random foes. The game offers some unlockable achievements based 
 on how many fighters you're able to beat in a row, so you might well find yourself coming back 
 to survival mode the most often among the single-player modes. Time attack mode is also worth playing 
 for similar reasons, and team battle mode is there if you want to try playing with and against 
 different combinations of characters. There's also a versus mode for quickly setting up custom 
 matches against a friend or the computer, and a sparring mode for practicing as all the various 
 fighters.  

  Sparring mode does a good job of teaching you everyone's moves, though it could have done more 
 to introduce you to some of the complexities of DOA4's gameplay. While anyone can pull off plenty 
 of fancy-looking strings of attacks by mashing the punch and kick buttons, with experience you 
 pick up on a lot of nuances, like the right times to use the four types of reversals, how to recover 
 from critical hits and getting knocked down, the damage potential of the two types of counterblows, 
 various arena-specific tactics, and much more. Dead or Alive may not have always enjoyed the good 
 reputation of longer-running 3D fighting series like Virtua Fighter and Tekken, but today it's 
 at least as sophisticated.  

  You'll notice when playing against the computer in DOA4 that the enemy artificial intelligence 
 puts up a very good fight, even at the default difficulty setting. It'll perform some slick combos 
 on you when you leave yourself open, and it'll use throws and reversals effectively but not robotically. 
 It'll exploit your poor tactics if you rely on the same moves over and over, too. If anything, 
 the default difficulty will probably seem a little on the hard side for most players, and for whatever 
 reason, there aren't any easier settings to fall back on. But since you can retry a match whenever 
 you lose (except in survival mode) , victory is really only a matter of time. Besides, you might 
 just learn a good trick or two from playing against the computer, especially at the tougher two 
 difficulty settings.  

          Challenging artificial intelligence and a good number of offline modes give DOA4 some real 
 lasting value even when playing solo.     

  Online is where the real action is. As in Dead or Alive Ultimate, DOA4 offers a variety of different 
 online play variants, all centered around the concept of a virtual arcade. In the ancient days, 
 when lots of people played fighting games in actual video arcades, there were fewer arcade machines 
 than people, so you needed to wait your turn. All the anxious waiting around, as well as the thought 
 of spending more quarters than you wanted to, gave you more incentive to win when your turn came 
 up, which helped inspire fierce competition. DOA4 evokes this same feeling with its virtual arcade 
 concept by letting up to 16 players compete in a single lobby. That's way too many people to wait 
 around for in most cases, but if you set up or find a match with a limit of around three to five 
 players, it's a great balance where players can catch a breather in between fights but never have 
 to twiddle their thumbs for long. The default "winner stays" gameplay variant is best suited for 
 the virtual arcade format, but some of the other variants are also worth checking out, like kumite, 
 where the host of the session keeps taking on successive challengers, win or lose.  

  We rarely experienced significant lag when playing online, even against overseas opponents, though 
 the game did occasionally lock up or hang up for long periods of time in between fights, especially 
 when we tried to access the Xbox guide. We confirmed that other players had also run into this, 
 but the problem cropped up maybe once in 50 matches, so it didn't really hurt our experience. It's 
 still a little discouraging, and hopefully it'll be patched. As in Dead or Alive Ultimate, there 
 tends to be noticeable lag when you're watching a match rather than participating in it, but as 
 soon as your turn is up, you can expect comparably responsive gameplay to what you get playing 
 offline. Even when there is some lag during a match, it still doesn't seem to prevent your moves 
 from registering or anything too drastic. It's well worth shrugging off these types of issues to 
 get to play this game online.     

  Before you can host an online match in DOA4, you need to get yourself a lobby. Your first one's 
 free, but to get others, you'll need to spend currency you earn from beating other players. The 
 game offers a bunch of different-themed lobbies as well as numerous quirky avatars that'll represent 
 you when you're in a lobby. Some of this material is actually pretty funny, provided you think 
 ghosts and chickens dancing around in a space station with a big-screen TV showing DOA4 matches 
 is funny. But regardless of what sort of good intentions went into this concept, it's not particularly 
 well implemented. Specifically, you can hang out in the lobby only if you're content to be a spectator 
 rather than a participant in online combat -- you leave the lobby environment as soon as you elect 
 to join a match, not just when it's your turn to fight. So unless you're really into watching other 
 people play fighting games as opposed to playing them yourself, DOA4's lobby system won't do much 
 for you, even though you'll probably get a few laughs out of it. On the other hand, the unlockable 
 achievements in DOA4 are generally well thought out, enticing you to explore and keep coming back 
 to key aspects of the game. A few achievements relate to achieving win streaks and high rankings 
 online, making them attainable only by very skilled players, so you'll know not to mess with people 
 who've earned these. Overall, this is one of the better sets of achievements so far in an Xbox 
 360 game.  

          The new online lobby system is mildly disappointing, but getting to play live opponents 
 around the world is by far one of the best things about DOA4.     

  DOA4 is also one of the best-looking Xbox 360 games yet. Vividly detailed characters and environments, 
 smooth and believable animations (including many new ones) , and crisp textures all add up to a 
 stunning visual presentation. A few specific rough edges do stick out, so let's get those out of 
 the way. The flowing long hair some characters have can sometimes flow in weird ways, in thick 
 ribbons rather than strands. Some unsightly clipping issues also crop up with some characters' 
 alternate outfits and during some grappling moves. But such flaws are as easily forgivable as they're 
 unfortunate, since the game looks so impressive overall.  

  Granted, DOA4 does look a lot like previous Dead or Alive games. Although DOA4 looks its best in 
 high definition, where every little visual detail seems to clearly stand out, the character graphics 
 look a lot like those of Dead or Alive Ultimate even in HD. Everyone's got a complexion as smooth 
 as the game's frame rate, which makes the characters look less like real people and more like dolls 
 or action figures (you know, depending on gender) . Still, these are some great-looking characters, 
 and some of the subtle details, like how Jann Lee's veins pop out when he's flexing or how La Mariposa's 
 glittery outfit literally sparkles, show tremendous attention to detail. Too bad the characters 
 don't have as many outfits as they did in Dead or Alive Ultimate, and that some of the alternate 
 outfits are just color swaps; but all the variety in character appearances is remarkable anyway. 
 The environments probably look even better than the characters, too. You wouldn't know just from 
 looking at them that most of these arenas are from a fighting game. In fact, they're so filled 
 with life that you'll almost wish you could just walk around and explore them rather than be limited 
 to smashing your opponents into and through parts of them. Also, even though there's so much going 
 on visually, loading times are nearly nonexistent in DOA4, and briefly come up mostly just when 
 there's a change of scenery rather than a change of characters.  

          Razor-sharp, ultrasmooth visuals highlight every aspect of the experience, especially if 
 you're set up to play in HD.     

  Great audio highlights the presentation, though it too is very similar to previous games in the 
 series. All of the fighters, with the exception of Spartan-458, speak Japanese with English subtitles. 
 It seems as though they should have spoken in their native languages since they hail from all around 
 the world, but the Japanese voice actors fit their parts well. The game's enthusiastic female announcer 
 also does a good job, but in a nice touch, you can replace her with just about any of the game's 
 fighters after you unlock their "system voice" in the sparring mode. More importantly, the effects 
 for punches, kicks, snaps, and slams are all spot-on in DOA4, sounding plenty painful especially 
 when some sort of wall or railing is involved in the exchange. The game also makes surprisingly 
 good use of surround sound, which doesn't have much impact on gameplay but makes a lot of the arenas 
 seem that much more real, what with believable ambient effects happening all around. To top it 
 all off, there's a fittingly upbeat soundtrack to go with the action, featuring memorable themes 
 for some of the characters. And yes, for better or worse, Dead or Alive fans may look forward to 
 more use of Aerosmith in the game's introductory cutscene.  

  It's simple: If you like fighting games, DOA4 is for you. Between its great selection of powerful 
 fighters, its terrific action, and its addictive online mode, there's an awful lot to sink your 
 teeth into, learn, and master in this latest and greatest installment in the series. That the whole 
 thing looks so good certainly doesn't hurt, either. Any subsequent fighting games for the Xbox 
 360 now have a very tough contender to beat.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (811 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Team Ninja strike back once again with a sequel to their outstanding Dead or Alive Ultimate, this 
 time around incorporating the best mechanics seen in any fighter to date -- which is pretty decent 
 seeing that the gap between its release and present-day is almost four complete years. Soul Calibur 
 IV is the only other title that can come close; Virtua Fighter 5 almost makes it but has some problems 
 here and there while Street Fighter IV is like an endless laugh that isn't even close to comparable.
 
  
  Now to make matters slightly more succinct I will assess this game's qualities as either a pro 
 or con under their respective label of 'good' or 'bad':
  
  Pros:
  
  *---Dead or Alive 4 has a large roster of characters to choose from, the only original character 
 missing being Raidou from the original Dead or Alive 1
  *---The mechanics are the deepest yet seen: characters can perform immediate transitions while 
 stopping their combos like a wedge whenever they want, combo stringing is ingenious as it can be 
 mixed up between many variants per character
  *---There is a special throw/grab for every angle your character is facing relative to your opponent, 
 including a crouch grab
  *---Each character has special charge attacks and 2 to 3 unique, easy-to-use victory stances in-game, 
 the only exception being Kasumi, who, for some reason, has 1
  *---Dead or Alive 4 has the easiest to use counter system ever seen while still being deep -- it's 
 as easy as pressing x and holding the left stick in the range of the hit (mid, low, high)
  *---It is impossible for you to lose a round when falling from one platform to the next, giving 
 consideration to environmental flukes
  *---The enemy A. I. provides a nice competition here and there
  *---The character models look 
 quite decent and each character is very original from one another, both in appearance and moveset
 
  *---The environments are quite appealing while being very themed-based and have a large element 
 of interaction
  *---There are many environments for you to choose from
  *---The Japanese voice actors are great and filled with emotion
  *---Every level has its own 
 soundtrack and the sound effects are fitting to the environment, along with the regular sound effects
 
  *---Each character has their own CGI cutscene at the end of their stories in Story Mode, 
  *---Story Mode isn't just about one random fight after the next, there are two individual cutscenes 
 aside from the ending in each character's story
  *---Their is a large variety of modes ranging from survival to tag battles to team battles
  *---In 
 Tag Battle there are special entrance/exit attacks that a unit of characters can use with the right 
 combination
  *---You are able to construct your own modeled avatar for use in Online mode lobbies
  *---Online 
 has good battle variety
  
  Cons:
  
  *----Online Mode is incredibly broken: you do not lose any experience points by quitting out of 
 a match, meaning practically anyone can rank up as high as they want after avoiding loss after 
 loss and the person who remains in the match after the other player quits out doesn't receive anything 
 at all, not even a victory on their record
  *---You have no choice but to join lobbies when playing online and watch other fighters as they 
 contend
  *---The online search engine is extremely slow and lag can be constant depending on who joins the 
 session
  *---Far too much unnecessary time had been wasted on eight different emotion sequences for your 
 modeled online avatars that no one is ever going to waste their time with instead of fighting a 
 person
  *---Original characters cannot be customized outside of their alternate costumes
  *---The final boss character, Alpha 152, is incredibly cheap and obnoxious to fight at best
  
 *---The A. I. tends to cheat with their counters and never feel the same as regular human players
 
  *---You have to waste hours upon hours of time completing challenges in Training Mode just to 
 unlock the only entirely fair level in the game that doesn't have any environment obstructions 
 and/or ground level differences
  *---The achievements are quite difficult to receive and usually quite inconsiderate, such as giving 
 you a 0G achievement for receiving five consecutive losses online, which would, at best, encourage 
 a higher ratio of quitters on the playing field
  *---Just to unlock extra costumes as a character you will have to expend multiple hours repeating 
 Story Mode as a select character -- which isn't anything that big -- or complete a 2-round Time Attack, 
 which is close to impossible by the time you reach Alpha 152
  
  
  In conclusion Dead or Alive 4 is undoubtedly a great game, but, unfortunately, it's only a great 
 game because of its mechanics and fight variability and nothing really much else. It's just ridiculous 
 that we probably might never see a sequel to Dead or Alive, at least for another two years or so, 
 because of the Itagaki incident and Tecmo's refrain in the eyes of his original work. 8/10 is my 
 final rating, even though I'm being moderately generous.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zan11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:19 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Dead or Alive since DOA2 Ultimate. After seeing previews of Dead or Alive 
 4, I decided I needed to have it. First off, the amount of unlockables is a nice size. My favorite 
 character is Helena, and I was annoyed initially that I had to play every other character's story 
 mode before I could play her, but now I realize that I quickly learned the fighting mechanics of 
 the other characters by doing this. It basically introduced me to everyone else's either improved 
 fighting style or completely new one. Compared to DOA3, each returning character's fighting style 
 and movelist has vastly improved. It is as if the game designers read the minds of most fans and 
 gave them nearly or exactly what they wanted. Now, each character is more powerful and quick.
 
  
  The new characters have grown on me, and I have quickly come to adore them. Kokoro is a geisha-in-training 
 who loves to practice Ba Ji Quan in her spare time. Her fighting style is not as flashy as some 
 other characters, but she is physically strong and has a nice moveset. Eliot is the only apprentice 
 of Gen Fu, but his moveset is rather different than his master's. His throws are weak, but his 
 strikes and counters deal good damage. La Mariposa (Lisa from DOAX) is the third wrestler in the 
 game but fights much differently than Lisa and Bass. She utilizes Lucha Libre which mixes Capoeira 
 with wrestling moves.
  
  There are some downsides to the game however that prevented me from giving it a perfect score. 
 First off, the AI spams counters quite a bit. I have tested it out and nearly every time I start 
 a match in story mode, I initiate a throw on the computer and it's often a high counter throw. 
 Sometimes, the computer just starts countering in the middle of a chain combo. I have found ways 
 to counter this. An aforementioned throw will initiate high counter status, and good juggles will 
 prevent opponents from being able to counter at all. The final boss Alpha-152 was rather frustrating 
 at first, but she is incredibly predictable. One simply has to remember the types of moves she 
 uses to either counter her or high counter throw her. The last nitpick I have is the amount of 
 costumes. They are not nearly as numerous as DOA2 Ultimate, which I found disappointing. But I 
 like many of the new ones, and there are returns of favorites such as Kasumi's schoolgirl outfits.
 
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is not perfect, but it is one of the best fighting games around on the Xbox 360 
 and in general. The characters have been greatly improved fighting-wise and graphic-wise as well. 
 While a sequel to this is uncertain at the moment, I am increasingly enjoying my time playing this 
 latest installment. I highly recommend it to hardcore gamers and newcomers as well. I can guarantee 
 that one will find enjoyment in one aspect or another of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patzcool
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Well when i went to go pick this game up i first went to gamespot to read the review sure enough 
 8.8 i thought "wow this will probably be really good" so i went and picked it up when i started 
 playing it was decent but then it turned in to frusteration and anger because your punches and 
 kicks go right through your opponent and it makes you mad and in single player you will be stuck 
 on that alien boss for a while she kills you soooo fast. The multiplayer sucks too you have to 
 wait for a match to be over. so its like being in line, so if your anything like me you hate to 
 wait! If you are thinking of getting this awful game DO NOT i repeat DO NOT get it unless your 
 a die hard dead or alive fan as you can see i am not this is the first dead or alive game for me 
 and i will not get another. i honestly think this ruined fighting games for me so i now dont even 
 touch fighting games. REMEMBER DONT GET THIS. thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenCalibur
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is very beautiful, having some of the best graphics in fighting games, to date. That however 
 is not enough to satisfy the player. It is ridiculously difficult, and it lacks a few details that 
 make a game great.
  The story mode isn't bad, but when you get to the end you fight this boss that will surely kick 
 your @$$ about three times before you do. In addition to having a (literally) 10 second defeat, 
 the computer doesn't fail to remind you that you just got your @$$ handed to you. It will always 
 annoy you with the ever popular "YOU LOSE".
  The online mode isn't very great either. The players have a tendency to gang up on novice players, 
 to demoralize you completely. It takes a lot to get used to the game, and part of it is its crappy 
 fighting system.
  DOA4 has this new system that allows you to reverse the opponents attack. HOWEVER in order to do 
 so, you must press X and a specific direction at a specific time, in order to successfully pull 
 the stunt. It's quite risky and sometimes you find yourself being pounded away aimlessly as you 
 try to decide if you should hit him or attempt to reverse.
  The computer is very tough and it has no problem using reversals on you throughout the entire match. 
 This game is a complete joke. All you have to do is keep pressing Y or A and you win (granted you're 
 faster than the CPU) .
  Avoid this game if you want to be "upset free". I would only buy it if it's sold in a pack of two 
 for twenty, or when it's nearly given away at the pawn shop.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramswo18
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I've never really been a huge fan of dead or alive in fact i barely remember playing the first 
 one since i was like 8 or so. But this is honestly probably the greatest fighting game i have ever 
 played in my life. I kno a lot of ppl out there think this game is very difficult, but it really 
 isn't. As soon as i bought the game i picked the coolest lookin character Jann Lee and jumped right 
 into the action. Since i pretty much never played the game i button mashed and it surprisingly 
 got me very far i actually beat the game on my first try. So i decided to actually learn all his 
 moves and set the difficulty to the maximum. I did struggle a bit and loss about 5 times to some 
 assassin guy but i eventually beat the game again. Then i noticed how the smooth and responsive 
 the controls are, it's very easy to pick up and use any character and jump right into the action 
 and be successful. I don't c wat is so hard about the game if i got caught in a wall then i would 
 simply counter them. then i would unleash my combos on them. Once u understand the countering system 
 then it becomes very simple and u can become a master in about an hour. I didn't find a single 
 problem with the game whatso ever. it looks good, sounds good, and plays good and since i can't 
 find anything bad about the game, i have no choice but to give it a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentimentalsos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of DOA from 2 and up. So when I finally got a 360, DOA 4 was the first fighter I picked 
 up for it. I like to have fun, and for me, a game doesn't have to be challenging to be fun. DOA 
 is ridiculously hard. I don't mean like Marvel vs. Capcom 2 hard that if you play it long enough 
 you'll get the hang of it. I mean the CPU is just plain overpowered. Otherwise, the gameplay is 
 really fun and the characters are balanced and unique, giving every player their just-right fighter. 
 This is also one of the must beautiful games on the 360, the graphics being the only reason why 
 I still pop the game in once in a while. 
  
  This game is fun to play online or with a friend, but overly hard and an exercise for for joystick-throwing. 
 I would have enjoyed it better if there was an "easy" difficulty setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExvAguS
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a That was it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcrafiused
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  For my Video Review, go to, http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=CCRepFhFgeY
  
  The DOA series has never been entirely deep, and while DOA4 doesn't add a lot to the series, its 
 still a very fun game, and worth a look if your a fan of fighting games.
  
  The story of DOA4 is to be debated, to be honest, i can't decipher it, there's something to do 
 with an evil organization, and ninja's, but at other times it seems to be about mermaids and making 
 salad, so I really don't know what to say about it, other than that the story isn't really the 
 focus, its boobs, in all reality, that's what the focus seems to be.
  
  Boobs aside, lets go into the game play, now as i said, DOA has never really been a deep fighting 
 series, and it still remains fairly simple, although they tweaked it a bit, you still make use 
 of four main buttons, a punch, kick, throw, and guard/counter button, as you did in previous games, 
 the only difference is that they fixed the counter system so its not as easy to counter your opponent. 
 They've added three new characters to the roster, and a bunch of new stages as well.
  
  Graphics are ascetically pleasing, most notably the backgrounds, which look downright amazing, 
 character models look good as well, but not nearly as good as the backgrounds.
  
  The sound on a whole tends to be good, the Japanese voice over is done quite nicely, and the sound 
 tracks fit the game nicely.
  
  Overall, i had a lot of fun with DOA4, and I think anyone who has a 360, and is a fan of fighting 
 games should give the game a look, I'm going to give DOA4 a 8.7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdsk8erdude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  I'm no "hardcore" gamer. I like fighting games a lot though, always have.
  DOA4 is a great game, don't get me wrong.
  Great graphics, lots of stuff to do in the game, stories 
 are fun to play thruogh more than once, lots of stuff to unlock, but its sooooo hard!
  The end battle in all the story modes always take me forever to beat, and its luck. Its if i get 
 a hit in fast enough. if not, im toast.
  they needed to include an "easy" setting lol.
  They only included normal and hard (and harder? i dont remember)
  Anyway, im not gunna be one 
 to sit there for 2 hours and figure out all the moves per character. But im no button masher either. 
 Im a good mix of both I think.
  Thats why online was fun in unranked matches where there are people like me, and multiplayer against 
 my freinds was great fun.
  But man, the computer, was next to impossible to beat sometimes.
  The difficult really killed 
 what couldve been a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlodyka10
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  The graphics of the game are certainly the most appealing element, together with the unlockables 
 bonuses you can achieve (costumes, objects) . The ladies are really gorgeous and the landscape (if 
 you only had the time to look at it) is well designed. 
  
  On the other hand, although the initial game concept is certainly interesting (even if not so far 
 away from the previous DOA chapters) it has not been developed in the right way as the attempt 
 of providing a challenging game-play where the player can develop his/her own character and learn 
 new moves and combos has unfortunately failed, due to the (too) high difficulty level. This happens 
 even in "normal" mode and therefore when it takes 30 min. to beat an opponent, what comes out from 
 the gaming experience is certainly no more fun but only frustration and that is what a game should 
 never lead to.
  
  So, at the end the player will soon forget the nice bouncing of the ladies' round parts and smash 
 the controller on the ground, full or rage......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Well designed maps
  + Good enviroments to fight in
  
  Negatives
  - Very limited choice of characters
  - To hard at times
  - Very fustrating
  - Not very rewarding
 
  
  Welcome to my review for dead or alive 4 (doa4) on the xbox 360, as I'd never played dead or alive 
 before I expected it to be a good fighter.
  I was annoyed when I got it as I found battles hard- well the first few battles of story mode would 
 be fine.. but then I'd get stuck on one particular enemy- get really angry and give up.
  I didn't know it was just me as a really bad fighter or if the difficulty was way to hard- I then 
 logged onto gamespot and saw everyone elses moans about the difficulty and decided it wasn't me 
 after all.
  
  The game offers several modes including survival mode, story mode and a few more.
  Story mode 
 involves playing as one character fighting around eight battles- you often find yourself getting 
 stuck just fighting one character and giving up, I got really fustrated trying to earn any achievments 
 at all.
  Survival is probably my faviroute mode- your put in a ring and you fight opponent after opponent 
 trying to survive for as long as possible- you can also do this in tag team with 2 characters- 
 and even better you can have a freind and do tag team like that.
  Over all the game dosen't lack variety in game modes giving it a solid amount of replayeble value.
 
  
  Achievments are limited- I hardly earnt any whilst playing the game, most of them seem almost impossible 
 or only attainable through boring methods- for example, completed every characters story mode, 
 I got bored after doing story mode more than a few times, there are at least 10 characters stories 
 to complete and the achievments only worth 10G- rubbish!
  The lack of rewards makes the game dull and it makes you feel 'why am I even doing this?' 
  
 
  As I mentioned above- enviroments and maps are pretty good- they're colourful and on the whole 
 well designed.
  I especially liked the way that you could push your opponent down a flight of stairs or smash them 
 through a window- as seen in the Mortal Kombat series.
  Enviroments ranged from city streets and jurrassic forests to ancient temples and mansions.
  
 
  I only reccomend the game to people who have a lot of patience and consider themselves veterans 
 at fighting games, I hope this review has helped, thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is one of the best games looking games I have ever seen. The environments have so much detail 
 and are so colorful. You see things like detailed vegetation in the background, and people cheering 
 in the city with cars driving past (and you and your opponent have to avoid getting hit by them!) You 
 can knock your opponent into market stores and cause the boxes of fruit to spill all over the floor. The 
 city looks so beautiful lite up, you see characters hair blow when they are on top of the building 
 or from the helicopters. The female characters have long flowing hair whenever they move.
  
  As for the gameplay, the CPU has very unfair AI. The CPU will detect and counter a lot of the moves 
 you do and it can get very frustrating. Sometimes the best way to win is to button mash and hope 
 you string some powerful combos or special moves together (powerful combos and special moves can 
 remove large amounts of health and in story mode there is only 1 round battles) . Or if you're good 
 enough you can outthink the CPU, but it takes alot of practise to get used to the speed, delicate 
 timing, and learn the stratagies that work well against particiular opponents.
  
  The gameplay is very fast, much quicker than DOA 2 and DOA 3.
  
  The fighting environments can 
 be very big, you can start fighting in a market place, and end up on the beach somewhere, or you can 
 start fighting indoors and end up outside and the background can change multiple times as you move 
 across the environment. There is rings with electrified fences and being knocked into the fence 
 does massive damage. Same when you're knocked into any object or down a set of stairs or off a bridge 
 or rooftop.
  
  There is some new characters, and you can use a soldier called 'Spartan' who wears the armored suit 
 the Master Chief wears in Halo (but you cannot use Spartan in story mode)
  
  You can even fight in one of the environments from Halo (with a view of space and the portals and 
 warthog vehicles) and hear some of the beautiful Halo soundtracks while you're fighting. Some of 
 the other environments include fighting in a forest with many dinosaurs or in Africa with wild 
 animals and in environments which look like a studio with many colored lights and monitors and 
 a high tech environment against the final boss.
  
  The FMV is incredible, I love Tina's ending when she skates for a while then plays the electric 
 guitar and makes the lights on the buildings in the city flicker and makes their windows shatter. And 
 Bass's ending with the high speed of the motorbike and colorful, high tech environment. And the main 
 character in story mode is Helena and her ending involves many of the characters and a conclusion 
 in the story and great rock music. The other endings tell the story or 'what if scenarios' tremendously. Ryu 
 Hayabusa looks awesome destroying those flying machines in the city than leaping from the building. The 
 ending for some of the female characters is quite perverted but still glamorous. Kasumi becoming 
 a Mermaid and swimming in the ocean is lovely, and Hitomi likes to walk around her home naked and 
 you see her looking at a beautiful sunset and get to watch her cook and Lei Fang's ending is perverted 
 but so hilarious you'll have to watch it to see what I mean.
  
  The fighting announcer can still be the cute female voice that says ''Get ready, fight!!''or a male 
 fight announcer for when you're in the ring and you hear the crowd roaring.
  
  The characters have 4 unique costumes each, and I like how Ryu Hayabusa can wear the traditional 
 ninja costumes with different styles and clothing attachments or even wear a more high tech ninja 
 suit.
  
  The game is great but not for everybody, you really have to learn the fighting moves and strategies 
 or you may struggle quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  Dead or Alive 4 focuses on the story of Helena, the young woman taking over the mantle of DOATEC 
 as its second chairman.
  
  
  New characters
  
  Nicole fighting Ryu Hayabusa in the Nassau Station.
  DOA4 contains three new playable characters: 
 Kokoro, a young Geisha in training, Eliot, a 16 year-old boy from England and protg to Gen Fu, 
 and La Mariposa, a female Lucha Libre wrestler.
  
  In addition, DOA4 features a playable unlockable character from the Halo series. The November 2005 
 issue of Game Informer revealed that this character is a female Spartan supersoldier, going by 
 the name "Spartan-458". It would later be revealed that her real name would be "Nicole". In conjunction, 
 a Halo-themed stage named Nassau Station is incorporated in the game.
  
  
  Taking advantage of the superior technology of Xbox 360, Dead or Alive 4 offers the defining 
 gaming experience on the next-generation console. The game encompasses all that Xbox 360 has to 
 offer, giving you the most rewarding digital fighting to date on any videogame console.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 once again raises the bar in both online and offline fighting. By utilizing the 
 advanced technology of Xbox 360 hardware, the game redefines 3-D high-definition graphics and sound, 
 creating one of the most visually beautiful and realistic-looking video games available. Unsurpassed 
 online capabilities via Xbox LIVE, incredible new interactive stages, an all-star lineup of old 
 and new favorite characters, and a complex DOA countering system all combine to create a must-have 
 video game for Xbox 360.
  
  * DOA Online: Experience unsurpassed online play on Xbox LIVE, including large-scale global online 
 tournaments, increased worldwide simultaneous online play, detailed scoreboards, the ability to 
 form clans, a new and interactive lobby area featuring voice and text chat, and more!
  * 3-D high-definition graphics: Utilizing the advanced technology of Xbox 360 and Team Ninja's 
 development expertise, Dead or Alive 4 takes 3-D graphics to a new level, creating a visually stunning 
 video game.
  * New characters and old favorites: Meet new faces in the DOA cast of characters, and get ready 
 for the return of Dead or Alive 3 favorites Christie and Brad Wong!
  * Interactive stages: Incredible new interactive stages showcase 3-D graphics and astounding attention 
 to detail, from each strand of a character's hair to the individual cherry blossoms falling from 
 the sky.
  * In-depth story line and cut scenes: A new plotline and amazing cinematics give you a new insight 
 into the mysterious yet captivating world of Dead or Alive.
  * New costumes: Characters sport a variety of costumes while they fight. Some characters even have 
 new hairdos!
  * Complex DOA countering system: The game's fighting system has been overhauled, allowing for even 
 more strategy and mastery of your favorite character. Check out the most complex DOA countering 
 system yet!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyOwl411
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Beauitful women all around, deadly fighting styles, ninjas and master chief? Is someone playing 
 with my imagination? No this is DOA 4, a game that rewards those who dedicate time and effort into 
 this. The combat system is perfect and is a perfect rock paper scizzors. Grabs beat holds, holds 
 beat strikes, strikes beat grabs. Most may question me giving out a nine, but why not? The story 
 is little, but enough that you feel inside the world. Online mode is where this game loses its 
 perfection. I don't ace if my avatar is a ninja or a dog or a rabbit. I just want to beat noobs 
 up back and forth. Anyway, i recommend that the player should pick two characters and MASTER THEM!!! 
 Memorize everthing! Even the way they breathe! Anyway, playing this game will make you better at 
 almost every other fighting game and truly is the ultimate test in the fighting game genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  In the times that i've tried playing this game, it just hasn't worked for me. The difficulty settings 
 are horribly broken. At any time, the AI will easily destroy you, which can make the game very 
 frustrating. The story, to a person who hasn't played the prequels, will make absolutely no sense. 
 It's as if they made the story after they made the game, it just doesn't work. The Multiplayer 
 is decent, but makes you wait for very long periods of time only to fight in very short matches. 
 After a few hours, the concept of alive environments will become very boring and repetitive. The 
 only plus for this game is the cut scenes, but people usually don't buy a fighting game to watch 
 the cut scenes, they want to fight. 
  
  This isn't the worst game, but its definately not the best, although I personally feel it falls 
 below average due to its stupid story, poor gameplay, average multiplayer, and frustrating difficulty 
 settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenBoyHelios
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  First I'd like to point out why only 10-20 hours of time spent playing overall - it's because I 
 had to return my Xenon Xbox 360 and the DOA4 game due to the Xbox 360 scratching the disk. But 
 I think those 10-20 hours are more than enough for you to see everything this game has to offer.
 
  
  Being a huge DOA and Tomonobu Itagaki fan, this was one of the first 3 games I bought for my Xbox 
 360, and although you could say that there's to liitle content for the amount of money you have 
 to pay for the game, I disagree. DOA games are meant for the occasional playthrough and are best 
 enjoyed when you're playing with friends or online. But, I must also say that in comparison with 
 DOA Ultimate, there could have been more a little more content. The story is as always there just 
 to keep the characters talking, but you are motivated to finish the single player portion because 
 you then obtaion variousa entertaining and well made CG cutscenes and costumes for your characters. 
 The number of costumes available isn't as big as in DOA Ultimate, but there is more than enough 
 variety, and some are even interesting from a technical view, like Kokoro's kimono. 
  
  Speaking of techical, the game's graphics are amazing and everything runs with no hiccups. There 
 are some hair clipping issues, but they don't really bother me, because I like how it looks more 
 realistic now. The character models are as always more anime inspired than realistic, whereas the 
 stages are as realistic as they can get, featuring huge landscapes filled with items and traps 
 you can use to really hurt your enemy. The music is ok and fits well. The fights are now faster 
 and shorter in time than ever before, which I like a lot. They bring excitement to the very end. 
 
  
  DOA4 is a game that is meant to be played for one or two hours occasionally, otherwise you might 
 get bored quickly after you have played through the single player and acquired all the costumes. 
 The online play helps a lot here, it's fast and effective and ensures DOA4 won't end up somewhere 
 in your drawers after you've played a little bit. 
  
  To sum up, if you want a game that's great when you're bored and have nothing to do for a shorter 
 amount of time, or you are hosting a party, that is a real graphical showcase with fast paced combat 
 and sexy female characters, then DOA4 is the right game for you. If you accidentally already own 
 DOA Ultimate, you might consider not spending your money on this game, because Ultimate also looks 
 great and delivers about the same thing as DOA4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat-Puppet
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Normally I suck at fighting sims. I got good at the Mortal Kombat games because I practised and 
 practised and practised, but when it comes to just picking up Tekken or Soul Caliber or something, 
 I suck.
  
  And I sucked at Dead or Alive 4.
  
  So I kept playing, and I kept playing, and then all of a sudden..!
  
  I still sucked at Dead 
 or Alive 4.
  
  But that doesn't mean it is a bad game. In fact, I went back, and kept going back and now I am 
 actually good at DoA4! Yay me!
  
  And that, in its self is a testament to the kind of game that DoA4 is. I wanted to be good at it. 
 Normally I would have just returned the game, got something else and hoped I was good at that to 
 try and boost my gamer ego back up. But, after going through the story mode with a few characters 
 (and almost crying every time I got to the stupid final fight! Dumb electric bit-) I found myself 
 adapting to each characters fighting style.
  
  In only one or two fights I could quickly throw together a game plan that played to the characters 
 strengths and would start winning! Yay me, again!
  
  And going through the story modes was actually quite rewarding. At the end of each character's 
 story, you unlock something, normally a costume, but sometimes an extra character or something. 
 But the real reward were the movies, with some of them being genuinely laugh out loud funny.
  
  So, while this might not me up to the Tekken's of the world as far as serious fighting goes, 
 or the Mortal Kombat's as far as gore goes this fighter ranks high with me because it is fun. And 
 if that isn't worth a recomendation, then I don't know what could be.
  
  Oh, and just in case my mom reads this; I've never really punched a girl.
  
  Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is an odd, "sui generis" fighting game, with some visually astonishing cut scenes, 
 other than that, nothing really enjoyable about it, and definitely not worthy of an 8,8 rating. 
 If so, what would be the rating for PS2 Tekken 5? 12 maybe?? Even PS Tekken 3 is more fun than 
 DoA 4.
  
  The game is insanely difficult, yet not impossible. The cut scenes are really awesome, no doubt 
 about that. All these are fine, but you don't buy a fighting game to see some nice landscapes, 
 and a heavenly beautiful geisha that runs with her cute tiny white shocks on, and things like that. 
 You buy it mainly for the action; kicking and punching. So simple! And in this field DoA 4 isn't 
 very good. Characters move really quickly, ridiculously quickly, and the controls are not very 
 responsive. Also, after a couple of hours the whole idea of the "alive" environments, with vases 
 that can break to pieces, and baskets full of fruits that scatter all around, gets repetitive and 
 inevitably boring.
  
  It's not what you could say a bad game, there are far more worse titles out there, but it's not 
 a very good one either. In other words, it doesn't quite live up to the "legend".
  I give it a 6.5, and not lower, because it makes at least some effort to be unique in its, otherwise 
 strictly defined, genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettyler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  the game itself feels and looks amazing. the fact to play online is even better. the addition of 
 new charecters is nice and refreshing. the soundtack is allright. the envirment changing and weather 
 is a nice touch to. the is some translatio mispellin gin the time attack mode. 1st 2st 3st. lol 
 wekll anyway a must have game for a doa fan, hardcore and casual gamer fan must play
  
  the game itself feels and looks amazing. the fact to play online is even better. the addition of 
 new charecters is nice and refreshing. the soundtack is allright. the envirment changing and weather 
 is a nice touch to. the is some translatio mispellin gin the time attack mode. 1st 2st 3st. lol 
 wekll anyway a must have game for a doa fan, hardcore and casual gamer fan must play
  
  the game itself feels and looks amazing. the fact to play online is even better. the addition of 
 new charecters is nice and refreshing. I repeat this cause this is the best fighting game for the 
 360 yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 was a launch title for the Xbox360 from Team Ninja and after 3 years it still is 
 a pretty good fighting game.
  
  There is supposed to be a story in DoA4, but unless you read the manual you will not have a clue 
 about what it is. Problem is that even if you read about the story you will not be interested in 
 it when playing the actual game. Team Ninja has never been good in telling stories, but in my opinion 
 they should have just forget the concept of story all together instead of trying to to scrap something 
 together and put it into game's manual.
  
  Graphics were colorful, detailed and impressive 3 years ago and they still are just that. The game 
 doesn't look realistic, but who cares: it looks good. Sound effects are just what you would expect: 
 characters speak lines of dialog that usually make no sense and the sound of punching and kicking 
 is satisfying.
  
  Gameplay is simple, but it still contains lots of combos to learn and to really master DoA4 will 
 take you a long time. There is pretty much every game mode included that you can think of so you'll 
 definitely get your money's worth of gameplay. And to add even more value Dead or Alive 4 also 
 includes online play and it works just like it should.
  
  To sum it all up I must say that if you enjoy fighting games and for some reason you have not tried 
 this launch title for the Xbox360 yet then it's a high time to do so. On the other hand if you 
 don't enjoy 3D fighting games then I must advice you to stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  i really enjoyed this game due to its graphics and fun gameplay.... people usually are online and 
 the single player is fun... The character models look great and i always get a laugh of how they 
 created these characters with their "certain features".... fun game overall... i throughoutly enjoyed 
 it and still play it... buy it its only like 20 dollars in the store... worth it.. go out and buy 
 this game... the games graphics are good and the locations are better with more destructive enviornments 
 and chaos... its a good game and worth it. go get it go get it go get it go get it buy this game 
 its cheappppp cheapppp cheappp and i enjoyed it its funny and can last you a while depending on 
 your style and is a fun pick up and play old school type of game for anyone unless it could offend 
 so females though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  the firt time I played the it was amizing but i want sothing better yknow just like tekken 6 on 
 the ps 3 geting special attacks with highest graphices the xbox 360 can in a fighting game got 
 a high scores just like 9.4 or 10 maybe with more than 38 charecters make 40 maybe this is the 
 iwant to play and with using a sowrd if the charecter got a sowrd or a stick maybe and with tow 
 butons to hit like a for kick and b to kick but withe another combo and with y to hit withe his 
 hand and x to ge another combo withe his hand and buton tow defrent buton gave you a new special 
 combo so pleas team ninja make dead or alive 5 better and I cannot wait for dead or alive 5 its 
 gonna be so exiting ??????????????????? ?????????????????????? ???????? ?????? ??????????? ??????????? 
 ????????????? ????????? ???????????????? ?????????? ??????????????? ??????????????? ???????????? 
 ???????????? ????????????? ?????????? ??????????? ???????????? ??????????? ???????????? ????????????? 
 ?????????? ?????????? ?????????? ?????????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_sangma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has been released a long time ago. I waited until last month for the price to drop and 
 then purchased it, the reason being that fighting games done give much value for money. 
  
  However this game is surprisingly good. Though there are some frustrating moments when you play 
 against some experienced players who choose the groping characters and keep countering your moves 
 i must say that i personally enjoyed the game a lot.
  
  There isnt much to offer in the story mode. The final boss battle is extremely annoying as the 
 character alpha 152 is so damn cheap that you cant imagine. I played tekken 5 and was annoyed at 
 jinipachi mishima for the ability to throw the fireballs. This character (luckily) does not throw 
 any such fireball or powers at you but can teleport herself in the middle of being hit by a combo. 
 The only character with whom i could beat alpha 152 in first attempt is Ayane. 
  
  There are some characters with steep learing curves but there are also some characters with whom 
 you can go button mashing. A fair mix of characters and must say gives you the chance to practice 
 different game styles.
  
  Overall the game is nice. The story endings are a bit too raunchy and it may not be suitable for 
 minors in some household. However you can pick up this game safely now and i can tell you, if you 
 like fighting games your money wont go for a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Playing Dead or Alive 4 is like watching Women's Olympic Beach Volleyball.... but you always lose. 
 Sure you watch to admire the athleticism, and to see a great competition, and marvel at all the 
 skill and nail biting moments... but let's face it. You're really watching to see hot chicks in 
 barely nothing fighting each other. And no matter which country you're routing for... YOU are the 
 real winner.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is a solid fighting game. It's full of cool levels, great moves, interesting button 
 combos, sexy characters... REALLY sexy characters... and a healthy dose of absolute difficulty and 
 frustration. While the wonders of womanhood and kick-ass fighting is a pleasant and enjoyable experience... getting 
 your butt handed to you time after time will turn you into an incredibly horrid human being. Dead 
 or Alive 4 loves to turn you into this incredibly horrid human being. It does this in a number 
 of ways. First of all, your opponent blocks everything you throw at him, he will smack the hell 
 out of you over and over without giving you any chances to get away, and then he will laugh at 
 you and do it again.
  
  It's insane how hard this game can be. This will make you angry the first 4 or 5 times it happens. 
 Then the next 6 or 10 times it happens you'll start doing things like biting your lower lip, kicking 
 things in your immediate vicinity, and cursing. The next 11 or 15 times it happens you'll start 
 jumping up and down and yelling at the top of your lungs while standing in agony, with your head 
 arched back. You may even just break your controller. And you are bound to say something horrible 
 and regretful to a loved family member. Then, after about 16 times or so you just lose it. You 
 file for divorce. You throw all of your pets outside. You may even go so far as to burn your house 
 down, collect the insurance money, and use it to buy a priceless artifact that you destroy with 
 a hammer.
  
  But despite the fact that it's incredibly hard, Dead or Alive 4 is a great game. It has great graphics, 
 and some killer fighting. Playing online is fun if you are someone who plays these kind of games 
 20 hours a day and has given up on the whole "job" thing. If you are someone who does something 
 OTHER than play these kinds of games, plan on getting humiliated online. 
  
  So there you go. It's a really fun game. It's pseudo-porn. It's frustrating. Everything a great 
 fighting game should be. Go check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Itakagi's finger print in games involves a lot of fighting, and not just any fighting, the type 
 in which you have incredible moves that are awesome to watch as they are to perform, and the best 
 showcase to display this, after the Ninja Gaiden series, is a figting game of course, so this is 
 where you'll have Dead or Alive! and 4 makes a great sequal with amazing graphics, and cute presentation!
 
  
  In the story mode, pick a character, beat all the characters you're supposed to beat, and watch 
 the fun ending, and after you finish with a charcetr you'll have an extra custome for this character! 
 Fun, I know! :D
  
  The VS. mode is known in the 3D fighting games universe, you could sped hours playing with anyone, 
 and that I like hehe
  
  You also gave an online mode, and it's laods of fun, IF you know how to play well, as DoA4 is not 
 as easy and simple as some of you think, It needs training, and good memorization, so train before 
 you go there
  
  The story.. It's like, each charcater has a different story, you discover it during your playing 
 in the story mode's endings, you see some characters' memores, some of them having their dreams 
 coming true, and the others, well, have funny endings :D which is awesome, humor is good in games! 
 :)
  
  All in all, this game is really a must-have for all fighting games' fans in general and Ninja Gaiden 
 fans in particular :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This was a great early game for the 360 and was is still one of my favorite games on the 360 to 
 this day. It's strictly old school arcade style fighting unlike MK Deception where they added a 
 storyline. In some ways I kind of like that more cause that way, the developers have more time 
 and money to work on the graphics and mechanics. Graphics are incredible and so are the mechanics. 
 the character are great as usual and the arcade fighting never gets old. Another awesome thing 
 about this game is the online feature where you battle other people. Just a warning to some gamers, 
 this game is very hard at times and is not for achievement hoes.  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re_up
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a while back because i wanted a fighter and i found it for about 15 bucks. Can't 
 go wrong right? VERY WRONG? The only major gripe i have about this game is the difficulty. The 
 A. I. will kick your ass at any given time in the game, on the easiest level, which happens to be 
 normal. Yep, no easy difficulty, normal is too damn hard and i don't even wanna talk about hard 
 and harder difficulties. They counter every move you do and the last boss Alpha-152 might as well 
 be impossible. If you are a casual gamer don't buy this shovel ware. However, on the very, VERY 
 slim good side, the graphics are crisp and visually appealing (aside from the hair clipping through 
 shoulders) and the online is pretty standard. Bottom line: Newcomers be aware of the sky high difficulty 
 that makes this game not worth the trouble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConkerAndBerri2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  I recently bought this game and I've just gotta say, wow. It has excellent graphical design, amazing 
 fighting system, and its not too easy but not too hard. When you first start off on Dead Or Alive 
 4, you can already choose from a wide variety of characters, Ryu Hayabusa from the Ninja Gaiden 
 series, and i dont want to spoil anything else but there a good number of characters. A good thing 
 to say about Dead or Alive is, its not cheap too often, there are some characters where it is cheap, 
 but the good thing is, reversals. You can do these at almost any moment on your opponent at any 
 given time. I have not yet learned how to do it but I know I've done it before. It's pretty hard 
 to just mash on random buttons because you have to string your moves together in order to beat 
 your opponent, and it gets fun trying out new combonations of buttons. For the bad part of Dead 
 Or Alive 4, is the hair design, when ever you look at a girl character with long flowing hair it 
 looks like ribbons and it fades in and out of their body, and sometimes when you knock an opponent 
 down the stairs, if you look closely they go through a wall or a pillar and end up rolling down 
 the stairs. Sometimes the game does get really cheap because some of the characters attacks go 
 beyond human speed. But thats video games for you. I'd say definitely buy this game, its cheap 
 and fun, and getting the costumes adds quite a bit of replay value. I give it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_am_Kairace
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Really the game is for Gamers that love the Fighting Genre. And it truly shows.
  
  Summary:
  
  The great thing I've always liked about DOA is it's fighting system is "original". 
 The flow of the battles are nice and no battle is ever the same.
  
  Alot of people have complained about the difficulty but they don't understand as to why it is so 
 difficult. The game is difficult because it makes you learn what to do and what not to do. Once 
 you've mastered countering and executing the right moves at the right time it becomes a real fun 
 game. Most of the characters are balanced as well. And every character has a style just for your 
 likings.
  
  If anything though, the game is for real competitive players and it does a good job at it. The 
 battle system has alot of depth. The story is dull because... well its a fighting game. The game 
 could add a little bit more then just a training mode, arcade mode, and survival and time attack 
 mode.
  
  But if your into fighting games DOA should be on your buying list. Truly a fun and distinctive 
 fighting game.
  
  Pros: Battle system is fun and has alot of depth in it. Graphics are slick and smooth. Neat characters. 
 
  
  Cons: Crappy story. Difficulty can get annoying. Could use more modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Okay now here we are you, me, and my good friend Ryu Hyabusa. Hey ryu how are you? Oh im good thankyou 
 for asking? I am a ninja so no talk much, i am quite like the wind and kill in the shadows. Okay 
 Ryu but I have a couple of questions. I really liked the dead or alive series, but then I played 
 this one and it made me so mad that I wanted to take my 360 and throw it at your head.... Ryu Replies. 
 Silly man why do you hate the game so....
  
  Well Ryu the game offered great graphics, sound quality, and decent game controls. However the 
 fact that it was almost impossible to even play because even on normal default difficulty it was 
 like me trying to fit in a pair of jeans from highschool. Point is that it was painfull and almost 
 gave me a heart attack. Ryu replies, Well you shouldve thought about that,....
  
  No ryu you should have thought about that before I bought this annoying monstosity of a fighting 
 game. Now I can never look at my xbox the same. The xbox might have well as cheated on me with 
 a nintendo wii.
  
  Okay in all seriousness people. i loved the series but this one was just way to hard and was completely 
 unenjoyable to me. Now I am a hardcroe gamer and even this was way to hard and with my anger issues 
 I almost felt like taking a loaded gun and taking the game out for some target practice. I just 
 hope the next one actually allows normal difficulty to be normal and not ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_roadkill
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Sure, there are bigger named fighting games on XBOX 360, and they were also on the XBOX console. 
 I don't know why I chose DOA 3 when I had my XBOX, but I am glad I did because now I have DOA 4. 
 It delivers similar gameplay to DOA 3, but with some things different. This time there is online 
 play, and the lobby for online play is kinda 'cute'. I've noticed that there are more interactions 
 with the environment this time, such as jumping off trees and getting hit by cars.
  
  Another thing is that, this one is very hard. Maybe it is because I have to learn the countering 
 system, because I have been playing Tekken 5 for my PSP for the past year. Or maybe I am being 
 distracted by the female characters. I remember going through the story modes flawlessly in DOA 
 3, but this time it is tough. I am just glad that my favourite character Brad Wong is still here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueSonOfSparda
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is most on the same level of games like Soul Caliber, Tekken, and Virtua Fighter. 
 It might even be a bit better. The combat is deeper then all other combat games because of its 
 counter attack grabs. I'm surprised that no other fighting game is using it. All the characters 
 in the game are great to play with too. This is the of the two rosters of characters that I actually 
 like to play as all of them. 
  In the beginning you get a fair number of characters. You even get the famous Ryu from the Ninja 
 Gaiden games. When you unlock everyone, you can even play as a female Master Chief. If you really 
 want to harm someone, become a girl because they are the most effective and the cast is filled 
 with them. You have Christie, a fast attacker that takes a lot of health down in an easy 9 hit 
 combo. You also have Ryu, the trickster always screwing you up because he is a ninja. Oh thats 
 right, in the bio he is an antique shop owner. You can be Lisa, a break dancing wrestler. I wish 
 I can mention a lot more but they're so many people. You are looking at a cast around 20 people 
 that you will at least play as them more then twice. It's a shame that no one recognizes this game. 
 Everyone should play this game, even if it says M for mature. I have no clue why it is M. Just 
 because there is a little blood in the cut scenes does not mean one has to make it M. This is not 
 Mortal Kombat, it is Dead or Alive. So go out and buy it because it is absolutely deep in combat 
 and deep in each character. It is not easy when you pick it up, but if you get good at it it is 
 fun. This is still surprisingly lasting until I pick up the copy of Soul Caliber IV. When you come 
 to the graphics it is even great for its time. Just think a pretty version of Ninja Gaiden 2 without 
 the bland environments. 
  This may be a little late for a review but this game is one of the best fighting games to come 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W4RCR4ZED
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite fighting game of all time. Amazing multiplayer for xbox live (Although 
 I do hate getting into the matches with 16 people though you never get to play.) and being able 
 to have 4 people over playing in 2vs2 tag team is sweet. The countering system is just amazing 
 and the graphics kick butt. And for my friends who have never really played fighters its button 
 masher friendly :D and for me I can play it with more strategy to it (With counters, blocks, and 
 grabs) The ranking system online is nice (While I only got to a rank A don't see how the people 
 with SS got so good) . The story really ment nothing to me (Maybe because I never played the other 
 3 before this) But they did have some Funny/cool cutscenes at the end. If your looking for the 
 best fighter for the Xbox 360 this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tropico_joe
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This games true score is 9.99 out of 10 the only thing missing is a stable onlie system. lag often 
 provides some problems, and there is no boot button so that annoying kid that wont stop screaming 
 may be staying a while, but look beyond that and you stare deep into perfection. Allowing you to 
 limit the people who join by skill rank, and number the game letts you chose who enters and who 
 dosent for the must part letting you make the game even private for you and your friends. be it 
 true that move are difficult to learn, this is slightly helpful to the game keeping your rank where 
 your skill is so you dont bite off to much. the controls are simple for the most part, untill you 
 want to act like a true ninja, so if your playing with a friend just sit down hit "Y" and "B" alot 
 and beat each other in to the next generation of fighting, with your favriote guys and girls from 
 team ninja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is, plain and simply, an amazing title. Production values were what they should 
 be for titles of this quality. Graphically, this is what you expect from Team Ninja. Characters 
 are nicely detailed and environments are impressive (my personal favorite being the level where 
 you fight in the streets and cars will swerve to avoid the fighters) . Load times are non-existant 
 after you begin the story mode, and are otherwise very brief. The music is the usual high-energy 
 you expect from the series. Controls are tight and responsive. Returning favorites abound and several 
 new characters are introduced, along with several unlockables. The A. I. is generally very good 
 with two noteable exceptions. Sometime the A. I. will not let you win unless you execute the perfect 
 move at the perfect time, which is frustrating. The A. I. of the final boss is the cheapest I've 
 ever seen in a fighter, be warned... Overall, this game is amazing. Fans will love it. Those who 
 prefer more realistic fighter such as Virtua Fighter probably won't care for this title, but that's 
 their loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodlust007
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is my second DOA game, first one being Dead or Alive 2. I got this game bundled 
 with my Xbox 360 so this makes it my first game for the console. After playing it in a few hours 
 versus my brother I was actually much more impressed with the console than the game itself I don't 
 know why but I'm thinking more about. 
  
  Anyway nuff about that, and on with the review DOA 4 is a solid game. It has enough features to 
 keep you in the game and keep you coming back. But of course this is not a game like Call of Duty 
 4 that you don't want to put down. Some time when playing when you have unlocked all the costumes 
 and hidden characters you'll feel that your tired of it. It a short affair game, play it, finish 
 it, say goodbye to it. It just doesn't leave anything to you after you finish it. That aside DOA 
 4 is a solid professionally made fighter, but it may be to solid on some beginners I mean no easy 
 or beginner mode! So be prepared to get beaten up 5x before defeating some enemies. But once you 
 master the right style of fighting and counters it's quite rewarding.
  
  I guess I just like Tekken more but still DOA 4 is not to miss for the fans of the Beat-em-ups. 
 By the way I heard in an interview that Tekken 6 is not PS3 exclusive, they said they are deciding 
 if it is exclusive I hope not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I did not like it at all on xbox but I would think that xbox360 would be too cool. I did not like 
 the tournament play because it just got so repetative it was pointless. There was no online play 
 so its not like you can really do anythign but play agaist a friend or computer. The story mode 
 did not make much since because there was no story you just kind of like you fight one dude or 
 girl and then you start over. It was too pointless i could sugjest so many more fighting games 
 then anything else but this unless it has some major flaws i found in the regular xbox game. There 
 is about 20 different characters and like 10 dif maps you can choice from the 2v2 play is cool 
 which makes fighting last a little bit longer. So i would rent this game if you would like to play 
 this game rent this first i will say it again!! lol so have fun if u do play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  That's a very simple way to put it. Basically, DOA4 is extremely fun, and I don't hesitate to recommend 
 it. At the same time, I don't want you to get the wrong impression. DOA4 is a difficult game to 
 pick up and rock at, but this comes from someone who's fighting game experience comes from Soul 
 Calibur II for the Gamecube. Not that that was an easy game either...
  
  Anyway, case in point, I die an average of 10-25 times playing through a single story mode (8 battles) 
 on Normal difficulty (the lowest the game comes with) . It can be frustrating... BUT, this game has 
 so much to offer that you won't even care. Fighting with your favorite characters and unlocking 
 new costumes and content never gets old, and despite losing to the same guy 20 times, it's impossible 
 to describe the joy you feel when the SOB finally goes down.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone with a passing interest in the fighting genre, or with a passing 
 interest in beating the crap out of things, which may be done more to you than your opponents until 
 you get the hang of things. The gameplay is tight, the graphics are A-mazing, and the list of characters 
 is diverse (Brad, Eliot, and Hitomi are personal favs) . Only two conceivable setbacks: high difficulty 
 & Japanese voice overs.
  
  Oh yeah, the game is full of buxom women wearing next to nothing, so if that's your thing... ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Truley Dead or Alive 4 is a work of art. Through the interactive stages to the character design. 
 Dead or Alive delivers in what fast pace fighters want.
  
  
  Graphics: 10 -- Well what more can be said about the graphics? Characters swiftlly move around 
 without little lag or mishapened limbs. And for the guys. . . . well lets face it. . . . try to 
 play your girl in this game and you'll be at an automatic disadvantage, for the one word that guys 
 cringe at Woman and much of them there are with very real graphics besides that there are alot 
 of costumes in the game that you can unlock to add to the graphics and everything
  
  Sound: 10 -- High quality sound is a must for fighting games!!!!! I want to hear my opponents slam 
 and wham to defeat! Whaaaaata!!!!! Plus the music score is great! It really gets you into the grove 
 of playin, which needless to say. . . . .is a key component while playing any fighter so sound 
 rest easy on my ears
  
  Gameplay: 10 -- One word. . . . . counters. Counters are the main thing in DOA one must anticipate 
 when and WHERE your enemy will attack and block it. . . . . .and do like mega damage. other than 
 that combos are flowing and fast and hit hard! Truley good amount of gameplay. . . cept for Pha. 
 . . . . yes I nicknamed the final boss since I am to tired to say. . . . Alpha-152 a truley annoying 
 boss to fight but just makes gameplay that much longer and slightlly more enjoyable
  
  Not much can be said about DOA4 other than its the best fighter possible at least on the 360 to 
 my eyes Dead or Alive 4 stays alive with a 10 out of 10 from the devil
  
  Devil Vergil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  man what a game perfect for the xbox 360 gaming console. with new characters and better graphics 
 this should be a perfect fighting game since tekken 5. And pretty easy game to learn unlike those 
 really hard ones like soul caliber. One of the best things you will see is the stunning graphics 
 and the characters especially the new ones like la mariosa, elliot, kokoro and the secret halo oneand 
 of course the classical characters come especially well known ones like kasumi (my favourite) , lei 
 fang, zack, ayane, tina etc. with a new story where we pick up from dead or alive 3 this time the main 
 focused character is helena in doa 3 it was ayane. i hope the doa 5 come out soon i cant wait for 
 this game is the bbbeeessstttt action to the Xbox 360, fighting series continues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is better than ever.
  
  Ninja team know what people want : awesome fighting move, sexy girls with big breast (boobs) , nice 
 multiplayer and great envirronement for the fight!. Many characters that everyone will remember, 
 Ryu, Hitomi, Jan lee, Leon, Kasumi, and all other. The story less a very bad impression, Ninja team 
 should do a great story that is the same (exept some important battle e. x: Tina vs Bass) for all 
 characters and make it incrediblely awesome. But well, nothing perfect. Many new fighter, many new 
 fighting style and move. The multiplayer mode is the succes of this game, Xbox live is valorised 
 by this game ^^ and offer a great challenge in online (damn japanese too good, never win more than 
 3 match) .
  So, here my checklist :
  
  Graphics : 10/10
  Dead or Alive make my eyes turning on themself. So beautifull graphics are just too good for the 
 player's eyes. Nice voice and SFX too.
  
  Story line : 5/10
  It's a little bit too crappy for me ^^'
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  Outstanding moves and grab with 
 every characters.
  
  Positive of the game : 8.5/10
  You can share your fight with yours friends and all characters have a lot of costume (pretty nice 
 :D) 
  
  Negative of the game : 7/10
  Only japanese voice, they're cute, but annoying.
  
  If you love 3D fighting game, I's the game that you must buy! 
  (only for X360) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diniz_RD-SF_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, the first Dead or Alive title available on the XBox 360, is this game a good Dead 
 or Alive game?
  Ok lets review the game
  
  LEVEL DESING
  The levels are just amazing, the graphics here are amazing, the enviroment is really nicely done 
 and the polygons are great, and here we have some interactivity and thats awesome, that gives realistic 
 fells to the game and thats great, the graphics here are so imersive that make you fell in the 
 game, here all is fine.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are just awesome, they aren't perfect is true, the bad things about the graphics are 
 that the characers could have better shadows on the body but that shadowa arent great but that 
 isn't bad at all, the characters are really nice modeling and the girls are hot, hte textures are 
 amazing and the efects are great to.
  
  CORIOSITIS ABOUT THE GAME
  All here is just awesome, the gameplay is perfect, the graphics are amazing and the girls are hot, 
 so if you like this style of games just buy it, i recomend this game.
  
  FINAL COMENT
  Dead or Alive 4 is an awesome Dead or Alive game so if you like this style of games just buy it, 
 i recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celestial_todd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 is the reason I got a Xbox 360.
  
  DOA 4 is a fantastic game with a great soundtrack, story, graphics and other stuff.
  Though the 
 AI is extremely challenging. It's great the AI is so intellegent but the AI is so hard to beat 
 I usually have to walk away from the game for a couple of mintues; I get too stressed out.
  
  The game has 4 new characters:
  Eliot - Gen Fu's "Karate Kid"
  La Mariposa (The Butterfly 
 in spanish) (AKA Lisa) - Was in DOAX 1 & 2
  Kokoro - Entirely new to the series (But in my opinoin, **** character.)
  Spartan 458- Master 
 Cheif (With Kortana's voice) The game has new moves for every single character.
  The story has gotten a little more, emotional to say. It sure has more drama.
  Character ending's 
 are great, they look amazing and all send chills down your spine.
  
  I'm not too crazy about DOA 4 online though.
  The servers are over seas and I've experienced 
 some major lag-age.
  The new online mode has this whole 3D, interactive lobby system.
  Which allows you to create your own lobby and 3D interactive avatar.
  This works great, because 
 if you were to encounter somebody who does not have a Microphone, simply press "X" and type whatever 
 is need and it will come up as a speech bubble.
  
  
  Overall, I think DOA 4 is a great game.
  It does get old quickly once you have completed the 
 story, unlocked all the characters, and unlocked all the costumes.
  
  It's deffinatley worth checking out by either renting, or download the free demo from the Xbox 
 LIVE game marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  OK this review is a little late but let me tell you the reason for that is cause 1) I dont liking 
 typing reviews cause i could care less about you people (that was back then tho people dont be 
 a b*tch about it) and Dos) which is 2) i think like a regular person meaning i'm not one of those 
 fanatics that give every game a freaking 10 and those a-holes that rank it a freaking 3 just because 
 they suck at the game and they constantly compare it to games which they love and is completely 
 different from what the original game is and tres) which is the number after 2, jeez get it together 
 people) im probably at work and bored.
  
  Alright you know most of it but what ever
  
  Graphics: Breastaculous (boobs are the main selling points for this Sexy Fighting Title)
  
 
  Alright lets just get down to it: Girls all very very sexy too sexy that you know they will only 
 appear in your dreams and that DOA movie is only a medium that does a very poor job. I think we 
 can all agree that boobs usually dont get that big and if they do i doubt u would see them in a 
 fighting competition But Team Ninja knows their fans so let your sick fantasies all over your bed 
 sheets and no where else. Ok down to some serious stuff, boob motion seems to flow perfectly, fluttering 
 about and everything though that is probably due to the fact i set it at 99 years old, next time 
 they should just not add the age thing and assume everyone will put it at 99 (you know you do dont 
 judge me you sons of b*tches) OK down to some minor points THE FIGHTING. All done with awesomeness 
 and greatness and then some. the fighting is enjoyable i find it satisfying when you land those 
 hits on Zack's face and no i dont like him but not because he is the only black guy but because 
 hes a black guy with no game but think he does have game (i feel the same way for all guys not 
 just black people) Anyhoo fighting motion feels realistic and is obviously superbly done. THe old 
 one-two punch and Ryu's sick aerial slam thrust power f*ck move all seem that it is possible to 
 do for ordinary people like you and me or just me and not you since you might be one of those people 
 who just play games for endless hours to only end up being incredible incapable of doing anything 
 that requires a small ounce of strength but thats ok. Anyway fighitng, motion, graphics, boobs 
 and chicks (idk y i separated those two) are all done to the best. 
  
  Sound: SOunds good but i dont think you should care too much about it unless u like hearing the 
 girls get a beating (ugh u sick people) Music is well watever its there, beats playing the game 
 without a tune unless u just want to use ur own song so watever
  
  Gameplay: Its nice and cool and everything. Fighting is smooth, boobs bounce and flutter (Itagaki 
 is my hero) , girls are gorgeous... boobs bounce and flutter... ok i think im done with the boobs (I"M 
 NEVER DONE WITH THE BOOBS)
  
  Conclusion: get the F-ing game if you have any soul. Its a good game that will keep you busy for 
 at least a few weeks if you dont really have nothing to do and those girls will keep visiting you 
 in those naughty dreams of your (again keep it in your pants and away from pedestrians)
  
  
  DEAD OR ALIVE 4 GETS: A 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Not it doesnt but it gets a 9 since its worth 
 the time and its at a good price now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 is back and better then ever. It's been built from the ground up for the Xbox 360 
 and it shows. The graphics look very good on an SD/HDTV although some (if not all) of the hair 
 movements look very unrealistic. The fighting system you love and known is there. The quick, fast 
 paced action, the crazy combos and killer characters are all there. The replayability is nice, 
 you can complete the Story mode with any character as many times as you want unlocking many outfits 
 for that character in the process. There's a survival mode also, take your best/two best characters 
 and put them to the test in never ending battles.
  
  What else is there to say? It's a fighting game that does it's job well, nothing really special, 
 but it would be a crime to pass this one up.
  
  Overall I'd say it's a buy for those who don't already have a fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowysea07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty easy to beat stroy mode but once your done with that everything else is really hard. 
 I still haven't gotten a good score in time attack and the mst wins i gotten in survival mode was 
 13 DX
  I love how most of the characters look so real. Some are funny like Tina and her Papa Bass. Then 
 theres the high school kid who's a ladies man lol. I still haven't gotten all the characters yet 
 only the 2 from storymode DX
  the old man gen fu and the arabic lookin one Leon
  I still can't get through time attack in under 8 minutes DX Its the hardest game Ive ever played 
 next to God of war 2.
  My favorite part of the game was the mini movies after completing storymode. Tina's is awesome. 
 If I ever met someone like her I'd marry her on the spot XD. Then theres Bass after he wins storymode 
 he enter a bike race and crashes into Tina's fist on a billboard. 
  I'd say that Hayate is the best character for me since i beat storymode with him without losing 
 once the first time i ever played with him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondiBlue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. Alpha 152 is the only major problem I had with the fighting aspect. The 
 other characters were fun to play against and develop combos that worked against them specifically 
 due to their strengths and weaknesses, Alpha 152 is a character that you just have to spam punch 
 and if you're lucky, run attack and punch. Not very fun at all. 
  
  Time attack is a really fun mode to see how quickly you can beat multiple opponents. I set the 
 rounds to one and blew threw this, but I wanted to costumes so I went back to the default settings 
 to get the costumes for the hidden characters. Whoever decided to make it where you had to beat 
 Alpha 152 two out of three times should just get smacked. Although this is a Team Ninja game, so 
 it being difficult should be expected.
  
  The game is really pretty and it is impressive to think of how great the game looks. In the old 
 days I would play games that look like crap in retrospect for a quarter. It has a good storyline 
 as far as fighting games go. Unlocking costumes and collecting items in a Survival Mode is where 
 a lot of replay value can come from. Whether you're a hardcore fighter desperately learning all 
 the combos or someone that just button mashes this game will be fun and is recommended for anyone 
 looking for a fun fighting game would do well to pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Dead Or Alive fighting game series has made its way to the Xbox 360 and delivers the fastest 
 fighting on a console. Dead or Alive 4 really blows you away at first sight because of the stunning 
 graphics and environments. Not only do you get fast paced fighting but you do get environments 
 that can alter the way a fight is going. For example, if your fighting on a road a car might hit 
 you and take down your health while in the fight. Dead or Alive 4 also has great character models 
 and like i said stunning environments. The fight can keep going because if you get knocked off 
 some stairs or fall off a bridge and still have health the fight will continue where ever you land. 
 There are many game modes that you can play off line as well as online. Doa 4 never really offered 
 a story then again when do fighting games ever do your characters "story" is based on 8 fights 
 and you can turn up the difficulty anytime you like. However, you get much more than just that 
 story mode. For example you can get a team battle mode survival and much more than those and the 
 achievements make it worth while. You can also unlock characters and customs and for all you halo 
 fans out there (myself included) you can unlock a spartan character. Now the game doesn't end there 
 you can take the game online and you get your own record and a set of online achievements are available 
 to get and you can get your own ranking. All the old characters return with some new faces. The 
 only bad part about online is it can get really laggy depending on the connection so choose wisely 
 because a laggy connection can really hurt your chances at winning. There are 6 game modes you 
 can choose. All and All dead or alive 4 is a great solid fighter and since its 30$ and a platinum 
 hit now you can get it for a cheap price i paid the 30$ and it was worth it. Anyone looking for 
 a great solid fighter to play for their 360 look no further dead or alive 4 is a great choice for 
 offline and online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmartin1016
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is a decent fighting game. It doesn't bring anything to the series that we haven't 
 seen before. No wait, the hair deforms. It has all the same moves that fans of the series will 
 expect. The graphics are not far superior to the Xbox versions. Same crappy Aerosmith out of place 
 for the intro movie. If you have played DOA2: Ultimate you may be dissapointed by the changes made. 
 In fact I kinda liked Ultimate alot more. DOA4 action is just too fast for me. The online seems 
 like an after thought. The lag can get pretty bad, but it does add a little to the experience. 
 There is usually one guy online pwning everyone. There was more extras in Ultimate. This seems 
 like a game that was slapped together so 360 would have a good launch title. Get it if you are desperate. 
 Hold out for Soul Calibur 4 or Street Fighter 4 if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  The DoA franchised has always been known for its fast passed fighting and its gorgeous scenarios. 
 This 4th installment is not different, all the things that you love about the former games are 
 there, Dead or Alive 4 is fast, is great, and is fun to play; it is an amazing experience that 
 you don't want to miss out on.
  Like most fighting games, the story isn't DOA 4 strong point, and though it's present you won't 
 pay much attention to it, and the only reward that you'll get for finishing the several characters 
 plots are cinematic sequences that range from amazing (Haybusa, Hayte,, Christy and Ayane) to idiotic 
 (Hitomi and Kasumi) .
  Graphically the game is perfect, it will run without any frame rate problems, the fighters, except 
 from their hair which is really strange, are a treat to look at, and the scenarios are gorgeous, 
 overall the game is stunning and it's one of the best on the 360 to date.
  The sound does it job, the music variety and quality fits what's happening on screen, the voices 
 work is also great, and fit the several characters extremely well.
  The multiplayer is solid and competitive, though a little laggy, the fights online are more intense 
 than the single player ones. These are fights are also more rewarding, because will gain points 
 that you'll be able to trade later on for certain items, which will allow you to create your own 
 avatar.
  In conclusion, Dead or Alive has all the things that you loved in the previous games and more, 
 it is fast passed, graphically perfect, and a great experience for any 3D fighting fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great fighting game from the video game enthusiast. The graphics are good and gameplay 
 moves easily. The most annoying thing is trying to master all the moves and how many times the 
 computer will counter you even if you don't try to hit them, some how they can counter when not 
 attacked I love it. By the way for anyone in it for acheivments good luck with online streaks and 
 survival mode because you'll have to play alot before you can get the 100 kills in survival mode. 
 I've been playing it for a while and got all the time attack achievments but getting an achievment 
 for 20, 50, and 80 kills not to mention 100 in both single and tag mode will take awhile. I played 
 it for about 20 hours (estimated) and my highest score as of 1/30/2008 is 38 for single and 46 
 for tag. Any way if you haven't played this play it (although its so old now that everyone should 
 have atleast played it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchrisbobisx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  as a old fan of DOA 4 all i can say is of course DOA4 is the best of the series. the graphics have 
 been revamped which is its biggest plus. the gameplay is not that different from DOA3, which is 
 a good thing because the story mode is very very difficult, if you are a new comer to the series 
 expect to loose 5-30 times in against one opponent. the last boss is also very frustrating to defeat... what 
 i would have liked to see in this game was a item shop, similar to tekken 5, where you could use 
 points earned from defeating people to buy additional costumes and accessories for your favorite 
 characters. i would have thought team ninja would have implemented this as their biggest competitions 
 (soulcalibur, and tekken) have already done so. all in all if your a fan of DOA and enjoyed DOA3 
 then DOA4 should make you feel right at him
  
  PROS: better graphics, new characters, same solid gameplay as DOA3.
  
  CONS- NO EASY MODE, 
 which is a real shame something so easily implemented would have given th is game the extra points 
 it needed to be a 9/10 or 9.5/10. the game is just too hard for the normal player. and on normal 
 settings you sometimes lose to a opponent up to 20+ times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Call it what ever you want, but IMO, this is the best fighting game of all time. I actually had 
 to wait to review this game because I could not put into words how great this game is. Let us start 
 with the fast paced fighting. The game is very fast paced, so instead of the slow boring system 
 that takes a lot of hard work and frustration, this game can go extremely fast and force you to 
 think at insane speeds just to win a fight. There are many fights in the game where you will be 
 standing over your opponent wondering how you won that insane match. 
  The combo system is not only fun but easy to pull off, instead of having exact timing, in this 
 game you will be able to press a button combination and expect an awesome combo to ensue. Not only 
 is it an easy combo system but there is plenty of combos to pull off. They are all extremely flashy 
 in nature too. 
  The environmental damage is also one of the things that makes this game very impressive. You can 
 be knocked into almost any thing. I have been knocked into a crate and broke it in the game. There 
 are plenty of things that you can knock your opponent off of. The interactions between the character 
 and environment are also insane. For example, in the ring level a wrestling character, La Mariposa, 
 has been known to walk on the ropes before pulling off a move. 
  The games plot is also hilarious and interesting. There are great endings inspired by the typical 
 Japanese anime humor that will make you laugh and chuckle. The main plot is also extremely interesting, 
 some of the ninja characters, like Ryu Hayabusa, have a jointed plot to take on the corporation 
 of DOATECH, and you won't have a full picture of what is going on until you play all the characters 
 that apply to that story. I won't tell you what the ending of this plot is other than it will make 
 you say, "Whoa!" It has one of the best endings to a game I have ever seen. 
  The programming is all done so well in this game. The grabs are programmed so if you are by a wall 
 you will be able to slam some one into it with a grab that normally throws some one, or if you 
 are by a set of stairs, and you take some one down you will actually roll down the stairs together. 
 I couldn't really find any thing wrong with the game. I guess if I had to say any thing that was 
 wrong about the game, it would be that it was extremely hard; this is the most challenging fighter 
 game you will ever play. At times you may find yourself cussing at the screen with the feeling 
 of wanting to break down and cry while going insane. 
  All in all, this was an absolutely wonderful game. If you are into Team Ninjas work you should 
 seriously consider picking this up. You will enjoy it so much, there is so much fun to be had, 
 and so many mystical ninjas and characters to follow. If there was a tournament with fighters that 
 had insane abilities and powers that were this insane, you could count on me watching it on the 
 TV, I do have to say that this was so much better than any fighting game I have played and that 
 includes, Vitua Fighrer, Mortal Kombat, Tekken (Yeah I said it) , and all the wrestling games the 
 world can muster. Please give this one a try if you are considering it, and if you aren't considering 
 it, consider it. Thank you for reading and have a good day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keli1989
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Having played DOA3 for some time the change to #4 took some getting used to.
  At first i hated the game, with the confusing counter system for veterans, frustrating AI and a 
 boss i found very cheap, but as i went on to learn more and find out the small changes in the characters 
 i started to love this game more than any other fighting game i have ever played.
  I am actually a big fighting game fan and i did own Tekken 1-3, Mortal Kombat 1-3, Soul Calibur 
 1-2 and numerous others, i have also played Virtua Fighter 5 and Tekken Tag and Tekken 4 so you 
 cant say that this is my first fighting game experience.
  The overall speed of the game was the first thing that caught my eye, the speed and level of skill 
 needed to counter your opponent's moves are something that i have never seen in any other game.
 
  Of course there are people who just counter punches and button mash but you cant really go far 
 that way.
  The only negative thing that i have heard about this game is coming from players who played this 
 game for 2 days max and then complain about the difficulty of the game.
  This game is a little unforgiving for new players and the older ones who have gotten used to the 
 old system, and i still think the boss is a little to hard to be in the time trial.
  But one thing is certain and that is that this is not a button masher and people who do push random 
 buttons do not get away with it in the long run, If they decide to take their gaming online.
  
  P. S. If your looking for a game just for the achievements you might want to skip this one, 
 you whore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really fun easy to handle, which make this game even fun. I like the story-line, 
 each of the characters has their own life about what happen too them. It's easy to beat within 
 few hours, when trying to complete unlockables it can take sometime to get. All the characters 
 looks real and look like the have expression. It's a quick and easy game but when you come to the 
 end of the last boss can be difficult as well. It took me a while to beat it but once you can handle 
 the control there should not be any problems for anyone. This game is real fun and good for anyone 
 who enjoys fighting games. The phrases for each characters are well suited for each characters 
 personalities. This was my first DOA game and I say this game is excellent for the 360 console. 
 Also this game is good for your collection and it's a must have game if anyone who is into fighting 
 or collecting any fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Actually playing the game is simple. Y and B do your basic punches and kicks and pushed 
 in certain orders (found on the combo list) can do devestating 5-10 hit combos. X+Y and some other 
 combintations do throw / grab attacks, sliding kicks, jump attacks and other special techniques 
 unique to that character. However in DOA 4 easy mode is completely gone meaning winning won't be 
 well... easy. Normal mode is not that hard however even though some opponent's will make you scream 
 at that t. v screen of yours. But try hard or very hard you better be a VERY experienced player. 
 
  
  **In the next section I am revealing most of the story, I decided to not hide anything since the 
 story modes are reletively short. So possible spoilers**
  
  STORY: All the starter characters (and Helena) have a story mode. However only battles 7 and 8 
 (sometimes 4) out of 8 actually give you inside on the story. DOATEC is owned by a mad scientist 
 who has created an evil clone of Kasumi named Alpha-152. Helena wants the company back for herself. 
 Christie wants to kill Helena. All the ninjas are pretty much trying to destroy DOATEC. Kokoro 
 just wants to be in the DOA tournament. Eliot wants to face his master. Bass is an overprotective 
 father of Tina who wants to be a rock star. The rest of the characters don't serve too much of 
 important roles.
  So as you can see the story is very in-depth and detailed raising my score by a few points.
  
 
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are beautiful. The frame-rate is okay but sometimes lag sets in online. 
 The stages are detailed to the point and objects break as realisticly as objects can break in games. 
 Each characters clothing has detailed design and sometimes you can help but looking at those DOA 
 girls' chest, under, ect. ect. (You know who you are... lol) .
  
  OVERALL: Honestly out of the few fighting games I have this is my favorite. Simple to understand 
 and a very in-depth story. Not to mention good graphics and those DOA girls and I just can't wait 
 until DOA 5. So I give DOA 4 a final rating of 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheImmortalMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series of games has had a bad reputation in the fighting game community for some 
 time now due to it's easily abused countering system, lack of depth and relentlessly sexist portrail 
 of women in its games. Luckly for the serieses fourth outing every one of these problems has been 
 addressed... well ecept for the last one.
  
  Most everything about this game is great, the fighting is much deeper, with more specialised moves 
 and more diversity between characters , yet still remains accesable, the online works well, the 
 characters all look and play differently, the countering system is now much less forgiving and 
 the graphics are beautiful, making good use of a vibrant colour scheme.
  
  The only real problems with the game infact lie with the already much discussed xbox 360 controller 
 that does not exactly lend itself to precise direction inputs. As such some of the moves and combos 
 (Hyabusa's Raijin and Izuma come to mind) are far more difficult to pull off than they really should 
 be. The xbox 360 controller is, however, not above getting used to so don't feel that if you haven't 
 invested in a costly arcade stick you cannot enjoy this game.
  
  In general every fighting game fan should think about getting this game despite previous judgements 
 you may have made about the series, especially considering this and virtua fighter 5 are the only 
 real 3D fighting games on the console as of yet. It's early days though and, if this game is any 
 indication, the 360 could in time be perfect for any fighitng game fans console library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  So I'm sure there are a lot of people who really hated this game, and I can understand why. This 
 is a really good fighting game, I've always liked the DOA games and this one is no exception. The 
 game looks fantastic for starts, The graphics for the levels was very nicely done. The game is 
 actually quite challenging. Unlike in 3 where I could do the same combo as Christie over and over 
 again and win all my fights, in this game you actually have to learn how to play as each character 
 to be good. It takes awhile to get used to the counters but they're worth learning. There was one 
 VERY BIG problem with this game and that was playing it online. It was very rare for me to find 
 a room online that wasn't lagging. The lag online pretty much turns the game into a turn based 
 fighter. I advise anyone who wants this game for the online multi-player to stay away from is, 
 this game just wasn't meant for it. For anyone who wants a fairly decent fighter, I'd say that 
 this would be the game fr you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a fighting fan but still it gave me some angry moments that became to very happy 
 moments :P.
  Yes fighting makes me angry, veeeery angry 'cause I kinda suck on them but still if you make it 
 through one hard guy I'll become very happy.
  
  Gameplay: Plenty of cool moves for all characters I think there's about over 100 different combos 
 for everyone and the controller system is like any other fighting game  simple  
  Graphic: Writing a review for this game after like 2 years since it came out or something but the 
 graphic is still top notch and it's really beautiful.
  
  Environment: Not so many arenas to fight in but the ones that are in the game is still varied and 
 I just love the places where you can kick out the other player and jump after to a different fighting 
 place. It makes it very floating but the fights often don't become very lengthy for you to explore 
 the whole area. ^^
  
  Glitches: Well not so many just some annoying glitches with the characters hair goin' through their 
 shoulders and clothes goin' thorugh their legs but not so you go crazy.
  
  Value: If you are a fighting gamer then this is the game is for you but not for me, I got it for 
 christmas present but I enjoyed it a lot and will be the only fighting game in my game collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Dead or alive does what it does best and continues to give us more of what we would come to expect 
 from team ninja. The graphics are a great start for the xbox software launch and the game handles 
 real well. The sounds are great, giving you an intense feeling of play. The music is relevant to 
 the stages, but i feel as if it doesn't mix with the fast paced of the actual gameplay. The online 
 is revolutionary in its ranking system and the fact that you gain money as well to buy more stuff 
 for your avatar, costumes, and themes. The online play is fun, but it seems to lag. The lag is 
 not choppy, but just slow motion. For those without online will be able to gain unlockables through 
 time trial. The only problems i see with this game is that it seems to complex for its faced paced 
 style. Moves other than the typical button mashing are a little hard to achieve, but it is one 
 has made dead or alive an accomplished series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Every time I wanted a fighter game, I got Mortal Kombat or Soul Calibur. I didn't think I'd like 
 any fighters that don't have weapons or powers. Well, I finally picked up DOA 4... I had always 
 heared about the DOA games, but never gave them a chance. This game is one of the best fighters 
 out there! With the surprising addition of a chick in the Spartan 117 armor, and the awesome stage 
 from Halo 2's campaign, I could hardly believe my eyes!
  ... sad thing, but nobody ever was the Spartan too often...
  
  Anyway, there's a pretty good 
 amount of stages to play on, unless your in tag team mode, then you only have three. There are 
 alot of fighters to choose from too. I'd say Tina Armstrong is the best, she has so many great 
 smashing attacks. There is no room in this game for button mashers, or people who keep performing 
 one move just to win. Counters! One of the greatest aspects in this game! There is a counter to 
 about every move in the game, and will win you the fight if you know them. This is why it's good 
 to play all the characters a little bit, and learn the counters to their moves. Me, my brother, 
 and even my sister was hooked on this game for months!
  
  The other great thing about this game is the online stuff. You can fight other players, or play 
 time attack, ect. to try to boost your score on the leaderboards. When you play online, you get 
 points that can be used to buy clothes and accessories for your lobby avatar, and rank up from 
 grades F to SS. 
  
  The only difficult part in DOA4 is the campaign... actually, it's just a boss. A blue-green, naked, 
 slimy-jello lady. SHE IS EVIL!!! This is one of the HARDEST bosses I've ever fought in my life! 
 She can get hold of you and have your health bar down to nothing in a matter of seconds! Not only 
 that, but you must beat her with every character to unlock certain things! AHHHHHH!!!!! 
  
  So... everything in DOA4 is great except jello-lady, and only having 3 stages in tag-team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandaBear86
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has plenty to offer, if you are fighting game fan with an Xbox 360, this is one gem that 
 you should look into - it has got very fast-paced action. One interesting point to note is that 
 you can master counter-attacks, so all enemies that use the same attacks over and over will find 
 it difficult to fight you, which seperates this game from various others of its kind.
  
  This game has got various modes. First, there is story mode for each of the core characters, like 
 many other fighting games, the story for each character is very light and simplistic, but its truly 
 the fighting action that draws you in. Playing trhough the story mode can unlock new characters, 
 which makes it more exciting. Survival mode is another interesting feature - you fight an endless 
 string on enemies one at a time, recieving health after each one you defeat. The boring part of 
 survival mode is that you can only fight in one map, which makes it feel very repetitive.
  
  In addition, there is a VS mode, so you can duel it out with your friend. If there is nobody 
 around to play with you, you can go online and challange somebody from the other side of the planet.
 
  
  Overall, this is one great game that should not be missed. The fighting is very fast-paced, so 
 you wil rely on your reaction time alot, meaning this is a "twitch" based game. In other words, 
 if you are 1/4 of a second late to block or counter an attack, that alone can sometimes make the 
 difference between losing a fighting and winning it, so this game can be considered more difficult 
 than other fighting games, depending on your skill or taste. Whatever your taste may be in fighting 
 games, this should be looked into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Quite an improvement from it's predecessor. Dead or Alive 4 ia a fast paced action-packed fighting 
 game that'll keep you enjoying the game the more you play it. A lot more new characters, each with 
 unique fighting capabilities have been introduced. An interesting story mode for each character 
 with special cutscenes at the end of each character single player mode makes the single player 
 mode quite fun. The extremely fun survival mode still remains if one feels like reaching a high 
 score, along with other modes such as the Team-battle mode. The main source of enjoyment however 
 seems to be the multiplayer mode, where one can go head to head with another person in either normal 
 or tag-team mode in a fast-paced fun filled match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  On the positive side: I don't even have to mention how beautiful DOA 4 looks. Also, it has the 
 best implementation of the reversal system.
  
  On the negative side: What's the difference between this and DOAU?
  
  Verdict: A great fighting 
 game that you should pick up, lets see if Virtua Fighter 5 can do this good or Better??? 
  
  
  What a pervert but the only thing you see are characters and their abilities..
  
  What 
 is it about the Dead or Alive series that really stands out as revolutionary. Tekken has an amazing 
 counter system, while Soul Calibur with the sideways motion control. Well if the ladies "assets" 
 don't get you interested, then, I don't know what will really.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATOMB
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is very tight. Great grfx good sound and hot chicks. The DOA series has always done a 
 good job and they keep uping the anti with each new instalment. Yes I am already a fan since DOA 
 2 HC the fighting system is easy to learn but hard to perfect. A great game and a must have for 
 any fight fan. The nicely pixelated girlies are just a bonus.
  The online just add another level to this already great fighter. If you have never played you are 
 missing out. While not perfect it's darn close. You'd be hard pressed to find any major flaws with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  What is it about the Dead or Alive series that really stands out as revolutionary. Tekken has an 
 amazing counter system, while Soul Calibur with the sideways motion control. Well if the ladies 
 "assets" don't get you interested, then, I don't know what will really.
  
  On the positive side: I don't even have to mention how beautiful DOA 4 looks. Also, it has the 
 best implementation of the reversal system.
  
  On the negative side: What's the difference between this and DOAU?
  
  Verdict: A great fighting 
 game that you should pick up, lets see if Virtua Fighter 5 can do this good or Better??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rpgfightgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I have played Tekken series, Soul Calibur series, Naurto Clash of Ninja *I think no.2* DBZ Brudakai 
 2, Virtual Fighter Four, Mortal Kombat Armageddon, and Smash Bros. Melee. 
  
  So far, my top favorite is Soul Calibur 3. But upon renting this game, I found it the ultimate 
 rival. What I dislike with most fighting games is that they are either slow pace (Mortal Kombat 
 Armageddon) or there is nothing much to do but fight (Virtual Fighter 4) . I like a fighting game 
 that's quick, and have new things to unlock upon playing. (I was around games like that, and it 
 became a permanent mark on me) . Anyways, this game hit all my standards. What I am most taken aback 
 about this game is that it has so simple commands compared to what I am used to. Still, it's one 
 of the most entertaining fighting games I have played, and I wish I bought it rather than rent 
 it. *applause* well done, Techmo, well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Plot: The plot is weak, there I said it ! It continues the Doatec story and isn't engaging. Each 
 characters story is about 8 fights long and can be beaten in 20 mins. They aren't satisfying in 
 the least because for beating them you get a dumb cut scene or costume.
  Graphics: The loading times are very overlooked in this game, they last 2-5 seconds. The graphics 
 are clean and the characters look good. The animations are also stellar. The interactions are pretty 
 good except the hair has trouble interacting with the shoulders sometimes. The environments are 
 also different and look good.
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the same as in the previous games; it's fast and furious with great combos 
 and varied attacks. It has easy to learn controls and the new innovation is the counter system. 
 The system is based on luck most of the time. It comes down to who can counter better, which takes 
 an insane amount of hand eye coordination and players familiar to the characters.
  Sound: The sound is nothing spectacular, but isn't bad. The punching and kicking sound the same 
 and the characters hitting the walls and floors sound the way they usually do. With the ropes in 
 the wrestling ring being an electric fence it seems.
  Value: The story modes aren't anything crazy but it has a lot to do. Time attack, tag team, sparring 
 (serving as training) , and online. It just could have used just a few more levels. It will keep 
 DOA and fighting fans busy for a while.
  Achievements: The achievements involve you beating the story mode, unlocking characters, winning 
 online games and doing time attack under certain times.
  Tilt: DOA 4 is a great launch window game for a console and has a lot to offer to all of its fans. 
 Fans will not get enough of this game but other than those types of players it won't have a lasting 
 appeal. So it could be a love it or hate it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive may be more famous for its new Dead or Alive Extreme Beach Volleyball, but that was 
 not where it started. A game chock full of hardcore fighters, mostly women with some men, that 
 use fighting moves that the normal fighting gamer is not used to. Some of these style range from 
 Karate, to Snake Fist, to even Druken Boxing... of course there is the normal Wrestling and Lucha 
 Libre, but the main focus of this game is in it Ninjitsu. There are over four people that uses 
 different styles of Ninjitsu, but all usually have the same outcome which are quick and deadly 
 combos. The fighting style aside the gameplay comes into hand. There is the normal Story Mode which 
 for some strange reason is better than the normal extreme fighting game as each storyline becomes 
 intertwined and usually all end up helping or hurting another character. Other than the story mode 
 there is Time Attack and others. Versus Mode should be where most players be playing the most as 
 they can fight friend here. Training Mode is done well as it actually helps you learn the moves 
 of each character which is needed as each character has well over 100 hundred different moves. 
 The online mode is heavily copetitive and has even had multiple paying tournaments, so you all 
 better start training. The graphics are a solid part of the gameplay as they show off tremendous 
 character detail, and backgrounds. There is, in most levels something going on in the backround, 
 such as rhinos running around or cars barreling down the streets. During all of this you the framerate 
 stays steady and rarely lags. But while the framerate stays steady, a fighter must also keep an 
 eye out for these as they can be hinderances or helps. They can damage a person by flinging them 
 in the air or just stunning them long enough to get a few hit combos in. The obstacles normaly 
 cannot kill a fighter which takes some reality out of the picture, but still make the game fun 
 and balanced. Of course most people want to know about one aspect of the graphics and that is the 
 term 'jiggle physics', yes there is 'jiggling' in the game and stays abundant throughout.
  
  There are plenty of unlockables in the game as well leading to some familiar faces and unfamiliar 
 ones. But there is not enough unlockables to keep one playing for hours just to get everything. 
 The achievements are also pretty difficult to get at, but will eventually be reached with training 
 and lots of time. The controls are fairly easy, but with a counter system that most are not used 
 to it can take some time as well. To be able to get decent at this game one must focus on how to 
 read when a person/computer is going to throw a low punch and which counter to use at that time 
 and excetera. The game itself is fun and can be a blast with a few trash talking friends. And to 
 make it all the better is that it is now a Platinum Hit making this great game even better at a 
 30 dollar mark. If there was a must buy for the 360 this might be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Whether it's the sexy babes you've got! (I vote Christie) or the Complex nice animations, to beautiful 
 graphics, or just the rush of adrenaline and the challenge you face while playing it very hard!
 
  
  I've heard people say that it's hard... nope... it's not hard! I play the game on very hard! and 
 win in story mode.
  It's fast... and needs focus. You should play this game. i love the animation and how the reverses 
 and counters are created and how you need to be precise and on time just to perform a counter hit! 
 It's not to be played alone... invite your friends over and grab those joysticks... play tag teams 
 and Just Immerse in the game...
  Another interesting thing i found is the tag team attacks..
  you keep on hitting an opponent 
 and just before he falls change the player and keep hiiting... if you are in a danger zone area 
 as he hits the danger area once change rapidly and let the other player kick him towards the danger 
 zone... that's STRONG...
  The game isn't difficult but i know one thing that will make you lose... hitting the same buttons 
 again and again and again...! Variate... Highpunch low punch kick kick kick...
  Always play random... that will make you understand each player and his weaknesses! then choose 
 your player!
  i play with Christie! She's fast and flexible... strong hits... good reverse!
  Each player has 
 his powers and weaknesses...
  for example.. i can; t remmember his name. an russian assasin is strong in reverses and grapples! 
 but slow in moves! and a real the drunk one is fast and flexible... but is unpredictable...!
  
  You can never get bored from it! Play it hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  My favorite aspect of Dead Or Alive has always been it's impressive display. Dead Or Alive pushes 
 the bar for the X360, with beautiful visuals, and character models (as always) ! The fighting mechanics 
 have been tweaked slightly, which makes it harder to counter. The games A. I. is also more intelligent 
 and adaptive. My biggest hang up on the game is the cheap boss at the end of many of the characters 
 story mode. Fighters such as Kasumi, Ayane, Hayate, and Hayabusa face off against an unstable clone 
 of Kasumi, Called Alpha 152. Many of her Combos and grabs take away half of your life. Another 
 small issue is that some of the characters moves are a bit more difficult to pull off than i'd 
 like to admit. One move in particular is a grab move called Raijin, of Hayate's.
  
  Over all this a must have if you enjoy DOA! Other games One might enjoy are any of the other DOA's, 
 Virtua Fighter 5, And Ninja Gaiden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I've followed the DoA games since its brief time on the Sega Genesis and its short cameo on the 
 Ps1 and its last gen entries on the Xbox. It's been hard for fighting games the past 5-7 years going 
 from 2D to 3D which DoA has been 3D since the SG days and Its grown up alot since then and DoA 
 does try compete with the big brands like Street Fighter and Tekken which can be hard to compete 
 with and can be intimidating at times.
  
  DoA 4 is the first official next gen fighting game and I couldnt be happier to see a fighting game 
 take a big step like DoA 4 has.
  
  First off DoA 4 gives a decent SP/story mode which is interesting (not the best nor the worst) 
 and the SP stages are so colorful and full of life like animals, cars, leaves, water and some destructible 
 environments. Along with the SP mode theres a survival mode which you can play as one character 
 or tag partner which can be pretty fun and challenging, then theres a Time mode which can also be 
 played as one player or a tag partner which playing through all these game modes are fun, challenging 
 and can unlock a few unlockables which is rewarding.
  
  The graphics in DoA 4 are pretty nice from the characters to the fighting areas which each zone/stage 
 has its own theme. Character graphics are well done with decent cloth rippling (like pants blowing 
 in the wind) which is decent but pretty good for a fighting game in general and the game has been 
 out for a little over a year. As said before the stages have beautiful effects like cherry blossoms 
 falling, wind blowing, cars that can hit your character if they are in the street and even animals 
 that can run away if your fighting to close to them or they can effect dmg to your character if 
 you get in their way.
  
  Gameplay can be weird at first and takes a few minutes or maybe even an hour to get use to, since 
 you got the standard attack buttons Y and B, then you have your block and counter button which is 
 X then lastly you have the grab button which is A. The Ai in DoA is pretty tough at times, in fact 
 it can get to tough to the point you can get very angry at the game and its in all 3 modes not 
 just one, so dont think one mode is easy while the others can be a challenge, btw a warning which 
 Im pretty sure any DoA 4 owner/gamer will tell any new DoA purchaser is prepare for a tough encounter 
 (s) in DoA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavey_gravey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game looks beautiful. The backgrounds are stunning and the character animation is amazing, 
 I especially like the bouncing breasts on the ladies, they make me chuckle quite a bit, but the 
 game itself is just too hard and too frustrating. I was very disappointed.
  
  The story mode is nigh on impossible particularly for a newbie like me, and this has the effect 
 of making the game one that will sit on my shelf gathering dust. The moves are difficult to learn, 
 and not being a very good button masher, I found it very difficult to play the game and get and 
 hits on the opponent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive has been a popular series of fighters that was relitively unknown until Dead or Ailve 
 3. Dead or Ailve 4 is it's first installment on the Xbox 360 which is definately the best one yet. 
 The game follows kinda 2 different storylines, the first story is the the mugen ninja clan and 
 Ryu Hayabusa (my favorite character) are trying to destroy DOATEC once and for all, the other focuses 
 on Helena the new leader of DOATEC. Graphics wise the game looks amazing, the best we've seen in 
 a fighter so far. Gameplay wise is great, but you might get confused by the controls and changing 
 them in the options menu (like I did) . It sounds great too, good music and voice acting (even if 
 it is all japanese) . You're gonna want to play this game a lot either in single player, multiplayer, 
 or online. My final thoughts are that this is by all means a great fighting game, but you might 
 get mad at the difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btkOne
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game assures by very good graphics and animations. The Game Levels are also nice and very 
 functional to hit the enemy off a cliff or else. But the Story Mode is much too hard. The first 
 three or four enemies are comfortable to hit, but the it gets hell on earth. You cant set the difficulty 
 to easy . Normal is the easiest. Thats unacceptable for a Newbie in Dead or Alive. Besides that 
 Dead or Alive 2 wasnt that hard. I was very frustrated when i tried to beat the last enemy about 
 half an hour. The Story in the Story Mode is weird. Seeing that, i have to wait longer until there 
 is a really good 3 D fighting game on x box 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Team Ninja dude1: You know what I really like?
  
  Team Ninja dude2: What?
  
  Team Ninja dude1: Boobs.
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Who doesn't?
  
  Team Ninja dude1: I swear 
 - it's the reason I even get up in the morning. I think about boobs around 92% of the time.
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Are you thinking about boobs right now?
  
  Team Ninja dude1: As a matter 
 a fact I am!
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Me too...
  
  Team Ninja dude1: Can't we make a game all about boobs?
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Well... I don't 
 think the censorship-guys would like that very much, and porn IS already invented.
  
  Team Ninja dude1: Yeah.. but... what if we cover up our true agenda somehow? Make it a beach volley 
 game or something.. maybe a swimming simulator...
  
  Team Ninja dude2: I don't know, man... Sounds a bit too obvious..
  
  Team Ninja dude1: Hmmm... 
 we need big characters so you can really see the boobs. What genre lends itself to that?
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Well... maybe they could fight?
  
  Team Ninja dude1: What? Fighting boobs?
 
  
  Team Ninja dude2: They'd jump around doing all sorts of moves - lots of jiggling if you catch my 
 drift.
  
  Team Ninja dude1: Right on! Now... first idea -- I wanna be able to control the size of my fighters 
 boobs.
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Well.. let's call it age. Nothing wrong with adjusting age.
  
  Team Ninja dude1: Nothing wrong at all... but just to be certain we're on the same page - does 
 that mean if I input, say, 99 years - the boobs would be huge?
  
  Team Ninja dude2: Makes sense to me! And the rest programs itself.
  
  Team Ninja dude1 &amp; 
 Team Ninja dude2: To boobs!
  
  And that, ladies and gentlemen, was how the Dead or Alive franchise was born. Probably. And now 
 it's here for the 4th time. Being sheer brilliance or sheer luck is not easy determine - but this 
 boob-game actually ended up with one of the most solid fighting-mechanics ever. Easy to pick up 
 but hard to master. It's quick, ferocious, hard-hitting and beautiful all at once, and thanks to 
 the unique counter-move grappling system no fight is won or lost until one has.. well.. lost. Attack/block/counter 
 - it's constantly like an intense game of rock/paper/scissor. But here's the thing that this self-proclaimed 
 reviewer wants to discuss: The game is as fun as ever no doubt there - great characters, gorgeous 
 visuals, and blessed fighting mechanics - but the controls...... Can we dim the lights a bit? No? 
 There are no lights? So who am I talking to here? Myself? Ok.. nevermind. Anyway, the controls 
 are a bit strange, and it's not the games fault, it's the joypads. Many woeful songs have been 
 written about the X360 d-pad (I've heard it was the inspiration to the REM hit Everybody Hurts 
 , altough I can't confirm the source) and here's another! The X360 d-pad is no good, which is a 
 problem since fighting games are best played with the no-nonsense responsiveness of the digital 
 pad. Sure, we have the Hori arcade stick but honestly, folks - what are you more familiar with 
 - the d-pad on your average controller or the completely different world of the arcade-cabinet? 
 Fine, so let's continue the rant. The X360 controller is very nice and very next-gen, with full 
 focus on the superbly placed analogue sticks. D-pads - for all this controller is concerned - is 
 a total has-been so it can be stowed away in a pretty uncomfortable angle. So, a problem naturally 
 arises when a game is actually meant for the d-pad. Sure, it IS possible to control your moves 
 with the left stick, but flicking and flopping to make those 12-hit combos is QUITE a voyage compared 
 to the clean-cut button presses of a well-made d-pad. I was breast-fed with the Sony controller 
 having owned (and still do, I suppose) the PS and PS2, where the d-pad is the central control device 
 (the pinnacle was the Dual Shock 2. Forget the we're not to proud to rip off other companies and 
 demolish our own stuff - PS3 controller) . The Sony controller is actually very last-gen, it has 
 just slowly evolved and gotten away with simply adding more stuff to the basic design. Kudos to 
 them, for although the analogue sticks are alot better on X360, nothing is as annoying as the X360 
 d-pad on Sonys benchmark joypad. The sticks could be better, but Sony got it just right. X360 didn't 
 - they made one thing wonderful and the other thing woeful. So that's my gripe. The game is great 
 and definitely THE fighting game to own on the X360, but that d-pad... Until someone comes along 
 and makes an alternative controller this game just can't be fully appreciated on Microsofts behemoth. 
 But, this is all rather pointless to complain about since we all know that the need for a good 
 d-pad is so rare these days that noone will ever change it. So in conclusion.. if you like fighting 
 and boobs, in other words, if you're a real man - buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is a good online game. But the story mode sucks. Because you feel like your fighting 
 the same person over and over again. The game has been not improve since dead or alive 3. Dead 
 or alive 4 is a good game to play if you got xbox live. If you don't got xbox live, This game is 
 a pass up.
  
  Graphics did'nt improve me at all
  
  Sound is kinda stupid
  
  Value 10 bucks would been a great deal
  
  This game really do sucks without xbox live, Xbox 
 live is the best in Dead or alive four. It could get a little laggy, But thats the host connection. d 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untitledcause
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is sort of a disappointment for me. I am a fan of the series and was waiting for 
 this game. However, I cannot say that this game is 10 times better than Dead of Alive 3. The things 
 they choose to improve on are welcome, but it just seems that the recycled most of the rest. The 
 combat is faster and smoother and the graphics are very crisp, but the game just seems familiar. 
 Nothing that will drop your jaw but if you have not played a Dead or Alive game before, you will 
 enjoy this as an intro to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uchiha_madara
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome.. it has something for everyone.. like ppl who addicted to ninja anime can 
 use ninja characters, anime style characters.. has americanized characters and wrestlers.. and 
 not forget characters and customes for perverted ppl.. lol.. its all good.. aniway i find this 
 game really simple and fun.. not many buttons u can use but with only 2 buttons and the analog 
 stick there is many combination techniques that i stil havent matered yet.. the game also have 
 some sweet balanced achievement that ppl can waist some time treng to unlock it.. i will say the 
 game has unique graphics and character.. one thing this game can get improvement on is the character.. 
 there is like only 18 characters total... why not get like 36 characterS?? it ill be great with 
 that many so more time to kill playing the game.. i found the game preaty short coz o that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 focuses on the story of Helena, the young woman taking over the mantle of DOATEC 
 as its second chairman.
  
  Since its release, Dead or Alive 4 has been given rave reviews by numerous gaming magazines and 
 websites, with some touting it as the greatest installment in the series, thanks to a revamped 
 fighting system, gorgeous graphics, and smooth and entertaining online play. Series creator Tomonobu 
 Itagaki even hired professional DOA players to help smooth out the kinks in the fighting system.
 
  
  The game is much harder than previous Dead or Alive games. The easy difficulty level has been removed 
 altogether meaning players cannot change the game if they find it too hard. The computer controlled 
 opponents can predict counters easily, frequently inflict combos of around 7-10 hits from their 
 starting attack, roll when knocked down almost every time making pounce attacks and ground throws 
 incredibly rare and successfully input throw chains with virtually no gaps for players to escape 
 even on the first stage (the difficulty of opponents still raises through each stage) . The opponents 
 also escape throws often and purposely stop attacking to throw counter attempts. The CPU will also 
 throw a guarding player almost instantly making guarding against the computer not very effective.
 
  
  Pre-release
  
  In an interview with Famitsu Xbox, Itagaki remarked that he spent 99% of his time developing DOA4, 
 demonstrating his commitment to living up to the fans' relatively high expectations of the series. 
 On May 12, 2005, the first screens from the game were leaked on the internet via the elotrolado. net 
 message boards. Sources also confirmed at the time that the game would be developed exclusively 
 for the Xbox 360 rather than the original Xbox console.
  
  Since the first screenshots, in-game demos and numerous cinematics were later presented by Microsoft 
 at press conferences (E3 2005 Trailer) with the game originally slated to be a launch title for 
 the Xbox 360. However, delays in the development saw it eventually released more than a month after 
 the debut of the console.
  
  Famitsu Xbox editor-in-chief Munetatsu Matsui has pointed to DOA4's absence as a launch title as 
 the main factor behind the slow sales of the Xbox 360 in Japan. However, he added that over 60% 
 of his readers had planned to buy the game upon release.
  
  New characters
  
  DOA4 contains three new playable characters: Kokoro, a young Geisha in training, Eliot, a 16 year-old 
 boy from England and prot&eacute; g&eacute; to Gen Fu, and La Mariposa, a female Lucha Libre wrestler.
 
  
  In addition, DOA4 features a playable unlockable character from the Halo series. The November 2005 
 issue of Game Informer revealed that this character is a female Spartan supersoldier, going by 
 the name Spartan-458 . It would later be revealed that her real name would be Nicole . In conjunction, 
 a Halo-themed stage named Nassau Station is incorporated in the game.
  
  The final boss of the game in story mode for most characters and in time attack mode for all characters, 
 ALPHA-152, is a very noticeable example of the SNK Boss Syndrome , as she can damage close to and 
 over 70% of the player's life in one attack chain, has easily executed combos that go far beyond 
 the ability of any regular character, and can teleport to anywhere on the stage instantly. It has 
 been noted, however, that previous DOA bosses were easier to compare to the SNK bosses of yore, 
 in that they were extremely difficult to beat. This is the first time a Dead or Alive boss has 
 been in the Time Attack mode. As beating ALPHA-152 is very difficult, this can make achieving a 
 good time trying for inexperienced players. However, the match settings can be changed so each 
 fighter has to be beaten only once.
  
  For some characters, though, the final confrontation in their story modes is different; for instance, 
 Bayman and Helena fight against Christie, Kokoro and Christie square off against Helena, Tina and 
 Bass confront each other, Hitomi fights Hayate's alter ego, Ein, Lei Fang battles Jann Lee, and 
 Eliot fights his old master, Gen Fu.
  
  Tournaments
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is included in the Championship Gaming Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I grew up with the tekken series and never played a game in the dead or alive series, after buying 
 and playing doa 4 i became really addicted to this game.
  If you know tekken, than you know its all about combo's and lot of practice.
  Well you need a 
 lot of practice in doa 4 before you can compete with the big boys online.
  Doa is really close to synchronize martial arts into a video game, and team ninja succeeded in 
 that process.
  Doa isnt really processing the way to make combo's, but to be aqurate in countering and knowing 
 the way to choose the right moves.
  sometimes it can be very frustrating and highly addictive, because it keeps you going.
  when 
 you succeed to poses and play the single player you are really ready to play doa online, trying 
 to become an SS grade and trying to poses that SS achievement.
  
  Conclusion: Very addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider6k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  This is really the best Dead or Alive game in the series. Why? One, it has amazing and addictive 
 game play. Two, has really cool new characters. Some people who play this game areinstantly hooked! 
 Next thing you know its 6 hours later and your still playing. Your constantly trying to unlock 
 the achievements and you dont want to stop playing. I would truthfully play this game over and 
 over for a long time without getting tired of it. The only bad thing I would have to say about 
 the game is the last boss battle against the Alpha 152 (Kasumi's clone) . It takes a while when 
 you first start to fight against her. You could even get frustrated over her. Other than that I 
 think it is a great game. The new characters (La Mariposa, Eliot, Spartan, and Kokoro) are amazing 
 along with some old favorites. The graphics are absolutely wonderful. With realistic and detailed 
 stages, it proves to be an amazing view. I absolutely love this game and I hope you would play 
 if you haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the first on the Next-gen systems using the genre. It has its favourable moments, 
 with beautiful cutscenes, epic battles, and well erm... Online play. Its a fun game to play I can 
 say at the most, and brilliant if you have a group of friends over, but it lacks content that it 
 should have included, and gets old fairly quickly. Here's my review of Dead Or Alive IV. The story 
 mode is where I headed first for the game, believing that it would have a sort of system like soul 
 calibre 2, in order to different tasks to continue the game. But it did disappoint me, it gave 
 a very classical arcade feeling you get like in the older tekken games. This wasn't disastrous 
 though, you could follow a somewhat engaging storyline with a bunch of short clips and an fmv your 
 desperate to earn by completing the story mode. The difficulty levels the game out too, as it is 
 really hard to win many battles (especially that alpha thing at the end) , which adds an extra spice 
 to the mode. Apart from that, you do have a small selection of very popular modes ranging from 
 the basic survival mode to a Time attack, which gives the more hardcore players something else 
 to try out. Multiplayer, multiplayer is best played with a friend and only with a friend on the 
 same console. Online mode is poor. Each match is a lag rollercoaster, jab, lag, kick, lag, block, 
 lag, KO, lag . That was an example from my previous matches, which makes it a betting service to 
 win! Apart from the problematic matches I did find the Online mode very interesting. As you can 
 earn money from matches, and build up your very own avatar avec lobby. That was pretty cool, although 
 I thought it was pretty much impossible to earn a money-bag full of money. Playing with a friend 
 on the same console is great as it minuses the lag and other problems occuring, also you can just 
 go straight into the match rather than staying in a queue. You have the standard game modes, and 
 a large selection of interesting characters and stages to keep you and your friend satisfied. The 
 visuals are lovable, shiny, sleek and smooth characters. Also with a sharp, glittery environment 
 to battle on. The FMV's caught my eye the most, they was terrific, especially the girls (goes to 
 all gaming perverts) :P. Theres not much to say about the visuals apart from they are pretty much 
 luxury and only few cons to notice throughout the game. The same goes for the sound. Brilliant 
 music, Aerosmith works great with this game, I could watch the final ending 50000 times before 
 I get bored with the tune. The sound effects aren't too bad either, a lot of slamming into walls, 
 Smashing and jabbing noises is more than satisfying! I was quite disappointed with the choice of 
 languages, as I had to read subtitles to project there cool key phrases, which weren't really that 
 cool but hey! I'm to lazy for that :D. Theres not too much to get excited about with Dead Or Alive 
 4, but for the most hardcore dead or alive/ beat em' up fans; by all means give this game a go. 
 I still play on it! Its Ok in its ways so... Thats my review hope you give good feedback :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_DJ_00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series has been going strong since DoA 2 on the Dreamcast. (Wasn't completely 
 popular due to Soul Calibur shadowing any other fighting game) The counter grab system, aerodynamical 
 grabs, awesome combo's, destroyable enviroments, and ofcourse the uber attractive fictional femal 
 characters is what has made this series highly popular. Dead or Alive 4 is a solid game for fans 
 that have kept up with the series since the 2nd installment or the 3rd, but it's hard to pick up 
 and play for people who are totally new to the franchise. The reason is because if you're into 
 the online mult-player mode, prepared to get royally spanked by fans who have counter grabbing 
 down to a T. Now I've been playing DoA since the Dreamcast, and I still have a hard time with other 
 players online. Dead or Alive 4 is every thing you could want it to be if you're willing to take 
 the patience to get good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccc6464
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  my first thath when i pladey this game was ok a butone masher cool but the i thaund out about the 
 dume ai the ai is lick satin himsellf some of them difie logich and if i dont know how to use a 
 move shoud the computer not do that to but to the point tis sn ok game i love the fact thae inklud 
 a sparthen in the game but the game shins in online the round robin sistumh is khinda cool you 
 get to see how thae play but rily the grafich look lick a good xbox game ensted of what you whoud 
 exspeth from a next gen game but the bigest problum is the ai but it is just anuther buton masher 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydave
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  it's good if you are a fan of the series but it is very difficult even on normal and the story 
 mode isn't very in-depth compared to a game like tekken.. but if you are looking for a decent fighter 
 go rent it and if your a fan pick it up but otherwise I wouldn't recommend this game to many of 
 people.
  
  On the other hand if your looking for a challenge and a new game to master (for those of you who 
 haven't played it) than pick this up because that 's what it brings you.. a challenge.. the live 
 play is pretty laggy at times which can be annoying but it's still playable.. although the online 
 matches are quick because of many skilled players playing.. which kinda ruins the online experience 
 due to the fact that you have to play the game a lot and become skilled to have fun with live (in 
 my opinion) . overall though if your craving a fighting game try this before you buy and if you 
 can get past the difficulty then pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razalord
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 is a must buy, not just because it should be added to your collection of Xbox 360 games, 
 because out of the DOA series this one stands tall and will have you hooked for hours with its 
 seamlesly intergrated fighting mechanics and wide cast of characters, new and old!
  Fighting is so simple, whether you are a button masher or not you are bound to find your favourite 
 fighter amongst some very intriguing fighting combatants, all of which come equipped with their 
 very own unique fighting manuevers. fighting couldnt be so simple! X to block and counter, Y to 
 throw various punches and B to kick your oppnents to the ground. Pulling of combos is exceptionally 
 easy without practice but with practice your combos could become the most devasting weapons you 
 possess.
  A little note.. LEARN TO COUNTER! Once you can counter you can beat practically anyone! It takes 
 practice but it pays off... The story of DOA 4 is a great improvement over the previous DOA titles 
 as each and every character now has his or her own story to be told and how do you achieve this.. MORE 
 FIGHTING! This time round though when you complete the game with each character you will be treated 
 to some rather amazing CG movies! Dont be to impressed by the story mode DOA 4 has to offer because 
 it will be over in about a couple of hours, but the story really doesnt mean anything at the end 
 of the day, the fighting is always going to be the highlight of DOA!
  
  The graphics in DOA 4 are yet again some of the best seen in most fighting games and im not saying 
 there awfull because that would be lying but comparing them with DOA ultimate the graphics seem 
 all to familiar and given a year or so a graphical upgrade would have been nice but to be fair 
 the the quality of the visuals have been enhanced, if ever so slightly and for that i say it is 
 worthy the of the name NEXT GEN fighter.
  
  DOA 4 is a great fighting game and includes a memorable cast of characters, although not perfect 
 it comes with some rather impressive visuals and gameplay that will leave you glued for hours on 
 end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Li0n96789
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is deffinatley the m0st awes0me game Tecm0 and Team Ninja have ever d0ne! The game and Graphics 
 are so beautiful it put's tears t00 my eye's. Simply put D0A4 is an upgrade 0va Highly p0pular 
 FRANCIZE game! it's the best in series s0 far! The St0ry Line f0r the Ninja's are kewl! But f0r 
 the 0ther charaters it c0uld be better. The Hum0rous endings are funny! And as usual the GIRL'Z 
 are the f0cal p0int 0v the game! hehehe! This game is just a must have f0r any 3-D figher fan, 
 its addictive and just plain fun! B0tt0m Line if y0u liked the first installments 0v this francize, 
 y0u'll m0re than likely LIKE this 0ne t00! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive has been a popular series of fighters that was relitively unknown until Dead or Ailve 
 3. Dead or Ailve 4 is it's first installment on the Xbox 360 which is definately the best one yet. 
 The game follows kinda 2 different storylines, the first story is the the mugen ninja clan and 
 Ryu Hayabusa (my favorite character) are trying to destroy DOATEC once and for all, the other focuses 
 on Helena the new leader of DOATEC. Graphics wise the game looks amazing, the best we've seen in 
 a fighter so far. Gameplay wise is great, but you might get confused by the controls and changing 
 them in the options menu (like I did) . It sounds great too, good music and voice acting (even if 
 it is all japanese) . You're gonna want to play this game a lot either in single player, multiplayer, 
 or online. My final thoughts are that this is by all means a great fighting game, but you might 
 get mad at the difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImmortalEat
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  It was definatly not like i thought it would be like. This game is one of those games where u can 
 hit random buttons and hopefully win, but thats the only way to win unless u play harder levels. 
 Its kinda sad I figured it would be tough, but the alpha 152 chick is harder then hell to beat, 
 then again i just hit random buttons most the time. Could be alot better. But if u wanna kill sum 
 time i guess this is the way to go since one achievement is to play 5 hours and to play 10 hours. 
 So i guess wut ever to get sum gamerscore points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dac14
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Besides its pretty graphics there's not much else. If not for its insane difficulty this game may 
 have been enjoyable. I read other reviews of gamers that had the same problem but never paid too 
 much attention to their warnings. Now I know exactly what they were talking about. A good example 
 is the final battle in the story mode. As I had stated before half the clean punches I landed ended 
 with the opponent teleporting away or countering every single shot only to be K. O. ed from behind 
 in 3 or less hits. Yes I said 3! Ridiculous combos and a merciless A. I sucked the fun out of this 
 game. Oh and if you get caught in a ferocious barrage of combos by the A. I good luck getting a 
 block or a counter attack (the button to counter or block might not as well exist) as it does not 
 make a difference and you're pretty much toast. Eventually resorting to button mashing, to my surprise, 
 is much more effective than learning and executing the commands and combos for each character. 
 I'm a huge fan of the fighting genre but this has got to be the most overrated game by Game spot 
 thus far. This may be a rental at best. DOA 4 definitely does not deserve to be among the greats 
 as Soul Calibur , Tekken or Virtua Fighter but it can be fun in very rare occasions when you're 
 not getting your teeth kicked in 95% of the time. If you're wondering how is it possible to make 
 DOA 4 less enjoyable than DOA 3 especially in a next gen console? Well if you want to find out, 
 now is your chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is my first Xbox 360 game, as it came with the extra controller, and after playing 
 endless hours of Tekken, I was fairly tired of the whole beat 'em up genre, until now.
  
  You can play as any of around about 20 characters, each with their own unique fighting style. Each 
 characters has a storyline, which may tangle in those of other characters. The characters look 
 amazing, each with about 4-6 costumes. All the female characters have over emphasised features 
 , and their breats bounce (WOOO!) , though this is only noticable during custscenes or the little 
 victory cheer after a win, as during the fights, it is insanely fast. The game instead of waiting 
 for the right moment to attack, your enemies will try to smash you, and 3/10 times on the normal 
 setting (which is still insanely tough) , they'll counter your moves, and eventually, begin countering 
 your counters. This makes for fast paced gameplay and great animations, which will leave you astounded. 
 The arenas are great, each of which has multiple sections, dangerous obstacles, or both, which 
 you can use to inflict insane amounts of damage on your opponents. The costumes are way over the 
 top, with Bass being dressed up as a cowboy, a biker, and a viking for three of his costumes. You 
 have the basic modes of a fighting game, time attack, story, versus, survival, and even though 
 none of these are new to the genre, Dead or Alive 4 is just so fun you want to keep playing more 
 and more. There are several unlockable characters, which you can unlock by doing story mode with 
 different characters, and these new characters, though they may seem tacked on, are really fun 
 to play as, and just give the game more life.
  
  You may think that Dead or Alive 4 is merely a game for those intrested in 3D women with large 
 breasts dancing about, but behind all this is a fantastic game which is essental for any Xbox 360 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  This game is remarkably fun, playing it so long made me realized it doesn't seem to have any bugs 
 in it or im just blind.
  
  I like the story mode alot, most ending for each character had masterpiece top-notch graphics.
 
  
  What I didn't like about DOA 4 was the achievements that are obtained through online. As we all 
 know multiplayer can be a pain in the ass when it's international. Lag, Delays, Bugs.
  
  I sound effects were sorta O. K, I mean they weren't as real as anyone expected, like a head banged 
 into a wall, of course it sounds different, it can't be real or people will start to think what 
 the creators might have use during the creation of the game, you know what I mean.
  
  It would be nice if they made customized sound text since the game was released all over the world, 
 what I ment is, during the fight you see english subtitles and characters speaking japanese which 
 there should be a option for them to speak in a few languages instead of just japanese.
  
  Overall, the game could do quite a few improvements, but it's really nice to have a fighting game 
 to keep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invisigirl591
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This is really the best Dead or Alive game in the series. Why? One, it has amazing and addictive 
 game play. Two, has really cool new characters. When I got this game on Christmas (because it was 
 on my wish list) I did not have a 360 yet! I thought it was horrible that I got a 360 game without 
 getting the 360 until my last gift was a 360! I started playing it and I was instantly hooked! 
 Next thing I know it was 6 hours later and I was still playing. I constantly tried to unlock the 
 achievements and I would not want to stop playing. I would truthfully play this game over and over 
 for a long time without getting tired of it. The only bad thing I would have to say about the game 
 is the last boss battle against the Alpha 152 (Kasumi's clone) . It takes a while when you first 
 start to fight against her. You could even get frustrated over her. Other than that I think it 
 is a great game. The new characters (La Mariposa, Eliot, Spartan, and Kokoro) are amazing along 
 with some old favorites. The graphics are absolutely wonderful. With realistic and detailed stages, 
 it proves to be an amazing view. I absolutely love this game and I hope you would play if you haven't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkskater2007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This games is an ok game, seems like an old mortal combat game. The blocking kinda sux, U can keep 
 pounding a guy with him having no chacne in fighting back as long as u dont let ur finger off the 
 attack buttons. Seems like an awesome game the first hour then gets really boring cuz its the saem 
 stuff over and over again. I think they should have put a tilt on the game. over all i dont like 
 the game, but it might just be me cuz i dont really like non-stop fighting games that much, Maybe 
 a die-hard fighting Gamer will like the game but i don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcamino72
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Dead or alive 4 has great graphics and possibly good game play if I could get past the Mind Crushing 
 initial difficulty of this game. It was overly frustrating to try to beat the enemies. In the second 
 round of my first fight i resorted to button mashing and maneged to win to my surprise. Being new 
 to this series the learning curve was just to long and costly as I broke my remote because of the 
 difficulty. It controlled very well but the problem wasn't the controls it was the A. I. always 
 beat me to the punch. And when I tried to block the A. I. just threw me. This pales in comparison 
 to soul caliber and mortal combat. It does not deserve a score any higher then 6.0 and definitely 
 not the rave reviews it got. As the title to this review says it is just to hard to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makaelthosolcry
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I got Dead or Alive in a bundle pack when I bought my Xbox 360, and boy am I glad I did, otherwise 
 I would have never discovered this amazing fighting game. It's hardly believable that DOA 4 was 
 a launch game, seeing as it's graphics and gameplay are both top-knotch. Before proceeding any 
 further, let me warn you : this game requires serious effort and patience at first ! I remember 
 when I first played, it seemed difficult as hell to even get past the story mode on normal difficulty, 
 and I honestly considered not playing the game at all. In time though, when I practiced and learned 
 the completely different gameplay, it became more and more fun by the second. New players WILL 
 find it hard to cope at first, but when you get past the initial task, the rest is just plain fun. 
 The game is technial and fast-paced at the same time. The main elements of the combat are countering, 
 stringing combos together and using the multi-leveled environment to your advantage. Whats noteworthy 
 is that there are enough options for the variety of playable fighting styles is enough to fit any 
 gamers interest, be it defensive, all out offenive or some mixture between the two. Unlike many 
 other games, counters are a much more major part of the formula, there are specific buttons for 
 each type fo move counter and learning the sytem is arguably imperative. ( or not, it really depends 
 on how you use the game's mechanics) Remembering combos is not required as your own intuition of 
 how attacks should be many a time actually turn out to string combos, but again, if memorizing 
 combos is your thing, there are important advantages there too.
  
  The games characters all are unique, but not as much as you may expect. They all look very nice 
 and different, but controlling them in combat can sometimes be similar, which is a double-edged 
 sword. Theres enough story depth to keep you playing every characters story, either for the details 
 themselves or the unlockable costumes. The good part about this is that battles never get old. 
 Each battle is unique from the next as the gameplay is so diverse. No fight is ever boring, though 
 sometimes the little-unblanced difficulty may have you screaming your lungs out. At the end of 
 the day, you find yourself getting past the trial and the sense achieved is extremely satisfying. 
 The extra modes are pretty much what you would expect, theres Time Attack, Team Battle and Survival, 
 which are playable either solo or in tag-team. All are balanced accordingly to fit the theme. Time 
 attack can be especially scream-your-throat-dry when aiming for the Silver and Bronze medals. ( 
 gold is pretty easy) The online is decent, too. Theres a cute lobby system that serves it's purpose 
 but the actualy multiplayer is pretty good. The servers are satisfactory, there shouldn't be too 
 much lag unless you're playing with someone accross the globe or one of you has a bad inetrnet 
 connection, in which case theres screen lag which both of you get, but all in all it's still pretty 
 fun. The DOA servers are smart, they arrange tournaments yielding prizes of points of grade accordingly 
 depending on the number of players. There also always seem to be people online. The whole online 
 structure is ultimately well designed.
  
  At the end of the day, DOA4 is a very innovative and enjoyable fighting game, that, while would 
 only arguable be called better than the others, puts a lot new stuff to the table. This game is 
 a MUST for fighting gamers and a great place to start your fighting caeer if you haven't already. 
 The achievements should keep youplaying for hundreds of hours, because they're damn tough ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segaraptor
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Dead or Alive games since the first on the Playstation. Out of the lot, Dead 
 or Alive 2 for the Dreamcast/DoA Ultimate's version of 2 is the best.
  
  DoA3 was a disappointment for me personally because they watered-down the best fighter in the game. 
 That fighter is Jann Lee. NOT Hayabusa. He's cheap. But more on that later.
  
  DoA4 was a welcome return for Jann Lee to his former powerful glory. However, the game has several 
 glaring inconsistencies.
  
  The addition of online play does make DoA4 worth playing if you're not sure about it. However, 
 it's very often laggy online. The other major problem with playing online is the VAST number of 
 Hayabusa-users who jack up their ranking by entering rooms and playing only until they lose a single 
 match, then leave before their rank goes too low. Hayabusa is used by about 70% of users in the 
 U. S. and about 60% globally (last time I checked) . He also happens to have been given inexplicably 
 cheap moves in this version of the game. In short, teleportation does not belong in a fighting 
 game. Not that that's his only cheap move, but it's the main source of what the f---? whenever 
 I'm playing online. An example of a glaring inconsistency is Lei-Fang's throwing ability. She is 
 able to throw her opponent at almost any time. Even if the opponent has his/her foot extended into 
 Lei-Fang's stomach during a kick. She can still grab and throw. This is just one example. If you 
 want excellent 3D fighting on the 360, unfortunately, you'll have to wait until September for Virtua 
 Fighter 5. DoA4 does not satisfy the true technical 3D fighting game player. The unbalanced characters 
 and the presence of things like teleportation leave Soul Cali and VF enthusiasts scratching their 
 heads. That said, it's decently fun if you can overlook the ridiculousness that sometimes crops 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHEWY49
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is deffinatley the most amazeing game Tecmo and Team Ninja have ever done! The game is so 
 beautifull that it glows, the moves are so amazeingly done that they just roll of with out like 
 going through body parts or anything! This game is just an over all must have for any 3-D figher 
 fan, its so addictive and its just so fun! Even the story is awesome. The story mostly takes place 
 around the ninjas but the other fighters have some what of a story. The online play is solid if 
 you can actually find someone who doesnt lag, but thats a bit of a problem. Over all i say its 
 a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Tekken and Virtua Fighter and hearing good things about this game I managed to pick it 
 up pretty cheap... cos i'm tight and was expecting a button basher but was surprised to find a 
 very hard beat-em up with too much reliance on blocking and countering. Even on the easy difficuly 
 I find this game pretty hard. The graphics are great and the characters are ok but the fact that 
 it is just too hard for someone who doesn't want to invest to much time in a game does limit it's 
 appeal. If you are a fan of games where you like to learn all the moves and master them soo you 
 can beat your mates then this is one for you. However if, like me, you were looking for another 
 tekken then this is not the game to go for. Hopefully virtua fighter 5 will be a lot better than 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X5Terminator
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is tons of fun with a bunch of people, it don't even have to be people you know very 
 well. It's one of those more casual games that anyone can pick up and play. Yet you can still go 
 in depth with all the combos and moves you can learn. The levels are very detailed and some of 
 them are very large and have many places where there are interactions just like DOA3, but the thing 
 I don't like about this game is that you can only choose like 3 stages when playing tag team mode, 
 which totally sucks, because the level they let you choose sucks. Also for beginners, the final 
 boss during the single player mode might be a bit frustrating while using some characters, shes 
 a cheap one. This is a pretty simple game and beginners can still beat you through button smashing, 
 but not as bad as the 3rd one. Of course if you really get the timing of reversals right, beginners 
 luck will have no effect on you. Overall a good game to own, especially if you only own a 360, 
 not too many great fighters on the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  If that wasn't enough to convince you to buy this game, then I guess I'll have to continue. Among 
 all the games in my collection, Dead or Alive 4 is by far the hardest to take seriously. A lot 
 of the fun and content of this game is centered around being a perverted idiot and just watching 
 the girls move around and get dripping wet while you're fighting. It's a shameless attitude, but 
 you can't deny the temptation of it. I mean, this game downright encourages perversion, since every 
 time you complete the single player, you get a new, possibly even skimpier costume for your favorite 
 DOA girl to wear, and naturally there are more girls than guys in DOA4.
  
  This is not to say the game isn't fun. The adrenaline rush that this game's action provides has 
 a titular sense of satisfaction with its deep, rewarding gameplay... not to mention it's sexy. Oh 
 man is it sexy.
  
  Getting off track here...*ahem*... as I said the gameplay is very deep and a lot of practice is 
 needed in order to master each character's moves, just like every other fighter in existence. DOA's 
 uniqueness comes from its counter-move system where you have to press X and move a certain direction 
 at the same time to counter a specific type of move. It requires a lot of anticipation and knowing 
 your opponent, and it's easy to mess up. Anyone going straight into the DOA series without ever 
 having played it before should probably never play online until they've mastered this system. But 
 the single player's fine for practicing. Did I mention this game has lots of girls in it?
  
  In the graphics department, this game is I think a disappointment. It looks like a slightly 
 improved Dead or Alive Ultimate. This would've been amazing on the Xbox, but when its competition 
 is stuff like Kameo, Gears of War, and the Tom Clancy games on the 360, this game leaves a lot 
 to be desired. The hair always looks screwed up too. The big redemption is that the graphics feature 
 lots of breasts of the big and bouncing variety... A+ in this category.
  
  The audio in this game is mostly standard for a fighting game, lots of cracking punches and kicks 
 that sound as good as they look. One big thing that I appreciate about this game is that the voice 
 acting is all in the original Japanese, but with subtitles. As you can see by my avatar I'm a big 
 anime fan, and this kind of voice acting set up has always been my preferred way of watching anything 
 that comes from Japan or a foreign country, so this is a huge plus. I want to see more Japanese 
 games try this. Boobs.
  
  Moving right along, we have the value category. The value of a fighting game truly depends on the 
 person playing it. If it's someone who doesn't normally like fighting games, it probably won't 
 last you much more than 15 hours if you're not good enough to go against the online pros and you're 
 already tired of repeatedly fighting the same AI opponents. In content, this game is perfectly 
 fine, it has lots of options for single player and multiplayer that'll keep you busy for quite 
 a while depending on how much you like the game and whether or not you're willing to put in the 
 time to practice and get good enough to go online. The online community has developed into something 
 far too elite for newbies to just go in and button mash to victory. But for people like those, 
 at least they put in an option to have two computer controlled girls fight each other endlessly, 
 so that's about 300 hours of game time for you right there. A+ in this area.
  
  Now for a recap of the individual scores for each area:
  
  Gameplay: Fap
  Graphics: Fap
 
  Sound: Fap
  Value: Fap
  
  And there you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Bozack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  DOA4 brings hard, fast-paced, and thumb numbing fighting to the 360.
  With upgraded next-gen graphics, mindblowing new moves, and Interestingly unique new characters 
 Dead or Alive 4 KOs all other fighters out for the new consoles! Online play gives this game endless 
 hours of playability. You can rise in rank and customize your avatar and lobby as you go. The AI 
 is often more challenging then most human opponents you'll encounter. And in my opinion, thats 
 a great thing! The levels may be more interactive than ever, with hidden rooms, long falls, and 
 animal activity; DOA has more to do than ever. One thing that I really appreciate is the fact that 
 spar mode doesnt teach you all the moves. There are many little tricks and level based moves that 
 your command list just wont show. This makes it so you have to personally pick a player to know 
 everything about. Making your favorite character easier to find. ok enough typing... I LOVE DOA4! 
 Oh and DOA4 is totally better than virtua fighter5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Xeauz_
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Remember tekken 4? It had more combo's than dead or alive 4 and I personally think was executed 
 more better, not to mention the fantastic story in contrast with dead or alive's shabby one. A 
 super human being has been created, your not told why. And each character just happens to have 
 something to do with it. Once again for most of them your not told why, you just either fight with 
 the cooperation making the superhuman or you face them. I think its a pathetic story even for a 
 fighting game with much to be desired. So thats 1-0 for Tekken. The combo's are short with not 
 much of them, mainly consisting of tapping different buttons. The highest combo I think is about 
 8 button combinations? Tekken had double that and you could even string together combo's unlike 
 Dead or alive 4. 2-0 to Tekken. The characters have all been done before, the drunk man copying 
 the policeman of Tekken and the girl wrestler copying eddies dancing type fighting. It's all been 
 done before 3-0 to Tekken. The only difference to Dead or alive is the graphic's, which may I add 
 seems to focus very hard on breasts and legs... Your find that nearly every girl in the game will 
 or has the unlockable costume of wearing anything which will reveal cleavage. Some being worse 
 than others. And gamespot said the online play was good? That's partly true, what's not mentioned 
 is the incredible lag. I've been in matches with 3 people and have been on the lowest bar. On some 
 occasions it happened in a match with just 2 other people and normally happens on a 1 Vs 1 match. 
 Dead or alive 4 just feels as though it's looked at all the fighting games and copied them with 
 an unoriginal story, characters and fighting moves. And whats ironic is the makers are responsible 
 for the game dead or alive xtreme volleyball which has all the dead or alive girls in little bikini's 
 playing volleyball. It makes me question if they really were that focused on the fighting, I can 
 support this idea even more by complimenting the way the fighting is executed. The counter attack 
 movements are the best I've seen in a fighting game and happen extreamly smoothly and I suppose 
 atleast with dead or alive the xbox has a stepping stone to begin with on the fighting side of 
 games so i advise it if you really like them that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside2501
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  This is definately one of the harder fighting games i've played. Sometimes it went from being challenging 
 to just plain frustrating, and online was laggy as hell, but I still had fun playing. A large roster 
 of characters and a unique combat system won me over. To bad I can't say anything good about the 
 story.
  
  Each characters story ended in a ridiculous fashion, nothing compelling. I had no idea what was 
 going on most of the time - and didn't really care. For the first time ever I felt like skipping 
 parts of the story, it was just hard to watch. One particular ending involved someone imagining 
 they were a mermaid. What? That doesn't conclude the story in anyway! Seriously, it was stupid.
 
  
  The controls, on the other hand, were great. Alot of cool combo's to pull off and it never felt 
 like a button mashing game.
  
  Luckily there was also large number of unlockables and achievments to make up for the bad story 
 and such to keep me going, aswell as a pretty good roster of characters. Overall, it's a decent 
 fighting game, but just isn't as solid as a game like Tekken or Soul Caliber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Nice, colour and bright visuals; wide range of characters; new characters are awesome; lots 
 of game modes; fun online mode; classic style gameplay with new improvements
  
  BAD- Rock solid; hardly counter
  
  GAMEPLAY
  DOA4 is surly the best DOA game out so far, 
 and thanks to the 360 capability you can now fight with next gen technoligy and thanks to the awesome 
 counter attack battles now look alot better and more dramatic, it does play like the presasesors 
 but its alot more faster so be quick on your toes, this relays on your witts and guess what your 
 foe is doing and keep your foe guessing, though it is very classic gameplay it surly is an improvemnt 
 altogher. there is a huge range of modes like story, tournament, sparring, multiplayer, onlineline 
 and surviaval, the Online mode is realy fun were you can battle lots of people around the world 
 and keep high records, you can also whatch other poeple battle around the world.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  This has very colourfull graphics and sharp visuals, the way there hair sways looks 
 realy cool but the faces dont look that good. the frame rate is solid and the distructable enviroment 
 looks awesome also
  
  SOUND:
  Although the voice acting is all in Japanesse, the traditinal acting is dramatic but i'd preffer 
 if it was in english speicaly the British and American fighters.
  
  OVERALL:
  The best DOA game yet and one of the best 360 fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CryztalDragon
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a Unbelievable beat them up............. and beat them up again kinda game......... its 
 fast paced action and ultra cool counter system could will have you not just blocking but making 
 your opponent afraid to pull of certain moves and could mean one false move could choose whether 
 you become Dead or Alive .
  The flashy moves and awesome outfits are everything there cracked up to be, each character has 
 there own individual story that brings out another plus in DOA 4.
  the online mode is wickedly addictive and even has a grade ranking system that will let you know 
 if your among gods or men......... if you dont own you havent lived,
  Easy to Learn, Difficult to Master........... but great all round, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uchihaboy
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is very awesome and excruciating. It is so freaking awesome I might die of awesomeness. I 
 mean it is  
 like OMG. it has the best graphics and everything. you can even play online. one of my favorite 
 characters is Ryu Hayabusu. at first i thought he looked familiar. I looked on my ninja gaiden 
 game and i found it was the same character. my favorite mo0ve from him is the move that looks like 
 Rock Lee's secondary lotus from Naruto. another feature i liked about this game is rock hard characters. 
 they have the coolest characters like the chinese Bruce lee guy. he is way much cooler than my 
 friend. those of you people who say this game stunk worse than an 8000000000000 year old piece of 
 garbage you would have to be blinder than what the sun can do to your eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. The graphics are good, the characters are unique, the levels are 
 interactive, and it has some severely kick ass throws. The fighting system remains pretty much 
 the same since DOA2 (just the way I like it) , there are new characters, new moves and throws, and 
 a great online mode. Each character has their own unique style and moves (except for a couple) , 
 and has their own set of costumes. The punching and kicking is fast and powerful, along with counters 
 and throws. The gameplay all around never gets old, and the movers aren't impossible to pull off 
 (that doesnt mean they're necessarily easy.) No I'm going to get to the ONLY thing I find wrong 
 with this game, and thats the difficulty (they took out easy mode.) Sometimes, it makes me want 
 to PUNCH A PREGNANT WOMAN DOWN THE STAIRS, yes, thats how hard it is sometimes.
  The second you block or counter , the CPU will throw you, it's almost like they know what your 
 going to do before you do... I usually do middle and high punches and mid and low kicks, so I decided 
 to use a high kick for a change and the computer counters it less than half a second before I even 
 know whats going on. They should try to make it seem a little more human. ANYWAYS, I have no clue 
 why I went on a rant about that when I'm trying to get other people to play it. BUT, there are 
 infinite continues, if there weren't, I would probably have killed myself by now. You'll get used 
 to it though, DOA4 is one of the first fighting games I've really gotten into, and I've completed 
 all the stories. So, it shouldn't be that much of a problem. Now, to the online support, its great. 
 This is the place you will go to escape the difficulty. You have your own little room, and a little 
 avatar (mines a piggy with glasses.) If your a newcomer and get owned a lot, I suggest starting 
 a match. When your the host you don't seem to ever get made fun of. The graphics are great, very 
 clean and finished looking. It's very fluent as well, never seen a slow down (except for a little 
 lag online.) This game also has some nice physiques, if you catch my drift. Of course you'd expect 
 that from a DOA game, though. Well, this game overall is stunning. The gameplay stays fresh and 
 keeps you coming back for more, and the achievements add a nice touch to get you to really thoroughly 
 play through the game. AND, the game's on platinum hits now, so you can pick in up for only 30 
 bucks! I have fun playing this game I hope you 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz96
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 25, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  The game has pretty good story mode and every character has interesting moves. Like the blackninja 
 with a sword he does lots of ninjutsu and if you get really good with him you can do some of his 
 deadliest moves. And the online play isn't that bad ether but it can get boring waiting. You get 
 rankings on there so people recognise your skill. There usaully the highest ranked people online. 
 but its really fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi i hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korn420
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought DOA 4 for 15$ brand new. I wasn't dissapointed at all. This game was really good. The 
 graphics (women) look great in this game. All the backgrounds are nicely detailed and as a multiplayer 
 this is one of the best fighters out there. The A. I. in the game is really smart and be advised 
 you will get a challenge. The fighter selection is huge as well. The sound is ok as well. The only 
 problems with game is the stupid lobby system and the A. I. but other than that it's a pretty sweet 
 fighter. In conclusion this game is no Mortal Kombat but D. O. A. has enough thrills to leave you 
 coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hinata237
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead or alive 4 is the newest edition to the DOA series by Team Ninja.
  DOA features a great cast of characters that really makes the game quite enjoyable. Every character 
 is different, which is great.
  
  Dead or alive 4 is based on Helena, the second chairmen of DOATEC. Each character has different 
 storylines. Unlike other fighting games that just make an opening and ending story that takes 2 
 mins to read.
  
  The game ins very hard. It's difficulty has been increased and there is no easy mode! I find it 
 pretty silly that some people and sites rate this game lower due to it's difficulty. An example 
 is IGN rating it 4/5 because of it's difficulty. Dead or alive 4 has the greatest gameplay a fighting 
 game could ask for.
  
  The arenas are huge and great. The stages are beautiful, and filled with destructible environments. 
 You can interact with the levels to inflict more damage to your opponent. An example is throwing 
 a character down the stairs lol.
  The game features 4 new playable characters.
  Spartan-458 (AKA Nicole) , La Mariposa, Kokoro and elliot.
  The fighting is great and features 
 some great real life aspects in a fight, such as the characters rolling around on the floor after 
 they get knocked to the floor.
  
  The graphics in dead or alive 4 are great. They look amazing. The character outfits are great and 
 beautiful. A females cloths flap in the wind, and the outfits are amazing.
  
  Trust me, get this game. It's amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alday_316
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.8/10
  Gameplay: 8.9/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
  Value: 9/10 Dead or Alive 4, one of the best in the series (if not THE best) . The gameplay has 
 been slow until now. For action fighting fans, this is a great addition to your console. Its really 
 that good ;) The only thing I dont agree with is the hard difficulty of the final boss... shes a 
 **** Aside from that, the DOA babes are hotter than ever. If you want a solid fighting game (with 
 a few let downs here and there) along with the hottest digital women on the planet, look no further. 
 Dead or Alive 4 is the ULTIMATE fighting game on the Xbox (360) platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I love fighting games; ever sense the beginning of the Arcade industry, people have 
 been trying to create fighting games. It originated with warriors and moved on to kung fu and others. 
 The interesting aspect of fighting games is the timeline this genre takes. Basically, in the beginning 
 fighting games were around but never that popular. It wasn't until Street Fighter II and Mortal 
 Kombat that the fighting genre really took off. What made these games so special wasn't necessarily 
 the awesome fighting styles or the amazing graphics. The two main elements that a fighting game 
 must have to be successful is great fighting mechanics and memorable characters. The mechanics 
 in fighting games in general have grown incrementally; the characters and story elements / visual 
 have grown exponentially. Team Ninja's baby; Dead or Alive 4 doesn't stray far from that formula. 
 Story: Like every fighting game before it, this game has you select a character, which you than 
 play through some scripted events and eventually fight the main boss. In this game, the main boss 
 is Alpha 152 and she is a **** nothing super cheat like Tekken 5s jinpachi Mishima, yet there is 
 a striking resemblance to Dural from Virtua Fighter 5 but hey I'm saying anything. Overall, this 
 game has a lot more story than any other DOA game before thats not saying much. Again, the interest 
 in the characters will fall directly on your taste and whether you enjoy the characters fighting 
 style/ move palette. Gameplay: As stated before, fighting games don't usually make massive jumps 
 in the gameplay department. They usually do more work with balancing and twicking. The way I look 
 at it the scale goes something like this: Super Easy to pick up but difficult to master- Street 
 Fighter II / most 2D fighters. Complete button masher, no real strategy involved - Tekken 1 - 5 
 &amp; just about any 2D fighting game ever made. On the other end, Extremely difficult to pick 
 up and difficult to master tons of tactics, Virtua Figther 1-5. Some where in the middle, DOA. 
 The reason why I say somewhere in the middle is due to the fact that even though a good DOA player 
 could easily destroy a amateur, that doesn't stop the beginner from completely button mashing. 
 Case in point, I own just about every major and some non-major fighting games and the only game 
 that I have never been beaten in is Virtua Fighter. Why?? It has nothing to do with the fact that 
 I'm awesome or anything, and everything to do with the fact that none of my friends play Virtua 
 Fighter. Since VF is so unfriendly to noobies, they get crushed. I have found that button mashing 
 does work in some situation with DOA but counter is by far the coolest aspect of DOA. Tekken has 
 its 10-hit combos, Virtua Fighter has its tactics for every fighting style and DOA has its crazy 
 counters. DOA has high-octane action with the underlying aspect of strategy. Now let me explain 
 the score of the game here. The reason why this game got a 9.2 essentially making it one of the 
 best fighting games ever made is the fact that Team Ninja is a bunch of losers. I said that because 
 Virtua Fighter 5 and Tekken 5 aren't online. I mean giving an excuse like the timing is so essential 
 to this game that we can't put it online because there could be lag ; is simply **** Put the game 
 online trust me most hardcore fighting game fans would rather play a some what lag Tekken 5 than 
 have no online at all. Personally, I see no excuse to not having online in fighting games. The 
 past two games in the franchise have had online, yet Virtua Fighter 5 and Tekken 5 have no online 
 support. It doesn't make any sense to me.
  
  Graphics &amp; Other
  The sound track is still generic techno music with some different mixes in between. Aerosmith makes 
 another appearance which just solidifies my theory that japanese people love Aerosmith; and generating 
 power within their hands. The graphics in HD that is are amazing, texture look so crisp and beautiful 
 its sickening. Serious I got super sick the first time I saw the game. Overall, graphics are awesome 
 if you have an HD television, sound track is ok, nothing memorable, and sound effects are pretty 
 much the same as ultimate.
  
  In the end, Dead or Alive 4 is another great entry into the DOA franchise. This game is not going 
 to revolutionize the fighting genre its pretty much made for DOA fans alike. I will say that out 
 of all the fighting games out there, I have played the least amout of DOA and I must say that buying 
 this game has completely convinced me that DOA is a vital franchise to the fighting genre. I look 
 forward to the next entry in the series and I hope that people out there with 360 give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  i got this for free in my 360 pack so no i didnt buy it!!!! its crap even worse that virtua fighter 
 but i will give VF some credit...
  
  i traded in VF4 because we got this one so yeah like upgrading but its sh*thouse
  how this got 
 8.8 from gamespot i do not know
  
  yes its all flash outside of the box but the graphics arnt like making me go whoah wish i had kept 
 vf4 = {
  
  but it still continues in its jiggling tradition so i dont know maybe thats why its got good ratings? 
 yawn
  
  shame its worth about $10 on trade in now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMadCrapper
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Counter, counter, counter, punch gets countered, counter, kick, counter, counter throw, counter, 
 throw, kick, punch, 4 hit combo, counter, counter, 9 hit combo, counter, counter, counter,..... counter. 
 End of round. Rinse repeat.
  
  This, is a typical fight in Dead or Alive 4. While the graphics look sharp, colorful and bright 
 even on a standard definotion 'tube, and the charecters are detailed, and animate well, the game 
 boils down to you countering, getting off a combo, maybe a throw, and then back to countering. 
 After bieng on store shelves since Dec of '05, you would think another traditional fighting game 
 such as this would have arived to fight (pun intended) with this game for sales. Nay. Only 2 games 
 on XBLA- Street Fighter II, and Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3. So to say this is the best fighting game 
 on 360 isn't saying much. In DOA4's defense, every charecter feels and fights deifferent. From 
 Brad Wong's mastery of the decpetive and confusing Druken Kung Fu (or the bottle) , to Jann Lee's 
 lighting fast Jeet Kun Do fighting style which is reminiscent of Bruce Lee. But when it's time 
 to rearange your oppents face with your charecter of choice, it dosn't matter in the end, because 
 you both will be countering. If you can look past the insane amount of countering, the game does 
 offer alot in both online and offline modes. Offline has your typical modes which have become a 
 norm for fighting games (time attack, story, tag, survival, etc.) . Online however, offers ranking 
 and currency rewarded for fights. These credits can purchase new lobbies for your online matches 
 ranging from under the sea to a cute Haloween graveyard. Currency can also be spent on costumes 
 for any charecter in the game, to accesories for your avatar. Theres is some fun to be had online 
 for sure, just be ready to counter like a mad man.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 isn't a bad game, it's just frustrating and relies to heavily on countering. Is 
 $60 worth the price of admission? No. Well what about $30? Sure..... or you could buy SFII and UMK3 
 off of XBLA and a large pizza of your choice, and a 12 pack of Mountain Dew, and have tons more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Apparently DOA still hasn't gotten better since the first game. I read review after review saying 
 that this is a deep fighter to rival all the major contenders, and I still don't see it. I've been 
 playing DOA since it was on the Dreamcast. I didn't like it then and I didn't like it now. So buyer 
 (or in my case renter) beware!
  
  First off let me just say that Team Ninja did get one thing right. The graphics. The characters 
 are highly detailed (and yes the jiggles are still there) . The back grounds are deep and this installment 
 continues it's breaking through to other environments. The animiation is flowing and the lighting 
 and shadowing perfect. All in all it's a very pretty game, but that's about all DOA4 does for you.
 
  
  The controls are still overly simplified. You have one punch button, one kick button, one block 
 button, and one throw button. Didn't we graduate from this back when Double Dragon II for the original 
 Nintendo came out. Granted if you press different directions and different angles the characters 
 will do other things. But all of the characters play exactly the same. Beside from the way they 
 look and what their bio says they all are the same. They are all fast, strong, has critical hits, 
 throws and so on and so forth. Bascially if you are looking for Tekken, Soul Calibur, or MK here 
 you are in for a disapointment. There are different modes, but they all kind of mess together. 
 Which brings me to another point, this has to be one of the cheapest A. I. s I have ever played. 
 There is no real 3D fighting, you can't evade, you can't block, you can't counter. The computer 
 on NORMAL goes in and kills you in like 5 seconds. All you can do is button mash and hope that 
 you deal enough damage or get lucky. I didn't even play through a whole story mode before I gave 
 up. The computer is un merciful and while I would expect that from a human player, the A I doesn't 
 even allow you to get used to the controls. It's just not enjoyable. The casual gamer has to be 
 thought of too. If it was my fault for losing then so be it, but the computer takes cheap shots, 
 breaks it's own rules and leaves you bleeding. The music is the same techno/guitar from the past 
 installments and really nothing to write home about. The different sound effects are just about 
 like anyother fighter and don't seem out of place. Lucky for me I just rented it, hopfully you 
 will do the same thing. Wait for the next installment of ANY other fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bartiemuss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  The good: Huge varitey of charchters and move cuting eddge graphics and stuning levels.
  The bad : Online system can bconfusing for new players
  
  What is not to love about this game 
 the fast paced and complextiy of the figting is unmached anywhere the graphics are just amazing 
 as well. There also heaps of diffrent charchters all with diffrent fighting style and coustumes. 
 The multi tyired levels are great as well. There are your standard fighting modes one on one tag 
 battle and team battle. There are also survival time attack etc.
  The one bad thing is the online play which uses a loby system that can be confusing for new players.
 
  
  In short buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_emu_hunter
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  In this first wave of Xbox 360 games, one is hard pressed to argue that Team Ninja's final version 
 of Dead or Alive 4 isn't one of, if not the best, looking game on the juvenile system thus far. 
 Anyone worth their salt making fighting games these days has to endeavor to match the intensity 
 and layered fighting styles of Sega's Virtua Fighter, the profound technical depth of Namco's Tekken, 
 or the smooth grace and immense fun of Soulcalibur -- all of which look excellent on the current 
 generation of systems. DOA4 does a few things extremely well, while remaining relatively static 
 in others, but does indeed move the graphic factor up a notch in this next generation. For starters, 
 the speed with which each of the characters moves is incredible. This game blazes away at 60 FPS 
 with nary a hitch, and the art team worked diligently to create smooth animations that blend between 
 every move, fall, throw, and taunt. With the powerful Xbox 360 grinding away in the background, 
 Itagaki and team have created a fighter that will satisfy your twitchy split-second demands without 
 any issues. Oh yeah, and DOA4 loads in four seconds. Yes, it will load in four seconds from any 
 mode of play.
  
  The characters, on the other hand, are a mixed bag. It's not that they aren't good looking. They 
 are. They're intricately detailed and imagined with flourish and style. Kasumi, Leifang, and Ayane, 
 for instance, show off noticeably flowing silky hair. All the characters display special moves 
 and superbly motion-captured animations that are worth watching repeatedly. When the characters 
 grapple each other you won't see the clipping or body melding seen so often in wrestling games. 
 These characters grab each other with precision and eye-catching animations. Characters such as 
 Ryu Hayabusa, Jann Lee and Bayman all show increased musculature and heightened emotional intensity. 
 Bungie's Spartan-458 looks excellent too, fully suited in specialized Mjolnir armor.
  
  But none of the characters have made a significant graphic jump in design above their predecessors. 
 The women still look like satin dolls and the guys like burly thugs. It's not a big gripe, but 
 one that's worth discussing a little given the advances in current videogame facial expressions 
 and potential emotional output. The character design is more of an amplification of the previous 
 roster's clean looks than a major shift or advancement. And when compared to the spiffy backgrounds, 
 they stand in even greater contrast, looking simple and unrealistic. Perhaps that's just a peeve 
 of my own, because the game overall really does look great.
  
  On the other hand, from both a visual and a functional standpoint, the background environments 
 are terrifically designed. Following the dynamic set of environments from DOA3, this year's model 
 features levels that highlight destructible objects, exceedingly gorgeous effects, multiple breakaway 
 sections, moving backgrounds, and animated creatures and vehicles. There are dozens of examples. 
 Waterfall Valley, Kyoto in Bloom, and Temple on the Mountain boast the game's gorgeous photorealism. 
 The trees still look like cross-polygons when viewed under a microscope, but on first and second 
 inspection, they're damn good looking. Falling leaves and cherry blossoms create a feeling of place 
 and realism. You'll constantly see up-close focus and distance blurring working all the time. And 
 the river water looks and moves with impressive motion. The Las Vegas level, Gambler's Paradise, 
 shows off water, too, only you'll see reflections with more intensity: puddles on the street reflect 
 the city's bright lights and structures with impressive realism, while also affecting the fights 
 themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  A great fighter online and off and still follows the DOA storyline and characters.
  
  Pros- Excellent controls, Amazing graphics (he he the girls :P ) Online is great also especially 
 for the fact that all the game play options available offline are online also. Having Avatars are 
 nice also for the online lobbies.
  
  Cons- Some of the moves are to difficult to pull of and are just unpractical at times. Online has 
 one flaw also even if you have a perfect connection a lag burst or someone who joins the match 
 can make it lag badly.
  
  Sound- The sound track is good also everyone has there own theme music (like previous entries) . 
 every hit and every time you hit a wall the sound effect is heard.
  
  Graphics- Lighting is extremely well done and background effects are also represented well. Characters 
 also look well done.
  
  Value- Gold.
  
  Tilt- Doesn't get boring if you can play online all the time but overall its awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockefab
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  First things first the learning curve really just depends if you have been playing this for a long 
 time or not but ya pretty much it.
  
  And the difficulty you just have to decide because its easier to me than to you maybe.
  
  GOOD 
 THINGS ABOUT THE GAME
  
  Well one of the great things about it is the graphics and the environment i mean if you compare 
 it to tekkens envirollment its a bit better and the other good about this game is the characters 
 and story but some characters story and endings just get to damm weird even for doa games but most 
 of them are good and make sense anyway.
  
  and their costumes are good especially the ninjas.
  
  BAD THINGS ABOUT THE GAME
  
  Well 
 the only bad thing to me that the combos well some of them are to  
 even for the great veterans nd things.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  As a conclusion i would suggest this game to people who loved the other series and for people who 
 like fighting games. Thats all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Review: Dead or Alive 4
  
  This is one of the elite fighting series out there, right up there with Street Fighter, Tekken, 
 and Soul Caliber, though it is my opinion that the series has gone down hill since DOA 2, since 
 I felt that DOA 3 was a button mashers dream, but still a good game. Will Dead Or Alive 4 (DOA 
 4) bring redemption to the DOA series in my eyes, or could it possibly make the series worse?
 
  
  Story:
  Each character has their own story, like Tina wants to win the tournament to use it as a platform 
 to launch her career as a rock star, which of course Bass wants to stop. Kasumi wants to discover 
 what Helena and the company DOA tech have been hiding. You get the general idea, bunch of fighters, 
 same crummy story lines, and one big boss to beat in order to achieve their goals....
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are as always the high point of this series of games and this is still the 
 case here, but is it just me but there is not a whole lot of difference graphically between DOA 
 3 and DOA4, or even from DOA Ultimate. The graphics are beautiful and wonderfully rendered and 
 the stages are beautiful to look at but you will be focusing so much on the fighting that you will 
 hardly have the time to enjoy them. What upsets me is that it looks like they didn't update the 
 character models any, just the clothes that they are wearing. I mean the outfits look great but 
 you would have thought that maybe that would have fixed the clipping issue the occurs with the 
 Ladies with long hair that was something that bugged me in DOA3 and Ultimate, and it seems that 
 they didn't even bother to upgrade the player models from what they were in DOA Ultimate on the 
 Xbox, this is the Next Gen folks you really should fix the small things like this.
  
  Music:
  The music in the DOA series has always been substandard in my opinion, and the voice 
 overs are still abysmal, I would have hoped that maybe they could have found some voice actors 
 from each native country to voice each character; I can understand Kasumi, Ayane, and Hyabusa speaking 
 Japanese, or broken English, but Tina and Bass whom are American come on guys, I think it would 
 be cool to hear Helena speaking French, or Hitomi speaking German. That is only a personal gripe 
 though with gaming in general not just this game, but since the music is so poor in this game I 
 would rather delve into a rant on native tongues spoken in gaming than waste a minute on the music 
 of this game, and sadly there are few sound tracks that are worse than this one.
  
  Control:
  Good Lord Almighty, I may have to rant again here. One of the saving graces of DOA3 
 and Ultimate was the easy to trigger counter system, which gave many of the new players to the 
 series a chance to actually play on the same level as heavily experienced players, and counter 
 your way out of being cornered in a stage making a loss by where you got cornered by an opponent 
 rare, but DOA 4 removed this countering system that is now complex enough to scare away even veteran 
 DOA fans, after having played this with many of my friends whom were huge fans of DOA 3, they now 
 find it hard to play or even enjoy DOA4 because the countering system is so difficult to pull off. 
 So expect to loose a lot of fights, and let your frustration grow, because you got cornered in 
 a tight space and can't get out over and over again.
  
  Design:
  You know what this game seems only like a tech upgrade from DOA ultimate with 3 more characters, 
 an old boss now playable, and extremely difficult to reach XBL achievements. Even the games surprise 
 hidden character seems tacked on to feel like hey we got Master Chief in our fighting game, come 
 play this game cause we have run out of gimmicks to sell a game we have sold 2 other times on the 
 Xbox, and still justify a 60 price tag.
  
  Hardcore DOA fans this is for you, everyone else stay away, far away, unless you are a glutton 
 for punishment. Pick up DOA 3 for the Xbox which can also be played on your 360, I am pretty sure 
 it can be had for dirt cheap now, and provides far more entertainment. you know that or download 
 Street Fighter 2 Hyper Fighting off of XBL
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  5/10
  
  Sound
  4/10
  
  Fun factor
  5/10
  
  Tilt
  4/10
  
  Average score
  5.4 out 
 of 10.0
  
  Dead or Alive 4:
  
  Pros:
  Scantly clad Pretty girls :)
  Great Graphics
  Multiplayer is still fun
  Die hard fans will eat this up
  
  Cons:
  The 
 cheapest final boss yet.
  Graphics could have been better
  Changes in the fighting system are not welcome changes
  Cornering is more common than ever
 
  Only for the Die Hard fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Ill tell you the truth. I heard Dead or Alive 4 and I quickly associated it with well-endowed 
 girls with combat mechanics in the blurred background of the picture. First hour or so with the 
 game and I was just about ready to write it off aswell, crap. Too many times was I frustrated 
 with how ridiculously good the AI was on the default normal setting and the number of times I had 
 my ass handed to me, particularly eating twenty-hit combos and being stunned for way too long for 
 me to do anything about winning. It just didnt feel right and was certainly no Tekken or Mortal 
 Kombat.
  
  That was my first impression of Dead or Alive 4.
  
  Fortunately, the graphics of the game are so good I found myself playing it again a few weeks later, 
 just to look at it some more. It was this second time around I noticed that the game wasnt that 
 bad actually. On the contrary, its quite great. Like all good fighting games, matches can be really 
 unpredictable and suspenseful. This is largely helped by terrific visual and interactive settings. 
 Its awesome discovering new parts of a level you never knew existed after kicking your opponent 
 through a wall or off a cliff and into it. At first the combat may feel a bit robotic. As you get 
 the hang of it though pulling off fluid combos comes pretty naturally and it LOOKS natural and 
 FEELS good. Whats more, its challenging (which in turn directly contributes to the games lifespan 
 as you get better and better.)
  
  Again, like all good fighting games, the roster features many different characters, none of which 
 is a clone of the last. All have their unique moves and feel meaning that there is a fighter for 
 everyone. While the game is no Tekken or Mortal Kombat, it IS a Dead or Alive and is characterized 
 quite vividly by its own trademarks and unique fighting systems. I wholeheartedly recommend to 
 anyone in the least bit interested in fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guiltfeeder566
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  DOA4 is a fast fighting game that puts even focus on both attack and defense. Being a big improvement 
 on its predecessors, it uses a new combo system that easily doubles or, in some cases, triples 
 the maximum combo attack available in DOA3 or DOAU. They also tightened up the counter system. 
 You now have even less time to pull of a counter then you did last time. That means if you pull 
 one off you gain a great advantage, but if you fail youll take a beating at the hands of the new 
 combo system. The AI, while well put together, is rather cheap. It was an inhuman ability to pull 
 off counters, even with the most randomly placed punches and kicks. Also, due to its quickness, 
 will almost instantly grab you when you attempt to block (making a beginners defense almost useless) 
 and pull off advanced throw combo's when ever they can. The final boss, Alpha-152, is a text book 
 case of SNK Boss Syndrome. Her weakest combo can talk half your health and her strongest leaves 
 you on the edge of death. An inexperienced player could easily spend 20 or more minutes trying 
 to defeat her alone. However, she easily falls for tactics like running attacks and strange, unorthodox 
 fighting like Brad Wong's.
  
  Graphics
  
  While DOA4 does have better graphics then the previous games, most of them are effects and lighting, 
 rather then in the fighters them selves. The stages look better and are more destructible and the 
 fighters clothing sport great looking fur and shine. Overall it doesnt feel like DOA4 took advantage 
 of the 360's potential. Value
  
  DOA4 will last you along time. The AI, while cheap, has the capacity to give you a reasonable challenge 
 and the multiple battle modes won't make the battles stale. But the real replay value is in the 
 multiplayer. Its great fun to play another experienced player as this is a game that forces you 
 to get better fast with you really knowing it. The only area lacking is the costumes. While DOAU 
 easily had 20+ costumes for each character DOA4 has only eight at the most and many are just retexturings. 
 A few even only had three. Overall
  
  DOA4 is a great game that no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  doa4 is -not- a bad game. it's a great fighter. it's fast and gorgeous, and unfortunately designed 
 only for those inhuman super reflex clones that i'm sure george lucas will make another movie about.
 
  
  doa4 is hard. it's really hard. it makes me want to fight team ninja and itagaki for they've done 
 to us this time. additionally as per usual, the doa control scheme is about as far from intuitive 
 as is humanly possible.
  
  graphically however, the game is a delight to behold. in those rare cases where u do manage to 
 win, it's certainly worth the effort tho.
  
  however, i will say this in warning... the final boss cheats. don't ever expect to win and you'll 
 do fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiki81
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of doa right from the start and just just for the.... full graphics. Every 
 game is of a solid build and doa4 doesn't dissapoint.
  Just as the same od DOAU but it looks obviously different between the actions while you fight in 
 the game, but alpha-152 is a huge master peice you can't fool with. Anyway the graphics are as normal 
 amazing there is a whole of alot of detail in the environments and characters, especially the female 
 characters. Overall, this game is a worthy addition to the series, or to anybody who loves fighting 
 games in general. With 22 characters to choose from, many gameplay modes and unlockable costumes, 
 this is one fighter you need to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PJC6
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  there has been a few DOA entrys but this is probaly the best one.
  
  but. you might not actualy like it if you arnt still intrested in fighting games cause this is 
 still that classic combo fighting game but there isnt much new stuff here except a new character 
 and some new costumes i think.
  
  hyabusas tornado spin thing is still here most of the characters from the other games are still 
 here and the counter mechanic is here too the grachics are the real inprovement the levels are 
 so detailed and you can hit people off cliffs and through windows and into walls and other things 
 and the characters are so well animated but the attacks are very super-human like in the other 
 games but you may be put off by how tough it can be at times because the counter mechanic makes 
 you have to try and mix up your moves so for anyone whos still interested in fighting games and 
 just got an x360 or is looking for a fighting game for there colection dead or alive 4 fits the 
 bill just aslong as you dont mind looseing alot until you get good and finaly start kicking some 
 a** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestinyDeath
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the 
 xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way 
 better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis 
 game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox 
 live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better 
 if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is 
 really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but 
 rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better if the 
 did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really 
 good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather 
 that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a 
 little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good 
 but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that 
 that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a little 
 more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it 
 good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that 
 it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more 
 woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good 
 have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really 
 goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on 
 the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done 
 way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis 
 game is really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox 
 live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is really good but it good have done way better 
 if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but rather that that it really goodthis game is 
 really good but it good have done way better if the did a little more woork on the xbox live. but 
 rather that that it really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The good: eveerything
  
  The bad: The voices are little lack and different.
  
  Gameplay: Just as the same od DOAU but it looks obviously different between the actions while you 
 fight in the game, but alpha-152 is a huge master peice you can't fool with
  
  graphics: Perfect and High quality display, and Team ninja logo clip has speeded up as it did but 
 just to be sure nothing slowed anything down.
  
  Sound: Just as i said from The bad 
  
  Value: More controls to learn and more moves to experience by new and old charcaters can explain 
 everything.
  
  Tilt: Perfect game to play, perfect time to buy it, perfect graphics you'll never beat and the 
 perfect staff had sure did some hard work to make all of the world happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Considering the fact that DOA games are going to be on Microsoft's systems, DOA 4 is released right 
 when 2005's twilight faded into darkness, shortly after the Xbox 360 launch. It's nice that Team 
 Ninja has given us a new 3D fighter to have fun with on the 360 right? While this is technically 
 a new game, the whole concept, gameplay, and features are too familiar with the previous DOA games. 
 However a couple changes have taken place. Team Ninja thought to give DOA fans a bit of a challenge, 
 so they completely took out the Easy difficultly option for all of the game modes. This may not 
 sound like a big deal to experienced DOA players, but this is semi-bad news for those that don't 
 play DOA enough. Also, the pace of the fighting is faster and fierce then ever, so you'll need 
 to counter-attack frequently. All the fighters from the previous games return, but are acquired 
 with a couple new moves. The new fighters, Lisa, an African-American wrestler, Eliot, a young English 
 male whose fighting abilities resemble Gen Fu, and Kokoro, a Japanese geisha wanting to be a fighter, 
 are nice additions. It's also worth noting of a Spartan-458 character as an unlockable. Halo players 
 have a nice visual treat, but this addition is more of a cash cow for non-DOA fans.
  
  Once you fight your way through the Story mode with all the characters, you'll unlock other characters 
 and costumes. To get more unlockables, you will fight for specific rankings on several game modes, 
 just like the previous games in the series. Game modes, as usual, include Time Attack, Survival, 
 Team Battle, Versus, and Online matches. When it comes to features, DOA 4 is pretty much the same 
 as DOA Ultimate for the Xbox. It's addictive to play through the various game modes, as well as 
 Xbox Live, but it's all been done before. The various minor editions included on Xbox Live matches 
 as well as some other modes don't help much ether.
  
  The 3D Fighting gameplay, in a general sense, is just too similar to the past DOA games, notably 
 DOA 3 and DOA Ultimate. DOA 4 can still be a fun and addictive game with its various features, 
 though.
  
  Graphics:
  
  With the exception of more poly's and vibrant visual effects, DOA 4's graphics engine is almost 
 exactly like DOA 2 Ultimate. A strong point in the DOA games has always been the visuals, but Team 
 Ninja probably realizes that spectacular visuals don't make a superb game. Not to say DOA 4 is 
 looks bad, as a matter of fact; it still manages to create great environments and character models. 
 There's just no lust on the visuals here like there have been on DOA games in the past. Besides, 
 DOA 4 has a couple glitches worth noting. When playing on your own, it has a moment where the game 
 freezes for one split second during the fighting. This is very rare, but it's worth warning you 
 guys. Also, when you play on the online matches via Xbox Live, you'll sometimes get awkward lag 
 issues that ruin the gameplay. Aside from those errors, DOA 4 is solid smooth on visuals.
  
  Sound:
  
  Once again, the music is in the same sense as before. The game soundtrack is 
 accompanied with pop and rock influenced songs. You can expect Aerosmith's music here too. The 
 Japanese-only voices (with the exception of the unlockable Spartan-458) do good justice once again, 
 however, it would've been nice if there was an option for English voices. But if that can't be 
 allowed, then the DOA characters should really speak in the language from the country they originate, 
 since it still feels a little odd that all of them, no matter what race, knows Japanese perfectly. 
 The juicy sound effects fit the action well, especially when doing various moves. But the audio 
 is all the same that DOA players listen too in every game.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  DOA 4 is just too similar to the previous games, so it doesn't introduce anything revolutionary. 
 DOA 4 is a good fighter if you've gotten used to everything the series is famous for, such as the 
 hot girls, visuals, intense moves, etc. DOA Ultimate was the turning point of the DOA series, but 
 DOA 4 doesn't change much after that game. Still, this game is great as an online fighter and is 
 worth getting the unlockables, but if you've been through this stuff before and have very little 
 interest in coming back, you can skip DOA 4.
  
  Pros:
  
  -New moves and characters
  -Online matches are still very fun.
  -The fast pacing does justice.
  
  Cons:
  
  -The 
 same general DOA gameplay that we've played in the past.
  -Taking out the Easy setting was uncalled for. (Though it's not a terrible thing)
  -The graphics 
 are not much better than DOA Ultimate for the Xbox.
  -The audio is getting rather typecast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixv2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  this is the best DOA yet it has a lot of new charpters the grapics dont dissopoint and the achievments 
 are good...
  
  you can do a lot in this fighting game including time attack tag battle so on i think this is the 
 best DOA yet i hope it only gets better you continue to kick @$$ (exuase my laungage) there is 
 a lot of new features and charters we will continue to grow and grow and hopefully be as sucessfull 
 as tekken...
  
  the charpters are very varied from ningas to pro wrestlers to DJ s to assasins ...
  
  the grafics 
 are terrific especially on HD television the sound system is great and you can listen to your music 
 while you kick some @$$ (exuase my language AGAIN)
  
  overall a great review your loyal player mix v2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is fun but when and not at the same time. This game will you piss you off when you 
 almost won and then you just loose and you can't do nothing about it. But it has good graphics 
 and this is one of the best fighting games for xbox 360 so far. This game is as fun as mortal combat. 
 So i recommend that you buy this game and play it you're gonna love it until it's time for you 
 to loose. :) But overall i would that this is a good game. Don't let this game piss you off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Diversified cast of fighters. Bright and sharp visuals. Fast gameplay with little loading 
 times.
  
  THE BAD: Not fundamentally different from previous iterations. Virtually no story except at the 
 end.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is more of the same, but it's still a great fighting game.
  
  GAMEPLAY is excellent. Dead or Alive 4 like many fighting games these days lacks any form of a 
 story line. Unless you've been following the series from the beginning, you won't really understand 
 any of the relationships some characters share with one another. In fact, it's a little confusing 
 why some down right hate each other, but fortunately the game mechanics make up for that.
  
  Like previous installments, DOA4 revolves around attacking, blocking, throwing and hold countering. 
 Sometimes button mashing will get the job done, but against experienced players, skill is needed. 
 Each of the over 20 playable characters has his or her own special moves and fighting style, but 
 the general mechanics apply to everyone.
  
  The Story Mode is where most of the meat is. At first, only a select amount of characters are available 
 and after 7 rounds and 2 comedic intermissions, a boss battle ensues. For the most part that boss 
 is Alpha-152, Kasumi's evil genetic clone, and she is quite an adversary. There will be instances 
 where she will go ballistic and wipe the floor with her opponent, but every once and awhile she'll 
 be susceptible to some good old cheesing. After you beat all the available characters in the story 
 mode, the true ending is unlocked. It's actually quite satisfying to watch, but it really won't 
 make much sense for anyone new to Dead or Alive.
  
  GRAPHICS are great. The environments and characters are all visually impressive. The different 
 locations in the game are refreshing although sometimes bazaar (like the stage with dinosaurs) . 
 The many costumes each character has are incredibly detailed. About the only thing not perfect 
 looking about Dead or Alive 4 are the character models themselves. The skin more specifically looks 
 like plastic. It could be this is the style Team Ninja is going for, but in general the characters 
 aren't nearly as detailed as their clothes or surroundings.
  
  SOUND is good. The music and sound effects make for an enjoyable experience and the Japanese voice 
 actors do a good job giving the characters personality. Unfortunately, they don't get to say too 
 much, so expect a lot of one liners.
  
  VALUE is superb. To unlock all the special content in DOA4, expect to spend 10-15 hours doing so. 
 In fact, many of the achievement points are rewarded by the amount of time spent playing the game. 
 Versus mode against a friend will also add a lot of replay value as well as the unlimited amount 
 of challengers on Xbox Live.
  
  OVERALL Dead or Alive 4 sticks to the formula set by its predecessors. It is certainly one of the 
 best fighting games on the Xbox 360 and the greatest Dead or Alive to date. With such a large cast 
 of fighters and intricate battle system, Dead or Alive 4 is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibanezdropd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Really, this is the kind of game that you have to get really good at to enjoy. I'm okay, but not 
 very consistent. The controls in this game are pretty much spot on -- when you get used to the timing 
 (which seems to be slightly different for each character) you'll be pulling off reversal and complex 
 grapple moves galore. The graphics are amazing as well. While, I would never mistake the characters 
 for real people -- they are still amazing. It is the graphical style that makes them look somewhat 
 unrealistic. The environments are lush and beautiful. Sometimes I would lose a battle just because 
 I noticed something new in the environment and stopped paying attention to the battle. The roster 
 of characters is very diverse and there are a couple unlockable characters and well as a bunch 
 of unlockable costumes for each character. There are a bunch of game modes. Unlocking costumes 
 and characters will involve beating the game multiple times in time attack mode and story mode. 
 My source of frustration is the AI. Well, not the AI.. but gameplay is hard -- the last character, 
 Alpha 157 (or whatever number it is) , is crazy. She's easily 2x as fast as any character in the 
 game, can warp around the environments, and has a plethora of powerful moves. A couple of these 
 moves can take down 2/3 of your health in one hit. Alpha is a b****! Plain and simple. The game 
 is really fun though. Especially with the inclusion of online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodlez_87
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of doa right from the start and just just for the.... full graphics. Every 
 game is of a solid build and doa4 doesn't dissapoint.
  
  DOA4 can be seen as the finale in the games story, DOATEC in all its evil has its days numbered 
 as the ninjas head off to tear tower DOATECs infamous tri tower. the individual plots of the characters 
 start well and have good potential but to be honest thats all it is for most of the cast. Don't 
 get me wrong the chaarcter endings are impressive its just a shame that they end up having NOTHING 
 to do with the actual storyline they start off, resulting is a pointless 30secs of cinematics which 
 leaves you wanting some closure..
  
  Anyway the graphics are as normal amazing there is a hell of alot of detail in the environments 
 and characters, especially the female characters mmmm helena........... uh, yeah. However the characters 
 don't look as detailed as they should be put the hair on some of the characters look really, really 
 strange, sometimes the hair moves around freely whilst your characters stands completley still.
 
  
  The gameplay has always been the main draw for me. The whole idea of reversals has added so much 
 more enjoyment and alot of strategy into a fighting game, it really makes you think about when 
 to attack, when to defend, when to move, when to throw. Each character is unique and there will 
 always be one that suits you. In this game the fighitng is sppeded up alot forcing you to thin 
 and react faster with moves doing a shed load of damage and reversals becomming harder to pull 
 off but alot more rewarding when you do them.
  
  Now to all you newcommers there is one important thing you must understand. You WILL lose, you 
 WILL get angry, you WILL hate the end of game boss but you will learn, you will adapt and you will 
 find that one set of combos that leaves you're opponent face dont. You just need to be patient 
 because when you get better you will see the games potential.
  
  So if you're really frustrated and the tough AI then take the game online, itsa good way to brush 
 up on your skills and watch more experienced players fight which is another good way to learn something.
 
  
  Despite the fact that this game is one tough cookie and the fact that there could have been more 
 detail to the character faces and long hair this is easily the best game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChocolatePimp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  At first I was doubtful of this game, but once I got into Playing this game, I literally did not 
 want to put it down. I beat it in one day, with every character, from 12:00pm to 9:30 pm (taking 
 needed breaks of course) . The character storylines are short, it seem like a rip-off at first, 
 but later you'll see this is needed, after beating it with several characters, seeing how the storyline 
 changes between point of views, and how the character inflict of the lives of each other. The unlockable 
 character are great, and the unlockable costumes are rewarding, not only the girls' costumes, but 
 for every character in the game. But, after I had beaten the game with each and every character, I 
 felt no need to go back and do it all over again, just for a couple of costumes.
  
  Multiplayer, on the other hand is the strength of the game ,it would and is the only reason to 
 go back and beat the game several times with the same character for more costumes. That way you 
 can showoff your favorite character's new costume while beating some newbie with an old basic costume. 
 Multiplayer keeps me interested with differen't modes like tag, winner or loser stays, survival, time 
 attack, etc. Most of these are also in single player, but they are more enjoyable on Xbox live or 
 with another person. DOA4 is the best in the series, and one no xbox 360 owner should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tertuel
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  The counters become too risky when you are facing opponents who purposely doesn't finish their 
 combos. You will then either be juggled or thrown, because of this, which will leave you in a difficult 
 mind game. Countering will also make you susceptible to being thrown.
  
  Missing a tech roll will make you become more and more vulnerable as the opponent rushes towards 
 you whilst on the ground. They will force you to get up and you will be forced to counter or block 
 or they will throw you if you guess wrong. Spartan is a good example of a character that is great 
 for this technique. The best thing to do here is probably counter low.
  
  The environmental damage is too severe and ridiculous.
  
  A lot of low kicks don't register 
 correctly when you try to force an opponent up.
  
  Players can jump across the screen from anywhere when another player doesn't tech roll. They can 
 jump on you even when you're almost all the way up.
  
  Some throws can't be countered and some throw counter moves (med kick, low punch) don't register 
 correctly which will allow you to still be thrown.
  
  You are forced to counter when you are thrown up against a wall or environmental object. Guess 
 wrong and you will be hit with another combo. Don't counter and you will be hit with another combo.
 
  
  A lot of high-ranked players use cheap tactics which will constantly put you on the defense from 
 the first hit.
  
  Advantages/Disadvantages aren't clearly defined with some characters which will allow some characters 
 to spam combos which will constantly leave you on the defense (esp. Helena) .
  
  Weak evade system.
  
  Some characters are amazingly cheap and unbalanced (Ryu Hayabusa and 
 most other ninjas) .
  
  Turtling (always waiting for the other play to rush you) is vividly apparent in this game and is 
 practiced often by high-ranking players which adds to the cheapness level.
  
  The game can be fun and intense at times, especially when you're playing a countering game. However, 
 Dead or Alive 4 seems too broken to be considered a great fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  *Due to me not having Xbox live, this review is for the SP experience only*
  
  Dead or Alive has always been the most popular fighting on the Xbox. Actually, its the only exclusive 
 to the console. From that, Tecmo has to make sure that every new entry in the series is good. DOA 
 4 delivers with what fans have come to expect plus a little more, which is all for the better. 
 Graphics in DOA 4 are still very impressive for being a year old 360 game. The details are cleaner 
 and sharper, and make the graphics stand out. Every detail, from the flowing of hair, down to the 
 lights flickering in the streets, are brought out with the power of Microsoft's console. Don't 
 even get me started on the water effects either. By the way, the screen shots do not do this game 
 justice, they must be seen to be believed.
  
  Gameplay is what you have come to expect if you have played any of the previous games. You have 
 a block, throw, punch, and kick button. Use these in sequence and you create combos. All fairly 
 standard stuff. But when you start using throws and countering your opponent's moves, you start 
 feeling that rush of excitement. What this game does better than any other fighter is show you 
 how fast a fighting game can get, within limits. I say within limits because this isn't DBZ or 
 Mortal Kombat. You can't fly, shoot fireballs or pull people with hooks popping out of one's hand. 
 This is realistic combat and people move accordingly. Also there is no blood of any kind to be 
 found here, just pure fighting.
  
  Sound is also standard, and recycled from previous games, with some new ones mixed in for good 
 measure. The voices are still in Japanese, and no option of switching to English. The good news 
 is that you can change the subtitles to Spanish, French, and so on. Or you could just turn them 
 off all together. You will hear the usual grunts bangs and crackles from the past, with new sounds 
 like dinosaur roars, car horns, and so on. The music is okay, but you may want to put on some of 
 your own music with the custom soundtrack option to make the experience a little better. All in 
 all, the sound is good for a fighting game.
  
  Overall, this game is a worthy addition to the series, or to anybody who loves fighting games in 
 general. With 22 characters to choose from, many gameplay modes and unlockable costumes, this is 
 one fighter you need to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanoMexicano
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Well right off the bat, its so beautiful to see Christie again. It is challenging good enough to 
 be a fighting game, and how it is suppose to be. I don't mind the damn boss wiping me off with 
 one combo. It just makes beating the hell out of her better. The visuals are among the best, the 
 sound is crisp and clear. The thing that made me think was why was this game was so... uh bouncy? 
 I mean girls don't bounce that much. The story is lacking, and the endings are not to expectations 
 for beating a SNK type boss. No really what the hell? That pisses me off. Besides that the game 
 is pretty down to earth and I enjoyed it. The endings whoever will take away ALOT of value sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenUK
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to dead or alive, I had just got an xbox 360 and never played a DOA game 
 before (I'm a fan of other beat em up's like Tekken etc.) .
  But then when I actually started playing the game after the first couple of fights while I was 
 still amazed by the graphics and animations the AI started to torment me.
  The AI on DOA is incredibly hard, they counter most things you send at them with ease and pull 
 of huge combos taking over 1/3 of your health. This may not bother regular DOA fans and players 
 as they are already good but for new players to the series like me it just ruins it. With a new 
 generation console, and DOA's first game on the 360, a lot of new players will be getting the game. 
 So it's seems illogical to loose the user friendly approach and make it a game for hardcore DOA 
 players.
  
  I tend to play Survival mode as this is the mode I actually get to play around with the characters 
 combos and even button mash if I desire as the AI are pretty easy in this mode. Story mode is insanely 
 hard with the last boss, Alpha 152, being so frustrating it nearly brought me to tears - on more 
 than one occasion. She can teleport, pull of 10 string combos that take up to half your life and 
 throws you for nearly as much.
  
  So to sum up, if your new to this game the AI will drive you crazy, so much it will probably ruin 
 the game for you. If your a DOA fan and good at the game it will appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  What do you want to be, a ninja, assassin, or high schooler? Well, those are just some of the characters 
 description. As the fourth installment of a great fighting series on a next generation console, 
 this game has expectations to live up to, which it does.
  My friends say that this is an ordinary fighting game, but I beg to differ. This game has an interesting 
 story and multiple conclusions, and lightning-fast gameplay (literally) . A way this game makes it 
 different from other fighting games is that if you button-mash, youre doom. You have to coordinate 
 your moves to control the battle. This means going into the practice mode and fully learn their 
 moves. Once you do though, you will be good. A problem with the fighting is if youre knocked into 
 the air, the opponent does a 4-7 combo, but, you can do this too. Its kinda easy to get them in 
 the air and do the combo, but it takes away from the action sometimes.
  The story, like the others, revolves around the DOA TECH, with the ninjas (Kasumi, Ayane, Ryu, 
 and Hyate) , and the heir to DOA TECH, Helena, trying to take down the corrupted company. Others 
 like high schooler Hitomi, and martial arts student Elliot just want to test out their abilities 
 while winning the prize money is another plus.
  The graphics are beautiful and show off the raw power of the 360. The stages are great too (my 
 favorite is Gamblers Paradise, its so smooth looking) there are no jagged lines too (and it looks 
 even better in HD) . Another good thing is that you can fight while listening to your music thats 
 on your hardrive (Green Day is great with this game) without any problems.
  Overall, as one of the first launch games, especially as the first fighting game on the 360, it 
 shows promise that the 360 has a lot to offer. This game has a few flaws, but you are in for a 
 great fighting trip. So get this game as one of your first games on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerKirby89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. This game is great. The graphics are superb, and the game mechanics are addicting. 
 Yet gamers, unlike the original games, will have to actually work to beat this game, even on its 
 easiest setting. I, for instance, was able to unlock all costumes, characters, arenas, and game 
 modes for DOA's 1-3, and I had trouble the first time playing through story mode. The online play 
 is where the value really comes in. You could spend your entire day playing on-line, working to 
 achieve a higher grade, and never get bored; the amount of characters, maps, and modes will keep 
 even the most cynical gamers occupied for days on end. The desire to master this game will consume 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsjsjsjsd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  dead or alive 4 is the most coolest fighting game i have ever played but is THE most frustrating 
 game i have ever played. but the game is very cool. the graphics are absoulotly next gen graphics, the 
 sound sounds weird but in a good way, the difficulty is probably the worst part about the game. because 
 you can get so angry you just have to throw the controller. the online mode is the best part about 
 the game because you can make your own avatar and buy stuff for your avatar, create your own sessions 
 and just hang out and battle!!! the countering system is so hard it makes you wantto scream at the 
 tv. because it is so damn hard you can barely block and barely counter your opponnet. but overall 
 this game is awesome but if you have anger issues dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProximaMinor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautiful, the fighting system is deep, the music is great, and contains excellent 
 features for those who love fighting games.
  
  The graphics are breath taking (which is expected from Team Ninja) . This game really shows off 
 the 360's capabilities. The stages are lush, and the character models are, well, extremely attractive. 
 Even those who don't enjoy fighting game but enjoy scantly dressed, gorgeous women (and men) are 
 bound to love this game. DOA is known for it's incredible fighting system. The controls are complex 
 and take time to master; but, once you get it down, kicking the living crap out of your friends 
 and others online is undeniable fun. The musical score is pretty impressive as well, nothing to 
 write home about, but it certainly does not take away from what this game is. Online play is amazing, 
 and is what really sets this game apart from other fighting games, I would suggest getting this 
 game just so you can see how well the online features work. If you are a fan of fighters, then 
 this is a no brainer, it's one of the best in the genre. If you hate fighters, or lack patience 
 to get good at a game, then I would suggest against this game, or perhaps renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  It's hard to not get over the fact that Dead Or Alive 4 doesn't do anything especially new. Of 
 course, this is the most polished Dead Or Alive yet but it doesn't take the genre any further. 
 That's not a bad thing, but for a next generation console you expect more then prettier graphics. 
 The changes for this game at first, are minimal. But it's the subtle tweaks to the game that makes 
 this Dead Or Alive the best one yet. Basically, this plays exactly the same as the third title 
 for the old Xbox. That's not a bad thing, it allows the transition from the Xbox to the 360 to 
 go smoothly and doesn't alienate the player. But why buy this version if you already own DOA 3 
 or DOA Ultimate? What is new to entice you to buy it? There's just one thing. The online. Playing 
 DOA 4 online is now a lot more refined then DOA Ultimate and gives the game a much needed boost. 
 If however, you're not online then you're missing the biggest feature for this game. So is it worth 
 buying for offline? Yes and no. If you're a beat em-up fan and a big fan of Dead Or Alive franchise 
 then this game should be worth looking into. It's the fastest, most accessible and most fluid fighter 
 available for the 360. The only gripe is Microsoft have a DOA 3 backwards compatible patch so it's 
 a question of your love for DOA. So the gameplay is more fluid and faster and perhaps easier to 
 use. It does tend to be a bit button bashing for a bit but if you practise often enough you'll 
 find the controls intuitive. Course, the stand out thing about this game is the visuals.
  
  This game may not truly show the potential of the 360 but you can't deny how amazing everything 
 looks and runs. There's virtually no slowdown to speak off. The environments are highly detailed, 
 believable and contain quite a few hidden easter eggs that may make you smile. But of course, when 
 DOA is concerned, the attention has been on the characters. All the characters look stunning. They 
 all look, act, move and fight realistically. The hair and clothes move and flow in the wind. But 
 the flaw is with the hair. It does look like the hair is made entirely out of ribbons but it's 
 not a major problem and doesn't degrade the game's quality in terms of graphics.
  
  The sound is the usual fighting genre music. There's rock music, trashy music, Japanese folklore 
 music, all sorts to please everybody. Unfortunately, there's no option to include your own music 
 and that's a shame. The characters all speak in Japanese and is perhaps all the better for it. 
 It really fits the mood and atmosphere for this game. The sound effects for most of the time sound 
 like they was directly ripped out of every other DOA game, and I think this is quite lazy. The 
 sound is okay, but nothing to scream about.
  
  This game has the appeal to last you for quite a while. The multi-player is definitely the main 
 attraction, besides the graphics, that will keep you coming back for more. There's the usual things 
 to unlock such as various costumes for the characters, hidden characters, a movie theatre for the 
 ending sequences of the characters and of course, the achievements. There's plenty to keep the 
 solo player happy as well. There's a survival mode (beating so many players in a row as the difficulty 
 rises) , time attack, the story mode that is mildly entertaining but basic and lacking any depth. 
 There's also a watch mode that allows you to watch two CPU controlled characters battle it out. 
 The most interesting thing about this is the ability to take pictures of the warriors battling 
 it out and saving them to your album, thus allowing you to view them anytime you want.
  
  Dead Or Alive 4 for the Xbox 360 is a well crafted experience. It'll appeal to die hard fans of 
 the Dead Or Alive series and to any other die hard beat em up fan. Though it doesn't take the beat 
 em-up genre in any new direction it does redefine the franchise and makes this the best DOA yet. 
 The graphics are typically of a high quality but sound does need some work done to it. Buy it if 
 you see it going cheap but this will make a good weekend rental title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackkunoichi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive has been a very unique fighting series that put it boundaries into the gaming world. 
 When DOA stages included falling off of cliffs, and edges, then other gamers thought This is really 
 cool. Dead or Alive 4 improved those really well, by going back and forth between gates.
  
  In this game, there seem to be some characters missing when you start (Helena, Gen-Fu, Leon) . That's 
 because their hidden characters. Helena needs to be a hidden character since the whole game revolves 
 all around her. Other than that there are a few new characters: Kokoro, Elliot, La Mariposa, and 
 Spartan (a female Halo) . The person I seemed to learn more on moves about was the geisha herself, 
 Kokoro.
  
  This game has some really unique stages like Gambler's Paradise, or Kyoto in Bloom (which many would 
 see in the pictures on magazines when they talk about this game)
  
  Now you guys are thinking, What is bad about this game? . For beginners, this game is extremely 
 hard, and there is no Easy difficulty, and these characters will beat you till you cry in Story 
 Mode.
  
  Would I recommend everyone to buy this game? Hell yes. DOA has really put some great attention 
 to many others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game offers great graphics. Almost too good, as you can see the ladies breasts jumbling up 
 and down. I thought the levels were outstanding (starting up on a bridge above the river, then 
 getting knocked down and continuing the fight in the water) . The background interacts with you 
 whether getting hit buy a car or getting electicuted on a fense. The combat is good, but almost 
 too fast to do any counter moves. Counter moves were very hard to time. The game offers lots of 
 value since you have an incentive to pass the game with every character, sometimes more than once 
 to open up new characters or new outfits. I would have to say the only thing that really frustrated 
 me was the end boss. This boss was way to difficult. They should have a easier difficulty for her, 
 she is so cheap. Trust me, you will get sick of playing her. For the online component, at the time 
 I had the game it didn't work well. Way too much lag time. I have heard it has been fixed since. 
 Overall, this is a great game to own if you enjoy street fighting type games. I still prefer Tekken, 
 but some of the characters in DOA 4 are pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 comes to the Xbox 360, and blows the doors off the series. With killer graphics 
 that put the 360 to work, while working in a flimsy but interesting story that links all the fighters 
 to the DOA tournament. Throwing in no less than six different ways to play, plus replay options 
 and online, your head will spin with the endless amount of time you can spend on this game.
  
  DOA4 at its heart is a beefed up fighter. In the story mode, you choose one of 16 fighters 
 and run through their story, all the while, fighting opponents to get to the end of the story. 
 This mode gives you a story for each fighter and you start to see how the characters relate to 
 each other. In the past, I have to admit I thought the game was just random fighting, but there 
 is actually an arching storyline that link the fighters. This one has to do with DNA stealing and 
 a ninja clan that is trying to stop it. Or at least that is what I understood, but I could be wrong. 
 Once you complete the story mode, or you just get bored with it, you have several other options 
 to get your inner fight on. Survival mode puts you up against a never-ending stream of opponents 
 until you are knocked out. Time Attack mode puts you through a series of battles in an attempt 
 to finish them as quick as possible. This mode is very frantic as you are always trying to stay 
 ahead of the average times per round. Sparring allows you to train and learn each characters moves 
 and techniques. This is one of the best training modes I have witnessed in a fighting game. It 
 shows you the movement it you want to see it before you try it. It also shows you the controls 
 you pushed and moved vs. what needs to be done to complete the move. It is very intuitive and extremely 
 useful for getting the most out of each character and the game.
  
  Online fighters have never had a lot of success due to lag time and finding good opponents, but 
 that has changed with DOA4. Logging on to play online is as simple as selecting the DOA Online 
 icon in the main menu of the game. From here, you are presented with Quick Match options along 
 with searching for games that match your skill or location. It is really well done and makes getting 
 into a game very easy. Gamers are ranked after each online match with a grade. This grade tells 
 people how well you play and how many matches you have won and lost. While some lag occurs with 
 players that have slow connections, overall, the experience is very solid and shows a lot of polish. 
 Online play is great, but has the added benefit of achievements linked to it.
  
  As we all know Achievement Points are what players live for in any 360 game. They have become the 
 crack cocaine of the console for many players and DOA4 again, steps up to the plate with a plethora 
 of options. You get points for unlocking characters and costumes as well as finishing story mode. 
 Finish all story modes and you get more points. There are even zero point achievements like losing 
 10 matches online in a row. Team Ninja has thrown in a lot of achievements and even some that will 
 have you hanging your head in shame if you receive them.
  
  After playing the game for awhile, you will still be amazed by the graphics that are in DOA4. Background 
 scenery makes a huge presence on the player as it feels dynamic and ever moving. There is a level 
 that has rose petals floating through the air that is just breathtaking. Or the bridge level that 
 suspends you over a flowing river. Each environment is full of vivid details that immerse you in 
 the game. Sometimes to the point that you will lose a match because you are focusing on the levels. 
 Character animation is quite impressive. From the muscle cuts to the clothing ripples, the amount 
 of detail is staggering. And as with all Team Ninja games, the women have been pumped full of silicon 
 and jiggle more than a Jello mold in an earthquake. The biggest graphical flaw is hair. For some 
 reason, long hair is a problem for the characters. It looks like ribbons instead of flowing hair. 
 And this is a problem through most of the DOA games like DOAX and DOAX2. For some reason, the game 
 engine has a hard time rendering hair. It does not take away from the game, but by now, you would 
 think they would have found a better way to handle the hair issue.
  
  Sound is good but never excels. Characters have a limited set of dialogue and it becomes quite 
 repetitive if you have to repeat levels over and over. All of the voices are in Japanese, and it 
 helps with the ambiance of the game. The voices are good, but none of them really stand out with 
 any relevance. Ambient background noise is good, but it lacks punch as well. When items are destroyed 
 or broken during a fight, they sound good, but the contact between fighters is a bit repetitive. 
 It never stands out and sounds really annoying after some time. Music is better and seems as if 
 a lot more was put into that part of the sound options. Each level has a theme song and each pump 
 out the sound like you were at a concert. The music fits each arena and helps keep each battle 
 mellow. Also, each storys ending has music that is licensed and also sounds great. A soundtrack 
 for this game would be nice as it alone is worth picking up.
  
  DOA4 has limited the flaws to some minor items. Hair graphics are still a problem and have not 
 been addressed. Characters with long hair still look a bit creepy due to the lack of realistic, 
 flowing hair. Also, a way to filter out lag challenged players in the online play would be nice. 
 While a lot of the unlocked costumes are nice, some are just costumes with different color schemes. 
 Most have a lot of solid variants, but a couple of the favorites have 7, or 8 costumes, but you 
 get disappointed when you see that two or three are just color variants instead of actual new costumes. 
 There are a couple of fighters that are not balanced quite right and the fights tip in their favor. 
 Also, the end boss is insanely difficult to the point of frustration. You can beat the boss, but 
 it will definitely take several tries before you witness success.
  
  Overall, Dead or Alive 4 provides a quintessential fighting experience that puts it head and shoulders 
 about the rest of the fighters on the market. The solid fight engine, combined with a multitude 
 of game play modes makes the game a lasting experience for the player. The online play just adds 
 to the game and gives the player that excels a chance to test his mettle against the worlds best 
 players. It is a definite buy and should be in all 360 collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmicwave
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  i got my xbox360 when this game was released and i was very pleased with the game. the graphics 
 is amazing and the gameplay rocks. you may find the game a bit hard when you first start but eventually 
 you'll learn how the game works. it's a great multiplayer game and theirs a lot of replay value 
 considering you play the game online. some of the achievements can be quite frustating and annoying 
 like beating 100 oponents in survival mode or finishing the game within time limit. non the less 
 its a great game and the only proper fighting game for the xbox360 for now. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 happens to be my favorite fighting game to date and there are a ton of reasons 
 why its probably the best fighting game right next to Tekken and Virtual Fighter but with a countering 
 system that stands out like no other.
  
  Story  Each character had their own specific mini story dealing with the DOATEC labs and rivalries 
 with other opponents in the DOA Tournament. Each characters story ends with a visually stunning 
 CG video pertaining to their specific story. They range from intense action sequences to erotica 
 teasing home breakfasts. Graphics  Easily one of the best looking games to ever be created, specifically 
 for the fighting genre. The clothes move realistically (and oddly enough the hair moves like the 
 clothes, not so realistic) and the environments are crafted beautifully to the tiniest detail. 
 There are tons of unlockable outfits for the fighters, mainly for the females. The animations are 
 smooth, especially in tag team where the tag-grab animations are absurdly over the top when using 
 two characters who are somehow connected in the story (ex. Ayane and Kasumi, the two ninja rivals) .
 
  
  Sound  Plenty of good music that is fitting for a fighting game and tons of loud smashing and 
 clashing. Complete with taunts and quick battle cries for counters and powerful moves.
  
  Playability  Dead or Alive definitely has its own fighting system with its amazing Countering 
 System that has defined what DOA has come to be known for. There are four counters (middle punch, 
 middle kick, high, and low) and if pulled off correctly can completely interrupt your opponents 
 combo/attack and end in your favor with an attack of your own dealing massive damage. At first 
 Countering will seem extremely difficult and intimidating but like anything, practice will help 
 you prevail to become a DOA master. I personally cant imagine playing fighting games without any 
 countering, a system that awards a player for learning combos and studying an opponents style 
 to your own advantage like a real fighter. Its extremely satisfying to play against your friends 
 and slowly learn their strategies and retaliate in the next round with a hefty hand of ass-kicking 
 counters!
  
  Value  There are plenty of modes, tag team, survival, team, and did I mention ONLINE!
  Even 
 if you dont have Xbox Live, I promise this game provides never-ending hours of entertainment amongst 
 friends. Every now and then my friends and I get caught in DOAs black hole of kick ass fighting 
 goodness and just play the entire day away! This is my favorite fighting game by far. The graphics, 
 plethora of diverse characters and fighting styles, muti-leveled environments, and addictively 
 rewarding Counter System make Dead or Alive 4 my top choice for a Multiplayer and Fighting game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This is actually one of my first games on the 360, and almost 2 years later, I'm still enjoying 
 every bit of DOA4. Its gotta be one of the best fighting series out there. This time, it makes 
 an even better attraction with new charcters and a whole new level of graphics and physics design. 
 The fighting style is unique to other fighting games because of its unique countering system, at 
 first, it may be very difficult to fully master the controls and movements. Although, of course, 
 no good fighting game comes without a tutorial and training mode. Even so, as a beginner, there 
 is no Easy difficulty option, so you got to really be prepared for a hard time at first. Soon, 
 you will be surprised at how the controls will become smooth and instinctive, and you will be able 
 to enjoy the satisfaction of beating your opponent.
  
  The graphics are indeed very detailed, many of the stages are layered and quite large, making the 
 fight actually enjoyable, plus you get to explore more as you fight. I like the thought of discovering 
 new places to bash your opponent into. As its predecessors, DOA4 has come back with the original 
 charcters from DOA3, with some fresh new charcters to play and try with. It never ceases to amaze 
 me how Team ninja can keep on putting out new charcters instead of just improving gameplay, which 
 they did superbly as well.
  
  Another things that makes me play DOA4 repeatedly is the intricate design of each and every character, 
 although far from realistic, the textures on the characters have a fresh feel to it, almost as 
 if they had gone under an extreme makeover.
  
  As for the actual fighting, the most difficult opponent you will encounter in the game is Alpha-152, 
 which apparently a blue translucent blob in the shape of a female humanoid. She is quick, smart, 
 and deadly. Plus, the stage grounds is actually in her advantage. Although, if you have quick fingers 
 and eyes, she'll just be another trophy for you to put in the collection.
  
  The movie and ending scenes for each character is one the favourite things of mine in the game, 
 they are so artistically made, that I watch at least 3 of them whenever I play the game. Considering 
 that DOA4 was in dangerous territory when it was first released-as it came out the same time for 
 the 360 and was used like a leverage-it performed extremely well, and I am expecting great things 
 from the yet to be announced DOA5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jebril
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I thought WOW!! This game is hard, I could barely get past the first 
 computer without dying at least 5 times, and I couldn't even finish the game! But with patience 
 comes virtue practicing the game is what makes it good. If you are good at this game then this 
 game will be good to you! ANY Hardcore fighting game fan would know the basics of fighting games 
 with throws and bloking and combos, but what I love about this game, is that combos cannot be blocked 
 once the first hit is intiated instead you are forced to counter the oppenent or else suffer the 
 combo, unlike Tekken. With Tekken you can block a 12 hit combo right after the first or second 
 hit which is patheticly easy. Getting a counter on an oppenent is tough and does require you to 
 study charachters, but it becomes worth it at the end. Also throws are simply amazingly well done 
 compared to Tekken, in DOA there are offensive throws which is basically a quick grab you can used 
 this on stunned oppenents this makes the game a ton more challenging because not all charahcters 
 have these grabs, so if you have a non-grappler it becomes much harder to grab your oppenent since 
 you will need them to be standing perfectly still for you to grab them, which is unlike Tekken 
 again. Also down grabbing basically grabbing crouching oppenents or oppenents on the floor becomes 
 very signfacant and gives slower charachters an edge. ALSO!!! Combo Grabbing is very well thought 
 of, in each grab there are combos to press the person bieng grabbed bashes the A button to get 
 out of the grab while the person grabbing must enter the correct buttons quickly so their oppenent 
 does not escape the grab. This may seem kind of cheap and that the person can get out easily, but 
 it really is not, if you know the combo then it can be easily done.
  
  Another Revolutionary system of the fighting game is the ability to Jump on people meaning you 
 simply jump on someone recovering this becomes very useful to add in a bit more damage, There are 
 also Tag Jumps in Tag Mode where you can switch through charachters by jumping on your oppenent 
 which I think is one of the coolest things about this game.
  
  This game has one of the MOST balanced charachters in the world, every charachter is good in this 
 game, there are no super slow charachters such as in Tekken where it becomes useless to play with 
 them even if they can super powerful grabs. That's one of the best things in the game, Although 
 I must admit some charachters are better than others overall but in terms of playability all charachters 
 are good, and it really does come down to the skill of the player instead of the charachter with 
 this game unlike most fighters.
  
  Countering of course is the most revolutionary part of this game, low counters and high counters 
 are for high/low punches and kicks, and middle kicks and middle punches are countered through two 
 diffrent counters back X and forward X. With simple system it makes this game a ton more better, 
 most people think that in this game you can blind counter your oppenent meaning you bash the X 
 button (counter) in the 4 diffrent directions while your oppenent combos you and you can easily 
 counter them. THIS IS NOT TRUE!!! In fact doing that will usually hurt you more than anything since 
 you are only allowed a counter per 2 seconds, and since this game plays so fast, it will usually 
 end up hurting you. Some people complain that counters last too long, but I on the other hand disagree 
 because of this, counters are usually performed in combos where they are lightning fast strikes 
 so making counters last a shoter amount simply won't siginfy anything this will only be helpful 
 for the first or strike attack. SPEAKING OF STRIKE ATTACKS! Strike attacks are unblockable attacks, 
 and every charachter has one, some require you to charge for them others you can intiate through 
 running, it doesn't matter, but they are completly unblockable and you must counter them. With 
 Tina's Strike attack it is a charged up throw for one where she hurls herself at an oppenent to 
 grab them, you must attack her before she touches you or duck down, with Jann Lee's it's the infamous 
 Dragon Kick where he throws a fast running kick attack that is unbloackable it must be countered 
 or ducked. With Kasumi's It's this Petal Elbow thing, this attack is blockable if not fully charged, 
 but it must be countered if it is or else you will be hit. Each charachter has tons of special 
 ablities, with Kasumi, she can teleport all over the place and jump around, Ryu can also telport 
 through smoke bombs, Tengu can fly around the screen with his wings. Even charachters without these 
 ablities also have other ablities Lei Fang has 8 diffrent counters making it much easier to counter 
 with her, Ayane is the fastest attacker in the game, Bayman has huge Combo Throws that can take 
 out half an oppenents health. Last but not least the graphics are these games are just alright, 
 they can be better, there's a ton of clipping with girls hair, and sometimes you can see an attack 
 go through a person but it won't count because they were still getting up, -Kind of Bogus huH?- 
 If you have Live this is one of the games I highly recommend if you don't, get LIve then get this 
 game. Then play me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesthSells
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  I can think of no better game series than DOA if all you want to do is bounce around watching the 
 physics moving. The flowers were pretty too, though I hardly noticed them for all the jiggling.
 
  
  Anyhow the game was good for the purpose behind the purchase. I got to kick a few people and punch 
 a few people, both with the presence of a perverted fantasy of females that really has no basis 
 in reality. Multiplayer was a bit slow and somewhat choppy however the game is purely eye candy 
 with what they pass off as a fighting engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgsmjsje
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  dead or alive 4 is a great game and of course it does has the jiggly boob action which is hillarious. and 
 there is a new fighting system to it. the controls are the same as the past dead or alives. there 
 are new characters and new moves but no easy mode!!!!!!!! that is one of the reasons why it is so 
 frustrating because yor computer opponet can really piss you off. and alpha 152 is the hardest boss 
 i have ever fought. but overall its a great game. tecmo never dissapoints. and also the new jump over 
 a ledge and attack is pretty cool too. dead or alive 4 for the xbox 360 is awesome and never and 
 i mean never dissapoints!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostmore
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  The DOA series have always been a bore. My first experience was with DOA ultimate, which only kept 
 me entertained for about 3hrs at max.
  
  All of my friends who have played the game said it was very boring.
  
  Ok heres the reason 
 why it sucks. As we know DOA does not have any hit sparks or any shiny stuff like soul calibur. So 
 battle is really quite a bore.
  
  It works on the basic fighting style of a normal block and a crouching block. DOA is more of a game 
 that has to be studied rather than played. To be able to be 'pro' in DOA is probally only to manage 
 all your characters moves and throws and counters, and also study other characters combos, which 
 is basically retarded, as you know a character's special move may consist of a change to sweep attack 
 at any time of a combo which is basically so stupid because you do not know when its coming and 
 it happens at like 0.3secs which is basically impossible to see it coming.
  And the opponent can do different moves as well.
  
  So its a game that has to be studied which 
 is stupid.
  I see it as more of a button mashing game which is not fun.
  
  It  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glass-jaw
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  let me start off by saying the graphics are not the best seen on the 360
  but are also not the worst by far. i have had this game for over a year now even tho it takes only 
 15mins ' to finish it i find myself still playing it online play is great was its not laggy that 
 is some hate the fact that
  when you die online you got to wait for your turn again but i find this
  good as it makes you 
 want to win more so you can stay on to fight
  while everyone watches every move you make and there is a ton of
  stuff to unlock new players 
 new suits and so on there is even a online shop heheh so if you like to kick everyone down the 
 stairs and thru
  window's then this is the game for you. all doa fans will like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quadrophenic_9
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Exactly as I said. This game if played should only be played with other humans. If you don't have 
 the ability to do that, don't waste your time or money. I don't think I've ever cursed more in 
 my entire life. The computer almost never makes a mistake. The game is way too difficult and frustrating 
 to actually be fun. It's hardly even fair how good the computer is at it. I kept kicking through 
 people's heads too. Maybe I just sucked at it.... That's pretty likely. Like other people said though, 
 it is amazing looking and it probably plays really well against other people. So it has an upside. 
 I got rid of it though after less than a week. I grew to despise it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martialbullet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  If you've played it before, youre not missing much. Dead or Alive 4 is a much waited fighting game 
 for the xbox 360. As before, DOA 4 looks gorgeous. With so much detail, lighting, and bouncing, 
 you may forget to play the game. for the gameplay, it remains the same. It's not as deep as other 
 fighting games, but thats what makes great for casual players who'vehad their butts handed to then 
 in Tekken. but because its not so deep, there can be those who just button mash and win. This time 
 around, Doa online works very well. Sure there is that constant freezing which frustating because 
 opponents can see youre moves and counter it. But at least you can find matches that tell you if 
 there is lagging in that area. So over all its still an enjoyable game to play and possibly the 
 best one out there for the 360. So enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent fighter on the 360, with characters for everyone. The inclusion of the Spartan 
 appeared to make this game one step above the rest, but it didn't. The online play is fun but a 
 bit too cartoony for my taste, but the graphics and presentation of this game are undeniably some 
 of the best out there to date. The new characters fit perfectly into the story, and the backgrounds 
 and levels are extremely innovative. The option to have 7 or more costumes for most of the characters 
 is insane, and this game is a must have for fighting gurus. The endings are excellent and enjoyable 
 all at the same time - some are meaningful and powerful, while others are just there for comedy. 
 The gameplay is fun and simplistic (not too simplistic) , which makes this game enjoyable for people 
 of all ages. The soundtrack is good and fits the backgrounds and characters of the game. As a late 
 launch title, spectactors can't imagine what the 360 engine can perform in the following months 
 and years, when DOA4 has the graphics of a GOD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmad_the_man
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the best graphics on the 360 (topped only by Gears of War and Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter) . The gameplay is amazing, with tons of moves for each character, if you want 
 to perfect all the moves of a charcter, it will take you hours. This must have the fastest gameplay 
 ever, for the revearsals help in making things look faster and more fluid. The environments are 
 also amazing, for everything reacts to your attacks. The level of detail is astonishing. You could 
 see evry thread on every characters' clothes. The sound is good and the japanese works perfectly. 
 It also has a good soundtrack. I almost forgot, the movies at the end of story mode are superb. 
 I have never seen a movie that looks better. They range from funny to cool. Unlocking the costumes 
 and the extra characters make it a long lasting game, some charcters have 8 suits. All in all, 
 for a fightinf game, this does everything perfectly, and I love to play it. Unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolidan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 features the Improved online play, 3 new characters leading the roster to 15 characters, 
 flourishing interactive environments, and some appealing extras... A new age 3D fighting game, 
 sure to astonish the likes of many. But does it strike fighting gamers looking for Difficult, technical 
 gameplay? Thats for you to decide. DOA4 is no doubt one of the finest looking fighting games to 
 this day. The animation is certainly smooth, but I in person still prefer Tekken 5's style of 
 animation. The moves in DOA just don't hurt quite as much as in Tekken in my opinion... but it 
 still looks good when compared to many other 3D fighters. The game is enjoyable for a while, but 
 the countering system is still out of order... but has been streamlined. Counters are still too 
 effortless to pull off and don't require much skill, but at least there are a few different kinds 
 of counters you can do. The combo system isn't unpleasant, and if you pressure your enemy, some 
 combos can be escaped. DOA4 seems to stay true to the series. More special on graphics and babes 
 made for all the perverts out there HeHe. than technical gameplay... but it's getting more improved 
 by the minute, and improvement is always a good thing. However, like many, Id still probably still 
 prefer the Tekken series than DOA4, and also prefer Tekken's characters Over DOA's any day.
  
  My Comment
  This game is good for graphics and online play but if you want to play with better 
 characters better gameplay id would say go for the tekken series. But dont let my blabbing stop 
 you from possibly buying a great game that is DOA4 plus its funny that there is a character that 
 looks alot like halo if not halo's own clone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 For Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Great Graphics, The Fighting 
 Is Pretty Good, Fast And Frantic Gameplay, Online Is Almost Lagless.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Sound Could Have Been 
 Better, Very Cheap AI.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  The first fighting game on the 360 is not a let down, and actually happens to be one of 
 the best titles currently for the system. The game itself looks visually appealing, and the controls 
 are smooth, even with a wireless controller. The fact that it can go online is pretty cool as well.
 
  
  Gameplay : Well it's a fighting game, and alas, you fight in it. DOA4 sticks to its signature fast-paced 
 juggling action, and adds in a few extra twists along the way. You are now in levels that break 
 apart fairly easily, and it's not uncommon for one to fly the top of a building, or get hit down 
 a few flights of stairs. There's also the added element of moving things within the levels themselves, 
 like cars or animals. These can be used to your advantage and can cause extra damage to your opponent. 
 Of course that can also work in reverse, and you can be the victim of a renegade cheetah (not joking) .
 
  
  There are 16 playable characters from the start, and more can be unlocked as you progress through 
 the game. Each character is unique in their style and can execute enough combos to satisfy even 
 hardcore fighting gamers. The action is fast and furious, usually with no breaks in the flow of 
 fighting. There's also very little load time, which is a precious commodity amongst games.
  
  A word for the faint of heart though, this game is not easy. By far it is not easy. There's 
 not even an easy setting. Because of this, the learning curve is set kinda steep, at least for 
 those who've never actually played any of the previous games. A few of the characters are capable 
 of annihilating someone new to the game in a matter of seconds. Others will make you want to throw 
 your controller across the room. The upside to the difficulty though, is that it makes this game 
 impossible for button mashers, so one is automatically trained NOT to button mash. The A. I. is 
 not dumb, and if it senses a repeating pattern (even twice in a row) , it will almost always respond 
 with a painful counter. DOA4's difficulty is useful training for online play though, and therefore 
 it's properly set.
  
  Speaking of online play, DOA4 is great. As you can imagine, it's an online fighting game. It almost 
 has to be fun. The only complaint that I have is that it's not uncommon to be defeated because 
 either you or your opponent is lagging like crazy. I've had instances where the screen paused for 
 a few seconds, and then when it returned, I had been beaten. Nevertheless, out of the online fighting 
 games I've played, this one is probably the best.
  
  Graphics : The endings for each character tend to have very good graphics, and I noticed very little 
 graphical flaws with the movement and surroundings.
  
  Truth be told, it's actually the levels that are amazing to look at. If you pay close attention 
 and actually take time to admire them, there's an incredible amount of detail packed into each 
 area. Sparks flying, live animals, crowds in the background, even fighting in a foot of water looks 
 cool. Alas though, the graphics rating stays a 7, because chances are in a fight, you're not going 
 to be focused on the level; you're going to be focused on the computer that's kicking your ass.
 
  
  Not the best graphics to appear on the 360 so far, but hey, they work.
  
  Okay, so maybe DOA4 has a really badstory, but it's not really about the story anyway, so I'm not 
 going to say the game sucks because of this. Each character gets about two or three cut scenes 
 during the actual story mode, and then when you beat your final opponent, you unlock an ending 
 for that character. If you've played previous DOA games, or at least know the story behind them, 
 the cut scenes make more sense, as almost every character has a connection to another in some way. 
 There also seems to be an imitation of Dural from the Virtua Fighter games, but I won't spoil it.
 
  
  The reason why this game is rated mature more than likely comes from the character endings. Some 
 are comical and others will make you wonder just how much of an obsession the creators had with 
 female breasts. They're short to watch, but the graphics are pretty and a few characters actually 
 have fairly cool endings.
  
  Sound : Behind all the huyah's and the judo chopping, there's an actual soundtrack which doesn't 
 suck. There's a bit of rock, a bit of trance, and a bit of jpop (which I don't care for, but other 
 people do) . Plus you can always program your own soundtrack for the game, which is what I do. The 
 voice acting is all done in Japanese, so therefore I can't determine if it's good or not, because 
 I don't know how it's supposed to sound.
  
  The sound effects themselves are much better than average, even down to small things like crowds 
 in the background or an oncoming car. It's also particularly well done when you get smashed into 
 something electric and there's a huge zap, or when you get hit through a breakable wall, whether 
 it be wood, brick, etc.
  
  I thought that overall, the sound was very well done and matched the game appropriately for the 
 situations. An example is if you have a tough encounter coming up, the music usually switches to 
 something more dramatic, as if an epic showdown was about to occur. In normal fights, it has something 
 resembling deep trance music for all the stages. The song variation is wide enough though, so you 
 don't hear the same song five times in a row.
  
  The only reason why this game did not get a 10/10 is because of the difficulty. It isn't n00b friendly 
 at all, and that could drive potential players away from it.
  
  DOA4 is meant for two purposes though: kicking butt and taking names, and it pulls it off with 
 great flair. The online multiplayer adds a whole new dimension, and the graphics are usually crisp 
 and clear. Give it butt-kicking sound, a wide selection of characters, and some interesting scenes 
 well my friend, you've got yourself one hell of a fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 has had mixed results. It seems like another one of those games that you would either love 
 or hate with no inbetween. The main reason is probably because of the hard and sometime cheap AI. 
 It is hard (And Alpha, the final boss for most characters is especially hard) , but not enough for 
 me to dislike the game. But if it wasn't for the kind of annoying difficulty, I would probably 
 rate this game higher. I mean no Easy mode? I'm serious, all you get is Normal, Hard and Very Hard. 
 Back to Alpha, sometimes she'll teleport like crazy and her moves deal a lot of damage.
  
  But ignoring those flaws, this game (of course) shares the decent fighting engine from the previous 
 DOA games with some improvments, move tweaks and completely new moves for characters. It's all 
 good.
  
  The graphics in this game are truly awesome and revolutionary, especially in the cutscenes! Anyone 
 who says otherwise probably doesn't know what great graphics are. People might say they aren't 
 that much better than DOA3's graphics, but they are probably only judging from the screenshots 
 since the graphics don't look as good in them.
  
  The voices and everything are great. This stuff actually makes the game funner to play. I can't 
 get the Get ready, fight! voice out of my head! Also, I love the Japanese voices!
  
  This game will also having you coming back for more with all the unlockables and online play! (Sadly, 
 I can't play online since I don't have XBox Live, though) In the previous DOA games, their was 
 only 1 or 2 characters to unlock. In this one, however their's 6 characters to unlock. Despite 
 the AI flaws, this is still the best DOA yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judith40
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is great, gorgeous graphics, good gameplay and lets face it DOA4 is the king of fighters, 
 no Tekken gets close to its aura. Well as you read DOA4 is not for new comers because this time 
 around the game got a little push on the kick your butt part. What i recommend is to play DOA ultimate 
 on hard many times and when you think your ready face DOA4. Well in the blocking part is hard because 
 the game is so fast now its harder to block some attacks, not impossible but a little bit harder. 
 Think of it as this way DOA now is competitive and hareder in a good way because 3 and 2 where 
 injoyable but easy, you could even blocked any attack as mutch as you wanted. DOA4 will but your 
 skills to the test and i think it was a good idea. When you master the game head down the play 
 online is one of the positive apects oF DOA. I challenge all of you on an online fight in DOA and 
 see if you can last 10 seconds. Im the master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A fully intense fighting game, great graphics, and great online play. I love the characters, 
 well most of them. Some are annoying cause they can be hard to defeat, but none the less a great 
 game worth playing. Especially online or against others. Also one great thing is the game is full 
 of unlock-ables and achievements. It gets addictive when you are trying to unlock the costumes 
 etc. Also this game is not a button masher game. Most people button mash with fighting games, and 
 I did that at first, but when you lose over and over, you need to adapt quickly and learn some 
 moves.
  
  The Bad: The only bad thing I can say about this game is that some of the moves are a little difficult 
 to perform. Another annoying thing is that the AI cheats if you want to call it that. When playing 
 a computer opponent it will use counters on you constantly. The counters are probably one of the 
 most difficult moves to learn.
  
  Overall: I highly recommend this game as a must for all that own a Xbox 360. But if fighting games 
 are not your style, I would maybe rent it first. But then seeing hot ladies beating each other 
 up is kinda fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nejixdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  omfg this game is so awsome its graphics will blow your mind away the thing that got me s that 
 the regular xbox has cheap graphics so i thought the same for the xbox 360 but omg i was so of 
 it had graphics 10x better than the xbox the game play is awsome it helped me to play games like 
 naruto ultimate ninja with the problem i had with the speacials so now i canb playt all those games 
 i sugjest you pick this game as your first xbox 360 game for the people who dont have the consle 
 yet or have it but no games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmouthkid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 was a really good game the graphics is what really astouded me and so was the gameplay 
 with the grabs and the destructive enviornments. So now let me tell all about this game
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was very good there were alot of destructive and avtive enviornments that 
 made the gameplay extremely good but there wasn't many moves that made it extremely good but still 
 the gameplay is awesome.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were truly amazing they really made this game next-gen and I'm proud so 
 good job Tecmo
  
  Sound: The sound effects were pretty good especially around the destructive enviornments so the 
 sound was really good also.
  
  Vaule: Don't know what that is.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Don't know what that is either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  O. K. Here's the simple stuff...
  
  Looks INCREDIBLE. Wow.
  Sounds great.
  A fighting game FINALLY has cool, deep, big environments! It only took 30 years of video gaming 
 to figure THAT one out.
  
  Now, the rest...
  
  Controls are so so.
  All fighting games I've played have VERY poor defense systems, but this takes sucking to a whole 
 new level.
  They made the defense sysmtem really important (you can't just play aggresively) , but it doesn't 
 work a good 99% of the time. Most of the time, you just don't block, and the reversal moves are 
 FAR too specific to moves. You can't predict what the computer's gonna do, so they're almost impossible 
 to land most of the time. This just frustrated me (especially since the computer blocks almost 
 all of your attacks) , and really took a lot of the fun out of playing.
  The fighting controls are fun and easy, though.
  
  Story is boring, but all fighting game stories 
 are boring. No depth to the game. Some new costumres, but no leveling up, or buying new items etc. 
 like a Tekken game. They really dropped the ball there. Would've made the game 100 X more worth 
 the money.
  
  Rent this. Don't buy it. I was stupid in that regard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  love fighting games. So when I got this game, I never expected the tour de force it was going to 
 be. I thought eh, it can't be as good as Soul Caliber 2 but was I wrong. The fighting is awesome. 
 The characters are awesome. The graphics are awesome. But the only complaint i have, is the extremely 
 weird ending cut scenes. Like Hitomi's: we first see her dancing around in nothing but her thong, 
 cutting up veggies (now somewhat fulled clothed) , and trips and falls because of a doorbell. Confused? 
 I was. But still that aside multiplayer is awesome, and nothing like pwning your friends at home 
 or online with your fighting lass or lad. If you own a 360, find it in your wallet to buy DOA 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gimmeblumpkins
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  I have followed the series since its debut on the playstaion 1 and have always been impressed by 
 newer installments. I have played many fighters in my time and nothing compares to this series. 
 Most fighters feel like button-mashing paradise. however, I am fully aware that most aren't. take 
 Virtua Fighter and Tekken. These are the other big names in this genre and always felt unfinished 
 and unrefined. A battle is simply won in the same fashion. It's always be aggressive, if they block 
 then you block and wash rinse repeat. In DOA they introduced the counter-attack system. Games like 
 Tekken and Virtua Fighter tried to integrate this after its massive popularity but failed, The 
 system is easy to pick up but hard to master and that is why DOA fits any person looking for a 
 good fight. It's based on the 3 types of attacks. Low, mid, and high. Succesfully countering an 
 attack can quickly turn a battle around. Thus adding alot more strategy to the simple genre. The 
 characters also move alot more smoothly than any other fighter. It's not choppy and somewhat distinguishes 
 itself as not your typical arcade fighter. It's almost like watching a movie. The game integrates 
 each move and beautifully connects them together. You can see clothing and hair move in a correct 
 fashion and environments react to your every move. In one map there is a plaza with fruit stands. 
 If you manage to knock your opponent into the stand hard enough, the stand breaks and each individual 
 fruit rolls across the floor. In another map you fight on a busy street, and if you are in the 
 way, you or the opponent can actually get hit by a car. The best thing about that is that it's 
 not simple a. i. thrown into the game for looks. The car will actually try to swerve out of the 
 way. All-in-all, each stage has something innovative to offer which adds more strategy. Again, 
 another defining feature of the game. And since this is the first time the series has graced a 
 next-gen console, there are achievments. Everytime you meet a certain goal you unlock achievement 
 points to add to your gamerscore. This may seem like a gimmick but even if you dont have xbox live, 
 it's a nice way to track what you have not completed to get the most out of the game. Also, another 
 defining feature, its story. Very few fighting games have managed to put together a decent storyline. 
 However, DOA does. The story integrates each character and lets you watch them grow individually. 
 As I said earlier, I have followed the series since the first installment and the story only gets 
 better along the way. The best part about that is that you dont have to play the first one to learn 
 about the characters. The cutscenes are flawless. The only flaw would really be the soundtrack. 
 It uses the oh-so terrible cliche japanese rock. But, being a 360 title means you wont have to 
 put up with it if you use custom soundtracks, so this problem is easily overcome. All-in-all, this 
 game is a must buy. I usually rent games through gamefly since im tired of buying overhyped games 
 that turn out be be mediocre at best so for any game to make my library is a privilege. I rent 
 every game that comes out for the most part, with few exception like kid games. So this is not 
 a biased opinion. This game is perfect for pick up and play and I guarantee you will come back 
 to it. Add this to your collection and you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgmaster
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Personally, this is the first fighting i have ever played, and it wasn't that bad. After some practice 
 with the controls, I eventually got the hang of it. There is only one problem with the game, and 
 it is Alpha-152. I can beat pretty much any other character pretty easily, but not Alpha-152.
 
  She teleports behind you when your in the middle of a combo. She has a move that will drain 55% 
 of your life bar. She can kill you in 2 combos. And you can only defeat her 1 out of every 35 times 
 you fight her. To top it off, she isn't a playable character. Because of that final boss, and only 
 because of that final boss; I hate you Team Ninja, I hate you with every fiber of my being.
  without that uber-difficulty, this would be a 10 scored game. But Alpha-152 fraked it all up for 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kp_klan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is a great game i'll give it that. It's pretty easy once you get used to the diffuclty. For 
 first timers it's easy to give up if you dont know the controls very well. The graphics are great 
 and charcter design great as always. The amount of stages before you finish one person's story 
 line is not much only 8 stages. The one thing that is annoying in this game is Alpha 152. For those 
 with the game you know what i am talking about. For those who dont here's the lowdown, Alpha 152 
 is supposed to be a copy of Kasumi but this lady is crazy hard the first time (for me) . She has 
 pretty much 10 hit combos, 1 grab that can take away half of your health and the dissapearing act 
 as i call it.
  
  All in all in it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timdadog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok this was one of the first games (out of three: with FN3 n FIFA 06 WC) I got for my xbox and I 
 must say it was very impressive, maybe because of all the hype behind this it. But after a while 
 it became very repetitive and is very similar to the Tekken series. It was also the firs DOA game 
 I played so I can't say much for any improvements to the game. Other than that I'd say it's worth 
 it (there aren't so many good fighting titles for the 360 yet) . It's faily easy to learn and the 
 fighting styles and level designs are beautiful.
  I think if you into fighting games then this one has to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 one of the best fighting games ive played the stages look brilliant and so do the 
 fighters. This has all your old favourites back Kasumi, Jann Lee, Ayane etc its also features new 
 characters aswell. Te gameplay is brilliant but is hard at times cause one thing about dead or 
 alive its always been a fast game and to me thats a good thing cause its challenging, If you have 
 never played Dead or Alive you dont know what your missing cause its really just a enjoyable game 
 at times. At other times i feel like smashing my controller cause at times you can be stuck in 
 a corner and you cant get out of it. The main person you will have to fight at most times near 
 the end is Alpha-152 which is created by Kasumi DNA is a pain to beat cause she has very strong 
 attacks.
  Im glad i bought this game its really entertaining, challenging and you can see how great the 360 
 is. Only problem i hate the voice's havent been dubbed its back in subtitles. But fantastic game 
 check it out best fighting game your going to get on the xbox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertspartan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is a Beat em up (fighting game) from Team Ninja and Tecmo. It is the first Beat 
 em up on the Xbox 360 so its quite deservedly got a lot of press. As with previous DoA games 
 it looks, play and sounds great. It contains most of the familiar characters from the previous 
 games and some new faces. At the beginning of the game you will have sixteen playable characters 
 . Winning the games with certain characters will unlock new characters. However these characters 
 are not playable in story mode. After winning the game with all the sixteen original characters 
 youll unlock Helena and when you win story mode with her (she is playable in story mode) youll 
 win the game. In addition to winning the game youll unlock Spartan 4-5-8 a. k. a Nicole. Shes the 
 only character in the game who says her pre-match taunts in English (thank you Bungie) , despite 
 there being two English characters. The rest of the characters say their pre-match taunts in 
 Japanese. The stages, arenas, environment (whatever you want to call them) are all graphically 
 Amazing. As well as looking great they also have great physics. Boxes break, fruit rolls and you 
 getting your but kicked all look really, really realistic. A good example of this environmental 
 impressiveness is the stage Kyoto in Bloom-it really does look like Japan in springtime-falling 
 Cherry blossom, traditional temples, calm rivers and a bridge which you can kick people over. You 
 can explore almost anywhere on the map, its brill.
  
  There also a Halo map which is similar to Cairo Station called Nassau Station which is where Spartan 
 4-5-8 came from. Each character in the game is different. All the fighting styles (martial arts) 
 are distinct. Even if the fighting styles are the same they are still unique with different amount 
 of moves. For example; Ryu and Kasumi both use Ninjutsu, however theyre moves are very different. 
 They also have varying voices - deeper, louder, softer, higher, all different. Costumes range from 
 pink frock to metal armour and each character has multiple costumes. Halo Lady has the least moves 
 in the game, but most of them are very powerful, especially the Plasma Stick. On an HD TV (720p 
 or 1080i) with a component or VGA input, the character models, the environment, everything looks 
 great. Even in standard def DoA 4 looks great, but dont forget you will need a PAL-60 (a TV with 
 a refresh rate of 60Hz) to actually play the game. For this game alone it is worth getting a high 
 definition TV. It is worth getting it for the graphics alone. Dead or Alive online play is great. 
 There are online ranking systems for each type of fight as well as a grades (A-F) . You can chose 
 the exact gametype you want. And even as you wait to fight there a cool little cartoon-like lobbies. 
 They range from space, to a castle, to a swamp an even cloud cuckoo land and theres a cool TV 
 screen in the lobby. You can also watch it in full screen. Despite the greatness of the live play 
 there are some lag issues. It is really annoying if you have a slow internet connection or the 
 player youre playing against has a slow internet speed.
  
  Dead or Alive is a great all-round game. The graphics, gameplay everything is superb. It is a solid 
 game. Its the best fighting game out at the moment and will probably be the best fighting game 
 on the 360 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kslay88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  You know the deal, DOA 3 first came out on XBOX and improved on great graphics, sleek moves, and 
 painful counters.
  
  This game is not easy. The moves aren't very complex nor ridiculously easy, a good balance in between. 
 Timing on countering has shortened so you really gotta know when to use the block button.
  
  A great game nowadays needs a great multiplayer. Offline the 2v2 tag battle is exciting. Special 
 tag throws which change depending on the teams will continue to impress you with the new moves.
 
  
  The only problem in this game can be seen on xbox live and is not necessarily the fault of the 
 creators. The people playing online are the better players so the only real place to learn is in 
 story mode which can be difficult itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markoboy09
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  First of all..... this is my first DOA game that I've ever gotten, and to tell you the truth I 
 was prettty impressed. I'm a big fan of Street Fighter and King of Fighters so I didn't have high 
 expectations for this game. The graphics the games are gorgeous and the stage levels are so beautiful 
 its ridiculous. Gameplay wise.... it was alittle difficult remembering all the moves. After a few 
 days of playing the game... I kinda got the whole sequence down. I guess It just takes alot of 
 practice and dedication. When playing against a comp... they seem as if they can read your every 
 single move and always counter grab you. This is probably the only bad thing about this game. Otherwise... 
 everything else is great and I would definetly recommend this to any hardcore fan of fighting games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeMeeting
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 looks beautiful. If you have a high definition television you will be in visual 
 bliss. The colors just seem to bounce at you. I first started playing this game on a stardard television 
 thinking that played on a HD must not make the game look that much better. Boy was I wrong.
  
  The gameplay is fairly intuitive. Though it is not as polished as other 3D fighters such as 
 Tekken and Soul Calibur, it is quite solid. This is just a game to have fun with multiplayer wise. 
 If your looking for a deep one player experience, you won't find it. It does take a little time 
 to learn how to counter which is a big part of the game.
  
  Now that the game is only forty bucks I don't feel anyone who owns a 360 should miss out on this. 
 Heck, you can find the game used now for about 20 bucks if you look hard enough.
  
  This is just a good fighting game that looks good. I recommend to anyone who just want to multiplayer 
 it up with some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykel77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is the most polished, beautiful, and smoothest fighting games around. The animations are so 
 fluid and each charachter has his/own personality as well as moves. No other fightin game comes 
 close. Sure not as deep as VF or Soul Calibur, but those don't offer online competition because 
 the developers are lazy. Once you play online, you can't play by yourself. Totally different. They 
 say that lag will affect the gameplay but thats just a copout. just play with guys who have a good 
 connection. At least have the option to go online, don't decide for us. It's 2006 not 1999. Move 
 forward developers, not backwards. DOA4 is Great fun and a very well made game. Only bad thing 
 is the soundtrack sucks this time around. DOA2 and DOA3 had the best music. Other fighting game 
 developers take notes, this is how to make a fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riman07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  DOA is one of my favorite games and i play it a lot it's a game that you can just pick up and play. 
 The combat can sem light in depth but once you start to play online you see tht there is more to 
 the game than what meets the eye. the fighting is very well balance any character can be beaten 
 with any character. No one character has and edge over another even though sometimes it does fell 
 that way. The story was told alittle bit better this time. The last boss is crazy annoying but 
 defeatable. If i had to ask team ninja for any thing i would ask for more dialog to get the story 
 it across better to the people who are new comers to the game. I would make the countering time 
 alittle bit more short. But the game is over all a good game if not great in it's own ways it has 
 manage to out class every other fighting game out in terms of speed, depth, gameplay, and graphics. 
 Though there are rough spot like the countering system that i mentioned earlier. There is the lack 
 of stages for the tag mode i wish tecmo or Team Ninja would just release three more, just three 
 more would be great instead of plaing the same old rehashes that get very old, really quick. Also 
 online, people have a tendency to go to sleep in their room or leave for longs periods of time 
 and you go in there thinking they are waiting to fight but instead people use this to get their 
 hosted matches count up and i hope that T. N can somehow make a icon on the matchmaking list about 
 people who are away b/c it get's really annoying if you know what i mean. If you want just a good 
 fighting game and you are looking for one DOA is the one to get i recommend this to every one that 
 has a 360 and like fighting game. It has a easy learning curve to where you can get on and start 
 playin on the B+ lvl in no more than a week or two depending n the person. It's also a good game 
 to just have competition with your daily friends. So if you want a goo d fight ing game pick it 
 up at your local game store and i'll see you on XBL. (USMR BLaCKOuT 07) = gamertag hit me up sometime 
 if you want to whooped or if you just need tips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Striker
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Not only did team ninja fix some of the online play, the graphics are such 
 a huge upgrade from DOA Ultimate, it will amaze you. Like every game it has its problems though. 
 One problem being that many people will disconnect before you finish a match, and this will mean 
 that you do not get any points for the fight, and that player doesnt lose any. Other then this, 
 the game is my favorite X360 game out there. A defenite buy to anyone looking to find a great Xbox 
 fighter game for sure.. Also.. the half naked chicks jumping around and grabbing eachother isnt 
 bad either... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay Lets Go!
  
  Gameplay, Fun game, cool fighting, But alot of lag online, and the online lobby is cute but annoying.
 
  
  Graphics, Very very detailed, Cool arenas, and ummmmm realistic body parts
  
  Sound, All in japanese, Ug ooo ahhh hee all u hear for sfx
  
  Value, Trying to unlock all the 
 characters and achivements will keep you playing, and many types of play
  
  Tilt, Eh, not much special
  
  Overall, a great game, Worth a buy, at least a rental. 8.7 it 
 would be a 9 if they added english voice acting, and less LAGGGGGGGGGG online..... Best fighting 
 game of the year in my opinion Stall Stall Stall Stall More Words More Words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series has been around since the SEGA Saturn days, and is still going just as 
 strong as ever. With each game in the series taking what was successful about the prior and improving 
 upon it, Tecmo and Team Ninja have found the near-perfect combination of graphics and gameplay 
 to bring about a fighting series that rivals Tekken and Street Fighter. DOA4 is no different, and 
 delivers a solid fighter that fans of the series will enjoy yet again.
  
  First things first, if you've played either DOA2 or DOA3, then you know what to expect here. DOA4 
 is very similar to its previous encarnations that have appeared on a number of home consoles at 
 this point, though it does add a couple of nice touches and new characters that fans of the series 
 will still enjoy in order to keep things fresh. A storyline that finally begins tying up the loose 
 ends presented in the previous games, more powerful "charged" attacks, and blurred fighting effects 
 are a few of the game's changes, though the most notable is easily the skyrocketed difficulty setting, 
 where "Normal" now seems like DOA3's "Very Hard" difficulty.
  
  Graphically, DOA4 and all its colorful characters are as gorgeous as ever. The environments seem 
 more open and expansive than in previous games, and the character models look excellent - especially 
 on a high definition display. The detail that Team Ninja includes in DOA4 is unsurpassed by any 
 game in the genre, right down to the threads of fabric in a character's outfit. Dead or Alive has 
 always had stunning visuals for its time, and DOA4 is no different in its presentation.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Team Ninja has changed a few things in the equations from previous games. 
 Many of the simplified moves in DOA3 have been restored to their harder-to-pull-off counterparts 
 from DOA2 (such as Hayabusa's Izuna Drop) , and yet the character balance overall has been downplayed 
 to the point where fans that known their specific character (s) inside and out may feel slightly 
 disappointed (Ayane, for example, is much simpler to control than she used to be) . The most noticeable 
 change, though, is the difficulty of the game - even DOA veterans should expect to throw their 
 controller at least once during the ultimately cheap final boss and her teleportation abilities. 
 While the game is far from impossible, it definitely makes players work to earn their Achievements 
 and costumes this time around, which is good for replayability but bad for casual gamers.
  
  Multiplayer has always been one of the strongest points in the DOA series, and DOA4 takes the 
 successful Xbox Live functionality from DOA: Ultimate and includes that in the mix for all Xbox 
 Live Gold members. Players can actually earn credits while fighting to be used for a type of online 
 lobby and avatar system too, though the whole thing seems kind of pointless when players are ultimately 
 playing DOA to fight each other. Still, it's a nice touch that gives players something to shoot 
 for, and the fighting online seems relatively lag-free.
  
  The sound in DOA4 seems to be the least-changed feature in the mix, with most of the voice acting 
 either similarly done or identical to previous DOA games. The music, as usual, is a collection 
 of soft trance themes, with the fighters' original themes subtly included in the mix (most noticeable, 
 ironically enough, on the club stage which remixes music into a dance-theme) . Other than these, 
 expect the usual blows and explosions from players fighting and colliding with the environments.
 
  
  Overall, Dead or Alive 4 is yet another succesfully accomplished fighter in the DOA series, and 
 provides enough new content to keep veteran players happy. While the game may serve as a better 
 rental than purchase for many people, it is ultimately a strong fighter for the Xbox 360 that fans 
 of the genre will enjoy having in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I love fighting games. So when I got this game, I never expected the tour de force it was going 
 to be. I thought "eh, it can't be as good as Soul Caliber 2" but was I wrong. The fighting is awesome. 
 The characters are awesome. The graphics are awesome. But the only complaint i have, is the extremely 
 weird ending cut scenes. Like Hitomi's: we first see her dancing around in nothing but her thong, 
 cutting up veggies (now somewhat fulled clothed) , and trips and falls because of a doorbell. Confused? 
 I was. But still that aside multiplayer is awesome, and nothing like pwning your friends at home 
 or online with your fighting lass or lad. If you own a 360, find it in your wallet to buy DOA 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 really stands out as the best in the DoA series. The graphics are simply amazing, 
 both on the character models and the environments. If you have played DoA 3 and/or DoA U on the 
 Xbox you shoud be right at home with DoA 4 although there are some new moves and a couple of new 
 characters in this one. There are alot of variety on the characters' fighting styles which means 
 you shouldn't have any trouble finding your favorite.
  
  The high paced fighting and the new counter system which was added in DoA 4 makes it alot more 
 challenging than DoA 3 or DoA U and you will notice this the first time you play through story 
 mode. DoA 4 is a must for any fan of beat'em up games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicylemon89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite fighting series, and this is definitely the best yet. The graphics are very 
 good, although some people find them too cartoony (to each his own) . The actual fighting system 
 is very deep and can be very rewarding. The downside is that the game has probably the cheapest 
 boss in history of gaming. The game itself can be rather frustrating at times; it takes a lot of 
 practice. This game is at least worth checking out even if you aren't into fighters and it can 
 be quite challenging at times. IMO, this is the most underrated game on the system. It's right 
 up there with Oblivion and GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This has to be my favorite fighting game ever. It is so fast paced and its REALLY hard. This is 
 like ninja gaiden hard when it comes to beating the computer sometimes, but i tink this is good 
 because it gives you great practice before you go to the online world to get tossed aorund. The 
 counter system adds a whole new strategy and could turn a whole fight around as long as you have 
 ggod timinng. There are over a dozen character that have their own stories (that arent too good 
 by the way) and they all have their own move sets. Some characters have combo throws, or combo 
 counter holds while other have really good punch kick kinda deals. I HATE EVERYBODY THAT GIVES 
 THIS GAME A BAD SCORE BECAUSE ITS *whimper* too hard waaaa *whimper* that kinda stuff just makes 
 me sick, stop whining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2theiszo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy the mechanics of this game. This game carries the feeling and attitude of a good 
 Japenase fighting game. The Martial arts in this game are just really impreseive. The movement 
 is fluent and realistic. The sceneray alone in this game is worth the extra ten dollars per video 
 game on the next generation Xbox 360. Some of the new moves by some key players put some intresting 
 stylistic action within the games. The engien of this game makes it possible to conduct profesional 
 fighting moves within the first few moments of getting used to the controlls. With also the ability 
 of perfecting different players moves to become a real pro. The computer in this game offers a 
 real challenge unlike the previous versions on the xbox were there was little to no challenge in 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dexrid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  I know people are entitled to their own opinion but i have to say tha anyone that has something 
 bad to say about this game but the minor lag problems are crazy. This the most beautiful fighting 
 game i've ever seen and played. The online feature is ridiculous. Some people play like they have 
 never stepped away from the controller playing doa 3 waiting for part 4 and others are average. 
 the comp does seem like it knows what you are going to do but come on, its A. I. they are supposed 
 to have a general idea and they tend to repeat themselves so if you cant beat them you are the 
 one that needs practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixxerman1
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, fluid gameplay, and no hang ups. Just has no depth for me. It's defiantly a button 
 masher that 12 year olds will surely master but some moves are tuff to master for the older croud. 
 But if your looking for a great multiplayer game to bring out at those drunken parties this is 
 great and that's why I bought it. I bust it out along side Fight Night 3 at my parties and everyone 
 enjoys it's lush graphics. As far as a fighting game to play for hours look at Fight Night 3. That 
 will bring you back after the party is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 tells the epic tales of over a dozen fighters during their time in the Dead or 
 Alive tournament to either become the winner or stop DOATEC & the project known as Alpha 152...
 
  
  There are a lot of different combos, throws, punches, kicks and counter attacks that are all very 
 fluid... maybe too fluid because the action moves so darn fast you don't know whats going on and 
 the counter attacks are extremley hard to pull off - you have to time it JUST as the enemy attacks 
 otherwise your beat. The difficulty in this game is absolutley ridiculous because the enemies can 
 counter practically anything you throw at them, you can almost never grab them to throw them, they 
 are much stronger then you, and finally they are much more faster then when you choose that character 
 - in fact they move at such lightning speeds and are so impossible I lost 5 times in a row in under 
 2 minutes. Also, you can throw people through class, down stairs, off roofs...
  
  The way the story unfolds in the cutscenes is lackluster and just straight up confusing. One minute 
 you'll be standing in a dojo for no reason when all of a sudden a character challenges you to a 
 nunchucks show off and then wants to fight to the next minute where your climbing a gigantic building 
 claiming it to be the "Mt. Everest of Buildings" - what the f... and the sad part is, that is actually 
 someones cutscenes in the game. Usually though they find themselves fighting the Alpha 152 project 
 as the last fight, but you'll be so confused & frustrated with the game that you'll just want the 
 torture to end.
  
  The background & enviroments look beautiful, this I'll admit. The water looks great, buildings 
 are very well crafted, the scenery is breathtaking, the character models are last gen.... oops, 
 did I say that? Thats right people the characters look EXACTLY like they did in Dead or Alive 3 
 (a much better game by the way) . The only difference is DOA 4 fighters are more... smooth and move 
 smoother I guess you can say. The music is so-so. Its usually some sort of techno music, which 
 I guess Team Ninja decided gets people pumped. The sound effects are great & do sound devastating 
 though. The voice acting is garbage.. how can you have a game ported to the United States (and 
 let two characters in the game be American none the less) and have it all in Japanease with subtitles? 
 Yeah I wanna read what my guy is screaming... pathetic.
  
  The only reason replayability is slightly high is because there are about 6 people to unlock which 
 includes the ever so cool Leon and a female SPARTAN from the game Halo's universe. Theres that 
 and those X-Box 360 achievement things but I don't care about those so whatever.
  
  I mean the "new" characters are just dumb.. an American luchador? a SPARTAN!? Bah! Running out 
 of ideas Team Ninja?
  
  To sum it up, this game is an utter disaster if stacked up against the X-Box's champion of Dead 
 or Alive 3 or even a Tekken game. Its shallow story, lackluster music/voice acting, sad looking 
 cutscenes and impossible difficulty earns this game a "Waste of Time" classifications... In fact 
 now that I think about it this game is almost identical in every way to the PS2 title "King of 
 Fighters: Maximum Impact" which was also garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic85044
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  The best ighting game that I have ever played to date has to be Dead or Alive 4. It is just one 
 of the most fast-paced, action packed, oh my gosh there is so much to do in this thing, games. 
 The sounds in this game are just so unbelievable, along with the sights and the colorful characters, this 
 game is brought to life. There are definetly some things that could be better in the game, but 
 you tend to ignore these facts after you get into the game.
  
  If you've never played a Dead or Alive game before, than it might take you a whie to get used to 
 the game, because I've learned the hard way that button-mashing may help for a while, but it won't 
 protect you forever.
  
  The story mode for me was a little bit iffy, I mean, the ending cinemas were absolutely awesome 
 and the little cutscenes in the story were cool and sometimes a little humorous, but I sometimes 
 felt a little lost because I didn't know what some of these characters were trying to do, like 
 Hitomi whn she wants the lettuce and fights Leifang for it, that ust confused me.
  
  But other than a few small things here and there this game was just one of the best games that 
 I have played in a while, and I would definetly reccommend it to any and all fighting game players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 Is Not A Big Difference from Dead Or Alive 3. Sure it has some more characters, 
 and better graphics, but this game is just the same thing. The story for each character is short, 
 and preety much the same at times. Alpha will basically be the boss for almost every character 
 in story mode. This game at 59.99 isn't really worth a buy. The online part of this game also isn't 
 that good. You have to wait in some cute lobby and wait your turn to play someone. The game could 
 be fun if you have a party with some friends, but really this game gets boring after a while. Rent 
 it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Dead or alive 4 is absolutely amazingly fun and challenging to play. i love the fightig system 
 that is very fast paced and keep you thinking where your oppenent is going to strike next. the 
 fun thing is the countering system. its hard to pick up at first but its very efffective and keeps 
 battles blazing. the tag matches are really cool as you can make extrtemely long combos from changing 
 from 1 to the other. although its annoying when a oppentent does it to you.
  Xbox live is very fun but if someone has bad connection or disconnects the lag is unfrotunatly 
 bad and can really get in the way of fast paced action which DOA4 is all about.
  character amimation and costume are amazing! i mean very detailed and the designs and patterns 
 are all really cool and in windy areas hair, clothes and ribbons will blow with the wind. its all 
 really detailed.
  
  so in all DOA4 is the DOA of them all its better than ever now hard at first but easy to play after 
 dedicated gameplay.
  DOA4 review hope you liked it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Andy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Before i start writhing this review i just have to say that im a big fan of 
  Dead or Alive
  
  Game play: 
  The game play is just as you expect if you have played most 
 fighting games like mortal combat, soul caliber or the dead or alive series... meaning great. All 
 the character have totally unique fighting styles like all the games in the series has and the 
 special moves look great. And the online multiplayer is just great.
  
  Graphics:
  The characters in the 
 game are great but the dynamic hair and/ot clothes some times go through the character, and that`s 
 kind of annoying. however the character animation just looks great.
  
  Sound/music:
  The sound in the 
 game is fantastic all the punching/kicking/falling sounds comes in just the right spot and the 
 battle music is fitting, the only thing i miss is maybe that you had an option making the character 
 talk English, but il admit that Chinese/Japanese (not sure) brings more realism to the game
  
  overall: It`s an great game if ju 
 like punching, kicking, and smashing peoples faces inn until they are knocked out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai_Ozu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Fast, fun and beautiful. The only launch game that Im still playing to this day and Im sure for 
 many more years to come or until DOA5 arrives. Dead or Alive 4 has it all; anything a fighting 
 game fan has been looking for is here. The online play is amazingly fun with that added visual 
 lobby system with text and voice chat, making for some interesting social interaction with other 
 players on the DOA network.
  
  But you dont need to go online to have a good time; the story mode and all the achievements will 
 keep you busy for over 100 hours. It takes time to learn the characters so I suggest picking your 
 favorite character and master that one character. The AI in this game is amazing and is actually 
 a better challenge then most of the players online. If you have a 360 you should defiantly download 
 the demo to see if you like it, because some people find the game to hard. But if your willing 
 to try and to learn than your going to have a fantastic time with this game and dont be scared 
 to ask someone online for help if you need it. The community for the most part is very friendly 
 and helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XHuskersX26
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  I'll make this real quick. First off the AI on the default setting will kick your a$$ no matter 
 how good you are! They block almost everything and reverse everything and when you reverse them 
 the just counter reverse you. The constant 8, 9, and 10 hit combos they pull off just starts to 
 piss you. There are maybe 1 or 2 new costumes for each characters,. The rest is the same old crap 
 from the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd games. Story line sucks. JUST DONT EVEN WASTE YOUR TIME OR MONEY ON 
 THIS GAME. Not even sure its worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filthy_Animal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  First, Id like to say that this is a great game and I love it deeply. I will be playing it almost 
 daily until the next installment in the series comes out. I just wanted to get that out of the 
 way, because Im mostly just gonna list the flaws. Unfortunately, I dont have a high-speed internet 
 connection, so keep in mind Im doing this based on the main game. The main problem I have with 
 the game is the difficulty. Its not hard enough to be considered impossible, but it is difficult 
 and the final boss (Alpha-152) cannot be beaten the first time you play the game. The game seems 
 to read your controller and react based on that rather than having a complex system, but that could 
 be just because its really good. It certainly doesnt help that the easiest difficulty setting 
 is Normal and I have trouble getting through that without putting my fist through my screen. Another 
 problem: the graphics. Beautiful graphics, except for the characters, the thing youll be focusing 
 on the most. The hair actually looks worse than it did in past games and the character models still 
 seem to be made of plastic (except Jann Lee, who has veins sticking out and realistic muscles and 
 such) . You wont even notice the music, so lets not even get into that. There are only seven costumes 
 max for each character and some of those are just color changes. The unlockable Spartan character 
 from Halo is really just a combination of moves from other characters with Halo-related names and 
 two gimmicks (plasma grenade, active camo) .
  Now, on to the good stuff. If you take the time to master a character, it can be very rewarding 
 and my friend tells me online play is some of the most fun stuff out there. The character models 
 may not look that good, but there have been improvements, no matter how small. The new characters 
 (except Spartan) are quite fun and useful. Brad Wong is one of the greatest fighting game characters 
 ever. Kokoro, the Geisha-in-trainings costumes could use some work (unless thats traditional 
 geisha attire) but she is a good character when mastered. The FMV in this game is beautiful. In 
 Kasumis ending scene, if you can take your eyes off of her, the fish looks beautiful, the coral 
 is grand . . . but as far as I can tell she has two right hands in the final scene. Some of these 
 scenes, however, are downright hilarious, like Brads Genra Trip (like a kaleidoscopic acid trip 
 on wine) and Zacks treasure-hunting with Nikki. The final ending, Helenas, is a movie to rival 
 the best of Final Fantasy and is moving and emotional and downright beautiful and well-executed. 
 Its worth buying the game just to see some of the ending movies. The reversal system is vastly 
 reworked, making the game much less defensive-based and more balanced. It also makes it challenging 
 for defensive players like myself who are used to being able to win a fight by using series of 
 reversals.
  The game has ups and downs, but in essence its the greatest thing ever if you work at it and a 
 nightmare (or lesson) to button-mashers. Thus, since it also teaches, I'm classifying it as the 
 best in the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrittain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  I would definitely call myself a fighting game fan. I've had extensive experience playing them 
 over the years. The first fighting game I ever played was Street Fighter II for SNES. Since then, 
 I have played every Street Fighter to date, every Mortal Kombat, every King of Fighters, every 
 Virtua Fighter, every Soul Calibur, Tekken 3 & 5, and countless other smaller name titles. I love 
 these kinds of games, and it is no exaggeration when I say that Dead or Alive 4 is one of the most 
 fun fighting games that I've played to date.
  
  Now I dont mean to say that it is perfect in any way, because it certainly isn't, but I have had 
 more fun playing and learning about DOA4 than any other fighting game I've played. Some things 
 that I would like to see improved upon would be a deeper story. I also enjoy video games with deep 
 stories, like RPG's, and it's always boggled my mind why fighting games never tell a story well. 
 I know that the fighting and action is the most important thing, but they would all be better if 
 the story were more developed and told with a lot more dialogue and cut-scenes. I would have also 
 preferred there to be a lot more costume choices in DOA4 than there were. DOA: Ultimate on Xbox 
 was a perfect example of a great selection of costumes, and I wish that DOA4 would have followed 
 in its steps. I'm secretly holding out hope that eventually there will be more downloadable content 
 on xbox live. 
  
  I also should point out that this game may not be for everyone, even those who are big fighting 
 game fans. For newbies, this game is hard.. really hard. The learning curve is steep, and it's 
 unforgiving. The game moves at such a fast pace, that beginners are certain to lose many, many 
 matches before they get the hang of the game. To be good at this game, you need to have lightning 
 quick reflexes and the patience needed to learn the moves and counters. It's not easy, but there 
 is a huge payoff once you learn it. 
  
  Once you do have the hang of this game, the action and fighting is amazingly fun. If you have experience 
 playing other fighting games, you will definitely see how deep this one is, and all of the possibilities 
 that exist. There are a lot of characters, and every single one of them is very unique and interesting. 
 Another great thing about this game is the online play on Xbox live. There is always someone to 
 play, and if you want to take your skills to the next level, there is no better way. One thing 
 that I've always hated about fighting games is that they can get terribly boring when there's no 
 one around to play with, and the online features of DOA4 completely fix that. There are a lot of 
 different game types, and players can choose to play with other people at their own skill level. 
 
  
  I've spent many hours learning to play this game, and it still feels as fresh as the day that I 
 bought it. I would highly recommend it to any fighting game fan, but be warned that this game is 
 not for the faint of heart. Only play if you are willing to put in the time to learn it. If you 
 do put in the time, you wont be sorry. And if you're still wondering if this game is any good, 
 you should really be asking yourself if you are good enough to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  So after buying my XBox 360, I had to get games, and coming fashionably late to the launch was 
 DOA 4. You fire this game up and automatically you love it (especially if your a guy) . It looks 
 great, characters have some kickass moves, and the women don't leave much to the imagination. All 
 of this would make a great game, only if the core gameplay wasn't so repetitive and frustrating. 
 Fighting against the computer controlled opponents is, simply put, hard. You'll write it off at 
 first and tell yourself that you just need to get better and pulling off the killer combos and 
 counter every move they throw at you. The fact of the matter is, all your opponent really has to 
 do is get one good hit on you and they can take you down within 10% of your health, especially 
 the end boss that most characters face. Generally what happens is your opponent will get in a "Critical 
 Hit" which will knock you back regardless of whether or not your blocking. Then that opens you 
 up which they will always take advantage of and start juggling you up in the air until you barely 
 have health left. Don't get me wrong, you can get to the point where you'll be able to counter 
 more and more and land in your own string of killer combos, but getting to that point can be downright 
 frustrating.
  
  The method of fighting will discourage the avid fighting genre fan. You can win with button mashing, 
 instead of delicately planning out your attack to overwhelm your opponent. This is especially true 
 in online mode, where you'll face opponents who generally will not counter as much as computer 
 controlled opponents, so you can mash on the punch buttons and pull off some pretty amazing looking 
 combos. The counter move system is actually one of the better aspects of the game, and one part 
 of the game that requires more skill than most, as you have to see what move their throwing at 
 you and time your counter accordingly. It's a very simple yet surprisingly effective system. The 
 grapple system, though, seems border line broken. It takes a frustratingly accurately timed button 
 press to pull off a move that in the cases of most fighters isn't even worth it.
  
  The fighters in this game are actually pretty well varied, and you'll have to adopt a different 
 style with each if you want to play really well (though each fighter you can get away with button 
 mashing, which is, again, pretty dissapointing) . They look and move great too. Cartoonish? Yeah, 
 kind of, but for this game it works.
  
  The different environments you can fight in are all pretty different from one another, though not 
 one really stands out. A couple are multi-tiered and can have you or your opponent crashing through 
 a wall or glass or over a rail and go crashing down some stairs, though in a single fight it's 
 rare that you'll get to see the entire level.
  
  As you can probably tell, the variation in this game is a main selling point. The characters and 
 environments all help add to this, but where it really hits home is with all the different game 
 modes. There's the standard story mode, which never really tells a story by the way, save for a 
 few different cut scenes for each fighter at certain intervals. Add that in with a time attack 
 mode, a survival mode, and a generic "jump righ tin and start fighting" mode, and you have plenty 
 of variation right there. Couple all that with the fact that most can be played in either single 
 or tag format and you have a pretty impressive selection at your hands. Playing through all of 
 these will be most beneficial to you as they'll unlock certain goodies like new characters and 
 outfits. A side note on the new characters, though, none of them have their own story mode attached 
 save for one, and their moves are pretty limited too.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is probably where you'll get the most enjoyment out of this game. Button 
 mashing, sure, but it's still always more fun to beat the crap out of a buddy than a computer controlled 
 robot. With support up to four players, it can be a pretty good party game. Online is actually 
 pretty stable, a few moments of lag here and there, but that could be caused by any number of things.
 
  
  So in all, this game would be a great game if only it was, simply, more fun for a longer time. 
 It gets pretty old rather quickly and will probably have you tossing your controller around in 
 anger more than a couple times. But if you're looking for a good multiplayer game to show off your 
 console to some buddies, this game will work great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is a must have for any gamer with a 360 that enjoys a good fighting game. the graphics 
 are great! the level designs are creative and the characters are original with their own fighting 
 style and set of moves. i wish there was some real blood-shed but the fighting is still smooth. 
 if your not a fan of fighting games, or don't have the nerve to take a few butt-kickings, this 
 game isnt even worth a rental. but with the ability to take your skills online and test em' out, 
 this title should not dissapoint. one of the few very good starting games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Vappsen-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  + Lasting appeal - Xbox Live makes this game one of the best games out for xbox 360. Every true 
 gamer should have this game.
  + Good Graphics and backgrounds.
  
  - Has far more potential, and isn't much different from DOA3.
  - I have to admit, I'm a very 
 good DOA-player, and still I think Survival and Story Mode is difficult! What did Tecmo think? 
 We dont play the game non-stop either!!?
  
  Overall this is a nice multiplayer game, and you can play this for a long time! I've played it 
 over 100 hours and I'm still not bored of it! But then again, I liked DOA3, so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob17_2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  This is the very, very, first game I bought for my 360. And I played the hell out of it. Online 
 play is all in all good. With some connection loss but other than that "AWSOME" I spent many hours 
 just unlocking the players and outfits. But I still find Live is where the game makes it worth 
 while. Easy combo training makes you a pro in less than 20 mins. But be aware there is more experienced 
 players, out there and you will get your ass kicked so; Just watch out when playing online. So 
 go out and get your copy if not already.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  DOA has always been a great fighting franchise that always seems to change with the times with 
 every installment, without losing anything players loved about the previous entry's to Tecmo's Life 
 Saver. Though you may not see it at first DOA 4 improves on DOA Ultimate in every way possible, other 
 than number of costumes, and if you are a devote to the series, you have to own this game. People 
 who are not fighting fanatics are probably going to get there ass handed to them, but will eventually 
 learn the ropes if they just keep trying. Anyone who can will probably agree with me that DOA 4 
 is one of the better fighters created in recent years.
  
  A great story is to be found, but its hard to understand if you have not finished getting through 
 the other ones. It has a lot to do with Helena, the new chairmen of DOATEC (Dead or Alive Tournament 
 Executive Comittee) who has lost both of her parents to the planning of Victor Donavon. The Ninjas 
 of DOA are off to destroy the DOATEC, which somewhat ruined there lives but only find a little surprise 
 when they get there. A clone of Kasumi's DNA, Alpha-152 one of the hardest bosses in DOA history.
 
  
  You are also given a huge roster of characters to choose. From the red-haired beauty Kasumi, to the 
 insane Ayane, who will kill anything that gets in her way. A few new characters are also thrown in. Kokoro, a 
 Geisha in training, and Eliot, a young meterosexual under the influence of Genfu. And we can't forget 
 Spartan-458, who is actually a martian named Nicole. She has no real purpose of the game, but fighting 
 as a Spartan is fun, and everyone has to love her Plasma Grenade throw!
  
  Dead or Alive has always been about fighting with your brain, and not so much as brute strength. Every 
 character has a great list of moves and counters you will need to learn to fully appreciate them. Though 
 if there is something wrong with the game play it is the counter system. Its a lot harder to pull 
 off a counter in this game rather then the others, and there a lot weaker to make matters worse. So 
 countering is not always the best idea, unless you truly have it mastered. In solo mode you could 
 probably go through it button mashing, but may find it hard to not go insane when you fight the 
 games tough boss. Apart from Story mode, were you can learn about all the characters pasts and futures, there 
 is all those fun modes we have all grown to love, Survival, Time Attack, Team Battle, etc.. They all 
 add value to the games replay-ability, especially survival since its so easy to get into, and is 
 not as hard as the other modes. When you master the single player experience why not take the game 
 on line? There is a nifty, cute lobby system were you can watch people fight and form a strategy 
 before you fight the winner, and when you do fight, that is the best time to pull out some reversals, as 
 the human players don't seem to be near as cheap as the AI. There is not a whole lot of lag to deal 
 with, at least not for me, but expect some when you take it for a spin, it is after all an on line 
 game.
  
  Proving graphics can get into game play, DOA 4 proves to have some of the best looks of any console 
 game ever created. Knocking your opponent into bricks, or off a cliff with destructible environments 
 is very fun to watch. Of course the characters are INCREDIBLE looking as well. The anime look returns 
 and looks as detailed as ever. Why there are not as many costumes to dress them up in as in Ultimate, every 
 costume you do earn is detailed to every last trim. After you finish a characters story mode, you 
 will unlock there FMV ending, and its easy to say these are some of the most dramatic, funny and 
 most beautiful FMV's ever made. Most of them involve the games story, but some are fun and sexy laughs, that 
 you wont be able to get enough of.
  
  The sound/music is one of the key improvements in DOA, Aerosmith returns for more great music that 
 blends in perfectly with the game. There are also a lot of fun jazzy sounds in most of the arenas. The 
 characters voices are also still up to par. Thanking God they did not put but one character in English.
 
  
  Anyone that has a 360 should really give Dead or Alive 4 a go. Its truly one of the most dramatic 
 and most enjoyable featured fighting game to date. And fighting fans would be foolish to not play 
 such a game, as DOA 4 is one of the best fighters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  theres no doubt that fans of shooting games and action games will be satisfied with the xbox 360, 
 since the huge launchup with games like Call of Duty 2, G. R. A. W, Far Cry, Tomb Raider, King Kong 
 or Perfect Dark Zero will keep fans happy at least until Gears of War or Halo 3 arrive. But for 
 fighting game fans, will be unhappy to know that theyre is only one fighting game availible for 
 the 360, aside from Street Fighter arcade. But luckily its the best one!
  
  Dead or Alive 4, offers players the same powerful, button mashing gameplay displayed in other DOA 
 games. 
  
  Perhaps the most amazing thing about DOA 4, are the graphics. The character models are definetly 
 nextgen and the environments are really lifelike. 
  
  The gameplay is really the same. Mashing buttons and pulverising your opponent while using the 
 environment to increase the damage never gets old and with some many hours of gameplay and unlockable 
 characters and costumes, with perhaps the best character ever, Spartan 4-5-8, who is a female version 
 of Master Chief from Halo, is the best character to play as.
  
  DOA 4 will keep fans of fighting games busy for weeks and even gamers who dont like fighting games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotlavaman
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Don't we all remember the fighting games from the old days? Super street fighter, Tekken, Contra 
 (wait that doesn't right.....) . OK , it's true , i haven't been around long enough to remember 
 "the old days" (i'm 15) true that i don't play alot of fighter games (though super street fight 
 2 for the GBA Ruled!!!) but, i do know my video games. DOA 4 for the xbox 360 is a good game and 
 if you like fighter games i reccomend you run out to your nearest gamestop or eb games and pick 
 it up for everyone i suggest something like..... G. R. A. W. to settle your 360 itch. DOA 4 just can't 
 stay fun for very long unless you have friends to play with online. since i don't have live, i 
 just couldn't get into the game as much as others (like.... G. R. A. W! seriosuly go pick it up.. right 
 now.... why are you still reading this sentence?) The fact of the matter is, fighter game have to 
 come up with no ideas in their games. This game remade into the fourth version, maybe adding weapons 
 or a create a character mode... but until then, i have to give this a 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyoJ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people that reviewed this wonderful game complains about its difficulty. I see nothing 
 they should wine about in DOA4. Its not hard at all, you just need to practice some before you 
 become good! Sure, it may SEEM like the computer opponents know every single move you do, but its 
 most likely because the losers that say this is a bad game just try to get through it by massing 
 on the punch button. You wont ever be sucessfull online or offline doing that. The online mode 
 is near perfect to me. You have a nice variety of game modes you may or may not get hooked to.
 
  Also, DOA4 has a wide variety of unique characters, one for almost every type of player. you wont 
 find your perfect character in a day though, it takes time and devotion to master one character. 
 Longtime Fans of the series (Like myself) may be a little dissapointed about the lack of costumes 
 and the harder countering system that DOAU offered. If you dont have Xbox Live, you arent going 
 to fully experience what this amazing fighter has to offer, although, It continues to prove the 
 Dead or Alive can match up to the big names such as Tekken and Virtua Fighter.
  Dont call this a tekken clone, because its far different from what tekken is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinXan360
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 Is Not A Big Difference from Dead Or Alive 3. Sure it has some more characters, 
 and better graphics, but this game is just the same thing. The story for each character is short, 
 and preety much the same at times. Alpha will basically be the boss for almost every character 
 in story mode. This game at 59.99 isn't really worth a buy. The online part of this game also isn't 
 that good. You have to wait in some cute lobby and wait your turn to play someone. The game could 
 be fun if you have a party with some friends, but really this game gets boring after a while. Rent 
 it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KilIitWithFire
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Or rubber band AI. This is possibly the most annoying game that I have ever played. Sometimes matches 
 will be incredibly easy, then unbelievably hard. If you begin to win the game will snap back with 
 a devastating move, or a combo that is just plain ridiculous. Story mode is boring and frustrating. 
 The only things that kept me from snapping the game disc in half was survival mode and online. 
 This game has many characters, but if you learn one characters moves then you already know a few 
 of everyone elses. Sparring is helpful until you get to button combinations that you would need 
 three hands or a lot of free time and patience to do. The game also has about twelve levels, but 
 they are all less than interesting. The story or lack there of is another reason that this game 
 is only for those who want to fight and dont want to be bothered to know why. The unlockable characters 
 are pathetic and basically the starting characters with different names, looks, and a very few 
 differences in attacks. This game is all hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda_man99
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is just simply very hard and annoying. The graphics are good but not much better then 
 what you may see on the xbox or the ps2... Also i have to say the game is very unbalanced, some 
 characters are overpowered while others are just plain useless. So I would say if your not familiar 
 with this kind of game, just skip it. It will end up getting you very frustrated and mad, probably 
 end up breaking your controller. I would rather wait for a better fighter, besides i never thought 
 DOA was very good series anyway. I think the game is more of a ripoff from the Tekken seires too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyh15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  This was the first 360 game I played. Also I give it a perfect 10. The graphics look great on the 
 360. The characters look really good. The backgrounds integrate better than previous ones, the 
 controls are really good. The ai in the fighters are good, sometimes it can be easy but also other 
 times it's so hard it's frustrating. Xbox live is more improved since dead or live ultimate. There's 
 no lag on this version. You can create a lobby and walk around being little ninjas or crabs and 
 stuff, when you win online you get money to upgrade your lobby. If you're looking for a 3d fighting 
 game this is the best one I've played so far on the 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PooMAN711
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed the last boss in this game, its ability to juggle you for your entire health 
 bar is rather amazing. Match that with its ability to teleport out of the way from every attack 
 you do is rather stunning. If you are looking for an insanely hard fighting game this is perfect, 
 the COMs will counter every single attack and not even let you fight back. The controles in this 
 game are horrible, most fighting games ive played give you at least some freedom in movement, this 
 game offers very little. I also dont like that the COMs are seamingly "god like" the damage you 
 do to them is half of what they do to you. Players seam to stick to walls from time to time allowing 
 for a very damaging searies of attacks to happen completely un avoidable. All and all this was 
 a total waste of my time. Should have just played more Elder Scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 is the latest installment in the Dead Or Alive franchise. The game itself is a straightforward 
 one on one or two on two fighter ,with stunning visuals and fast dynamic gameplay.
  
  Single player for a novice the game is hard to recommend some people who don t understand the gameplay 
 of DOA may find the game to hard and once commpleted I can t really see any point in coming back 
 ,sure you have all the play modes story mode , time attack ,suvivial ,team battle , versus and 
 sparring but once you ve played through these their is really not much too come back too. Also 
 some people might find the games boss a little on the hard side Alpha Kasumi who is vry cheap and 
 can take your energy down very rapidly but with time you can suss her out pretty well.
  
  The best part of this game is the online play where you will find over time hundred s if not thousand 
 s of people of varying skill and gameplay style s to compete against . This is where the game shine 
 s and if you stick with it you will learn skill s and type s of gameplay you couldn t possible 
 learn playing single player.
  
  Overall I love the game it s my favourite game at the momment but I just wish the CPU opponents 
 were better and had varying gameplay style s more like what you would find online also maybe a 
 mission mode or a challenge mode where you could learn different aspect s of the game and a bit 
 more in the training mode so you could practice the skills needed to be good at this game online 
 and maybe have an incentive to come back for more. 
  
  If your looking for a top fighter and willing to learn this is the best your going to get on the 
 360 or anywhere else at this momment in time , playing online will offer a lot of hour s in replay 
 value and the visuals are stunning its just a shame the single player game couldn t offer you a 
 bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitusAndronicus
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, a game comes along that is technically sound, legitimately fun, impressive-looking, 
 and yet leaves a bland taste in your mouth. Dead or Alive 4 is a prime example of this. It keeps 
 the same frantic fighting action of the previous games alive, and yet, perhaps it sticks a little 
 too close to the same old formula.
  
  The Dead or Alive games center around a fairly nonsensical plot featuring a fighting tournament 
 held regularly by an evil corporation - DOATEC. Most characters in the game have little to do with 
 anything resembling a plot, as seems to be the norm with fighting games. There is a small plethora 
 of fairly stereotypical fighter types - the ninjas, the wrestlers, the school girls, and the madonnas 
 make up this cast.
  
  Graphically, Dead or Alive 4 is impressive, but you'll really only find the big technological leaps 
 in the small details. Leaves fall around your characters as they fight. Cars drive by (and can 
 actually hurt) the fighters. Bystanders take a more prominent role, and seem much more defined 
 than in the past. The character models all look good, but they don't seem like much of a stretch 
 from previous games.
  
  Sound-wise, there are a number of bone-crunching "ouch" moments, but overall, there's nothing really 
 memorable about it. The music is pretty typical fighting-game techno/rock. The voice-overs are 
 all in Japanese, so it makes it hard for an American to really tell how good the work is.
  
  In regards to the gameplay, DOA4 sticks very close to the previous games. The enemy's artificial 
 intelligence can be great or awful. Sometimes the responses feel human and natural - other times, 
 you'll want to bang your head against a wall after the tenth cheap victory. Surprisingly, the game's 
 end boss seems much easier on harder difficulty levels.
  
  You've seen the game modes before. Story, Versus, Team, Survival, Timed., and Online make up the 
 modes. This game is best online, with little lag and a decent interface.
  
  DOA4 is a good game, but the lack in any real movement forward for the series is a huge detriment. 
 At least it's a carbon copy of genuinely good games,. I'd recommend renting this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotid26
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain good. If you want to have some quick fights with your buds, play against 
 A. I., or play against someone on the other side of the world, this game is just what you are looking 
 for. Great graphics and amazing areas to fight in. The only thing that is wrong with this game 
 is that it has the wierdest stories on the story mode. I really dont understand half of them but 
 they mostly all made me go "What the hell!". So all in all I would recomend getting this game. 
 That is just my own opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Im a DOA fan so I couldn't wait to get this game in my hands. So when I got it a month after I 
 purchased my Xbox 360, I felt really excited. 
  
  The graphichs are just gorgeous. They may look like DOAU high-res on SDTV but on a HDTV it looks 
 very beautiful, the environments the most. It's true that the character models aren't completely 
 upgraded, just higher res. In some cases it looks like the characters are plastic. I hope Team 
 Ninja could add skinn textures and more stuff to make the characters more realistic in the upcoming 
 DOA games. 
  
  The sound in the game is great. IMO the background music fits the game very well. This is one of 
 the games where I don't want to have my custom soundtracks running in the background.
  
  The harder difficulty is the thing you will nottice imediatly when playing DOA4. I might be hard 
 for first-timers, was for me too, but Im now used to it and playing in on very hard right now. 
 The gamplay has greatly been improved. It is much faster then DOA3, which was already fast in my 
 opinion. Contering and throws and that kinda stuff are much harder to pull of because of the precise 
 timing. Every character has new moves and some are even completely reconstructed, like Hayabusha. 
 The stand-up moves are great and the excercise mode is more helpfull this time then in previous 
 DOA games, you can now see what the attack looks like. But the gameplay isn't flaweless. People 
 say you can't win with buttunmashing. This might be true for the AI, but when playing against higher 
 ranked members there is a chance you can beat them with button mashing. 
  
  The online part of the game is great and addictive, unless you get beaten the whole time. There 
 are even some nice things like avatars and lobby's you can purchase by playing online matches and 
 collecting points. But while the ranking is good, it isn't ideal for higher-ranked members. When 
 you get beaten by a lower-ranked played you will lose a lot of points. And you can only get a good 
 game if you and the opponent you are fighting have a good connection. If someoe has a average or 
 bad connection you can encounter a lot of lag, which is frustrating if you yourself have a good 
 connection.
  
  All the whole DOA4 is a enjoyable game with great on- and offline gameplay, garantueed for at least 
 20 hours of gaming pleasures if you want to unlock the extra's like costumes and voices. The replay 
 value is great when you have Live gold and you're good in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is much better then i expected it to be. The fighting in this game runs so smoothly i was 
 amazed. There are a wide range of characters to choose from, with their own unique style of fighting. 
 There are lots of combos to learn and the counter attacks makes the fighting very entertaining.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are decent, i was impressed, but it did not blow me away. The character 
 models look great and are very detailed. Their clothes texture looks very realistic. The stages 
 you fight in look great and they are very interactive. For example, you can be kicked out a window, 
 you cann fall down stairs, jump over tables and more.
  
  The sound is not bad, i dont particularly like the music, but thats ok because you can use your 
 own custom soundtracks. The characters voices are japaneese (with subtitles) , it sounds ok, but 
 begins to get annoying when they say the same phrase over and over again. The fighting sound effects 
 is impressive and does sound like your taking blows.
  
  The Modes
  
  Story Mode- This mode is to continue the story of dead or alive and follow the story of each character. 
 The story is not that great but when you finish it, you are rewarded by amazingly looking cut scenes 
 for each character, some of which are quite funny.
  
  Time Attack- Go through 8 stages trying to beat the game in the fastest time.
  
  Survival- 
 Fight in the ring, non stop enemies keep coming and you have to survive as long as possible.
  
  Those are the main modes, and its surprising how some of them can be quite exciting, especially 
 when you upload your top scores on the xbox live leaderboard.
  
  XBOX LIVE- Of course once you get tired of playing the computer your going to want to test your 
 skills against real gamers accross the world. There are modes like winner stays on, loser stays 
 on ect. You are even ranked, so players can see how good you are. You even win money to buy extra 
 costumes. You can also create your own avatar which you can interact with in the DOA lobbies.
 
  
  Overall DOA4 is a fun and cool fighting game to play. I would reccomment this game to DOA fans 
 and beat em up fans in particular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snichols77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  This is simply the best fighting game in existence. If you want a challenging, non-button-mashing 
 fighting game, then look no further. 
  
  The character modeling, lighting, FPS, clarity (in HD) , depth of maps and fighting environments 
 is just unreal. The graphics look nothing like any previous game, and I'd say they are the best 
 out of any fighting game yet. Each character's end-story-mode movie is awesome. You can tell that 
 (and even by the length of the credits) a serious amount of development went into this game.
  
  I played some of DOA3 on the Xbox and it is nothing compared to DOA4 on the 360. Graphics quality, 
 complexity of the combos and the counter ability make DOA4 a giant leap above the older DOA's.
 
  
  The multiplayer system is very engaging. The ranking system is very cool and the achievements are 
 plentiful. There are even achievements for negative ranks and losses. You can join any match and 
 observe the fights without participating. You can also purchase avatars and lobbies for the multiplayer 
 experience, where people can hang out and chat and observe fights on various TV screens (that you 
 can also purchase) . Entering the actual match allows you to view the fights in real-time, full-screen. 
 It is a blast.
  
  Note: this game takes a lot of practice and studying before you can hope to make a name (rank) 
 for yourself online. There is no one character to use or any series of combos that will guarantee 
 a win. You'll need to study the counters and combos as well as master your timing to stand a chance 
 online or even against the level 5+ computer opponents while playing locally. The characters are 
 all evenly balanced. Most have the same series of combos, only they are displayed differently during 
 the character animations (as well as started by different button press combinations) .
  
  The only other thing I will mention that could be interpreted as slightly negative is that because 
 every character has their own appearance, height, weight, style, etc., it can be hard to tell if 
 a punch or kick is low or high. That is where a lot of the practice comes in, you need to really 
 learn the various characters and their major combos and special moves.
  
  I've heard other reviewers complain that the AI is simply too hard in the local story modes, but 
 they are overlooking the SPARRING mode which you can practice in all day long, mastering each character 
 and each opponent you may face (except for the end-story-mode, translucent boss) . You can also 
 run through practice sessions where it shows a combo move or counter and then you practice it until 
 you get it right and move on to the next one.
  
  That said, if you are having trouble beating the computer AI and unlocking all the characters and 
 costumes, you have no hope of competing online where there are thousands of great players.
  
  This is easily a game you can get lost in and play 24x7 due to the constant challenge of mastering 
 moves and counters amongst all the characters, as well as the great online community that is always 
 there. I've never had a day or night where I couldn't find a cool group of guys/gals to play with 
 online.
  
  I rank this game #1 on my most played games right now and I'm sure it will go from #1 to #2 and 
 back again fairly often.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumesoxxs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Ofcourse this is a fighting game so you have to memorize combos etc. to get the most out of this 
 game IMO.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, really cool moves and throws and combos and pretty cool physics
 
  
  9/10
  
  Now the graphics are really good the backgrounds are very good but hte characters still look the 
 same from the other DOA games IMO but some of the graphics looked better.
  
  9/10
  
  The Sound is pretty good but I don't really like Aerosmith and I was hoping for more intense music 
 on some of the battles
  
  8/10
  
  The replay value isn't that high unless you like to memorize the combos and fight online etc. so 
 if you don't have online play or you don't like memorizing combos i kinda leveled it out between 
 the two
  
  6/10
  
  I gave it a reviewers tilt of 10 because the cinematics are pretty crazy and the characters are 
 really cool and it's just a great game IMO
  
  10/10
  
  overall score 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pNoiBoiGT
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is THE best fighting game EVER.... i have to say sorry to all you other franchises: Street 
 Fighter, Mortal Kombat, Guilty Gear, King of Fighters, etc.... theres few things that team ninja 
 can improve on. spectacular! Im being serious too. i mean ive played a lot of fighting games. shoot, 
 i grew up with MK and street fighter but they just fail in comparison to such a phenominal game... i 
 hope those who arent really into fighting games give this a chance so that it may persuade some 
 of those people to change their minds about it. To be honost, its not just this game its the whole 
 franchise that i love, i still play DOA2 and 3 to this very day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battle_chaser9
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  I know how much "Hard-Core" Gamers love this game, but to me its just simply crap. The graphics 
 are really nice and very polished looking but it pretty much look like the original xbox stuff. 
 You can tell that the game looks brighter and smoother on HD. Over all I think this button mashing 
 game is overall very annoying and repetitive. The difficulty in this game, might get lots of casual 
 gamers and frustrate them, it is a very unforgiving game unless you had been playing this game 
 for a while the past games included you will do better. Some characters I feel are a bit overpowered, 
 while some are just plain dumb. I understand that these are tailored for different styles but still 
 its unbalanced. The computer is unforgiving on story mode as most new comers to this game will 
 realize. The one game that truly surpasses this game Soul calibur might never make it to the xbox 
 360 but we can still hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azad_champ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in DOA is detailed and well done (just like all the other Team ninja games) . The textures 
 on the characters are great. the clothes are reacting when comes contact to the skin and you can 
 see every little detail on a character. The backgrounds are to most impressive ones. It's alive 
 and interesting.
  
  Gameplay
  the most important thing to a game is the gameplay and Dead or alive4 doesn't dissapoint here. 
 The gameplay is very fluid and fun. The fighting relies much on the counter system so good reflexes 
 is good to have. 
  the players can throw each other from cliffs, on cars and down from buildings.
  The gameplay is 
 balanced and patches are being released if glitches appear and if fighting gets unbalanced.
  
  Sounds
  Can't say much abot the sound. I love the sream when fighting someone down a cliff 
 and other things that is devastating to the opponent.
  If you HATE Aerosmith than you will dislike the some of the soundtracks beacuse Aerosmith takes 
 part on some of them
  
  Lasting appeal
  The offline mode will keep you busy for hours trying to unlock endings and customes and it's difficult 
 to so sparring is recommended.
  The online is where the game get's fun. You will have always someone to fight and it's really long-lasting 
 and great although lag may ocurre. summary
  Summary
  Dead or alive is a great game in more than just one aspect, from the hot-looking chicks to the 
 awesome fast and fluid gameplay to the great online-play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElHaloGod27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is an awesome fighting game. The story mode i think is fun and a good story line. The Time 
 attack and Survival Modes are very challenging but also is fun. Sparring mode helps so much in 
 it. Recording ur matches offline nd online is awesome when u wanna go back and look at the matches 
 u really liked. Also takin pics of matches is cool to. Online is so great nd a lot of fun. Having 
 avitars and customizing them is a cool feature nd the rank system is good. There are so many costumes 
 and characters to unlock and the achievement system really gets u goin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aproia
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  OK I have been a long time DOA fan having owned every incarnation up to and including the newest 
 XBOX 360 version. I think Tecmo has lost me as far as DOA 4 is concerned. The same thing over and 
 over again just doesn't cut it. Taken on it's own it is a great game with awesome graphics and 
 playability, but if you have been playing the game as long as I have then it's been there done 
 that. The computer AI is difficult even on normal levels pulling off reversals and slams left and 
 right. Just try and do that to the computer opponent, not very likely. The lack of costumes doesn't 
 tickle my fancy either. When previous versions have had more outfits for the characters why did 
 Tecmo backpedal. Unlocking all the different looks has always been my favorite thing to do. Perhaps 
 they will release un upgrade disk in the future ( like DOA 2 hardcore ) that contains more costumes 
 or maybe it will be available on XBOX live. All in all a great fighting game but just not enough 
 to make me recommend it for people who own prior versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCubeN24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive four continues Team Ninja's fighting franchise on the Xbox 360. The Dead or Alive 
 series has always been on of the biggest fighting games on any system and this new next gen version 
 does not fail to impress me and is well worth the price of addition... but you may wanna take anger 
 management classes before you pick up the controller.
  
  Graphics: One of the games best points. The colors are bright, the textures are smooth and they 
 all flow together in perfect harmony. The characters have so much detail its like watches live 
 TV. The only thing keeping this form getting a 10 is the clipping issues this game faces when the 
 action heats up......... and not to mention the "physics" on the female models :P
  
  Sound: Its a typical fighting sound track... generic techno and bland rock. Its not bad but you 
 will mostly be playing your custom soundtrack. The character voices are very well done and are 
 very convincing.
  
  Game play: Fun and frustrating at the same time. The game can be a pain in the butt at times and 
 the learning curve is very steep, but when you get good at the game.... you will never put it down. 
 Not to mention fun addicting online play.
  
  Overall: This is a must own for anyone with an Xbox 360.... but small flaws keep it from keeping 
 it from perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain_320
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  ... Uhg... i'm to lazy to write a review... just look at me nice score...
  
  Its a great game! BUY IT! But its really hard... SO BUY IT!
  
  . . .. . . . . . . . . . . *FILLING 
 IN 100 words TEXT Requirment*. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Don't listen to any one Else this game is great! The game is 100% next gen. The controls are easy. 
 The graphics look amazing and the game play is like no other. You can chose to play a number of 
 players with different endings, Play online against other people, The cut scenes are hilarious, 
 and the level are amazing! You can play as everyone from the last game and more. I could'nt find 
 anything wrong with this game besides the sound effects could sound a little better. All in all 
 this game beats every fight game on the market to date. I just hope they don't mess up the movie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineTears
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth I was a bit dissapointed with doa4 the main reason was just value, My only 
 arguement, Reason being people talk live and this and that but let's say some one who didnt have 
 online or live companies should take that into consideration and make a full package that people 
 would enjoy playing over and over only and off-line. Why i'm saying this is because doa4 has less 
 costumes as doau 2 not that , that is important but you're supposed to improve and I mean Kasumi 
 had twenty costumes in doau2 and in doa4 it has seven and if you had added seven and it had been 
 twenty seven distinct costumes people would be impressed and they would love it, As soon as you 
 get most if it the only real replay value would be either live or all of the achievments in which 
 case the achievments is aplenty but it wont do you any good since those take time as others dont. 
 Replay value was my only real arguement since everything else was well executed though I wasnt 
 a fan of spartan since it was a very unbalanced character that gets you more mad then enjoying 
 the game. The graphics are beautiful but the characters look the same as doau 2 so it really doesnt 
 have that awe affect on you. You will enjoy the many different modes live and off-line, I recommend 
 this game for everybody. Even though I know they dont have many things to unlock I still get stuck 
 and seem to play the game over and over, So you will be hooked. O and game can be hard if un-experienced. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Fighting games have always been the ultimate competitions, from the early days of arcades. Dead 
 or Alive 4 does a good job of re-creating that atmosphere online.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is definately NOT a button masher. Sure you can beat most of the single player 
 mode having no clue what you are doing, but step online. If you button mash, you will get killed 
 with out landing a punch (online that is) . The game has plenty of unlockables, from characters 
 to outfits.
  
  The achievements are rather difficult for the most part, but some you will get as you play through 
 the game.
  
  The Dead or Alive 4 fighting style is a bit different from Mortal Kombat or other popular fighters. 
 There are little flashy moves, and for the most part combos are short compared to MK's 14 hit smash 
 buttons real fast combos.
  
  The countering system is what makes the game so technical. Every move can be countered. If a character 
 is just blocking all attacks, you can throw them. If someone is spamming an annoying low kick, 
 you can reverse it everytime. The online can be frustrating for those just starting out, and so 
 can the single player for that matter.
  
  The default setting at times can get really hard for novices, especially the last boss. But put 
 in the time, and it can be rewarding slaughtering those that are like the older you online.
  
  The graphics are very excellent, and the sound effects appropriate. Tecno music keeps the game 
 moving along nicely. But seriously, the characters and scenery are really nice.
  
  There is plenty of value in this game, as many, many hours can be put in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avengefulreign
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is an awesome game, but at times it can get irritating. The graphics are amazing 
 like always. Each character has unlockable costumes. You start out with two and then have to unlock 
 the rest by playing the story mode or time attack mode. 
  Each character has their own story, and at the end of completing the story mode for all the characters 
 each story pieces together to make the ending tie into the game.
  The sound of the game is just like the other games. Nothing new here except for some things.
 
  As you are playing through the game it seems to give a reasonable challange, until you have to 
 fight battles over and over because the computer somehow has the ability to do a non-stop combo 
 and it wont allow you to block or counter the attack. Other than that the game is very fun to play.
 
  Multiplayer offline is fun, but online is a lot better. It's fun to challange other people from 
 any where in the world to a fight. Also listening to some of the people who get upset when you 
 join the room and end their winning streak.
  Overall the game is great and should be in everyones' collection. It is fun and challanging for 
 anyone to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 is admittedly the first beat em up I have ever played properly. Aside froma few hours on 
 the N64's "Fighters Destiny" and the PS2's "Soul Caliber 2" there has been little interest in the 
 genre for me. Dead Or Alive 4 has changed that.
  
  Gameplay - Wow, when I first sat down to play this game I found it very difficult. Irritatingly 
 so in fact. My experience of beat em ups in the past had led me to believe that button bashing 
 works. I was really, really wrong. After an hour or so of getting my ass handed to me by the computer 
 I decided I should perhaps venture to learn some moves. Hooray it worked! Soon I found myself, 
 kicking my way through the games various modes and characters, and throughly enjoying it in the 
 process. The games online mode only added to my enjoyment as there is a lot more fun to be had 
 taking on human opponents as opposed to constantly being smacked about by a computer controlled 
 Alpha and Co. The fast, slick, smooth skill based gameplay of DOA 4 works well online and off.
 
  
  Graphics - Visually DOA 4 is pretty amazing. The fully interactable arenas are beautiful to look 
 at, and the character models looks good aside from a few hair bugs on characters like Kokoro and 
 Kasumi.
  
  Sound - Being an anime fan, I like the Japanese voices for the games characters and the attacks 
 themselves sound good and bone crushing. However the background music annoyed me a little and it's 
 a game I end up playing usually with the music off or the sound off entirely.
  
  Value - There is a lot to unlock here, outfits, characters, arenas... (at this current time I just 
 need to master the Rajinn and the Tatami Stage is mine and everythings unlocked) , plenty to keep 
 you busy. There is also plenty of Xbox Achivements to get both online and off some of which are 
 going to take hardcore amounts of effort to procure. Plenty of value.
  
  Overall what you have here, a beat em up every Xbox 360 owner MUST have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game when u play it and time goess by so fast but when u start getting to addicted 
 time goes by slow. But then when u get everything u need the game gets kinda boring but then u 
 go online and you beat every one. Then when you go online theres a guy waiting for you to beat 
 him 15 players waiting to fight one guy and its amazing the graphics r great. The phyzics is one 
 of the reason u should get this game I couldnt find a game that can have such real physics some 
 games r like ur foot is 2 feet away from hitting the stomach but this game gets u in the spot where 
 you want to play over and over and over until your the best
  
  so go on now buy this game look at the videos then see if u kinda want it then get it because its 
 better then u think it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 is opne of the drop dead gorgeous games that was featured at the 360's launch and 
 even looking back on it now 10 months later the graphics still look amazing. This is my very first 
 time playing a DOA game and it was an amazing experince it makes me wonder what past games were 
 like! Anyway, in Dead Or Alive 4 it's more about who gets the first hit and whoever does usually 
 wins which is one thing that gets me really pissed. The girls in the game well wow! They made my 
 jaw drop especially Kasumis ending uh..... Sorry anyway, the grpahics look like a PS3 type game which 
 is from my perpective means they're good! Now we talk about the very confusing countering system 
 while I was playing I tried to counter an attack and ending up losing because I messed up! If the 
 countering system was less confusing I bet Gamespot would have gave it at least 1 point better. Also 
 I know this is a Japennese game ,but I mean the devolpers knew that Americas were gonna buy this 
 game they could of at least put English subtitles. Online is highly customizable from creating 
 a charecter, not like a charecter you can fight with, but one for the lobby so it's kinda like a 
 mini-dude, to buying a big screen T. V. for your own lobby its pure fun. Unlike other games it'll 
 get you into a match before you can say Koynechiwah . Overall DOA4 is a fun fighter with amazing 
 graphics, great online, and many unlockables that you'll enjoy! That's why i give Dead Or Alive 4 
 9.2 Japennese girls in tight jeans out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedali
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  wow this game is just amazing. there r many achivements unlockables and costumes. it just never 
 gets boring. it will keep u playing for days. it is a hard game but u get use to it. each character 
 has a different set of moves so combos r real good, survival is my favorite game mode. story mode 
 is very great at the end u get a very special character. by far on of the best games ive played 
 on the 360. the graphicsr really realistic but the hair physics just suck!!. Gameplay is wat makes 
 this game stick out. iif u have an xbox 360 get this game wether u like fighting games or not just 
 get it i guarantee u u will enjoys it for months! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, one of the most unfair games in history.
  
  Just so everybody knows i endured all the pain and beat the stroy mode with every character. Now 
 onto gameplay.
  
  The gameplay could of been so much better if they only tweaked the bots a little bit. The bots 
 have every advantage possible. They do more damge than you do, they can time things perfectly, 
 and they can do trick that are extremely hard to do for a human easily. This comes off as laziness 
 and I'll tell you why. I thing that the makers of this game were lazy. Instead of making the AI 
 more human like and fair thay made them cheap so the game wouldn't be too easy. When fighting a 
 bot it is no where like fighting a person online. The bots can do thing humans can't. They can 
 counter more effectively and they do alot more damage. In the gamer there is a story mode that 
 you can play through using 16 different characters. After you beat the first 16 and other character 
 gets unlocked and you can play through the game with that character to unloc the spartan. However 
 getting through all those story modes is very frusterating do to the AI problems i mentioned earlier. 
 Not only that the last fight for most character is a character named Alpha. Her fighting style 
 is EXTREMELY cheap. Even if you in them middle of a combo she can teleport behind you and do a 
 10 round combo. Its ridiculous. One of her grab tricks the like breaks your neck than explodes 
 your head. This ONE move takes you down to about half health. You will fight her a number of times 
 to beat her.
  
  After doing the frusterating SP the game is much better online. The online feels much more fair 
 even when you lose. You pick an avatar and when you join a game your in like the animated little 
 lobby and you can watch matches and join matches from there which is pretty cool. Theres a ton 
 of gametypes you can chose from. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful. The colors are vibrant and superb. The characters a detailed 
 along with the enviroments.
  
  Sound: The sound is nice, the sound effects and music alike. 
  
  Dead or Alive is a decent 
 game if they worked on the AI this game would be great. Unfortunely the AI is such a big part of 
 the game and it kinds ruins an otherwise good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Note i had never played a DOA game prior to this one and after popping it into my 360, I haden't 
 and idea why. This is just a really awesome fighting game and a great game in gerneral. The graphics 
 are nice a with some awesome looking backgrounds and good looking character models to boot. The 
 game fetures loads of characters from many.. i think like 4 ninjas?!? and even A master chief esque 
 spartan! But its no breeze unlocking these characters, as the tough default AI will give most players 
 a run for their money. It says normal but man it feels like hard sometimes, especially when fighting 
 alpha ( generic overpowerd boss.. its ok these games all have em ) . But unlocking new characters 
 and collecting the various achievments was very rewarding for me. There are tons of unclockables, 
 and loads of costumes so if the game manages to reel you in expect yourself to be pumping loads 
 of hours into it. The rest of the game though such as sound and what not are pretty standard.. nothing 
 exeptional but really the gameplay is where this game shines. Everything plays soo smoothly and 
 the combat looks exellent too. So in summary if your looking for a good next gen fighting game 
 to sink your teeth into this is it. And if your new to fighting games, dont let its difficulty 
 put you off because there is alot to like here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty212
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  I have never hear of, played or even knew about doa4 duntil i was mindlessly browsing best buy 
 and saw it in hte *new releases*. i picked it up and took a look and decided to go over to the 
 public computer and watch some gameplay foottage.. thanks to gamespot :) . It looked really great 
 so i took the chance, it was more than worth it, this game has an incredible amount of moves and 
 characters, could do with a few more maps and have them a bit more spaced out.. its always a bit 
 cramped when fighting, you always seem stuck up to a wall getting pumbled. But the cool thing is 
 how you can knock your pponent off cliffs, down stairs and through windows, to another area of 
 the stage. with the particulrily good looking female characters and the insane combo moves, i find 
 this game very addictive. All in all, this game is owrth buying, just to play with the computer 
 or your firend.. wouldn't get your hopes to high for x. live, the lag is riddiculous and im running 
 on high speed internet feeded directly from a modem cable to my xbox. But this is still incredible 
 just to play, the graphics are amazing, the lighting and sahdows and the camera angles when doing 
 throws and knocking oponents off cliffs/stairs/windows. Not to mention, its quite fun doging traffic 
 in gamblers paradise =D. My conclusion, BUY IT!!
  
   !Ananye ows! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAM3BOY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great first fighter for the 360.
  
  Gameplay: never gets boring, but even on normall difficulty it can be hard.
  
  Graphics: the 
 character models are pretty good, but what really impressed me were the backrounds. when i tried 
 photo mode on the nature level with a bridge (i forgot what its called...) i missed the characters 
 and got a nic picture from the background. it almost looks real!
  
  Sound: well, yeah, not much going on when all you hear are the punches and kicks, but otherwise, 
 pretty good.
  
  Value: it has a lot of features, but it would be cool if it included more stuff, like maybe DOA 
 1...
  
  overall, this is a really good game, great multiplayer, and it has a SPARTAN!!! not master chief, 
 but one of the other spartans, shes like SPARTAN 428 or something, really cool. buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- As a reputable series, this game doesnt let down in the gameplay department. The fighting 
 sequence is just typical button mashing mechanics, but whoever said there was anything wrong with 
 that. The gameplay is addictive at times and fun to pick up and play when bored. Considering there 
 are plenty of modes, you should never really be bored with the game. The only downfall of the game 
 is the fact that there really isnt much strategy to the fighting like you see in Soul Calibur. 
 Its pretty much beat the crap out of your opponent until he falls type gameplay. In addition to 
 this, you will also notice that even though the story mode says "Story".... there isnt much of a 
 story, in fact there pretty much is no story. It just leaves you with tidbits of info about a clone 
 and Doatec..... this game surely is made more for the gameplay rather than the story. With loads 
 of unlockables and achievements the gameplay should keep you busy for awhile.
  
  Graphics: Without a doubt these graphics are great, but they dont seem to show off much of what 
 the 360 can actually do. It looks more like a polished version of DOA3, with enghanced environments 
 and stages. Some stages are creative, while others are sorta typical. Either way though, the women 
 and the amazing cherry blossom visuals in the background will keep your eyes glued to the screen 
 for weeks!
  
  Sound- Well, in terms of sound, Im not sure what to think. I want to say its good, but yet i want 
 to say its bad. I just have one question for the developers.... Why is the voice acting in japanese?! 
 I cant really tell if the voice acting is great or horrible, because i dont really know the language. 
 In terms of music, this game is pretty average. No thrilling music, but not many horrible sounds 
 or songs either.
  
  Value- With the online play, local multiplayer, and story modes this game is all about value. Its 
 a fun pick up and play kind of game, and keeps you busy when you are bored. Overall, this is definitely 
 the best fighting game on the 360, but in certain aspects does minorly disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5387
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  I had just recently got this game through gamefly. com and from what ive played so far, it sucks 
 big time. The graphics are good. There was no storyline what so ever. Every time you beat a characters 
 supposely storyline. All it gives you is a brand new costume and a video of that character. The 
 videos was good and high quality of graphics. At times you cant even get a move in on the computer 
 AI. The online play is pretty good. They have some funny stuff on there. plus you can earn more 
 costumes for your characters. So this game is like 1/4 good just bc of the graphics. They need 
 to have a real storyline. This game just seems like they pushed it out too quickly or didnt spend 
 enough time on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, while always lacking a storyline, has always been a good game. With it's mix of 
 Ninjas and other fighting styles. Dead or Alive has been about two things. Major over the top fighting 
 action..... and breast. Good thing is, DoA does BOTH of these very well. It's good enough for a 
 new person to play as well as a someone who has been part of the dead or alive series since Ninja 
 Gaiden for the NES.
  
  This looks to be the only fighting games for the 360 for a while, but at least the only fighting 
 game is a good one. 
  
  Counter system is very good. And it even adds some good ninja moves .... if you look hard enough, 
 you might even find some moves from shows like Naruto..... For example. Ryu, The Ninja from Ninja 
 Gaiden can do the same move that Rock Lee did on the sound ninja.... I believe the Lotus... something 
 or another.
  
  Graphics are awesome. Backgrounds are beautiful, and the fighting areas are VERY multi-leveled. 
 For example. Your fighting in a Japanese house setting. You can either fight and knocked each other 
 threw walls, OR you can knocked him outside the house onto the ground... There's another board, 
 where you are outside and if you kick him towards an animal, the animal will react.
  
  Multiplayer is the best part. Jump on Xbox Live and login, play against anyone and everyone online 
 and Kick some serious ass.... or get your ass serious kicked. Online works like a lobby system 
 where you can play one on ones. Or, if your playing teams, you can make two players join teams 
 and fight. 
  
  DoA is a VERY good fighting game and is worth playing at least once 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed-Me-39
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best out right now for the 360, The graphics are great, The levels are 
 fun, The online play i will not call it anything less the spectacular, And it seems that as long 
 as i've been playing this game i have not run out of things to do with it, However one of the things 
 i do not like is the difficulty the final fight can be very very tricky and quite annoying so if 
 your someone who angers easily (such as myself) this might not be the game for you but if you don't 
 care about unlocking everything or getting all the achievements you can probably just overlook 
 this issue, And it can be very fun to play with friends, and if you happen to have Xbox Live this 
 game will last you a very long time, so no matter who you are or what you prefer to play you should 
 definitely consider buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Reviewers often bash this game for being a button masher, but i assure you that button mashing 
 will get your assed kicked online and off. DoA4 sports beautiful graphics, deep gameplay, and great 
 online and offline modes. I have played played many fighters in my day, but DoA is my favorate 
 series. AND DoA4 just happens to be the best in the series. If i had to compare to any other fighter 
 it would have to be virtual fighter And if one fighter could take the crown from DoA4 it would 
 have to be soul calibur. BUT to be honest, i like DoA4 better than any other fighter. Anyone that 
 doesnt appreciate this games gameplay is either a fool or just plain sucks. This game is easy to 
 pick up and play, but is very difficult to master. The countering and throw/grab system combined 
 with a punch, kick, and punch + kick fighting system is genius. This game is very action packed 
 and fast paced. The most fun youll have playing this game is playing someone with skills that are 
 on par with your own. which makes a very fun, friendly, competitive, etc gaming experience for 
 both parties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texter82
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  It is a very good fighting game ant the graphic is amazing. You mus only look at the water in 
 the stage with the bridge. But i think you dont must be a good fighting-player. you also can push 
 the buttons as you want and you can win the game. i must only know where the button for block is, 
 for high and lower kicks are. difficult is, to catch your opponent and throw him. im sorry for 
 my bad english, but im not from a country, where the people speak your language. i hope you understand 
 my review :-)
  oh my god, i hate to write more then 100 words. this is hard for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0CC
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 21, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  but boy was I wrong. This game is not for me at all! I am more of a Street Fighter type game, 
 
  
  The gameplay was fun and I bet if I actually took the time to play I would eventually be good, 
 but I like a game that I sit down and learn in like a half hour or so. To me the learning curve 
 of this game takes a while.
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing and you have to see it to really see how good it is!
  
  The 
 Sound was good, but nothing special.
  
  The Valued replay, I would have to say not very fun, unless I was good at it, the online play would 
 be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jevbbote
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead or alive 4 in its entirity is a good game for the 360. I have lots of experience playing the 
 game and i recommend focusing on one character instead of having to try perfecting more than one 
 character. This is because by focusing on one character, one's skills can be improved. the graphics 
 of the game is good but, not really next gen. The sound is ok not that I pay attention to it anyway. 
 Gameplay is good but, not the best the game can be a tad frustrating at times and repetative. However 
 at its core is fast paced gaming not for those of slow timing. Considering this the best character 
 for players who have trouble with fast button moves would be Brad Wong but, it is a players choice 
 whether on not to use recommended characters. The difficulty of the game can be adjusted but, eiither 
 way it is challenging at times. Learning curve is about 30-60 minutes
  
  I have played the game for a total of 4 months both on xbox live and offline.
  If you have any 
 inquiries you can contact me at jevbbote@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebuzad0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game was the first i bought for my xbox 360... and i was not dissapointed! Its perfect for 
 for when me and my friends. online thsi game is very competitive and fun but at times can be somewhat 
 embaharrasing because of the japaniesse anime pregame lobby and avatars. The game can be quite 
 a step up dificulty wise. There are enough characters to keep one happy. The enviroments are as 
 allways interesting and fun.
  
  The garphics are great but not as impressive but not as great as I was ecpecting. This game is 
 hands down an exciting and fun game! Every 360 owner should try this game! and thats my review! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game but I give gameplay a 9 because It is not much different from all of the 
 other DOA's but other than that with hundreds of moves and combos this game is very addicting. 
 It lags online if you are not in a good room and most of them are red (which is bad) when I log 
 online. The graphics are very good but I give that a 9 because some things are flawed like charactors 
 hair going thro the head. Like when you punch Kasumi Her hair goes thro her head sometimes a minor 
 glitch but still a flaw other than that the models and backgrounds are awsome. In the enviroments 
 leaves fall grass moves and animal attack you. The mucic is good but is ver annoying in the menus 
 you wont hear it for very long plus with custom mucic. It is a little difficult because there is 
 no easy so you have to spar to begin out.
  
  BUY RENT?
  
  Buy it off ebay for like $50 it will give a lot of enjoyment . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The "Dead or Alive" series of fighting games has always had a large fan-base since its debut in 
 1997. While not exactly changing drastically, from every new entry in the series. The core fighting, 
 and step ahead in graphical quality, has always been the reasons that the series has established 
 itself well in the genra. While "Dead or Alive 4" doesnt change this series trend. What it does 
 do, is refine the series to a near perfect form. Taking the fighting action to the next level, 
 and adding a bevy of new options for the player all help the game reach a level that no game in 
 the series has been able to do as perfectly as "Dead or Alive 4" has done. When you add all this 
 with the amazing presentation that really shows what the Xbox 360 is capable of, and you have a 
 fighting game for the ages.
  
  The "Dead or Alive" series has always been a step ahead in graphical quality. Showing off amazing 
 visuals with every new entry. Much like "Dead or Alive 3", which reall showed off the power of 
 the original Xbox in its release in 2001. "Dead or Alive 4" really shows just how powerfull the 
 Xbox 360 is. With amazing Character models, and nice looking effects. However, the real showcase 
 here, are the enviroments. The different areas, and stages in the game look as lush as ever, and 
 the detail looks as amazing as ever. The CG videos also look quite amazing.
  
  Though there not without there flaws. For as much as the visuals look amazing, there are some problems 
 that do take away from the presentation. For one, the hair of some of the characters look kind 
 of fake at times. As well as the dresses on some of the female characters move in stange ways on 
 there bodies. Making them also look fake in some ways. These nit-picks wouldnt be any problem if 
 the presentation wasnt as amazing as it is. However, none of this is really that much of a problem 
 overall. And many people, more then likely, wont even be able to find the some of the flaws in 
 the graphical presentation. Because looks truely amazing in many ways. And makes an amazing showcase 
 for what the 360 can do.
  
  Sound effects also are great. While the series, in the audio department, feels like it has been 
 really dublicating the same sound effects from past games. It still sounds quite nice. Though, 
 one strange flaw, is the fact that ever character speaks japanese. This wouldnt be a problem if 
 evey character wouldnt be from different nationalities. As much as the series has always carried 
 this strange element, it would be nice to see the character speak the native language. Anyway, 
 the voice actors do a great job presenting the characters, while sounding believeable.
  
  The audio effects and music in the fighting segments also sound very good, just like they always 
 have. The music that takes place during each fight do a good job giving the feel of the game. And 
 have a good peepy and heart pumping feel. While also giving the different levels there own feel. 
 However, they are pretty much the same type of stuff that you may have heard from past games. Th 
 effects in the fighting also sound very good, and very real, however, its mostly the same as its 
 always been. Its not that "Dead or Alive 4" sounds bad, on the contrary, it sounds great. Its just 
 that there really needs to be some new material for the series. Rather then staying with the same 
 standards that the series has always had.
  
  The characters in the game also have a very good feel to the game. As players get to see past characters 
 return. While adding new characters to the roster. And seeing there stories intertwine, and come 
 together is nice to see.
  
  The core fighting in "Dead or Alive 4" is amazing, and in many ways comes near perfection. The 
 game still is much the same as the series has always been. However, it just feels more refine then 
 ever. The "Dead or Alive" series has always been about quick combo's and fast moves. Overwhelming 
 your enemy with many attacks at once. The fighting engine in "Dead or Alive 4" feels a bit more 
 tweaked, making the fighting feel better then ever. Combo's are much easier to pull off then in 
 past games, when you needed to learn sequences on your own. It also just feels more user friendly, 
 making it perfect for long time fans to be able to play with the trick system on there own. While 
 also making it easier for new comers to be able to jump in and enjoy the game thereselves. But 
 what also makes the gameplay much, much better is the new AI in the single player game. Its much 
 much more diffincult giving the game much more of a challenge. Something that many fighting games 
 dont have these days. It stays a challenge, while also staying manageable for anyone that needs 
 it to be a bit more easier. All in all, the gameplay in "Dead or Alive 4" is more perfect then 
 any fighting game to come around in quite a while.
  
  The game also has many new options to keep the game alive. There is just a whole lot to do in "Dead 
 or Alive 4". From the engaging single player made, to the time attack, to the survival, and all 
 the extras in the middle. You can even have the computer player two characters against each other 
 and wacth the two fight. Giving you tips on how to fight while watching. But the best part of all 
 of this is the online mode which is a great part of this game.
  
  Unlike "Dead or Alive Ultimate", "Dead or Alive 4" as a new loby mode in the online mode. Which 
 is kind of a mixed blessing. You pick a avatar, and by winning fights you earn money to by items 
 to collect. While this adds a while lot of replay value t a game that is already briming with it. 
 It does feel a bit tact on, since when you enter a loby, you quite out once you fight a player 
 the challenge. However, its a nice feature to have nonetheless. The online mode itself is very 
 good, however, playing online does have a lot of lag. Its not too bad that it will keep you from 
 getting online, but it does take away from the experience a bit. However, it still stays fun online 
 either way.
  
  There are some negatives to "Dead or Alive 4", however, none of it is really geared toward "Dead 
 or Alive 4". Its really more problems with the series. In the form of the series being a very afraid 
 of change. While the series has always been a very great fighting game series. And with this new, 
 and amazing, entry in the series. It really show just how far the series has come. However, considering 
 how amazing "Dead or Alive 4" is, I cant help but believe that with a little bit of a change to 
 the series could take it closer to the perfection that this new entry touches apon.
  
  However, with that said, "Dead or Alive 4" is an exceptional fighting game, that any fan or fan 
 of fighting games in general should not be without. It stays one of the best playing fighting games 
 to come along in quite a while. And the amazing graphics really show off what the 360 can do. And 
 adding in all of the extras make this one of the fullest and most amazing fighting games to come 
 along in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeak_man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the latest in the series of Dead or Alive beat 'em ups. The fighting in DOA4 
 is very stylized and fast paced, with a huge range of different moves and combos. The graphics 
 are also a very stunning feature, as with most Dead or Alive games, and contribute greatly to what 
 the game has become. When you start to play this game, you don't want to stop, and after ten hours 
 straight of gameplay, your controller may be in pieces from frustration.
  
  The graphics in Dead or Alive 4 are absolutely brilliant. Everything is smooth and well curved, 
 and gives a great feel. The graphics have a huge impact on the gameplay as well. The more real 
 your character looks, the better realistic feel their fighting seems. A real fighter makes a real 
 fight, and these characters are about as real as they get, unless you're looking at their chests.
 
  Dead or Alive 4 has a superb fighting feel. There is a large range of moves you can use, and so 
 many different ways to defeat your opponent. You can use grab, kick, punch, block, and counter 
 moves, as well as power attacks and even taunts. There is also a sparring mode in which you can 
 do an exercise, in an attempt to learn all of the moves. There are alot of them, though.
  The characters in this game show a connection to each other. It would be more noticable if you 
 have played the previous games, but may be seemingly difficult if this is the first Dead or Alive 
 game you have played. Each person you beat the game with has a video to do with them, letting be 
 known a little more about their backstory and friendships, and once you get into playing this game, 
 you can really come to connect with the characters and their individual storylines. To get these 
 ending videos, though, you must first complete the story with said character, and this can be the 
 most frustrating thing you've ever done.
  I won't spoil it for you, but the last boss in most of the character campaigns is the most frustrating 
 final boss I have ever encountered, and probably the most confusing as well. Sometimes you can 
 beat it first go, and others it takes you around thirty tries. Even if you are doing it with the 
 same character that you beat it with in three seconds before, it could still take as long as thirty 
 rounds the second time. I don't know the real reason for this, but i'd say it's because I gave 
 up trying for a while and handed it over to my brother.
  The online play in DOA4 is quite fun. I found it to be quite laggy most of the time, but that didn't 
 matter to me as long as I was getting the 'Ten losses in a row' achievment. It is a great game 
 to play online with friends or strangers close to you, but if you live in Australia and you are 
 playing Americans, the lag is dreadful. Trust me, i'd know.
  
  All in all, Dead or Alive 4 is an awesome game. Great graphics, brilliant fighting style, in-depth 
 characters addictive and frustrating gameplay, and time spent well. If you're into games that get 
 you hooked on something that annoyes you, get this game. If you're into good fighting games, I 
 would also reccomend this to you. If you absolutely despise fighting games, this one probably isn't 
 for you. But, if you have alot of friends in the same area as you who have DOA4 and Xbox Live, 
 it'd be a blast online, and i'd go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyakuri
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised how much I wanted this game, buying a 360 primarily for the game and the soon to 
 come out DOAX2 somehow really shows my dedication and love for this game. (I hope)
  
  The game is awsome. It's a lot harder now to beat - which I am grateful for having been such a 
 great player! *boast boast toast toast* It's SO hard that I had trouble on Time Attack mode - having 
 it taken me 45 minutes to beat miss knox geiten missy with Spartan! 
  
  And woah! Spartan! How freaking awsome is THAT?! 
  Another great reason to get the game!
  
 
  My only sadness about the game was Kasumi's ending. What lack of story-line! And to steal my friend's 
 saying: "Holy Letdown" (Arigatou)
  
  Ayane's ending was wonderful. 
  And most of the endings were awsome, save some that were just plain stupid *cough* Hitomi *cough* 
 Lei Fang *cough* Tina (although having her dream finaly achieved was nice..) 
  
  The gameplay is great, the graphics, the everything.
  I'm so glad that Team Ninja/ Tecmo (which 
 one do I call it) did so well, and released another great game for us DOA fans. *Arigatou ****
 
  
  I cannot wait until they release more great doa games for our sad enjoyment! So go out - if you 
 haven't already - and buy the dang game! It's worth it! 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrash777
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  To start with, I'd like to say this game is more artistic in more ways than others, and is a beautiful 
 game to watch in action as it flows really well.
  
  Visuals:
  
  As far as the game goes with graphics, its beautiful. The backgrounds and stages you play on are 
 definately the most noticeable thing, and uses a good portion of the 360's abilities. The characters 
 also look very nice, but not so much detail in facial and skin features. In other words, everyone 
 looks perfect. There are some minor weird physics like hair behaving like ribbons and costumes 
 going through body parts, but those are like all games, and hard to program correctly.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music tracks are awesome, using such bands as Aerosmith for some tracks. The 
 in-game music is also well suited and fits nicely with the feel of the game. Sound effects are 
 also good, making sure you know when each punch, kick and grab connect.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game really shines through. At first what may seem simple, is actually a treasure 
 trove of secrets, tactics and strategies all hidden beneath. Sure, you have your punch and kick, 
 but there is so much more behind it.
  
  When you start out, button bashing will carry you so far, but to get past those oh so annoying 
 stages requires patience and willingness to learn a thing or two about the control system.
  
  This is a hard game to fully complete. It is easy to enjoy at first, but to get that real sense 
 of achievement, you have to go an extra long way to get it!
  
  The new countering system is tricky to pick up, but really good once you get into it. If you play 
 through the sparring practise mode for awhile with each character, you get a good feel for how 
 the game works and flows.
  
  Value:
  
  As far as story, not much involved, but it is a fighting game here, so don't expect much.
  
 
  You get your story, time attack, sparring, survival, versus and team battle modes, as well as 
 a movie theatre, watch mode, album, stats, replays and photos taken.
  
  Xbox Live is used very well in this game, and has good support. Patches have been released already, 
 and there is plenty to do online. The competition is tough, but good fun. You get lobbys, avatars, 
 stats/leader boards, replay saving and your general optimatch settings, which have a good amount 
 of options to choose from.
  
  As far as achievements are concerned, there are a fair deal of them. Some are hidden, some require 
 xbox live, some require time, and some require a great deal of skill in the game! Getting a SS 
 rank is no minor achievement I can assure you!!!
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you are a fan of fighting games, you will definatley like whats on offer here. It has some unique 
 ideas and gameplay which havent necessarily been seen before.
  
  Not for the light-hearted or very casual gamer, this game does require you to put some time in 
 to learn how to truly play it and you need to be prepared for that if you want to get the most 
 out of it and get past the later stages of achievement.
  
  Good multiplayer support; xbox live as explained, and all your favourite modes for versus matches 
 against your friends!
  
  All in all, a great game to master, to watch, and to appreciate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolphus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is on the xb-ox 360 with improve graphic and new moves to show off as you play 
 on-line against other people to test your skills as you play the story mode with new characters 
 and master their moves as you learned what is their purpose in the tournament and play veterans 
 fighters such as Kasumi, Hayabusa, Ayane, and others with new moves to try out.
  The graphics is still the same old graphics that you saw it's last game but if you look a lot closer, 
 you see that the graphics has improve and the environments got a lot bigger as you can explore 
 or destroy the area and speaking of graphics, the game A. I. has gotten a lot smarter and a-lot 
 harder because the A. I. Counters and do air comdos out of you as you have to use new combos to 
 out smart your challenger. Overall, the game is for veterans who played it, s pass games now how 
 to play and the game will give you a hard time until you get used to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is good i mean story, cinematic and thing are very good
  it's fast good loking game 
  But the AI is horrible i dont like the game just becuse of AI
 
  they know your every move and they are too much overpowerd
  Female characters are too much overpowerd too 
  and the most overpowerd thing in game is the 
 last level boss ! Alpha !
  that is the worst character in game its 2x faster than you it teleports every time you want to 
 hit her i mean **** 
  the last DOA was way better for newcomer players and old players of the series 
  
  this DOA4 
 is crap i wasted my money... i just play it over to get achivments
  but the game it's self is CRAP ! 
  
  Online is very good i like that the most in game it's 
 fun and graphics are butyfull too
  
  gameplay in single player and stuff IS CRAP 
  
  Well Online is where i like to play ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This game delviers as promised a fast paced and crazy brawler. Most fighting games are fast, but 
 this one takes it to a whole other level. The arenas are huge and it is quite a treat to throw 
 opponents through windows and various other obstacles. There are a lot of characters and some of 
 the best graphics ever put in games, but as we all know it is not all about graphics it is also 
 about the level of fun. The game has some flashy special moves and some really sharp controls. 
 I decided on this game becuase a lot of the reviwers said that it is a good show off of the X Box 
 360s powers and it is. This is the defining fighting game of the new genreation of console games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  AWESOME: Cinematic style techniques are jaw-dropping. The free-style fighting system feels much 
 better than the straight "follow this button sequence" of other fighters.
  
  THE GOOD: Fighting is solid and, simply put, really cool. The theatrical style moves really make 
 you say "Whoa!" Easy to pick up, but also one for the masters. Umm... oh yeah, ONLINE PLAY.
  
  THE BAD: If you really like the game and its fast-paced, free-form style of fighting, you'll 
 have to listen to all the Sony fan's bullcrap about how much better any other fighting game is 
 compared to it. 'Cause pausing for a whole second after you messed up on the button combination 
 for that particular attack even though you tried to press other buttons to do something else makes 
 sense, right Soul Caliber and Tekken fans?
  
  REVIEW: This is a great fighting game, and I wouldn't be ashamed to say that it is the best 3D 
 fighter either. The fast-paced action of the game really gets you into it, especially right when 
 you pull off an awesome cinematic technique that usually makes you laugh and say "That was incredible! 
 Even though they did that to me, man that was cool." The Videos received from completing a character's 
 story is usually something perverted, but gladly accepted. Online play is great. The Lobby is a 
 little weird, but doesn't affect the online's play at all. The stuttering of the previous DOA online 
 play has been fixed, being replaced with a slow-motion things instead, so you still see what happens. 
 Just remember not to play with anyone who's busy downloading porn, otherwise a single fight could 
 take 15 minutes. The free-style fighting system really makes this game stand out. Most fighters 
 out there now have a combination system, requiring you to press a sequence of buttons to pull off 
 a long combination of kicks and punches, or in Soul Caliber's case, press any 2 buttons at a time 
 and you'll do some flashy special move. True, Dead or Alive has a combination system too, but the 
 difference is when you mess up on ANY other of these "great" fighting games, your fighter stops, 
 pauses, then goes back to their basic stance. In DOA, if you mess up, you simply do some other 
 less-effective combination, taking away from the pausing and slow-paced garbage.
  - Martial Arts Master: "Oh crap, I messed up. Here, let me just think about this for a second... 
 okay, now I stand like this and... alright, I'm ready to go again!"
  This is the sort of situation you get in something like Virtua Fighter, Tekken, and Soul Caliber, 
 but not in Dead or Alive's case.
  - Other Martial Arts Master: "Punch, kick, uh-oh. Sorry, I meant to punch you again, but instead 
 I kicked. Oh well, as long as I still hit you without taking a breather."
  Yes, I know, I'm very bitter, but I'm tired of hearing all this crap about DOA. IT"S A GOOD FIGHTING 
 GAME. SHUT UP. 
  Oh yeah, it also got a bad rap from being the first game with a boob-bouncing system. While all 
 the female fighters of DOA still have big breasts, this cannot compare to the gargantuan size of 
 Taki's breasts, which only seem to double in size and bounciness with each Soul Caliber. Just drop 
 this stupid antic. Everyone likes it, they're just too embarrassed to admit it.
  With really fun and in-depth gameplay, incredible graphics and online play to boot, you got a great 
 game. The Real King of Fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthrodent
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Well...... I borrowed this game from a friend a little while ago. I didn't really want to borrow 
 it, but I needed something to hold of his, while he was borrowing one of my games.
  
  I was bored one day and decided to try it out. I never liked fighting games and I never liked DOA 
 games.
  
  I am surprised to say though, that this game is sweet! It's very addictive and the online is fun 
 and challenging. 
  
  When your winning, you love the game, but when your loosing, you hate it. Man did it piss me off 
 how cheap and hard those last bosses were on the story mode. Especially that alien green thing. 
 She pissed me off, but I somehow stuck with it and won.
  
  But ya, im tired and I wanna go now, but I eventually ended up buying it from my friend for $30, 
 when it's $60 in store. So I got a good deal, and now I like fighting games.
  
  The game takes alot of practice to get used to and countering is very trickey, but with alot of 
 practice and some luck, you can learn the game and own online, which I haven't gotten to do yet. 
 Because I suck. But it's alright. watever. PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman8012
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is a good game in its own sense I mean it has some bad points to but we will look at the good 
 points mostly as in its great multiplayer. The only problem with the multiplayer online is the 
 fact that the lag goesup a lot when you start playing yourself and it doesn't give you the feature 
 to go toe to toe with people your level. I am not that good yet and I keep ending up SS class people 
 when I am a D+. That is why my level is so low. But this game at first as I said before if you 
 didn't play DOA series before like me you have to grow into it. I didn't like it at first then 
 when I realized how fun it really was I was very entertained. That is why I give it a 8.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAITHAM93
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  It the best game in the world
  
  Thanks man
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the 
 language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right 
 the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When 
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, 
 but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you 
 to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the 
 language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right 
 the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When 
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, 
 but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you 
 to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember 
 to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your 
 review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose 
 any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word 
 processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box 
 below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately different from the other DOA games. I believe this is good. The online 
 mode so far for me is better because you can really work strategy better. DOAU was a lot of tap 
 tap fighting, with DOA4 you can really get around that for more of an intense fight. The story 
 mode can be very difficult, even on normal, but we should expect this from team ninja. The game 
 will definately frustrate you from the coutners to the fact that most of the characters moves have 
 been tweaked enough that you will have to change the way you play with them from DOA 3 and DOAU. 
 I have about 15-18 hours of game play so far and I have been able to adjust to the changes pretty 
 well. I think that if you really like the DOA series you will definately like this game. I am not 
 to crazy about the online lobby, but I am sure I will get used to it. No one is comfortable with 
 change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When I got my Xbox 360 I knew I had to have two games right off the bat. DOA 4 and of course, halo 
 2. But right now, we're going to talk DOA 4. DOA 4 is quite possibly one of the best Xbox 360 games 
 on the market now. Here's the lowdown:
  
  Story: Yeah, about that. This is the first DOA game I've bought, and I must say I have no clue 
 what-so-ever about what's going on. The cutscenes are beautiful though, so if you're not too busy 
 trying to figure out what's going on, you can enjoy the rich detail.
  
  Gameplay: This is the best aspect of DOA 4. The fighting is excellent, and the AI is great. This 
 is no arcade beat 'em up. This is a fighting game that requires you to think about the styles of 
 your opponent. It makes you an even bigger part of the game. The characters are some old favorites, 
 and some new inductees like the ninja from the Ninja Gaiden series. Also as you may have already 
 heard, there is in fact a Spartan in this game. The core gameplay here is superb. Need I say more?
 
  
  Graphics: The enviornments in DOA4 are so incredibly great looking that you may loose a fight just 
 because you keep drooling over how great they look. As the official GameSpot review said though, 
 there are some graphical issues. I found these to be most evident in the hair on the female fighters. 
 There were a few instances where something was amiss in it. Like it moved strangely during cutscenes, 
 and seemed stiff or solid. However, these things are very small flaws and don't take much away 
 from this amazing experience. 
  
  Audio: The game is in english, but the fighters speak in Japanese. Don't ask me why. This is odd, 
 but you'll soon get over it. 
  
  Value: The Xbox Live support helps boost the value of this overall experience. The lobby thing 
 is pretty weird, but you aren't there for too long. There is some lag on online multiplayer, but 
 there's not too much. 
  
  Bottom Line: If you have an Xbox 360, pick this game up!!!!!!! It's the best in the series. Though 
 the difficulty and learning curve may annoy you, you get used to it and you'll eventually get the 
 hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samnevarez
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is so cool. it has very good graphics close to reality. it is so intense .yhis game is 
 great and awsome. it is cool. it is cool. it is cool. it is cool. it is cool. it is cool. it is cool. 
 it is cool. it is cool. it is cool. it is cool .it is cool. it is cool . it is cool. it is cool. 
 it is cool. it is cool. this game is so cool. it has very good graphics close to reality. it is so 
 intense. this game game is so cool. it is so cool. it is so great. it so great. it is os great . 
 it so great. it is so great. it so great and cool and intense. it so cool and intense .in is so 
 great. it so cool. it so cool and great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlvMar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game... so good
  
  The graphics have improved a lot, the gameplay improved a little more.
  The only thing that some 
 people would consider bad is the difficulty. But, they have put the game hard, so people could 
 actually learn hoy to play, to have a strategy, instead of just smashing buttons.
  
  But just one thing I didnt like of the new AI. And that is the counter system, or as I call it, 
 the "psychic powers". They always know wich attack Im about to do, even if it is the first time 
 I do the attack on the fight. I like challenges, but I have my limits.
  
  I dont know if this is the last of the series (becuase of the endings) , but i dont know what tecmo 
 and team ninja are going to do after this and Ninja Gaiden 2.
  
  This serie, revived Tecmo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  this is my first doa game and let me this is hard a hell the couter system is great but u have 
 to learn to use it witch does not make any sense because u won't know unless u a) figure it out 
 b) go online to find it like i did or c) have played other doa games this game looks absolute beatuful 
 and is very changling the game plays really well and might keep u playing fopr hours the out fits 
 for the guy don't look like they put thought into it but the girls on the other had the put alot 
 of thought into that not thats a bad thing but it does not want to make me play with a dude because 
 of the way they look the final boss alpha -152 is hard as hell i can spend 5 min pn her she is 
 that hard she can teleaport in the miuddle of ur combos and can take over half of ur healt in one 
 blow witch gets irating but all in all a great game to own and play with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33t_gamer_88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  you have to like a fighting game that lets you pick two attractive females and watch the comp dish 
 it out in an all out cat fight! lol dead or alive 4 is easilly the best dead or alive game of the 
 series so far... it has a good variety of characters to chose from and they all have very entertaining 
 end videos to look forward to... the game itself is not too hard or not too easy and is definately 
 fun to play with a friend.. it is nice and fast paced, it has outstanding graphics and a very realistic, 
 interactive fighting environement.. this game will kepp you entertained for awhile and you will 
 most likely find yourself trying to unlock all the characters end movies and even a few secrets,,, like... maybe 
 a character from last years top selling first person shooter?? guess youl have to play to find 
 out now wont you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remlicon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  On the surface this game is a button mashers paradise. It seems that anybody can pull off good 
 moves and effectively beat those with prior fighting game saavy. After you learn the all so vital 
 counter attack scheme and then get a few good combos under your belt. No button mashing noob will 
 take another victory. 
  
  The moves seemed a little odd at first.... I am talking the actuall unput used to perform a move 
 a long with the layout and function of the buttons. I love the old LP, RP, LK, RK set up with Tekken. 
 This game just has your basic punch and kick bottons with a buttons for a strong punch and a strong 
 kick. After forgetting all about Tekken I soon became very adept at the lay out. I actuall prefer 
 the all out faced paced action of DOA to Tekken now. The counter system can turn tides and you 
 truly do have to master it to be effective. Its not easy, but worth the reward once you start counter 
 jacking fools. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is one of the 360's launch titles and a good fighter to say the least. It has an 
 interesting focus on countering and fast paced action along with utilizing the environments to 
 do the most damage. Not to say this game is without some flaws, however it is a great game overall 
 especially on a system that has no fighting games whatsoever.
  
  Gameplay: This to me is probably the most important part to any game, and Dead or Alive 4 is a 
 mixed bag. Overall it is a great game and smooth playing. The combos work well and most characters 
 mix it up well, although some strategies and attacks work better than others. The standard block 
 and double kick or 4 punch combo works well, more elaborate attacks are generally not needed. Throws 
 here are standard, some in front, side and the back, with the back doing most damage. You get blocking 
 capabilities just like any other fighting game too.
  
  The next most noticeable part of this game is the focus on countering. There is a counter for each 
 type of move, high, med, low and punch or kick, but they generally require more than one sequence 
 of buttons. Sometimes it is hard to pull off in the middle of being pummeled, or just when an unsuspecting 
 kick comes at you. I would venture it is fair to make one counter be back+button vs, down-forward+button, 
 otherwise one block move would make it too easy. However, it is annoying that the computer so easily 
 counters you at times, particularly Bayman and Ryu, while others are more resonable. Also, sometimes 
 in the middle of a combo, you will get countered, while you as the player can never break the combo 
 once it starts. Countering is vital to this game yet, I wish it were more simplistic. I guess it 
 is a visual paper rock scissors game, yet, it takes a long while to master.
  
  The scenery functions as another mechanism for hurting your opponent. Kick him/her off the stairs 
 and watch them tumble. Smash them through a pane of glass, throw them in front of a car, kick them 
 off a bridge. Throws do more into a wall or over the edge.
  
  I do have some beef though with a lot of the gameplay.
  
  1.) Some characters are super super 
 SUPER cheap. Namely Ryu, Kokoro, Bayman and Alpha 152. Ryu and Bayman counter all the time, and 
 Kokoro blocks everything you throw. Alpha 152 simply goes into combo mode and takes off half your 
 life in one hit. Whereas some other computer players are easy to defeat, like Gen Fu or Ein as 
 the last bosses.
  2.) Countering is sometimes hit or miss, and hard to pull off. It just feels a little more like 
 luck than skill half the time.
  3.) Jann Lee's flying kick. If you strike the opponent, he does some fancy foot shuffling and martial 
 arts cries, but it does nothing but hinder you from attacking again, this can be quite annoying 
 and unfair.
  4.) The ninjas seem to have the most power and moves. People have claimed this to be untrue, but 
 the most diverse moves in the game can be found in Ryu and cohorts attacks. Spartan 458's movelist 
 sucks... sorry.
  5.) There aren't enough strike quick moves. The closest thing I can think of is Jann Lee's reverse 
 elbow, or Helena's palm strike. It seems like dashing elbows and flying kicks are very hard to 
 accomplish in this game.
  
  Perhaps I am comparing this too much to Tekken, but a little more variety overall would help.
 
  
  Additionally, an Easy Mode would make this game more fun for a casual gamer, as at first I couldn't 
 beat the bosses for the life of me.
  
  Graphics: Well, here is where the game shines, in more ways than one.
  First the characters are 
 all visually appealing, but needless to say, special attention is given to the female fighters. 
 They have the most costumes, the flowing hair, Realistic Physics ahem... where were we. The clothes 
 flow and blow in the wind, and for some reason, the males have better modeled hair overall though, 
 most individual strands can be see in Brad Wong's hair than anyone else's. My favorite part of 
 the graphics in this game is the levels. Some highlights are:
  1.) The water in any stage. I don't think I have seen such realistic water in any game before. 
 The quality of the ripples and reflections are incredible. The only problem with the water is I 
 wish when your characters got in the water, they would get wet, hair and clothes and have water 
 drip off. Being instantly dried off the second you step out of the water is a little cheesy, but 
 I will let that slide.
  2.) The rocks and gravel are particularly exquisite in the bridge stage once you fall off. It looks 
 almost photographic the detail one sees.
  3.) The Marketplace level is so detailed, with many varieties of stands containing smashable fruit 
 baskets and bottles. Near these vendors are baskets of chickens which can be freed in a flurry 
 of feathers. Getting kicked down the stairs causes the person who fell down them to fall into an 
 arrangement of multi colored balloons which then proceed to float away. The beach has a beautiful 
 blue waterfront with a brilliant sun in the background. 4.) Outside of the casino, it is foggy 
 and wet. The reflection from the nearby lights can be seen in the puddles on the ground. The movies 
 in this game are easily on par with anything that Squaresoft or Namco has produced. If you have 
 seen any of those, then these you will know are top notch.
  
  If you just want to look at the women of DoA, go get Xtreme Beach Volleyball.
  
  Sound: I can't 
 get enough of Jann Lee's Bruce Lee imitations. They are great, a classic martial arts phenomenon. 
 The sound when someone gets kicked in the face or slammed in the wall sounds like it hurts. In 
 the stage where you fight amongst dinosaurs, being tossed into the side of a dinosaur causes it 
 to roar in rage. The soundtrack includes some Aerosmith Tracks, including Eat The Rich in the opening 
 scenes, and some original J-Pop fare that I wish I could actually find somewhere, my favorite would 
 be the endings of Hitomi and Kasumi. Value: Well after completing every story mode in under 5 hours, 
 I pretty much did everything there was to do but survival and time attack. Xbox live adds tremendous 
 value to the playability, as fighting against real opponents is much more fun than the same computer 
 based ones over and over. It is unfortunate there isn't more of a scenario/weaponmaster quest/arcade 
 champion mode like in Virtua Fighter or Soul Calibur, to unlock new clothes and outfits and such. 
 Tilt: Overall a good fighting game with excellent graphics and sound with some humorous endings. 
 My favorite ending was Helena's which ties everything together and it has a good ending (I won't 
 give away any spoilers) . Barring the main game being too short, and generally sometimes too cheap, 
 I would say it is a good game overall with its own individual potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NocturnalThoth
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Mastering countering (something I am still not an expert in) can seem very frustrating, but it 
 is the most rewarding part. It is the difference between winning consistently and winning sporadicaly. 
 This is the first fighting game I have picked up in a long time and I was really impressed with 
 game-play and graphics. Online play is definitely good, very few matches are bogged down with lag 
 issues, and the ratings are mostly accurate for abilities.
  The computer seems to learn your moves quickly so it is important to mix them once you find yourself 
 at the short end of the power bar. There is also one "boss" who you will find is ridiculously overpowered, 
 having throws and counters that eliminate half of your power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I love this game!!! It can be very difficult to learn how to best use certain characters and to 
 learn opponents' fighting styles. But I still love the game. It's a lot of fun, interesting, exciting, 
 frustrating. I love how all the characters are related in some way. All of their story lines tie 
 together. Also, the "music videos" at the end of each character's journey, are very cool. Amazing 
 graphics and animations. I do wish that the combos in the game were a bit easier to do. Some better 
 power-moves would be nice. And some more sets would be great. Also, more unlockables would be nice, 
 as well as increases in character abilities based on how much you play with each character. All 
 and all, it's a great game. It just lacks a few elements that would make it amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazKurupt
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The soundtrack needs work , the gameplay is solid though and thats what matters. The graphics are 
 what you would expect from a next gen console.
  The online is what makes this game worth it after you've unlocked all the toons. Lots of different 
 modes also add to replay value. The CG endings are great 2.
  
  The online has a little lag. If you look at the people your playing with some have a better conection 
 then others. So playing with people with a solid conection will remedy the lag problem. 
  
  Lots of costumes make the game sweet as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roninregain
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  So I'm always the last horse to cross the finish , I just bought an Xbox 360 and with that Amped 
 3 (i Just love snowboarding) and DOA 4. I was lucky enought to have played DOA Ultimate (or was 
 it extreme?) on the xbox, as this game offers some mechanics no fitghting game offers. Kind a like 
 rock, paper, scissors , Punching and kicking tops, grabbing, while grabbing tops blocking or even 
 countering, while countering tops punching and kicking. Does new to the series have to get heads 
 around this and fast, because without it you'll lose. Tecmo isn't playing favorite for button bashers 
 like Namco does, this can also be found in ninja gaiden. For me this was always kind of a scare, 
 will I'm not a maniacal button basher, I usually don't use a lot of tricky combo's , just mix it 
 up a bit. 
  
  The game features a lot of modes, story mode, time attack, survival, versus, team battle, training 
 mode and off course the all mighty online mode. Time attack and survival among others are available 
 in single or tag team. Throwing in all the unlockables customers, thank god their less of them 
 this time or I wouldn't get any sleep, few unlockable characters, stages, and system voices.
  And to top that off ACHIEVEMENT POINTS, thing like 5, 10 and 100 hours of play time to achieving 
 online rankings.
  
  This game has you playing for a long long long time.
  
  I couldn't discover an easy mode, so be prepared on normal mode you will get your ass kick once 
 in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game i ever played! (in my opinion) and the reason is because every fighter you 
 choose is unbalanced. and the woman fighters are HEAVILY over powered, when you play this game 
 and loose MANY times regarding other fighting games you have played you get a feeling they have 
 put more than AI in them. The more life your foe looses the more pissed it get and more life you'll 
 lose and the chances of surviving is low (even lower against a female fighter in this game) The 
 storyline of each character is good but the last boss you fight is more than heavily over powered, 
 it's almost impossible to takr out, it feels the last boss has a POAI or "Pissed Off Artifical 
 Intelligents" as i like to call it get's pissed off and woop your ass so hard you don't even have 
 time to defend yourself or attack back. IT's a good game but impossible for new beginners at gaming
 
  
  more: In the online game as the reviewer said. it DOES lagg ALOT, in the games in when you fight 
 against other they'll either fight fairly or unfairly which is pretty hard. yet i've run into people 
 who gives you a little chance to fight. and unfair people who uses the same character over and 
 over and over and over and over again and he is knowingly they cannot defeat his character and 
 using him/her to gain a rank that he/her does not deserve for using the same character and not 
 letting other people have fun which this game is intend to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paint_Chips
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  The DOA series has remained the XBox's signature fighting series for a long time. DOA 2&3 were 
 technical masterpieces, showing what the XBox graphic engines was capable of. DOA 4 is no different.
 
  
  If you've played the previous games, then you'll think you know what to expect, and to a certain 
 extent, you will. You'll notice however, that the combat is much faster than the previous titles, 
 and each of the returning characters have had slight tweeks to their command lists. For instance, 
 Ryu can now use ninjutsu to teleport at will, sometimes combining that with his attacks. Also, 
 you'll find the singleplayer Story mode to be much more difficult than the other games. (I always 
 thought it was funny when people said Ninja Gaiden was hard, and I never had too much of a problem 
 with it, and no one mentions the difficulty of this game and I think it's hard as hell. And both 
 games were made by the same team)
  
  Graphically, this game is awesome. The models are all smooth, clothing surfaces appear realistic, 
 the environments are beautiful even when broken apart. The only graphical issue I see is some character's 
 hair clipping sometimes. Other than that, this game's graphics are incredible.
  
  The game sounds great. Not neccessarilly the soundtrack, which comprises of mostly techno sounding 
 stuff, but rather the combat sounds. Smashing someone's face into a cement barrier, then hurling 
 them into a busy street and watching them get run down by a car should sound painfull; and in DOA 
 4 it does. All the punching and kicking and throwing and whatnot sounds very painfull with the 
 incredible sound work put in by the team.
  
  All this being said, DOA is a fighting game, and such games don't appeal to certain people. If 
 you're not a big fan of fighting games, avoid this game. If you love fighting games, like Tekken, 
 or other arcade-style fighters, then this game is for you, if you're up to the challenge... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is now on Micorsoft's Xbox 360. 
  
  True hardcore fans of the Dead or Alive series will love this game, and will have the right level 
 difficulty for them. Obviously, veterans of the series will blow thru the single player and will 
 pwn you in DOA Online. 
  
  If you're an on-and-off fighter fan, or new to the fighting genre, you will find this game difficult, 
 frustrating, hard, and confusing. In some of the single player fights, you will think that the 
 enemy AI is smarter than you. The game has 2 difficulty settings, Normal and Hard, this game is 
 hard on Normal.
  
  But there are some slight upsides to this game. Impressive graphics, devastating bone-crunching 
 sound, some spectacular looking punch/kick attack combos, and some nice looking women.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 for the Xbox 360 will be a good gift for DOA4 addicts or heavyweight fighting fans. 
 Otherwise, you will find this game hard to love.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  The game is fun and has a huge array of options, even in practice modes. But for those that want 
 to play in multiplayer, it is a bit awkard. When you first sign on Xbox Live to play in multiplayer 
 games, you have a nice variety of different types of game play and you can customize who you might 
 want to go up against and such. But as soon as you try to join a game, your taking too this cartoonist 
 looking room where your given this kiddish looking character to move around with.. All the while, 
 there are others online moving about. Infront of you is a desk with someone sitting there and you 
 basically just choose from a list of options as to what you want to do. Obviously, you want to 
 choose to join the game. Question is, why was this step ever needed? It looks so out of place, 
 it's like driving on a realy smooth road, then suddenly your on a crappy stretch of road, then 
 your back at the nice smooth road.
  
  As for the game itself, lets just say, you will be pushing a lot of buttons and your hands will 
 definitely get tired -- quick. The biggest thing about this game is knowing the moves. Players 
 on Xbox Live extremely tough and you can't just jump into this game with no practice at all or 
 you will get pounded big time. And the graphics are awesome and extremely well done. However, I've 
 yet to understand why the oriental chicks all have disproportionately huge breasts when we all 
 know they are quite small in real life.
  
  Number one complaint I have about this game is the lag on Xbox Live though. 
  
  theres my review, 
 enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 is a Fighting game from Tecmo who makes awsome games like Ninja Gaiden, and it 
 is freakin awsome.
  
  Gameplay is awsome, with fast paced fighting- many moves you can use. Although the A. I feels kinda 
 cheep like when you fight the ending boss for most of the levels, She can sorta just grab you- 
 blast you- and remove half your health- which is utter bull ****. But still that can be forgiven.
 
  
  Graphics:
  JIGGLE JIGGLE JIGGLE. The Female models are hawt. And the Environments are awsome- and interactive- 
 such as when you get smashed into a vending cart the cart will break and such. Although the male 
 characters are complete rip offs compared to the females- who dress like they never get cold.
 
  
  Sound: got some good music
  although the voicing is in japaneese- with english subtitles,
  they could have had some GOOD 
 english voicing instead of giving up on it.
  
  Value:
  this is a game ur gonna play over and over again
  
  Over all this game is freakin awsome
 
  play it!
  
  now...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surllio
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive is one of those fighting game franchises that always seems to come out with peak 
 graphics, lovely characters, lots of unlockables, but generally little substanence for a fighting 
 game. The last installments (Dead or Alive 3 and Dead or Alive Ultimate) saw improvements to the 
 speed of the combat, the enviroments, the counter system, and of course, the graphics. Dead or 
 Alive 4 keeps going in the same direction, but almost a little too far.
  
  DoA4 starts you off with a good assortment of characters to choose from, each one with two costumes 
 to pick from. By the time your done with the game, you have even more characters, and the average 
 of 5 costumes per character. The game rewards you for frequent play and story mode completions 
 by giving you new characters, new costumes, and new things to play with.
  
  The playmodes are all there. Story, Survival, Time Attack, Sparring (practice) , Theatre, Watch, 
 Online, and a host of others. This gives plenty of options for those seeking to keep the game fun 
 for a while, though the key to it lays in its online play.
  
  The combat in DoA4 is exactly what you would expect from the franchise, with a few tweaks that 
 sort of missed the mark. The speed of the combat is fast. Very fast. Sometimes its too fast for 
 comfort, as you will find yourself pulling things off you weren't trying to by just the sheer luck 
 of the perfect timing on a button press. While this is good in keeping the the action flowing, 
 its also a burdon as mistakes are not allowed. While some might argue that this makes you practice 
 harder, those who see the game better will realize that you usually have more luck randomly hitting 
 buttons than you do trying to formulate a strategy. There are also issues with blocking and launchers, 
 but once you get a feel for the flow of the game, you tend to over look them.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game is top notch. Each character is beautifully rendered in all aspects 
 of the game. The anime look of the characters which has been one of the trademarks of the series 
 since 2 is back, as well as the beautiful and busty girls. The outfits look amazing, from a graphics 
 point of view. You will notice the material make of the clothing as it moves around and the camera 
 gets close. Kasumi's blue ninja outfit actually shimers a little bit, indicating an almost silken 
 make. The only real problem graphically is the occasional character clipping, and the almost constant 
 hair clipping. While is unavoidable to have clipping, some of it seems rather over looked.
  
  Speaking of the characters, the whole gang is back, with a few new additions. Most of them 
 have their signiture moves and fighting styles, though the speed issue tends to make the characters 
 feel the same. In multiplayer their personalities shine out better. The new characters include 
 an Apprentice Geshia (?) and a british kung fu fighter. While their styles mix perfectly with the 
 games overall scheme, the stories, especially the Geshia's, seem rather out of place.
  
  Once again, there is hints of a deep storyline for DoA4, but most of it has to be picked up through 
 what little the cutscenes provide. It seems that most DoA games have a story, but there is never 
 enough of it there, or if there is, its odd and tends to make little sense. Then again, who plays 
 a figher for the storyline anyway?
  
  The sound for the game goes and takes a page out of DoAU's book, with the catchy "Eat the Rich" 
 Aerosmith song during the opening demo, and the dramatic, almost somber sounding soundtrack in 
 the background of each stage. While the music isn't all that impressive, what sells the sound is 
 the impact sounds. These moves don't just look like they hurt, the sound it. Bones crunch, objects 
 break, and the impact levels of sound vary with the type of hit. This quality overrides the music 
 soundtrack beyond all rights. While the music is catchy, the sound of someone getting smashed into 
 a tree is what holds our attention.
  
  The replay value lays in its online play. Simply completeing the game isn't enough outside of unlocking 
 everything. The lobby system could have used soom more work, but it works for what its designed 
 for. While the game is frustrating, getting better and always having competition online is one 
 of the best aspects of the game. While I personally prefer side by side person to person competition, 
 its also difficult to find people with the same schedule and who love fighting games sometimes.
 
  
  All in all, DoA4 is a solid game. By most standards, its a great game, but sometimes the little 
 nitchs that the same provides such as the frustrating speed and off floating effects, tend to hinder 
 the experience. The most fun that can be had with this game is playing online, and always having 
 someone to talk to about the game. If you own an XBox 360, and are looking for something to kill 
 a few hours a day, something you can pick up once a week and play, and something with great online 
 play, this is a great game, despite its shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 23, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the latest installment in the long running Dead or Alive franchise. I can say 
 with confidence that this is the best game in the series so far. This game is the pinnacle of fighting 
 game splendor boasting the best looking graphics Ive ever seen playing a fighting game. And for 
 good reason, as this is one of the Xbox 360s most hyped games. Being one of the most important 
 Xbox 360 post-launch titles, expectations of this game were considerably high. DOA 4 has not only 
 met these expectations but in many ways, exceeded them. 
  
  One of the first things youll probably notice about this game is the graphics. This, my friends, 
 is what next-gen games are supposed to look like. Honestly, this is one of the best looking games 
 Ive played on the 360 (The only game that really looks better is PGR 3) . The screenshots can only 
 say so much. This game has to be seen in motion to be truly appreciated.
  
  The backgrounds are insanely detailed and look almost photo-realistic at times. Great examples 
 of this are The Waterfall valley and Kyoto in Bloom stages. Waterfall valley is amazingly detailed. 
 Each leaf on each and every one of the trees looks as if you could reach out and touch it. The 
 water effects are equally impressive. Some of the best looking water Ive seen. The Kyoto in bloom 
 stage is equally amazing. Cherry blossoms swirl around you as you duke it out with your opponent. 
 Visually stunning. From lush rainforests to busy marketplaces to the Las Vegas strip, the backgrounds 
 impress even more than the player models do (more on that in a sec) . Many of the environments are 
 multi-tiered and fully interactive. For instance, the Las Vegas themed stage features commuter 
 traffic and they wait for no one. Since youre fighting on the street, you have to avoid the traffic 
 as you pummel your opponent. If you time your attacks right, you can also use the oncoming traffic 
 to your advantage. As the cars are coming down the street they will change lanes to try and avoid 
 you, however, if you jump in their way too quickly, then you will be hit. Its a great way to spice 
 up the fighting by adding a bit of strategy.
  
  The player models do disappoint a little because at their worst they look like slightly polished 
 versions of the characters from DOA Ultimate. That is not necessarily a bad thing. DOA Ultimate 
 is one of if not the single best looking fighting game of its time, but given all the extra power 
 the 360 offers its disappointing to see how little the character models have changed. Theyre 
 still good, but not as good as one would hope for in a next-gen game, especially when you consider 
 how much of the original Xboxs graphical power was tapped from the start with DOA 3. Another annoyance 
 concerning the character models is how their hair animates. This is a problem particularly with 
 the female characters that have long, flowing hair. Their hair animates like a piece of fabric 
 that has been cut into ribbons instead of flowing naturally, strand by strand. Sometimes the hair 
 seems to clump up even more and stick to the characters shoulders. The cloth animations look similar 
 as well.
  
  Graphics aside, the fighting engine is probably the biggest change in the game. Being a heavy DOA 
 3 player, I was kind of expecting more of the same from DOA 4, but if my early expectations had 
 only been met and nothing more, it wouldve been a bit disappointing to fans of the series. Luckily, 
 with the next generation of consoles comes a (mostly) welcome change to the fighting engine. In 
 DOA 4 there is a strong emphasis on blocks and countering, certainly much more so than DOA 3 or 
 Ultimate. At first I didnt think I was going to have to change my playing style to adapt. After 
 having my ass handed to me on a silver platter a couple times I realized I was wrong. Seriously, 
 if youve played any of the previous Xbox games youll have to change your style to include countering 
 maneuvers. Its a lot to get used to, to be sure and it really shows how this series has evolved.
 
  
  There are some low points in the fighting engine. The biggest annoyance of all is the combos that 
 seem to stretch into infinity. This annoyed me to no end. One character in particular, Ayane, is 
 the undisputed queen of such combos. Many of her combos end with the other character staggering, 
 leaving them open for another combo. Again, annoying to say the least. Some might call the fighting 
 engine busted because of this flaw but its not that big of a problem, just something to get 
 used to.
  
  Another annoyance is that the boss of this game is ridiculously unbalanced. Some of its combos 
 can take away more than half of your health bar. Another problem is that almost every time you 
 launch into a combo or rush in for a powerful attack it will teleport out of the way (most often 
 behind you) and punish you while youre off balance. Series vets could get frustrated and newbies 
 could very easily be overwhelmed. Time attack mode is nearly impossible when you have to win two 
 rounds against the incredibly difficult boss, even on the default difficulty. Only advanced players 
 will come away unscathed, others will be frustrated and annoyed. 
  
  As a nod to all the legions of Halo fans out there, the developers have added a not-so-secret character 
 to the roster. Spartan-458 (AKA Nicole) is a great addition to the game although she isnt as fleshed 
 out as she should be as many of her moves are lifted from the bigger characters in the game. She 
 does have some nice special moves, one in particular has her grabbing the other character, shoving 
 a plasma grenade into their gut and kicking them away only to have the grenade explode seconds 
 later. Her character model looks great and really shows how good the real Master Chief could look 
 on the Xbox 360. Her Halo-themed stage also impresses. It is visually amazing, in one corner sits 
 a broken, battle damaged Covenant Banshee. Near the center of the stage sits another battle damaged 
 Covenant vehicle, this time a Ghost. Both are simply amazing and show off the power of the Xbox 
 360.
  
  The multiplayer is great fun, supporting up to 4 players both offline and on. The online multiplayer 
 is an updated form of the mode first unveiled on DOA Ultimate. Each player gets his or her own 
 little lobby area for hosting online multiplayer matches. Each of these lobbies is highly stylized 
 and anime inspired. Each player gets their own customizable avatar to represent them within these 
 lobbies. Both the lobbies and the avatars are cute but a little unnecessary in the long run. All 
 you can do within the lobby is talk to the other players and watch online battles live on a small 
 screen within the lobby. To actually join a fight you have to leave the lobby.
  
  Joining a battle is simple and is reminiscent of the arcade setups. I remember my days in the arcade, 
 lining up to play against people on the machine. The winner of the battles would stay on while 
 the loser would have to go to the back of the line. DOA 4s online matching is very similar. The 
 winner of each fight gets to fight continuously until they lose. The loser would go to the back 
 of the line and would have to wait until their turn came around again. Once your turn comes around, 
 the online action is pretty good but not great because of a few lag issues. The battles are fast 
 paced and fun. If you can ignore the slight lag then youre in for some pretty intense action, 
 certainly the best online fighting Ive seen on any console.
  
  All in all, DOA 4 turned out to be a pretty good fighting game. Its certainly the best fighting 
 game in the series thus far. It is certainly more challenging than any of its predecessors which 
 could scare off new players. Series vets will feel right at home with it and will soon adapt themselves 
 to the changes to the fighting engine. If youre looking for an online fighting game to play on 
 your brand new Xbox 360, then you cant go wrong with DOA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  way back in the mid '90s, we were all major beat-em-up fans. street fighter 2, king of fighters, 
 fatal fury, samurai showdown, art of fighting and about a million 2d knock offs of those games, 
 we played them all a lot. though not everyone was the best. high-standard graphics. sharp, slick, 
 shiny and detailed, typical doa, but bigger and better. fast gameplay. speedy and demanding. ultimately, 
 not as good as its rivals but still enjoyable. plenty of modes, both online and off, that'll take 
 a good long while to master. poppin sounds. rock music plays as you fight, its good, if you're 
 into it. it has a low gore factor, to say the least, gettin hit looks really painful but there's 
 no blood. doesn't redefine the beat-em-up, just turns it up a notch in terms of lokks and game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhannguyen1990
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  "Three choices run across the minds of anyone looking for a new fighting game. Soul Calibur, Tekken, 
 and Dead or Alive. I'll just review Dead or Alive 4 for now. The snazzy graphics, great sound effects, 
 nice gameplay, and... did I mention the perfect graphics? As far as fighting games go, Dead or 
 Alive 4 is the greatest you will find. A great online multiplayer option only adds to the greatness 
 of the game, and is good even offline. This is the best installment of the Dead or Alive series 
 yet. This game alone is reason enough to buy an Xbox 360. I give Dead or Alive 4 a 10 out of 10, 
 as it rightfully earned."QUOTE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyP10
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I had some serious doubts if Dead or Alive could really pull off a 4th installment, but I must 
 admit it is easily one of the most polished fighting games on the market today. Team Ninja really 
 managed to pull together everything they've built up to in the previous installments for the best 
 version we've seen yet.
  
  The visuals are simply drop dead gorgeous this time around, more so than ever before. Each and 
 every character is lovingly crafted, beautiful, and animates with a unsurpassed fluidity. The backgrounds 
 are more alive and interactive than ever, putting you right in the middle of the action in a crowded 
 market, temple top, or rope bridge over a waterfall. If that wasn't enough, the ending CGs are 
 all just jaw dropping works well worth the time to unlock and presenting real reward for your efforts.
 
  
  DoA has one of the strongest roster of characters in a fighting game, and with every game their 
 backgrounds and prestige just keeps on growing. Each character has their own stories, their own 
 motivation, and their own fantasy like ending. It's refreshing to see a fighter with actual story 
 and voice acting for each character's story told throughout the fights, rather than just a random 
 series of arcade bouts with a random boss. If you've ever enjoyed the DoA series, I can't recommend 
 this one enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great "flashy" game that keeps your attention... It keeps the storyline of ninjas vs. 
 doatec and has like ultimate the DOA online. That is reason enough but not only do you get those 
 but the graphics are great the scenery is vivid and the character models are.... sexy.. very sexy... 
 There is a "zachs" shop which basically is like xbl marketplace but you get money by beating people 
 and you can buy different costumes for the characters or different lobbies for your game room along 
 with many avatar extras. This game is great and is probably the best fighting game made in quite 
 a while. Deffinetly a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Three choices run across the minds of anyone looking for a new fighting game. Soul Calibur, Tekken, 
 and Dead or Alive. I'll just review Dead or Alive 4 for now. The snazzy graphics, great sound effects, 
 nice gameplay, and... did I mention the perfect graphics? As far as fighting games go, Dead or 
 Alive 4 is the greatest you will find. A great online multiplayer option only adds to the greatness 
 of the game, and is good even offline. This is the best installment of the Dead or Alive series 
 yet. This game alone is reason enough to buy an Xbox 360. I give Dead or Alive 4 a 10 out of 10, 
 as it rightfully earned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Rouge2316
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The Past DOA games have had amazing graphics, and an ambitous online system. But it has been better 
 realized in this 4th game. The gameplay is not the strong point, despite that fact that characters 
 now have new moves at their disposal. The 4 new characters are great, just don't take them online 
 right away, otherwise you will lose a great deal of matches (unless it's just luck or you have 
 played these games before) . The online still has it's issues, but it is a lot more fun as it is 
 not constantly lagging on you. I lobby system, it's a like it or hate it ordeal. Its cool that 
 there is a lobby, but it may be to cartoony for some people. So to conclude, as this is my first 
 review, if none of the Xbox 360 titles amaze you, give DOA4 a try. It's improved gameplay and online 
 features make it worth the money.
  
  The Good
  - Improved online play
  - New fighters and moves for existing characters
  - Awsome graphics
  - Improved countering 
 system
  
  The Bad
  - Final boss is really cheap, I mean really cheap.
  - Offline single player may not be as fun as offline multiplayer or Online play
  - Not to innovative 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  if you have a 360 during the so called, "launch window" you might be searching real hard to find 
 a solid game. DOA4 is still not that oh so special "killer app", but with its stunning presentation 
 and ONE OF THE BEST IF NOT THE BEST ONLINE EXPERIENCES IN FIGHTING GAME HISTORY, doa 4 will keep 
 you busy, if you have the patience.
  Let me set it straight, YOU DO NOT PLAY FIGHTING GAMES FOR THEIR STORY LINE !! and Doa takes that 
 to the extreme. theres barely a story at all. you beat it each time with a different character 
 and unlock stuff......... and yeah, thats basically it. and if you beat the game, youll get a SPARTAN 
 FROM HALO. cutscenes are amazing and shows of what doa is famous for , if you know what i mean.........
 
  BUT online is where this game truly shines. apart from the ocational lag this game will take you 
 to the old arcade days. watching other people fight and waiting for a chance to play might sound 
 dumb but trust me its really great (if you dont have like 20 people in the lobby) and adds a little 
 strategy to the game, because you can scout your oponents moves.
  graphics are great, but not like fightnight or GRAW. nothing special about the sound either, but 
 the depth of gameplay more than makes up for those short commings.
  if you have some extra time (and cash) Doa4 can be an exellent adition, be ready for some button 
 mashing at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goat2001
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  While this may be surprising I have never played a DOA game ever up until DOA4. To my surprise 
 it is everything I expected and then some. I was afraid it might just sport T&A and be all flash 
 and no substance my fears were unfounded. This game is incredibly deep but not too difficult and 
 pick up either.
  
  Though this game may sport digital eye candy the gameplay really is the reason to play this game. 
 Every fighter has its own style and feel not just appearance. The story is cheesy but I honestly 
 cant remember a good story for a fighter. The sounds are good nothing too jaw dropping but solid 
 and not annoying. The game itself is lightning fast I was upset at first because I couldnt reverse 
 a shot to save my life and got my butt handed to me more than once. But as I played I realized 
 that the more skilled players arent always defensive or offensive they are a mixture of both. 
 If youre overly aggressive or defensive youll get beat with little effort. The games A. I. is 
 good up until you fight the boss. This is one of the cheesiest bosses I have ever seen. Im just 
 glad she is not in the game because it would be incredibly unbalanced. Not only is she stronger, 
 faster, and generally better than you. She does stuff nobody else can do like interrupt in the 
 middle of a combo. This sucks but the single player experience is really a small portion of what 
 makes this game so good, which is the multiplayer aspect. I really enjoyed fighting online and 
 the options youre given. A fighter with the grade D doesnt want to fight an SS because there 
 is a huge difference in skill and Im glad there is a ranking system. Building avatars is a nice 
 little distraction but doesnt add any significant depth to the game. My biggest problem with the 
 game is also the biggest strength; multiplayer. The matches are fun and it is cool to hear the 
 other person but in a large percentage of game I played there was lag. Not just a little sometimes 
 it was unplayable like to a halt in the game itself. Im not sure how it could be fixed but it 
 does need to be.
  
  This game is easy to pick up and look like a bad mo fo however, it is difficult to master this 
 game because there is so many aspects. A great fighting game and maybe the best Ive ever played. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123tk
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 16, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  SUPER!!!
  
  Gameplay is awsome! Many new moves, new characters and many, many new stages and loads of stages 
 as well as an online option to spice things up a little!! 
  
  The graphics in the game are superb, the distructive scenery and detail in the characters looks 
 and clothing is beautiful, utterly amazing. The cinematic graphics are perfect too, not as good 
 as the ones in Tekken 5 but just about high enough to qualify for a gold medal.
  
  The sound system and quality is great, although the thing that ruins it is the new girl's (new 
 female wrestler in a white mask and a bikini outfit with boots. All the guys stare and dribble) 
 mexican like acsent. It gets on my nerves, which is why I skip her intro while playing this game.
 
  
  If that wretched girl never spoke once in this game, I would give the game a 9.0 rating, other 
 than that GREAT!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acamike
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The first time I booted up the game I went straight for the story mode. I had the setting on "normal" 
 which was the easiest one as I am not that good at fighting games. This still vas a very big challenge 
 for me as I found out the block button has virtually no effect and the computer makes a lot of 
 6-10 combos. Needless to say this was very frustrating, but I already paid for the game and decided 
 to have some patience. After an hour of play I started to go tru the story modes with all the characters 
 and the game became much more fun. 
  
  Then I decided to try out the online part. It was a very nice experience, lots of great options. 
 The best one for me was the gamer grading system so you can find players no problem that are on 
 your level.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good, some glitches now and then, but it does look great, especially 
 the locations as mentioned in the gamespot review.
  
  If you get easily frustrated and are not a hardcore fighting gamer RENT THIS GAME FIRST, because 
 the singleplayer part kan get really annoying. When the computer hits you once you can expect a 
 10 combo and more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Dead or Alive series, I was very excited to finally get my hands on the newest 
 version of the fighting series, Dead or Alive 4. The graphics to begin are very impressive with 
 rich detail made to every single character as well as the landscape. The girls are beautiful and 
 the levels are very well structured and offer a lot of different types of battles which includes 
 crashing through a window, falling down stairs, even getting hit by a passing car. The premier 
 of the Spartan-458 was especially exciting for a Halo fan such as myself and the Nassau Station 
 level was a very accurate portration of the Halo 2 game. The replay value is great with all the 
 achievements that are possible. Getting all the costumes and winning online is a lot of fun as 
 well. Online could be better however and lags every once in awhile. The lobbys are somewhat annoying 
 and make you wait to battle instead of fighting right away. The game can become very challenging 
 at points especially when trying to get all the costumes and playing as your worst character and 
 online can become tricky with the many good players that are out there. The control scheme can 
 also take some time getting used to especially the counter and block techniques. Overall though 
 the game is very exciting and offers some excellent visuals, sound, and replay value! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavier14
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Namco sucks with fighting games i'm sorry thats just me. capcom are good midway 's Mortal Kombat 
 is just so great and Dead Or Alive the best nobodys beating it so far. i have seen vrf5 and it 
 looks good but wasn't a big fan of it. never liked tekken so i'm diff not getting tekken 6 blah. 
 its doa and mortal kombat 4 me thats it sorry but they are the best so far with their fighting 
 games. i have every doa game and every mortal kombat game out there 4 consoles and they have never 
 let me down. sorry but this is my opinion if u don't like it 2 bad if u are with me then thats 
 great i'm glad u love it like i do. thanks 4 stoping by take care and b safe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gingy_The_Kid
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja has done it once again, Dead or Alive 4 delivers like all others before it. From the 
 fast paced combat, to the somewhat unrealistic abilities of even your normal (okay whats normal 
 to these guys) , with a highly attractive multiplayer.
  
  As far as on the box goes, this game is simple. The mass majority of the moves were simplified 
 (speaking of the combo grabs here mostly - with the major exception of the Raijin) , but other than 
 that the moves remained fairly similar.
  
  Used to demolish all your friends with Bayman? Well spend 15 minutes in exercises and you should 
 be doing it again. 
  
  The Achievement Points for this game range from the ridiculously easy (all the time trial costumes 
 for example) to the ridiculously difficult (completing all the training exercises) . But what makes 
 this game the hot seller it is, is what lies beyond the box.
  
  On live DoA4 reaches all new heights... or lows maybe. Be for warned the most used characters are 
 as expected: Ninjas and Mr. Lee. Not that its that much of a problem if you know your characters 
 well. Dominating with your favorite character is not difficult if you can master them. (People 
 are rather embarrassed when you lick their Hyabusa with Tengu or Elliot... Ego works for you though, 
 since people who use ninjas expect to win.)
  
  All in all this game delivers, and promises countless hours of enjoyment. Live not your bag, than 
 take it to your friends next to you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerZer0
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome.. I think the graphics are about average but then again I don't have and hd 
 tv so they might look some what better or maybe even alot better on the hd I love playing it wheather 
 its story mode or against a friend or on xbox live against someone across the world even when I 
 lose I still think of it as a fun game I highly recommend it for gamers that love to play fighting 
 games as this one first I suggest you rent it to make sure its your type of game although im sure 
 I think you'll love it or atleast like it or rank it atleast an average... so rent it have fun playing 
 and if you don't like it I give you permission to blame me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorblade3191
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 doesn't reinvent or redefine fighters. It doesn't do for fighters what Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion does for RPGs, since it probably won't win over those who don't already play fighting 
 games. But as far as fighters go, DOA4 should be seriously be considered one of the best ways to 
 spend your money on an Xbox 360 game, since it displays some of the most gorgeous graphics in the 
 history of computer technology and brings the fastest action ever to a home console. 
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is Team Ninja's Xbox 360 debut. It brings to the new and powerful console the same 
 things it brought to the old Xbox; fast and addictive gameplay, harder difficulty, and drop-dead-gorgeous 
 visuals. Like the Xbox's Dead or Alive Ultimate or Ninja Gaiden Black (see my review) before it, 
 it truly impressed me. I was never one for fighters, but after giving it a shot and sticking it 
 out, I found that this one was definitely growing on me. I AM patient by comparison, though; it 
 needs to be made clear that this game, like any from Team Ninja, is not for the impatient or the 
 faint of heart. So, if you can think fast - very fast - and you can give this a chance, then you 
 might find yourself addicted. Otherwise, this game is definitely not for you. 
  
  The first thing that is blatantly obvious about this game are the groundbreaking visuals. Especially 
 on high definition, the graphics in this game are eye-popping. Currently, this is the best game 
 I have ever seen in my life. The screenshots will demonstrate this for me, but even then the screenshots 
 really don't capture the whole thing. Looking through the screenshots, you may notice that some 
 are blurred; well, the frame rate is so high that motion is blurred. That high of a frame rate 
 and the gorgeous textures you can see for yourself. Combine these with the ever-sexy DOA girls 
 and you've got a sensual orgy in a videogame. 
  
  The sound is impressive, even if not as worthy of gawking as the visuals. The sounds all sound 
 very crisp and they fit the scene very well. Speech - even if in Japanese - makes you see that 
 voice acting was chosen well for the characters the people represent. The blows, kung fu yelps, 
 and environmental sounds all sound accurate and clean. The music is well-chosen, even if it goes 
 substantially unnoticed. Considering the style of gameplay of DOA4, this is not a surprise. 
  
  I have tried other fighters, and I think I can appreciate DOA over the others for a few reasons. 
 The first is that I, personally, enjoy fast games, and this is the fastest fighter on the market, 
 bar none. The second thing is that combos are much easier to learn and string than other fighters, 
 which makes the game seem more fluid during play. Finally, countering is a main component of the 
 gameplay, which keeps the battle going back and forth (assuming both players know how to counter) . 
 After all, I don't want to be playing a turn-based fighter. 
  
  The thing about countering is that it is appropriately effective and appropriately difficult to 
 pull off. The window for countering from DOA3 was cut in half for DOA4, since many reports of countering 
 battles became an issue for players. In DOA, you counter not so much by seeing where the opponent 
 is attacking but instead by learning the opponents' pattern combos or any habits of the opposing 
 player. This type of system means that practice makes perfect, and it feels right that way. 
  
  While actually fighting, you will have plenty of diverse maps and diverse characters to play 
 as. There are many different kung-fu styles and attributes of fighters to choose from, and chances 
 are that trying a few different characters will give you at least one you enjoy playing as. The 
 maps, as is the DOA series' custom, are multi-tiered and so knocking your opponent from one level 
 to the next helps to make the brawls potentially interesting. Some of the maps you know were created 
 just to show off Team Ninja's diligent attention to detail, but you'll end up liking that, and 
 there shouldn't be any maps you don't enjoy playing on. 
  
  Players will have dozens of moves and combos at their disposal, and if they button-mash or repeat 
 the same combos (or trap you) , you will always be able to at least try to counter and turn the 
 tables. I think that possibly the biggest weakness of DOA's gameplay is the damage ratios. One 
 respect in which Tekken is better is that the bigger moves do much more damage. In DOA, some of 
 the game's most complicated or difficult moves are little competition for simple counters or combos. 
 While I can understand Team Ninja's goal of a balanced match, it still doesn't seem right. 
  
  DOA4's value comes from a few different sources. The first is that there are unlockables galore; 
 there are probably at least 50 costumes that can be unlocked, not to mention characters' videos 
 and a couple of boards. These should keep you playing for quite a while if you're a single player 
 person. The next big source of value comes from the fantastic multiplayer. Tag team and simple 
 versus modes are available within the box, and my friends and I have put countless hours into these 
 modes because we find them to be very fun. Online, you have these and a couple additional modes, 
 and they prove to be very fun online. I usually don't have an attraction to online modes since 
 there's no incentive to keep playing (fixed by good gameplay and level system in Halo 2) , but here 
 the fast-paced action is around in every match, and I found it fun even when I was getting my ass 
 whooped. If you're as lucky as I've been, you'll hopefully run into some nice people, and DOA is 
 a fun medium over which to make friends. Finally, DOA has some extra single player modes (survival, 
 time attack, sparring, team battle) which can help to sharpen your game or just to mess around 
 with. If you end up enjoying it, and you put all of these together, you've got 100 hours or better 
 of gameplay. 
  
  DOA4 is great - head-turning and worthy of attention - because it is one of the most accessible 
 fighters on the market and because the audiovisual standards have been raised very high for competitors. 
 Sure, it is VERY HARD - there's no denying it - but give it a chance, be patient, and don't act 
 like an idiot while trying to learn - and you may find yourself sucked in. The fast and furious 
 action is an adrenaline rush if you can hang on long enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  You will cry when you try to block for the first time. You'll frantically scramble across the board, 
 trying to block a person. But, they hit you, start a combo, and you CAN'T STOP THEM!!!!! Many dirty 
 words fly throught the air, and you feel like hurling your controller at the screen.
  Don't do that; if you do, you'll miss out on the action that follows learning the combat system 
 and timing your blocks. There are unlockable costumes, characters (hello, Spartan!) , and plenty 
 of cut scenes. The character models (particuarly the women) are lovingly done, and the game encourages 
 playing through with each one. 
  You can easily win the games, but you need to train. Many impatient gamers wont like this system. 
 Those who can stand losing many battles and training will get the most out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 8, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  This is the next chapter in Tecmo's epic anime fighting arcade style game. The game features a 
 story which blends together with the completion of each characters individual story.
  The gameplay is pretty boring and repetiive and is the perfect game for button-mashers, but the 
 "Tokyo in Bloom" levels are so real and tranquil O fell to my knee's and cried! The blossom and 
 water effects are so gentle and the sound of impact is brutal.
  Tecmo dropped a bomb with DOA4's acheivements, they didn't even consider people without XBOX: LIVE 
 and most acheivements are unlocking characters, spending 10 hours on the game and getting A, B, 
 S and SS grades online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasmi
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  the game really is great in whatever angle the player look at. the game was really a surprise when 
 the first release was done. this is really a great and exciting fighting game.
  
  the aspects of the game is really on sequence. the stories, gameplay as well as the movements bcome 
 really superb. i never thought that this game will give a better use of the 360's engine. 
  
  as for the cut-scenes, i never thought that having a continues sequence at each player will 
 give a meaningful story.
  
  summing up all the stories from DOA2-4, it really gives the character's main life story. the more 
 i play this game, the more i understand the history for each character. I can even write the story 
 of each character and create a magazine containing their life and the path they take..
  
  overall this game sum's up the whole series. the code cronus will be the next series to be waited... i 
 just hope that the upcoming series will give a deeper meaning to each character's story and history..
 
  
  I love this game so much!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying the very obvious.... This game is frickin' hard as nails. Even on the normal 
 setting, most casual gamers will find themselves cursing at their televisions. Many people will 
 find the only way to win is by button-mashing, which isn't very satisfying. I'm not saying it's 
 a terrible game, but the learning curve is so steep that many are probably more likely to give 
 up and try something else. I've played many fighting games before, and I can definetly say this 
 has it all. TONS and TONS of moves, counters, holds, and whatnot. The only problem I found is it 
 never really seems clear on how to pull off some of these moves, and while you're attempting to 
 string together a combo, your enemy will pound the crap out of you. The difficulty level is really 
 the only problem I have here.
  Everything else is pretty much perfect. The graphics are amazing, especially the environments, 
 which look awesome. There are alot of things you can unlock, like costumes and extra characters, 
 and the online mode is all here. But be sure to get a bit of practice before heading online, because 
 the players on Xbox Live are 10 times tougher than playing against the cpu. 
  Sadly, that's the only bad part about this game. Maybe it's because it's Japanese, and many japanese 
 games seem alot tougher. Or maybe it's typical of DOA games to be this hard. But whatever the reason, 
 a good part of me wishes I rented it first, or bought a different game.
  I can really only recommend this to the most hardcore DOA fans, or fighting game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoidberg1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 in a nutshell, is an upgrade of dead or alive 3. There are 4 new characters, some new levels, 
 and enhanced graphics. Everything in this game is beautiful. The character models are top knoch, 
 the levels designs are stunning, and the endings are movie like. Single player is fun, but once 
 you get all the costumes, there is realy nothing left to do. That's when you need togo live. The 
 Live features are rely interesting. Instead of finding a lobby and waiting there, you can use an 
 animal to walk around and chat with everyone else. I would recomend this game to everyone, but 
 only if you have Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 offers the fundamentally has a lot more beyyer game play then Dead Or Alive 3, 
 and improved the 
  presentation of this game is clean and neat, just like the previous series, the menus are stylish
 
  The graphics is further defined into more details ans textures that you can take a very close 
 look at them, there's one thing that I feel about the graphics of this game is if it can be use 
 more of the lighting technology on it.
  I mean, they are great and beautiful, in polygon counts or the environment layout, but if the natural 
 lighting/shadowing effect can be reinforced, this game would be super excellent.
  Gameplay is intense, you play n' think your next move of your opponent is always excited. The online 
 battle is cool, we can finally fight with anyone, anytime, and it's pretty cool feature.
  If you are a fighting fan, you must grab this one, or else, what are you going to pick? (Tekken 
 ? well, it's not gonna be on the 360, you know ...) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke55
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game has all the elements of class DOA franchise. Everything you could expect plus it plays 
 much smoother on the 360 obviously. The problem I have with this title is the same thing that I 
 have with alot of the classic franchises like Tekken and Soul Caliber More of the Same. It doesn't 
 really feel like a story is being told and I would like to see a fresh make over with more that 
 a couple new characters. Online is easily one of the best parts of the game who wouldn't like to 
 beat down the rest of the world in some DOA. In additon having a little bit of Halo thrown in the 
 mix just gets the anticipation going for the next Halo. Over all this is a good game but if you 
 have the DOA Online for the XBOX then you have DOA 4 Minus the few new people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  If you are into fighting games this is a great one. It does have it's flaws though. 
  
  One of the great things about the game is that it is both accessible and deep. Anyone can pick 
 up a controller and through "button mashing" can fight and win and enjoy the game. At the same 
 time if time is taken to master characters and the game's complex and thorough countering and combo 
 systems you can dominate button mashers all day long.
  
  Therein lies the problem with the game. The middle ground. Casual players are going to quickly 
 become frustrated as they repeatedly get beat by seasoned players and button mashers alike. That 
 and fighting the Alpha is an exercise in frustration.
  
  If you want a great fighter this is the game. Casual players be warned though it takes a large 
 commitment of time to be good at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackSmoke
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 3, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the only play is good but you've gotta like fighting games with tons of 
 combos. And the only other bonus's seem to be costumes which you have to complete the training 
 by doing all the moves which can be very challenging at times. Ok but only worth a rental or a 
 trade-in of the previous DOA game.
  
  The graphics are great and the multi-tiered environments are great but I wish there was more unlockables 
 and more arenas. I wish you could even unlock characters to play in the story mode. Nice title 
 to show off your new Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 offers the fundamentally same feel of gameplay, and improved the already beautiful 
 graphic from DoA: U
  
  The presentation of this game is clean and neat, just like the previous series, the menus are stylish
 
  
  The graphic is further defined into more details ans textures that you can take a very close look 
 at them, there's one thing that I feel about the graphics of this game is if it can be use more 
 of the lighting technology on it.
  I mean, they are great and beautiful, in polygon counts or the environment layout, but if the natural 
 lighting/shadowing effect can be reinforced, this game would be super excellent.
  
  Gameplay is intense, you play n' think your next move of your opponent is always excited. The online 
 battle is cool, we can finally fight with anyone, anytime, and it's pretty cool feature.
  
  If you are a fighting fan, you must grab this one, or else, what are you going to pick? (Tekken 
 ? well, it's not gonna be on the 260, you know ...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackninja18
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The only thing is it gets so fustrating. I wip my controller at my bed when 
 I lose!!! But still the graphics and girls are amazing. Team NINJA did a great job on this game. 
 If you dont like fighting games, never get this game. And the ninjas are GOOD characters. Also 
 whats cool is the Halo character and arena. Theres a move where you can turn invisible! But its 
 dumb because its not Master Cheif, its a dumb girl person. But still SWEET game. Also, this game 
 isnt that violent just the cutscenes. Like when Hayate cuts the swat guy in half, etc. This is 
 a great game and moneys worth. GREAT GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaber91
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 9.9 because while it isn't the best for the casual couple hours a week person, 
 for me this game is about as good as halo 2 was at launch. 
  
  Great graphics, characters look cartoony in a good way. Sound is good but nothing really new. 
 
  
  The game is suprisingly challenging which for a casual gamer will be a daunting prospect but if 
 you put a couple hours into it you will be able to completely destroy the computer. The boss of 
 the game is about as hard as making a three pointer in basketball, the first time ever that you 
 try it its very hard but you will quickly adapt and eventually be able to beat her consistantly.
 
  
  For old fans there is a lot of old characters and some new. For online players this game will have 
 you coming back day after day.
  
  This game made me into a believer. I've hated all the Tekkens, Soul Calibers and every other arcade 
 3D fighting game ever made including the old DOAs but for some reason I loved this game from the 
 moment I first played it at my friends house. In my opinion a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is a solid 3d fighting game.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  I like how this game isn't a button masher most fighting games are but this game offers no easy 
 mode only normal and hard and if you keep doing the same move you will get owned trust me. The 
 online is very laggy but it's fun to customize your little "avatar" so to speak and go into lobbys 
 and throw ninja stars or challenge somone elses avatar to a fight. 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  It may not look good if you look at trailers and stuff but once you look at the ending cut-scene 
 you will be blown away.
  
  sound 8/10
  
  good sound but why the hell is everything in japanease!!!
  
  value 8/10 
  
  online will 
 keep you coming back but it is very laggy so maybe you might get tired of playing online because 
 of the lag
  
  tilt 8/10
  
  Fun game, laggy online.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splayatino
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  My favorite fighting game ever! I played DOA 3 at a friends house many years ago on XBOX and was 
 great impressed with how smooth it played, and its reverse counter attack system. Now many years 
 later I own my first xbox system, you know I had to pick this up. I quickly got a adjusted to the 
 new revesal system . I practiced by training with each character, beating story mode, time attack, 
 and attempting survival. Then I took it online. Online was fabulous in two & half months i got 
 my SS rank which is the best rank in the game. I thought i was the man. Then fight night round 
 3 came out and I stopped playing DOA4 for a while. When i finally came back, all the newbs that 
 i used own were pwning ME?! Now most people online are great at this game and i suck. I even dropped 
 from my SS to an S. This game is not for button mashers. The A. I. is too good even on normal. And 
 the boss is the hardest battle in the history of video games EVER!!! She is ridiculous. But there 
 are many nice features, and true fighting fans should pick this one. Oh and i really wish they 
 had a COOP mode for time attack & survival. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe my feelings towards DOA4 after spending a fair chunk of time with the game. 
 In trying to get rid of the "DOA is for button bashers" image, Tecmo tried to incorporate more 
 elements in DOA4 that would make it suit better with hardcore gameplay. The game moves a lot faster, 
 a lot of the character's moves have been tweaked, and it's a lot harder to counter for example. 
 The result of this is a game that rewards devoted gameplay, but that may put you off as a casual 
 player.
  
  On a technical level, DOA4 can be considered the best game in the whole series. What we have here 
 is a game that bears more than a resemblance to DOAU on Xbox (even in the hud) , but that has been 
 finetuned to make for more exciting online bouts. And exciting they are, really allowing for all 
 kinds of combos and air juggling. Unfortunately I still happened to encounter more lag than I would 
 have liked to. Meanwhile there has been an Xbox Live update for this game that is supposed to deal 
 with the lag.
  
  Of course Tecmo hasn't forgotten about the people that just like to play story mode and unlock 
 daring costumes for their female fighters. Or have they? The number of costumes amounts to some 
 5-6 on average, so we're far off from DOAU where you could get as much as 20 costumes for certain 
 characters. A. I. has been made considerably harder too, especially in the shape of the new boss, 
 Alpha. She gives new meaning to the word "cheap", and if you have played The King of Fighters games 
 before, you'll know what I mean.
  
  As it stands, I think casual players are going to be put off rather fast by DOA4, as the unlockables 
 don't match up to the sometimes ridiculously hard A. I., that can make you look dumb and inept like 
 never before. Hardcore players on the other hand should really be in for a treat. Personally I 
 am falling a bit inbetween the two groups, but if there is one thing I can acknowledge, it is that 
 DOA4 is a technical masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this game is amazing.... I really didnt want it at first because I only like 2d 
 games ala street fighter 2, but after playing Ninja Gaiden I wanted to play this and give it a 
 try. I am pleased with it and it will tied me over till Capcom decided to put Marvel Vs Capcom 
 or Xmen on 360. 
  
  The graphics r great, gameplay fast and furious..
  
  for the downside it ahs alot of glitchs, like freezing and erasing your hard drive like it has 
 done to me over 3 times but still they have patched the game which is good. Also the last boss 
 has to be one of the cheapest bosses ever. Also this game does lack costumes, there are about 4-5 
 per character and most are just the same thing in diff colors.
  
  not cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyshock
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I'm guessing this game was just trying to ply the same crafts from older versions onto the better 
 graphics of the 360. Neither the new costumes of the old characters nor the new characters were 
 interesting to me. I was really hoping there would be something more to this game. I will give 
 it credit in that the graphics are definitely smooth at 1080i, but give me more game-play than 
 what I had on the Dreamcast. As long as you are not looking for much, DOA 4 is probably exactly 
 what you are looking for. If you are going to buy it, try to find it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatpixel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Awesome game. In my opinion, this the best of the XBOX Live-capable titles.
  
  If not for the quality of the game and development job (detail, framerate, control, etc) , then 
 definitely the socially orientated online gameplay is what drives it home. 
  
  Though the plotline seems totally confusing and random, it's dismissable thanks to the arcade-style 
 online features/lobbies/etc. My only hope now is that they release a content-addon patch sometime 
 in the future (maybe another character to give Hayabusa a vacation ;) )
  
  My only other gripe is the music. Far too distracting in my opinion. Thankfully, they let you disable 
 it. 
  
  5 stars, Team Ninja! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper187
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is a good fighting game but I feel there are several areas
  whare the game manufacture fell short. first problem
  the fact that there is only two difficulty 
 settings for the game. t
  i. e. normal, and hard, I can understand wanting to make
  the game challanging and for some people even the hard
  setting may be a cake walk but lets face 
 it there are a lot of people
  out there that are weak at these kind of games and this game
  doesen't factor that in if it did then there would be a easy mode
  for thoes of us that are weak 
 in this type of game. 
  Now there are people out there that would say if it's too hard
  for you then don't play it and normally I would agree with that
  kind of statement but the problem 
 is this since the xbox 360 is so
  new your options are limited at best. for instance I usally play
  rpg's like finial fantasy and 
 the sort but because the system is
  so new I have had to branch out and try games I normally wouldn't
  touch but that's a good thing 
 because it shows me a whole new 
  world i've been missing out on up untill now.
  Second are the moves for the charaters again alot of the moves
  are complex to perform, so if 
 your weak in the hand dexterity dept.
  your left with only the most basic moves to use and that just
  isn't good enough when going up 
 against the end boss.
  third and forth are tyed in with each other, thoes being
  time attack and survival mode both are very difficult to complete
  and that's if your good which 
 alot of us aren't.
  So in cunclusion If you are a die hard for fighting games
  then this game is a good fix for you but if your not or are thinking
  about getting a fighting 
 game for the first time then I would say
  this game isn't for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 brang many new expectations to the next-gen with new characters and new moves. Each character 
 was well made, their strengths, weaknesses, agility, health, everything. Dead or Alive is revived 
 into an awesome experience when you play online and offline, for the first gen of fighting games 
 for the 360, Tecmo broke the mold. The graphics were splendid, the enviornments were well created 
 and had its ups and downs, don't forget the dangerzones. The music was exquisite, while fighting 
 an opponent the music really pumps you up with various genres. The game is great, great for parties, 
 great for multiplayer, great for single player, and great for any other occasions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocalypse3210
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  the graphics, sounds, and multi-player (off-line) are great. 
  but the sheer difficulty of the computer and the un-innovative game-play, which has nothing new 
 to add to the genre, and the lag fest that is DOA4 on-line really hurt the overall value of the 
 game
  the frustrating counter system was a great idea, but with the speed the computer reacts in single 
 player off-line (needed to unlock characters) is nothing more than a button mashing, repeat until 
 victorious experience
  if you think that fighters are the best genre (or have the reaction time of a 12 yearold Japanese 
 kid on speed and energy drinks) , buy it 
  if not, rent it (for the achievements) or just pass it buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game was definitly what I expected it to be. Good graphics, good sound ( (Depsite how almost 
 everything is in a different Language) ) , excellent game play, slow online do to waiting for your 
 turn which was expected, as shown in previous Dead or Alives, but still, this game was just right. 
 It's nto jsut one of those games where you go and get the highscore and then walk away like in 
 Street Fighter, or Marvel vs Capcom, or any of those other arcade fighters, no this is one to play, 
 to feel, to become. In this, the achievements are truly difficult and easy. Ranging so beginners 
 can feel like they are making progress, and to give expercts a challenge they won't soon forget. 
 This game truly gives you a sense of accomplishment in a game that is worth having; DOA 4 is another 
 work of art from Team Ninja that the gaming industry won't forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agtgtbacsp
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever. The only flaws in this game are the hair on the girl characters.. I 
 expected it to be the best looking on this game. The hair flows well during fights but during cut 
 scenes it looks horrible. It moves by itself, as if the person is madusa 
  
  And on one of the cutscenes hayabusa's hand goes through Christies sleeve. But other than that, 
 the game is flawless. It's much faster than any of the older ones. It has more moves on one character 
 than on any fighting game ever. There are more characters playable than on any other DOA game so 
 far. This is positively the best fighting game ever. The only game that could possibly be better 
 is the next DOA game they make
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  i rented this game a day ago and returned it the next. it only took about 5 hours to beat the story 
 mode and i tried time attack but beating alpha proved a hard task. i then tried survival but that 
 was just as difficult. one thing that team ninja did was make this a deffinate veterans game. what 
 i mean is that if your used to the game u probably will do good but if ur new to it like me then 
 it'll be a pain. overall it was fun especially the beautiful cutscenes at the end of each characters 
 story. great game just to hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: propahp2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well first off at the beginning of the game it seemed kinda boring but as soon as i kept playing 
 and I learned the counter attacks and the big combo buttons i found it quite exciting except for 
 the constant battle KO press start before time ca lapse and try again but in the series they seem 
 to do that without a deep story line. The graphics are very good and da counter attacks look very 
 real. Not a game worth 60 i believe without the on line play. But with the online play set its 
 very fun to play to compete with others online and to be able to talk smack to the other player. 
 So overall it's a good game the x360 so i suggest u cope cause there isn't a big selection in the 
 x360 line up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Im going to be honest in saying that Im not a fan of Beat em up style games at all. Never have 
 I bought one of these games until now, and my views havent changed that much.
  Looking at DOA4 is jaw dropping. The graphics are phenomenal, with very detailed and interactive 
 levels, and very smooth, realistic characters. The special effects like the explosion from the 
 sticky grenade also look pretty sweet. 
  The fighting in DOA4 seems to be pretty fun. While it wouldnt keep me occupied for very long as 
 I get bored soon, that may just be the same with the whole beat em genre, and not just this game 
 in particular. Some of the special moves are very nice, the Spartans sticky grenade being my favourite.
 
  The characters in the game all look excellent, and seem to be distinctly different in their fighting 
 moves. The addition of the Spartan as an unlock able character is excellent, and the addition of 
 the Cairo level from Halo 2 is another welcome addition. The designers have done a great job in 
 recreating the style and look of the Halo games.
  There are many other modes in the game other than just story. Theres sparring, as well as survival 
 and time attack. And theres a movie option where you can watch the games cut scenes for each character, 
 which I have to say are all amazing! Theres also a photo viewer where you can view screenshots 
 which you have taken in the game. This is a nice addition, and can be fun taking a screenshot just 
 as the Spartan id about to stick her enemy. 
  The online part of the game seems very good as well. While it isnt the type pf game Id play, 
 it seems very easy to use, and fun as well. Its very customisable, with options allowing you to 
 change what your gaming lobby looks like, and changing you avatar. There also a shop where you 
 can buy items like hats to put on your avatar, as well as new lobbys and costumes for the DOA 
 characters. 
  Overall, the game is very solid, and would definitely be a good buy for anyone interested in the 
 genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DangerD00m
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game feels exatly like DOA 3 and DOA ultimate. I just dont feel like it improved a whole lot. 
 Not only that they made it so difficult that its just not as fun as past DOA games. Even if you 
 dominate the whole round the AI always seems to do a perfect combo making it so they always win. 
 This is easily one of the most frustrating fighting games i have ever played. Not just that the 
 game is useing WAAAAYYYY too much sex appeal (Christie is not even wearing a shirt, and all the 
 female endings show the girls basically naked) I regret buying this game i only bought it because 
 its the only fighting game for the 360 that i know of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton999
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  everything in this game is very good but not perfect. the fighting system is complex and deep, 
 but it often happens that a newbie spamming the same quick four button combo could prevail against 
 a master. this problem is easily fixed, however, by playing against people with the same level 
 of involvement as you. the graphics, amazing at first glance - and still amazing later - do have 
 their flaws. the crappy hair design is an obvous one. soundtrack and sounds are great, but could 
 somebdy tell team ninja that we dont't live in japan?!, seriously, the japanese voices and the 
 corny caption translations are probably the worst thing about the game. however, while it sounds 
 like I hate the game, it is actually one of the most addictive games out there. unlike other in 
 depth-fighting games (take tekken for instance) , this game is absolutely stress-free. losing does 
 not make you want to throw your controller at the screen and storm away; it makes you want to try 
 again. the one absolutely perfect thing about the game is the motion animation. it is simply amazing, 
 and the camera captures the action perfectly. you will playfor hours at a time without getting 
 up, be it single or multiplayer (btw, you're tired of the smacktards online, of which there are 
 a lot of, the hard difficulty single-player is amazing) . this one of the best party games ever 
 (unless you and your friends have a fight club thing going, then its the next best party game) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss5rmp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  gameplay: plain and simple everything does what its supposed to while feeling flawless. every hit 
 is felt and feels real. There is multiple stages with many little place to knock foes off of. The 
 only problem with gameplay is the ai. Its too damn annoying. the counter system is based on hi 
 and lo attacks to my knowledge and has nothing to do with kicks or punches. with that said, this 
 doa game is unlike all the other doa's because its very hard to counter moves and u cant just counter. 
 It might be better just to try and block everything. Back to the point, although it is very hard 
 for the player to counter a move it seems like the opponent goes on little streaks of countering 
 everything u throw at them giving no chance of winning. An example, i was fighting as ryu (ninja 
 gaiden dude) and i threw all hi and the one time i went lo it was countered, my life was full at 
 the time while opponent was 3/4 ko'd, and then i got up threw a high punch that was countered again 
 and then i went low again and it was countered and i was defeated... wtf i didnt hit the opponent 
 again. the second problem was the main boss. she has some attacks that can take 3/4 life away in 
 one blow which sounds really bad but compared to other opponents counters it wasnt that bad, but 
 beware she can go on streaks of just knocking u out on two hits. with that said, this games has 
 many different modes such as time attack, survival, xbox live, and screenshots (not used but nice 
 to know its there) . i did not get to go on xbox live but i heard that it is slow compared to playing 
 regularly against cpu or friends. The game itself is very short, probably takes around 10 hrs to 
 get everything but it is extended a lot by online or friends at home.
  
  graphics: by far the best part of the game. I think that this is the first game on the 360 that 
 really shows the potential of the systems power. Everything looks so peerty. everything that a 
 person can run into breaks realistically and there are many things that break. Cars and animals 
 look awesome and the stages look beautiful. Makes u want to put pause and look at it for awhile 
 before beating ur opponent to a pulp. The best part of the game though, is the cutscenes for every 
 character when the game is beaten. No spoilers here so i will give no examples but know that it 
 is the reason for buying doa instead of any other fighter out there. 
  
  sound: it is awesome. punches, kicks, throws and opponents hitting the floor all sound correct 
 and very good. added to all this are the cutscenes. the only prob that i found that isnt really 
 a prob is the fact that they did not change the voices to english and so there is subtitles at 
 the bottom of the character when they speak. like i said not a real problem.
  
  conclusion: rent this game first. Its not for everybody. If u can get past the countering thing 
 this game is awesome if not this game will suck in ur opinion. My opinion is that this is the best 
 fighter out there and at the very minimum its worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawcan
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Im really not a hardcore fan of the fighting genre but Ive had some good times with other games 
 like SoulCalibur and Tekken. This game is probably considered to be top of the line in the series 
 but i find the learning curve far too steep. 
  
  The graphics and sound are awesome and I really like the leveldesign which actually is fully destructible 
 and well incorporated in the gameplay. These things arent the problem. 
  
  Its the gameplay that puts me of. After spending some time with this game I always turn the console 
 down with a sour look on my face. Its just to difficult for any other than the hardcore fighting 
 fan. Thats not me. The weight that is put on the countering system and combos is too heavy for 
 my taste. 
  
  Ive also only played against the computer which might be a bit contributing to the low score Ive 
 given this game. Im certain that you may have good fun going up against your friend and enemys 
 over the Live. 
  
  If youre uncertain of your tilt towards fighting games in general and this series in particular 
 i would suggest a rental before buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Pros.
  Gorgous, crisp graphics.
  Fast paced fighting.
  More unlockables then you can shake a stick at.
  Attractive lady folk.
  Ending cinematics that 
 are funny, humorous, touching - also just plain well made.
  Great sound.
  Aerosmith.
  
  Cons.
  Refused to update, thusly I can't play online.
  No "easy" setting for people like me 
 who are below average, at best when it comes to fighting games.
  Most "unlockables" seem to be just recolors of old costumes.
  
  Bottom line; theres matial 
 arts. Theres chicks. Whats not to like?
  Aside from the fact of course that I can't update to play online.
  I know I'm not the only one 
 who's had this trouble. 
  Whilst the majority might play fine, this isn't exactly an isolated incident, so uh, fix.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillon_o4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Well to start of I'm not a fighting game type of person, and i don't play that many. This is my 
 1st time like ever sitting down and actually playing doa for a decent amount of time, I was both 
 impressed and depressed. 1st off graphics awesome, sound above good, mechanics above good. The 
 thing that kinda gets me about it is the blocking system. It is very different from any fighting 
 game i have ever played, Its very very touchy and u can hold the block button and not block one 
 hit at all. I still don't understand it fully, all i know is counters are EXTREMELY important and 
 can change the tide in battle totally. One thing that really frustrated me was the overall like 
 story vs the cpu, 1st off the cpu is difficult which is ok but almost seems like u just fight and 
 fight and fight and fight and u get the picture till u finally get lucky win one round then go 
 to the next guy to do the same thing again. They try to put a lil story in there but if ur looking 
 for a story, look somewhere else. If u get this game and are a past player of the series i'm sure 
 u'll love it, if ur a fighting game fanatic u will also. But if u just kinda like fighting games 
 from time to time and don't want to devote countless hours of ur time on one guy to be good with 
 then this is not your fighting game. It's a great fighting game don't get me wrong but u can definitly 
 feel like this is for hardcore fighting game fans. Not the greatest game, but a great game none 
 the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of DOA in the past, but I have noticed that there was always a lot of random button 
 mashing involved. So is this game a total bust due to some flaws in gameplay? Not in a long shot. 
 This is still a 360 game by all means worth it, but pretty looks can only go so far. But with a 
 good roster of characters, and a good balance in the roster as well, though the crazy ninja and 
 that bruce lee rip off are still pretty cheap, and still considerably nice amounts of unlockables 
 (a female spartan character!) , this is by all means worth it if you don't mind randomly mashing 
 buttons which can at times (more like usually) beat skill, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shady899
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Everytime A new DOA game comes out you just know that it is going to be good and everytime you 
 play them you know you will have fun and well enjoy them. If this is the last DOA game then they 
 will go out in a bang because this is the best one so far with out a doubt. You get 20+ characters 
 to choose from to play with and all new stages to play on, you even get a halo characters and stage 
 as well for all the halo fans out there. The Graphics are so good best so far. So really you got 
 to have this game no matter what and if you have never play a DOA before you are missing out on 
 a good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoTheDew2207
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive Series has always been known for pushing the bar, and DOA4 does raise the bar 
 even higher. With a tweaked fighting system [DOA Ultimate] , and improved graphics, DOA4 is a must 
 have game for all DOA fans, and fans of fighting games in general.
  
  If you have played DOA Ultimate, DOA4 will seem very similar. DOA4 can sometimes seem more of an 
 upgrade of DOA Ultimate, than a new installment in the franchise.
  
  Overall, DOA4 is a great game. Once you finish unlocking the characters and costumes, you will 
 still have hours of gameplay online. 
  
  The great thing about DOA4 is thats its easy to pick up and play, [which some seem to call button 
 mashing] and can also be played strategically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Doa4 is a fighting game that simply is awesome. It has many features, such as various game modes 
 like survival, tag, story, and online. you can take pictures and videos of your game too. Unlike 
 most online games where the online is the heart of the game, DOA4 is enjoyable on and offline. 
 Consequently, xbox live users will get more mileage out of the game for obvious reasons. The first 
 thing you are going to notice as you start playing is the difficulty. It's hard. But hey, with 
 graphics like these plus a frantic style of gameplay, what's not to love? You don't want to stop 
 playing. As you build up your knowledge of combos, you will eventually be good, and in the cases 
 of the SS players online, unbelievably good.
  
  If you want a fighter on the 360 with more depth than street fighter, there is absolutely nothing 
 that would make you have second thoughts about buying this game. A fast, frantic, beautiful and 
 addicting game awaits you with Dead or Alive 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Great graphics with fancy maps to battle on.
  A great amount of unlockables and hard-to-obtain achievements.
  Multiplayer is a blast.
  
 
  Bad Idea:
  The reverse system is a joke since the AI abuses it by doing reversals on blocks.
  Live play 
 is really laggy almost 100% of the time.
  Very easy to just be a button masher and win in the game.
  
  Overall:
  Claiming it's the 
 best fighting game for the 360 is like claiming China is the best Chinese country. It's a decent 
 fighting game that's really overhyped thanks to bouncing boobs and a loyal fanbase. I suggest renting 
 it before buying it.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I'll admit. I've never 
 been a fan of the Dead or Alive series. When I first played DOA2 on Dreamcast, it just didn't grab 
 me like Soul Calibur or Marvel vs. Capcom 2 did. I did happen to enjoy DOA3, but not enough to 
 buy it. After checking out videos of this DOA4, looking at a strong character list, and a good 
 amount of unlockables, I decided to go ahead, put the bling down, and pay for this bad boy. I will 
 also admit: I like this game a lot. It's one of the only 360 games that have stayed in my playlist 
 for a few months. The downfall? The stupid [insert any random explicit word here] AI is un-freaking-believable!! 
 But more on that minor frustration later.
  
  For starters, most of the gamers today care about graphics more than gameplay. Rest asure, the 
 graphics in DOA4 are something to gawk at. The chracter models are superior to most any fighting 
 game these days, although cartoonish, and happen to have a very great collection of animations. 
 Aside from the characters, the levels are just gorgeous! There's a ton of background art to entertain 
 the lingering eye and enough high-definition textures to make you drool. Back to the characters, 
 the clothing on the characters look as to be actually modeled on top of every character and flow 
 very smoothly with the wind, flying, and dying. The downfall in the graphics? Well, besides hair 
 clipping, there's a laod of animation errors. For instance, when watching slo-motion replays, its 
 visible that most grapples end up pulling a person lying on the ground to an instant on-their-feet 
 pose to get pummled back to the ground. It's nothing major but enough to notice.
  
  I really don't like the music they included in DOA4 or the speech for that matter. The music is 
 very boring and girlish (aka pop Japanese techno) . When I'm beating thine face, I want to listen 
 to some hard bass or rock. None of this Carltin-dance music. The most annoying thing in the sound 
 department is the voices. Why are they all in Japanese? Why not translate the one liners into English? 
 It would have taken maybe 2 hours to translate everything... Enough complaining. They have a cool 
 feature for those who like to hear a different announcer once in a while. Spar with your favorite 
 character and blam, you get his/her voice unlocked as an announcer. It's pretty cool and makes 
 you strive to finish sparring instead of "Yeah, I learn't punch. I is good now.".
  
  The Live is cool but lags a lot. Sometimes to your advantage. I've been in a few lag matches and 
 been able to reverse every move they pull because it's like fighting in the Matrix. Everything 
 slows down so you, the slow chessmaster, can think of a move to use. I think the best thing about 
 the game is fighting against others. It's a great party game and very exciting to have when friends 
 are over.
  
  Single player consist of the most annoying gameplay I've ever seen. I'm not a terrible fighter 
 in fighting games. As a matter of fact, my arcade score is still number one in Marvel vs. Capcom 
 2 at Disney Land. It seems that the game is sorta simple until you hit the last boss. If she hits 
 you two times, you'll end up trying again. And, what's this? "Reversal?! But I was blocking!!". 
 That's right. With every block, comes a shove. It's very annoying when you're time is like 1 minute 
 and the last boss comes along to screw you up by turning that 1 minute into 10 minutes. The key 
 to beating her is to just move away from her until she teleports to you then do your power slam 
 (usually back and LT at the same time) . After a few hits, she'll be out for the count.
  
  If you're looking for a great fighting game, and for those just looking for a challenge, this is 
 THE game for a challenge. Those looking for a solid fighting game, you might want to see if other 
 games come out that are a bit better. Until the price drops, I can't make a suggestion on buying 
 it, mainly because it's a bit buggy right now and so frustrating at times, it's not even fun at 
 all. If you have the cash, want to battle it out, and don't mind throwing your controller at the 
 TV every once in a while, get it. Overall, just rent it and see what you think before making the 
 big $60 withdraw from your bank account.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  You 
 beat people up. Done and done. No blood (in the game, movies yes) .
  
  Sexuality:
  All the girls have huge bouncing boobs that bounce a bit too much. Some of the movies have partial 
 nudity or nudity without nipples.
  
  Language:
  Minor words.
  
  Substance Use:
  One of the chracters is a drunken boxer so, a bit of drinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakenjoi14
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  DOA is a great fighting series, and it is notorious for the scantily clad ladies. This IS a good 
 game, but definitly not a great one. It doesn't smell next gen to me at all... In fact, it reeks 
 of mediocrity. If this game got an 8.8 out of 10 than so should tony hawk's american wasteland, 
 they are both sequels to great franchises which would probably look and play the same on the other 
 consoles, and that's my gripe. It's not really THAT MUCH graphically any better than the previous 
 DOA. Look at the difference between elder scrolls morrowind and oblivion. That is what the next 
 gen games should be like (considering morrowind and DOA3 came out around the same time, they are 
 comparable) . DOA4 has not changed much from the past DOA, BUT it still means its a solid fighter.
 
  
  Besides we can all agree that DOA is better than Rumble Roses :-)
  
  Just rent it before you buy it to make sure you really want another DOA game (I had from DOA 2, 
 3, and Ultimate but I passed on this one) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkorn360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series has gone a long way since its dreamcast days, and so had its main console, 
 the Xbox. The game its self is incredibly fast paced and chocfull with counters that essentially 
 make the game play differently every time. Not to forget online play, which is also a very strong 
 portion of this, that makes this game a must buy for all fighting game fans.
  
  Graphics:
  The anime style graphics for this game are gorgeous, I think HD TV or not, people 
 will say this game is clearely eye candy. And without even mentioning the all the scandilly clad 
 ladies and the truly awesome "physics" the graphocs for this game are to die for.
  
  Gameplay:
  Crisp, consise hand-to-hand fights are what make the franchise so popular. And now 
 with the advanced counters and the 'no easy mode' policy, n00bs around the world will feel the 
 mercy of your fists.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great, it sounds liike a mixure of techno and industrial metal which is really cool. 
 And of couse even if you did hate the music you could just use your own so nothing goes wrong in 
 this cataglory.
  
  Replay:
  Everyone who plays this game this game knows the replay value is one of the reasons the bought 
 this game. For it is truly great, and who wouldn't want to see large breasted chicks street fight 
 anyway??
  
  Overall:
  If you like fighters, or just a fan of the DOA series, you will not be disapointed. The only thing 
 that I critisize this game for is the lack of costumes. Leifang has about four unlockable costumes 
 that are the same but just different colors.. But the good news is that it is said you will be 
 about to download more revealing costumes from Xbox Live which is reassuring. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynehead895
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is the best 3D fighting game on the market. It does everything one would want in a fighting 
 game: Spacious and interactive environments, easy to pick up yet difficult to master, stunning 
 visuals and fast gameplay. What impresses me the most is the counter system. The timing has been 
 split in half so now it makes it twice as hard to counter. (throw in the fact that to counter mid 
 kicks you must use the opposite direction) So it makes it that much more difficult for one to play 
 defense all day and win. The online mode is smooth with no noticeable slowdown. My only knock is 
 that the AI is a tad bit more difficult than usual. Despite that, DOA 4 is just simply amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyskillz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Do you like fighting games? Do you like stereotypes? Do you like big boobs?
  If you said yes to any of questions, then you should check out DOA4. Deep down inside its big bo..... 
 , wait let me stop.... ok. Now if you look at the game beyond its outward appearance , and get 
 to know the game, you'll find a great fighter. It has characters for everyone, from WWE wannbes 
 to Bruce Lee lookalikes and Ninjas (lots of NINJAS) to whatever the hell Zack is.... its got it 
 all. Plus, for the first time DOA has a good boss, if by good you mean one of the other characters 
 in the game but crazy, flipping, and made of jelly. Its a good boss fight though and after beating 
 her you'll unlock a cool cutscence. This game has a online mode which includes a strange but fun 
 lobby, although in all truth its pointless... but who cares it fun. Online is laggy as COD2 was 
 before the patch, lets hope DOA4 gets a patch... besides that its great.
  
  For all those who only got it the girls in DOA.... FOR SHAME :lol: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanito5
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Well Dead or alive 4 is an trip that you won't like to take.
  The difficulty is so hard that if you compare it with Ninja Gaiden, Dead or alive 4 will win in 
 therms of difficulty.
  The graphics are very good, the sound has a lot of mediocre tracks (the only one that's good is 
 the main menu music.
  The online game is good but it doesn't have the strenght of others.
  And the fan service of DOA Ultimate doesn't exists in here.
  DOA 4 is not what I expected and 
 the gameplay feels horrible (You don't have special habilities and you can't use weapons) and easily 
 there are better games for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_pro
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  DOA4 has the best selection of characters in any fighting game, the best story, and the best graphics 
 engine. The characters all have a special story that suits them well. Not just like Virtua fighter 
 where they are just fighters.
  
  DOA4 has intensive gameplay that will leave you playing for hours and a very difficult boss for 
 most characters. The game has some girl named Ayane and she is sexy! Well, back to the review. 
 The boss is a difficult clone named (MAYBE SPOILERS)
  Alpha- 159 that everyone complains about being so hard. Dont get put off by this game because of 
 it's difficulty. Why do you think it's called "practicing"? Well, the game has very great and interactive 
 levels including street areas, temples, a lab, and MUCH more.\
  
  DOA4 has a great online mode which will leave you playing for so long I can't caculate because 
 i'm going to be playing it until I die. The online mode will leave you playing for years. In online 
 you can reach ranks and gets gamercard points, tag with other players, and more.
  
  DOA4 has a great tag team method you can use including special tag team attacks and throws with 
 certain characters. For example, if your Ayane and Kasumi tagging, there is a throw they can do 
 where they both grab the opponents head, handstands on it and I will leave the rest to you.
  
  Well, this game sure is a masterpeice. BUY IT NOW!!!!
  10/10 =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmlives
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun, and the fighters were fairly unique, but the fina boss nearly ruined it for 
 me. The final boss can teleport any time including when her jaw is being dislarged. Seriously this 
 is one of the cheapist bosses I've seen since the 8-bit days (lazy a** programming) . ENvironmentments 
 and graphics are beautiful, but the final fight is one of the worst ever. it's pretty pathetic 
 really. Whyat Japanese pervert desined this game. There's nothing more fun than watching the computer 
 controlled player get smcaked in the face and then pretend nothing happened. For those who believe 
 the counter system is better now I must disagree. The counter directions are imprecise and not 
 worth the effort and risk/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SO360
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 hands-down has to be the best in the entire series. It features the new style of 
 gameplay and extremely damn good graphics. I literally dropped my mouth after trying out Story 
 Mode.
  
  I spent about five hours playing the game. Yet, I still haven't used the new online features, but, 
 I did try all the new features and unlocked all the secret characters except Tengu so far. Some 
 people have told me that DOA4's boss, ALPHA-152 might be the most toughest boss in all the DOA 
 series, yet. It is pretty true. When I first played story mode, it took me at least seven times 
 to finally knock her out. Later, though, it only took me about two times to beat it.
  
  The new characters in DOA4, Kokoro, Elliot, and La Mariposa (Lisa of DOAX) took a bit to get use 
 to in gameplay. Kokoro was pretty easy to master in gameplay. Elliot, though, was a bit harder 
 to do. I would say the most easiest new character to play on DOA4 would be La Mariposa. In a hour 
 through playing DOA4, I was able to use her backflip off the ring move that was seen in one of 
 the DOA4 trailers.
  
  To sum it all up, Dead or Alive 4 (under my opinion) is the best in the series. The new style of 
 gameplay is not that radically changed, since it only takes about 15 minutes to get use to. I believe 
 that this game will be surprising to both people new to the DOA series to the most hardcore DOA 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarotromundo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Well. lets say this game is highly addicting. Yes, this game is really hard when you start out 
 with for people that have not played any of the older games before. But after a few hours you will 
 get used to it... your hands will get quite tired though. While in story mode, Its really simple, 
 until you get to the last stage, wow, that woman knows how to fight!... what's harder is the time 
 attack mode... because you got to beat her twice in a row in order to win. Then there is ONLINE.... 
 everyone loves online, this game is so freaking fun online, but its really really hard.... specially 
 when you start out. Now, veterans of the last Dead or Alive games do have to worry too since there 
 is a lot more new moves to do...... and the new constumes, there are so many of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmycanuck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have given the Dead or Alive series flak for it's button-mashing, pick-up-and-play, 
 accessible to anyone gameplay. But is being accessible to everyone really a bad thing?
  
  DOA4 takes the tried and true formula of it's predecessors, tweaks it a little, and delivers a 
 solid package to the 360 that any gamer could enjoy. Even though each character has a wealth of 
 moves (75 or so on average) the majority of these are simple to perform, and more often than not 
 share a button scheme with the moves of a dozen other characters. As a result, getting practice 
 with one character can really improve your overall skill, rather than just your ability with that 
 one character.
  
  The only real downside to this title is the tweaking that has been done to counter system. In previous 
 titles, just about any move could be countered with a button press. Many people felt this took 
 a lot of the fun and challenge out of an otherwise excellent game, and Team Ninja decided to address 
 these concerns. Unfortunately they've gone from one end of the difficulty spectrum to the other. 
 Countering has become a mind-numbingly frustrating chore, so much so that you may find yourself 
 spending hours practicing just to get comfortable enough with the new system to pull of a counter 
 every now and then.
  
  The online play offers a "Winner-Stays" scenario that does a fantastic job of recreating the arcade 
 experience of the early-90's. The only downside to the online play is the inevitable lag that occurs 
 at random. It can be really frustrating to deal with -- you can win 19 lag-free matches in a row 
 and be annihilated in the 20th because you only see one out of a hundred frames.
  
  On the bright side, DOA4 offers quite a robust single-player game, so if you want to avoid lag-related 
 frustration you've got a decent alternative. Thanks to the 360's achievements system, DOA4's single-player 
 has a ton of replayability. The game makes good use of the achievement system, offering a whopping 
 45 achievements that range in difficulty from ludicrously simple (beating story mode with one character) 
 to the insanely difficult (100 wins in survival mode? not in this lifetime.) Some of these can 
 only be attained by playing online though, so if you're looking for all 1000 gamerpoints you'll 
 need to suffer through the lag issues. Overall, the achievements in this game are fairly well balanced. 
 Any gamer willing to invest the time can easily walk away with 200-300 gamerpoints. Anything more 
 than that will require some dedication, though. If you don't care about gamerpoints, not to worry, 
 there's a lot here for you too. Everything from extra characters to extra costumes can be unlocked 
 through regular play (and getting all of these will take you a long, long time.)
  
  Overall, DOA4 is a fantastic package, offering tons of unlockables, accessible gameplay, and a 
 refreshing (but laggy) online mode. A definite must-have for any fan of fighting games -- even 
 the casual ones.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Binard
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is an OK fighting game. Unfortunately it's the only fighting game for the 360 as 
 of right now.
  
  This game is basically DOA3 on the Xbox360. The graphics are very pretty, but I expected more from 
 the 360. It doesnt look 'next gen' at all. Some of the visuals are very cool, but they happen too 
 fast to know what happend or what it was that just went past you.
  
  When I first played this game I hated it. I thought that the combat system was just so broken that 
 it wasn't worth the $35 I paid for a used copy. The counter system has been 'refined' to make it 
 more skilled than anything. My biggest gripe with this game is the AI. You can pound the computer 
 into the ground until he/she has a sliver of life left. Once that happens they become superhuman 
 and can block/counter any move that you do. Horsesh1t! is what I have to say about that.
  
  I haven't had any multiplayer time as of yet. I don't have a Gold account. Whenever I do I may 
 update this review.
  
  The only thing that keeps me going back to this game is the unlockables and the achievements. Man... what 
 is it about achievements that keeps me playing games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan117g
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  this is a very nice fighting game for the 360, it pretty much is a very fun, great game to play 
 with your friends. the graphics are beautiful. the visuals are great. the sound was good. and the 
 gameplay was pretty basic, which is good. but cutting the counter attack ratio down by half. that 
 is messed up, but i see why they did it, so the other person wouldn't just counter attack all the 
 time. the online is very smooth for an online fighter, you can even leave the match, without leaving 
 the lobby, and watch. also the AI was very well done i thought. but their is one thing i have to 
 say while talking about the AI.
  2 words, alpha 52. or whatever her name is, she is a motha effing cheater i swear. one move takes 
 your health bar down between 50% and 75%, seriously, that is messed up right their. who ever programed 
 her AI. how about next time you make it, oh i don't know, less cheating!!!. but other then that 
 BOSS, or almost invinciable BOSS, this is a very fun game. i liked it alot, besides the BOSS fight 
 of course. if you even consider it a boss fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmorey01
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Dead or Alive games for awhile now but this is definitly the best one. And no, 
 i'm not just giving this a good score because of the good graphics and... um.... gifted women. This 
 has very smooth online play and a very cool game lobby that had me chuckling for a while. The gameplay 
 flows like water and looks exactly like it would if you were to fight in real life. There is definitly 
 some value here since they brought back all the characters in every previous series, and some. 
 If you are a fighting game fan you should definitly buy this now. If not, rent it and see if you 
 like it because who knows? You might be drawn into the fighting game genre just like i was (Thank 
 you DOA 4, thank you.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The characters are all wierd looking. Obviously chinese made. I heard the reviews and bought this 
 game. I played as ninja gaiden or whatever the hell his name is, and I beat the game in like 5 
 minutes. I increased the difficulty and beat it again. It obviously took me longer. The graphics 
 are awesome. The gameplay is boring. I shouldn't have bought it. RENT IT! I would rather play street 
 fighter 2 then this. I just don't like all these chinese fighting games. (Rumble Rose, Tekkan or 
 some **** Although ironically streetfighter 2 is chinese made. I think..... Im not a sad, lonely 
 individual who enjoys a game because two chicks are fighting each other and their **** are giggling 
 all the while Chin Chang Wang is doing the splits and you can catch a glimpse of her camel toe. 
 The characters are just wierd. Im not used to it. Give me Blanka, Ryu, Ken, E-Honda. Not all these 
 **** chicks with big boobs, ninja gaiden, and Halo! How dumb is that? Im going to sell my game 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweeshift
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  The game was short as i had expected. Nonetheless I was still blown away by the game. DOA3 was 
 also short and had few costumes but pushed the limit for fighting games at the time. The graphics 
 were never matched in a fighting game until DOAU which was made by team ninja : )
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay mechanics are amazing. Team ninja has truly created an amazing fighting 
 system. Once you have learned to do juggles and create 7+ combos you will truly feel that you are 
 a better gamer. In DOA 3 they made they simplified the complex controls that they had implemented 
 in DOAH for ps2 which I missed. Then in DOAU2 they put those complex controls back in to make the 
 online battles more complex deep. The only slight problem was the counters were overpowered. High 
 ranked players were people who used coutners a lot and sometimes you would end up winning a fight 
 without throwing a punch or kick. However there were soem true pros who could do this and huge 
 combos but they stopped playing after while because htye didn't like the overpowered counters. 
 Now in DOA4 they have made the fighting engine more balanced by making counters harder to pull 
 of and doing other tweaks like decreasing damage of certain attacks while increasing the juggle 
 time to make combos easier to pull of if your skilled.
  The game has multitiered stages and destructible enviorments and they make it look spectacular. 
 What other game can you kick a guy into an oncoming car and warthog at that: D. My faviorite one 
 would have to be skating down the stairs with your enemy as the skateboard. The interactivty has 
 gotten better and team ninja outdid themselves by creating many new stages all of which look amazing.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are beautiful in every way possible. Many people comment on tiny details about how 
 the graphics arn't that great. Sure some of the hair movement doesnt look that great, most games 
 make hair static because they arn't skilled enough to pull it of. It's easy to poke at mistakes 
 but what other fighting game offers graphics this amazing. Even in comparison to preview screens 
 to virtua fighter 5 and tekken 6's cgi this game looks better.
  
  Replayability
  Sad to say Team ninja hasn't pulled of the amount of outfits they have in the past. DOA2H offered 
 many costumes to keep the replay up but the A. I wasn't that great. DOA3 was boring after unlocking 
 the few costumes offered and even though improved the A. I wasn't smart enough to recomend added 
 replayability. Team ninja then created a pletora of costumes for doax. Then team ninja created 
 DOAU2 which had enough costumes for me to spend days trying to unlock because the cpu was smart 
 enough to kick my but and read my moves (although they reused many of doax's costumes) . Then under 
 short time constraints they had less costumes but they had at least 4 on average per character. 
 I used to think the game's tag team was a useless feature when playing with 4 people because everyone 
 couldn't paly at the same time. Then me and my friends tried it at a party and it was really fun. 
 The only problem was there isn't as many levels for tag team matches.
  
  Sound
  The sound is pretty awsesome and immerses you into the game. Whether it be the hard boiled sound 
 effects from someone flying through the window or the sound of an explosion this game has it. The 
 music tracks arn't that great but they fade out nice which is required because matches can last 
 as little as 10 seconds and it would be weird hearing a song with words getting cut off. However 
 you can always just paly your own custom tracks with the xbox menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiveStarHacker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Now, I've been a devout Tecmo fan. Ever since Tecmo Bowl, or the good ol' Dead or Alive. Because 
 of that, I've been tracking Tecmo for the progress in the gaming industry and I'll say they've 
 made great strides. Dead or Alive 3 set the new mark for graphics on the Xbox, then Ninja Gaiden. 
 The Fatal Frame series absolutely scared the crap outta me, but then we come to Dead or Alive 4. 
 The first Tecmo game in the next-generation of systems. Do I like this game? Yes, yes I do...
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Let's face it, this is the same great gameplay delivered to you in the previous DOA games. If you 
 noticed, they always tweak the gameplay somehow, in every game. I'll tell you what they tweaked, 
 and you might not like it, and you may. First of all, the countering system has changed. How, you 
 ask? Well, it's harder I can say that. Timing is of most importance isn't as easy as it was in 
 Dead or Alive Ultimate ['cause if it was just as easy, I'd own everyone. Let me tell you something, 
 I'm not owning anyone] . Second, there's somehwat of a new physics tweak. Hitting your opponet hard 
 enough into the ground, they'll bounce off the ground into the air, giving you time to unleash 
 a barrage of combos. Depending on how hard you hit them, determines the height of the bounce.
 
  
  Also, there's a bunch of new moves for the characters which I really do like, plus there are some 
 new characters as well, such as Elliot, Kokoro, La Mariposa, etc. Elliot is just like Gen-fu, in 
 fact he was taught by Gen-Fu, but he's slightly different. The other new characters are unique 
 in their own way aswell. In the end, all the characters have had move changes, and they are to 
 please.
  
  Another tweak. You can actually hit someone over that fence that you've always wanted to in the 
 previous games. Your opponent will fly over, and with timing you can jump over and hit them again! 
 How fun. Oh so many tweaks. The fighting as gotten alot smoother. They added a new stagger effect 
 to make the game look more realistic. The game just flows as you play and you enjoy it. One problem 
 is online, the gameplay sorta lags as a spectator but when you play it smooths out just fine.
 
  
  Things that suck about the gameplay:
  
  Well... if you get caught with a combo, it's absolutely devastating. You must block a combo when 
 it starts or else you are DOOMED! Yes, once a combo is started, you are rendered defenseless until 
 a hole appears to block or counter which I might add is most impossible.
  
  One note: The boss of this game is the most piss-off boss you will ever meet in your life. It's 
 not worse then the last boss from Phantom Dust, but worse then Ninja Gaiden bosses. I swear, 3 
 hits you're done. Not even 3...... 2!!. Caution: You will be tempted to destroy your 360, your controller, 
 or any other object within a 12 ft radius. Don't say I didn't warn you. 
  
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Tecmo Inc, has always presented games with some pretty amazing graphics and 
 I think most of you would agree. Dead or Alive 4 brought up a new level, and it's good, I'll tell 
 you that. The lighting has changed, especially on the characters themselves. For example, compare 
 Ryu in his Ninja Gaiden outfit in this game, to Dead or Alive Ultimate. You'll see what I'm talking 
 about. The outfits, like I said, have had completely new effects put on to them. In high-def, the 
 characters are almost life-like which makes the experience even better. The cinematic sequences 
 are just boasting with graphical power. Blur and flash effects are added to, and they are pretty 
 durn cool [Yea I said durn] . Enough of this useless detail. The graphics are awesome, end of story.
 
  
  Things that suck about the graphics:
  
  Well, the only thing I'd have to say is some of the characters have a hair physics problem. If 
 you play, you'll see what I'm talking about. Also some characters may have an outfit glitch as 
 well [Lei Fang] . The water effects in the game were good, just could've been slightly better, but 
 they're just fine the way they are.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Not much to say about the sound. The music is great, especially for each character and level. Voice 
 acting is just perfect, on my note. I still question how Tina [US] , Bass [US] , Elliot [UK] , Helena 
 [FR] , etc. can all speak Japanese? Meh, who am I to question, the voices are still just fine. New 
 tweaks such as KO cries, and in-battle grunts, and whatnot have been added to make it more of a 
 good experience.
  
  Things that suck about the sound:
  
  The sound effects of punching and kicking aren't the best. Let's face it, they've never been the 
 best! They are better though. The more power in the attack, the more brutal it sounds, but I suggest 
 that the people in Tecmo record the actual sound of someone being punched and kicked and necks 
 being broken, etc, [Just kidding. I'm not responsible for any deaths at Tecmo] .
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  Well... I am proud to say I'm a very very cheap person, and only buy things 
 from EB or Gamestop. I'd never pay 50$ for a game, never mind 60$. Unfortunately, I solely bought 
 the 360 to get DOA4 so I had to get it! But mind you I never advise anyone to spend that much on 
 a game..... ever!
  
  Final Judgement:
  DOA4 is a good game, despite the little itty bitty flaws, and the most cheap, difficult, piss-off, 
 enfuriating boss ever; it's all good stuff. Fans of the series will enjoy, and also, nonfans will 
 enjoy it. Online is fun, so you can find someone to trashtalk instead of cursing at the AI. Behold! 
 DOA4!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was not quite what I was expecting, although it is surprising with it's amazing graphics 
 and pretty decent fighting. The disappointment comes with the gameplay. I don't quite understand 
 what the single player is all about, I mean are you just supposed to fight with each player and 
 that is it? I think there should be a structured single player mode, where you need to progress, 
 get stronger, and fight your way to the top. Multiplayer is where the game bounces back as you 
 can really fight and have fun here. This is basically why someone would buy the game, for the fights 
 online and experiencing all the different settings, which by the way are amazing, and fighting 
 against real people. Unfortunately, that is just not enough to overcome the lack of single player 
 depth, at least for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRDKyoSaNim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Greg Kasavin reviewed this game at an 8.8, which is the same rating he gave for DOAU. There had 
 to have been some mistake on his part. This game has most certainly raised the bar for not only 
 the DOA series, but for 3D fighting games as a whole. Granted, I might understand why he may hold 
 them in the same esteem. DOAU had a lot more content then DOA4. There were two games in DOAU (DOA1U 
 & DOA2U) , and DOA2U by itself had a lot more unlockable content then there is in DOA4. One of the 
 things that really ticked me off about the amount of content in DOA4 in particular is its serious 
 lack of tag stages. There are only THREE!!! Come on Team Ninja, youre really slacking off here. 
 I know that you were pressed for time, but maybe you guys should have planned ahead or something. 
 There arent nearly as many costumes, which I dont mind as much. What I do care about though, 
 is that this latest installment of DOA4 contains the deepest, most immersive fighting I have seen 
 to date in a 3D fighter, and needs to receive recognition as such.
  
  Gameplay:
  One of the [fighting] gaming communitys biggest gripes with DOA has been lack of depth. If I may 
 be so bold, with the advent of DOA4, no such complaint should arise any more. Granted, you can 
 still button-mash (especially with certain characters such as Kasumi and Jann Lee) . However, that 
 will get you nowhere near as far as it did in previous titles. There are some quite difficult move 
 chains in this one, so exercise mode can prove quite challenging. My friend Acid1013, whos more 
 used to the circular directional inputs from playing more 2D fighters than I have, had to spend 
 hours over several days attempting one of Hayates move combinations, the Rajin. Also, dont think 
 that youll be able to just take a few hits and counter someone a couple of times for the win. 
 TN used the same 4-point counter system they put into DOA2U, which of course decreases your chances 
 of countering successfully. A couple of things that have improved in this title vs. DOA2U however 
 are that counters dont take off nearly as much health as they did, and the timeframe in which 
 you can successfully pull off a counter has decreased. Also, if you attempt to counter and mess 
 up, the game penalizes you by stunning your character, leaving you open for more blows. Also, there 
 is an increased ground game in DOA4. There are more moves available to do from the floor after 
 being knocked down, and the player on the offensive can now hit their opponent on the floor with 
 normal low attacks, in addition to the jump/down/floor-grab attacks that have been in the previous 
 installments. As a result of all these things Ive discussed, in my opinion the formula for a successful 
 strategy in DOA4 revolves around juggling as the most important aspect more than ever before in 
 a DOA game. This is especially true since they reintroduced a couple of aspects from DOA3, which 
 include knocking your opponent hard enough to the floor to initiate a juggle and knocking them 
 into hard walls which makes them fall forward and ready to receive more blows. Wall grabs are still 
 a staple, and slope/cliff moves, which were introduced in DOA2U, are back. Also, there are now 
 sturdier walls/objects that dont break when an opponent gets knocked into them, but instead offers 
 a new interaction with the environment. You can now jump over this obstacle and choose to use a 
 punch or kick move or nothing at all, which may be useful against someone who is too ready to counter, 
 leaving themselves completely open for you to rain down punishment. It is therefore much more important 
 in DOA4 to learn how to successfully deliver smart, unrelenting attacks, much like other fighting 
 games traditionally accepted as deep.
  
  Balancing Something Itagaki-san said would be much improved in this game in comparison to DOAU 
 online WRONG!!! Its pretty freaking bad actually. The ninjas have way too much of advantage (an 
 extremely cheap one I might add) over the other characters, as do the new characters (Kokoro, La 
 Mariposa, and Eliot) , as they are way too powerful for their size and speed. To top it off, these 
 characters are also very hard to read, which is fine and is important to have in a fighting game, 
 but in that case dont make them so strong. There has been a balancing patch released since I last 
 played the game, so Im giving TN the benefit of the doubt here and am hoping that they have this 
 issue resolved.
  Alpha-152 THE BANE OF MY EXISTENCE!!! She is the cheapest DOA boss that I have ever had the displeasure 
 of playing against. She has every cheap trick in the book She is super-fast, incredibly hard to 
 read, and 3 times as powerful as any playable character; and of course, she teleports. The only 
 boss cheaper that I can think of is Jinpachi (Tekken 5) , because he can also suck your life into 
 his life bar and has projectiles (x2, so if the first one misses the second is sure to hit, G** 
 D****T) on top of everything that I mentioned for Alpha-152. The only thing he doesnt have is 
 super speed.
  
  Graphics:
  I got sick and tired of hearing PS fanboys harping on DOA4s graphics on the forum, saying that 
 they look exactly like DOAU graphics. They clearly never actually got to see DOA4 in action, whether 
 in HD or not. Even in SD, the graphical advances are clearly visible. The problem is that these 
 unobservant people were focusing on the wrong aspects of the graphics. Many people were expecting 
 to see the characters to look more realistic. However, the characters are anime-ish. You can only 
 make anime-looking characters so humanly realistic. Look instead at the flowing fabric on the characters 
 and the stunning environments and how they react to the fighters; these aspects look more realistic 
 than ever, and most certainly more realistic than in any other fighting game to date. Granted, 
 this game did not push the Xbox360s graphical limits and might not be on par with a game such 
 as Oblivion or Gears of War. I will admit that there are still some issues such as hair clipping 
 through shoulders and clothes clipping through the body; but these problems are miniscule, and 
 anyone who has serious complaints about those two issues need to get over it because the graphical 
 presentation of DOA4 is still far more superior than that of any other fighting game.
  
  Sound:
  As has become Itagaki-sans custom, the opening song was chosen from Aerosmiths collection, 
 which is always cool imho. The in-game music is pretty cool too its what you would expect. Whats 
 the coolest however, is DOA4 great focus on sound effects. The sound effects in this game are better 
 than that of any other in the series. One of the additions in this realm are cries of pain during 
 the fight (not just at the end of the match) from the opponent being pummeled at the time. This 
 makes for a more realistic experience, and I think it should be appreciated as such. The default 
 announcers are kind of lame, but all you have to do to change this is go into sparring mode and 
 complete the exercises for your favorite character and voilanow you have s/he as the announcer. 
 I wish you luck if your favorite character is Hayate though, as you may have some difficulty successfully 
 executing his Rajin.
  
  Replay Value:
  This game is choc-full of replay value. Whether youre just going through the game and taking advantage 
 of everything it has to offer or make use of its great online functionality, youll have plenty 
 of hours of game play. With certain achievements to be accomplished, both in-game and online, serious 
 gamers can keep coming back to it and seldomly get tired of it. There were some lag issues online 
 and some balance issues; however, there have been a fix and update released that I havent been 
 able to evaluate this far. Hopefully theyve solved these issues. Anyway, I think because of its 
 great online, this game surpasses any other fighting game in replay value.
  
  In conclusion, if you are into fighting games and own a 360 GET THIS GAME!!! You wont regret 
 it. It is a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalas05
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I just got an xbox this past weekend for my birthday, and rented this game. With it being the first 
 360 game that i have played, I was very impressed with the graphics. outstanding. the stage design 
 was also the best of any fighting game i have played. however, despite the graphics, i just can't 
 get over the repetitiveness of fighting games. i say rent it first, because once you have had it 
 for a week, it's pretty old. and while this is graphically the best fighting game i've played, 
 i dont believe the gameplay stands up to games like soul caliber and tekken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is basically Dead or Alive 3 but with more hype. Let me go over all the categories.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is nice, but too many people can win by button-mashing. Sometimes you want 
 to train to learn new moves, but I can pull off better moves just by pressing a few random moves 
 unfortunately. The countering system is intuitive but you have to know what part of your body they're 
 about to attack and put in the right combo tieing to it. This makes countering few to none in matches, 
 I accidently counter more than I would if I tried. Despite this the fighting is fun to watch and 
 play (when your health isn't being cut in half by a CPU's juggle combo) .
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nice (I havn't played on HDD yet though) . The real problem with the 
 game is the way the hair on certain females looks stringey, unrealistic, and noodle-like. But; 
 the environments are amazing, all 3D, and you can kick people through windows, off cliffs, etc. 
 But everything looks like DoA3 (you'd swear) on a non-HDD TV.
  
  Sound: I loved the sound. The music is catchey, you can hear the people when they pound into the 
 ground, when you kick someone into a wall you hear sparks if there is a ring, or solid wall if 
 there is a solid wall. Overall the sound was well-done.
  
  Value: Value is horrible, not worth the $60 unfortunately. The game derives much of it's hours 
 from unlockables, which is understandable. But too many of these unlockables are unfair (i. e. Story 
 Mode or Time Attack for each character for as many times to unlock all their costumes, or defeat 
 the Story Mode with all characters to unlock Helena) . The online is what makes this game really 
 shine and brings the value up to my score of a 5, lag is sometimes an issue, lobbies are useless 
 (you're usually watching a match anyhow and waiting your turn) .
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Good effort into this game but I think the series needs to evolve. Many of the 
 newer games are doing new things but DoA seems to stay the same. The online is what makes this 
 game a great rental, but only by this game if you're looking for a Fighter to tide you over.
  
  P. S. No need to unrecommend me as a user just because I scored a game lower than how you feel 
 about it, be fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coffee5565
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Ever since before the launch of the Xbox 360, when some of the games were announced, i have been 
 waiting on DOA 4. Where do i start with this game? Well, there are lots of characters to choose 
 from. A lot of old characters return, with about 4 new ones. This game is by far the best DOA game 
 that has ever been released. You will find yourself spending alot of time unlocking costumes and 
 hidden characters for this game. ALso, it has a GREAT multiplayer aspect to it. Not only do you 
 just create a room, and people come there to fight, but you can actually have a interactive lobby. 
 You can choose different silly characters as your avatar, and customise them with different peices. 
 Of all the games i have for my 360, this is the one i play the most. I would HIGHLY recommend this 
 game to everyone to have and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Ill be honest: fighting games are probably one of my least favorite genres. This is mostly because 
 they require you to remember a long list of moves and combos. Thus making the game less accessible, 
 and more like a scan-tron exam.
  
  Some would argue that this makes it more real, because you need to train to become better. Just 
 like studying real martial arts. But after all, the whole point of a video game is to suspend disbelief, 
 not give a real life experience. The one exception to my dislike of the genre has always been Dead 
 or Alive. But even the new DOA4 for the 360 still has its flaws.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  DOA4 has evolved very little in terms of game play since DOA2 on the PS2. Its the same basic fighting 
 engine that was introduced then. The action is fast paced, and accessible while still having the 
 deep game play that hardcore fighting fans love. Therere also a lot of different modes, including 
 the usual story and time attack. In addition to the online play and up to 4-player tag-team versus 
 modes.
  
  However, fighting against the games AI sucks. For one, its super cheap, and the boss is nearly 
 impossible. Instead of having to use different strategies to beat the AI, the AI will instead just 
 counter every move you make to the point of frustration. Thats not fighting, thats just bad AI 
 programming.
  
  GRAPHICS
  DOA4s graphics are stunning, but not perfect. The backgrounds are greatly improved from DOA3 on 
 the Xbox. Theres fully modeled characters in the background that move around, nice reflections, 
 and lighting effects. The characters appear to be virtually unchanged, though. Theres a few minor 
 improvements; like moving fur and reflections on certain costumes. But on the whole everything 
 looks fantastic.
  
  SOUND
  The sound in the game is still kind of weak. There are some nice thumps when characters hit background 
 objects, but the standard punch and kicks sound weak. Maybe Fight Night spoiled me with the sickening 
 sound of their punches, but this just seems below par. The music is sub, par too. It all just seems 
 bland and forgettable. The only bright spot is Aerosmiths Amazing during the closing credits.
 
  
  VALUE
  DOA Ultimate on the Xbox was the peak of fighting game value for this series, and unfortunately 
 DOA4 takes a step back from this. DOAU had a ton of unlockables, but DOA4 only has a few costumes 
 per character, and a couple hidden levels and fighters. Over all there is much less here that DOAU.
 
  
  DOA4 is still a great fighter, and much more accessible than the vast majority of fighting games. 
 But it hasnt evolved much from past versions except for graphics, and in some areas has taken 
 a step back from earlier games. Its still fun to play online, or with friends, but there isnt 
 enough new with the single player experience to warrant long term play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidussnakem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of fighting games in my gaming days, but DOA 4 tops everything in fighting games. 
 The stunning visual graphics and the in depth detail of the characters kept me in my seat.
  
  The game play in this game is similar to DOA 3 and has some attributes of DOA Ultimate 2, but 
 where DOA 4 stands out is the fact that you can hit your opponents more freely in the air. Also 
 most of the air-to-air combos are great especially when you embarrass your opponent by knocking 
 them into a speeding car, and then kick them over the rail.
  
  Although it misses some detail that some fighting games have, DOA 4 is another well known fighter 
 to go in the history books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWildthang
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I was a little disappointed with DOA4. I owned DOA3 on the Xbox and despite it's 
 faults I did play it through to the bitter end to get all the hidden goodies.
  
  Although DOA4 is graphically everything you'd ever expect from a game in this series, gameplay 
 wise it just feels like a bit of a step backwards. My main bone of contention is the computer AI. 
 Although initially quite easy to beat it quickly heads towards being almost infallible. It will 
 almost always counter you successfully unless you pull out some outrageous combination of moves 
 to keep it on it's toes.
  
  As for the end of game boss! I mean, the Samurai at the end of DOA3 was pretty bad but this one 
 is bonkers. One combo chain of hits can easily take two thirds of your health off your bar. And 
 once again it will counter you at almost every opportunity if you are foolish enough to attack.
 
  
  I don't mind games being hard, but when they are so annoyingly hard that you don't actually get 
 a chance to learn anything from your constant beatings it starts grating on the nerves a bit.
 
  
  DOA4 could have advanced the series but as it is I think it's taken a very tiny step back in terms 
 of playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  There isn't a lot of room for achievement in the fighting genre. Every aspect of those games has 
 been covered through the Dead or Alive, Tekken and Soul Caliber series. Dead or Alive 4 has amazing 
 high-def graphics, but is otherwise just another fighting game overall.
  
  The game uses the basic hit-block-counter structure, again, and has very little new to fighting 
 games. The game manual absolutely sucks, and is the worse instruction book I have read in my life. 
 The instructions use the wrong buttons for everything, don't show character moves, and give a horrible 
 description of the very complicated counter system. If you haven't yet read the instructions, don't. 
 They hinder rather than help.
  
  That being said, Dead or Alive 4's graphics make it completely worth the $60. Second only to Oblivion, 
 the high-def characters' movements make every fight a thrill to watch as well as play, and the 
 enormity of the levels creates a lot of possibilities for each, as you throw your opponent off 
 of cliffs and bridges, and through windows to new areas of the engagement. 
  
  The score is relatively good, nothing astonishing from the music, and the sound effects are the 
 same old punching, kicking and moaning that every fighting game has ever had.
  
  All things considered, it is basically the same old action redone in high-def. If you don't have 
 an HD tv, don't bother picking up Dead or Alive 4, unless you're really into the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pontesi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  When the first Dead or Alive (DOA for short) game arrived, it received rave reviews for the original 
 Playstation console. Eight years later and the Dead or Alive spirit is still strong. The series 
 hasnt just kept to its beat em up roots; it has flourished into other areas such as Dead or Alive: 
 Volleyball and the tremendously frustrating adventure title Ninja Gaiden on the original Xbox. 
 Arguably, there hasnt been a bad DOA game  but with the next generation of consoles just around 
 the corner, has DOA4 proved that beat em ups still have a market?
  
  First, the game has gone through some gameplay changes. It may look and feel like Dead or Alive; 
 but this time around, bashing those buttons erratically isnt going to get you far. Its all about 
 picking a specific character and learning their set of moves. Believe me; its going to take a 
 lot of practice to become a grandmaster. Dead or Alive has always stood head and shoulders above 
 its competitors when it comes to countering moves, and DOA4 is no different. The controls, in general, 
 will be quite tricky for non-Xbox players  but its nothing they cant learn. Countering on the 
 other hand is a whole different ball game. Youre going to need to time counter attacks and blocks 
 perfectly as well as knowing the proper button combos. Button bashing your way out of a tricky 
 situation will not work. Overall, the gameplay is challenging but you wont lose any sleep if you 
 cant perfect a certain move.
  
  The characters, as said above, have a lot more moves and, as such, are more orientated towards 
 their fighting styles. Ninjutsu is the most commonly used fighting form within the game through 
 long time characters such as Ryu Hayabusa, Kasumi, Hayate and Ayane. Zack has also become a powerful 
 character with his fatal form of Muay Thai as well as Jann Lee, who is easy to pick up but destructive 
 with his form of Jeet Kune Do. It seems very serious; but as with all beat em ups, its about 
 as surreal as the thought of a dinosaur gracing Wall Street on a Monday morning. Jokes aside, there 
 are sixteen characters to begin with and a further six to unlock.
  
  The story moves at a hectic pace. If youve never played a Dead or Alive game before you may be 
 left slightly confused by the narrative. Yet it is easy enough to pick up as you play through all 
 the different characters perspective. Each experience in the story mode is different, as you are 
 using a different style and fighting a variety of opponents. The cutscenes that end a characters 
 story are quite beautiful, dynamic and - at times - quite amusing. Dead or Alive fans will be thrilled 
 by all of this, but may be disappointed because there is a lot of narrative conclusion, suggesting 
 that this might be the final Dead or Alive beat em up. Maybe the developers (Team Ninja) are finally 
 deciding to call it a day? Yet it seems doubtful that Microsoft will let them rest quite a big 
 cash cow and a series that is key to the Xbox 360s success; especially in Japan.
  
  There are a few other modes to play if you get bored of traversing the roots of the story. Survival 
 mode is similar to Tekkens mode of the same name, where you have to take on and defeat as many 
 opponents as you can in succession. Its great if you want non-stop battles. Unfortunately, there 
 appears to be no co-op for this mode, but it does offer you a tag battle spin on things; where 
 you tag between two characters and try to survive with both. Time attack mode is similar, except 
 you must win two rounds against a character and battle your way through the DOA4 roster  its 
 nothing that Mortal Kombat hasnt perfected within the last decade though. Team Battle mode is 
 basically pitting loads of characters against each other; perfect if you want some variety. Sparring 
 allows you to train with your character and learn their moves. It also provides a neat demonstration 
 before you attempt a move to show you what it should look like. Its certainly worth playing this 
 for a wee while as opposed to deciphering the manuals baffling button mapping.
  
  But lets not forget the true purpose behind a game of this nature: to thrash your mates as extensively 
 as possible. Dead or Alive 4 is a great multiplayer game for between two and eight people. You 
 can either do one-on-one matches, or tag matches where four players can play together assuming 
 the role of a character each. Its a lot of fun, and provides some great laughs. Of course, if 
 you only have one controller with your 360, you can still fight computer controlled opponents in 
 versus mode; but its hardly half as fulfilling. Then again, this is where the final mode of Dead 
 or Alive comes in handy. You can play online using Microsofts Xbox Live service against other 
 players from around the world.
  
  DOA4 online offers a few modes that are similar to the offline sections of the games, but a couple 
 of them are truly ingenious. You can play Winner Stays On, but wheres the fun in that? In my 
 case theres hardly any fun, because I never have been a great beat em-up player so I find myself 
 at the back of the pack pretty quickly! Thats where the Loser Stays On mode is a blast. Even 
 though it is clearly detrimental towards your skills, you can blast through loads of matches and 
 have fun by losing. The winner goes to the end of the queue, and you stay in the arena for another 
 lossI mean, fight. There is also a tournament mode where you and fifteen other players duke 
 it out in one-on-one matches until there is only one left. 
  
  Although it has to be said, there are some issues that need to be ironed out for the online game. 
 It can become extremely laggy and slow if someone with a poor internet connection arrives in a 
 game. It would be tolerable if you were playing with a couple of dozen players in an FPS game, 
 but while playing with two other players in a simple beat em up? It really is not on, especially 
 since Xbox Live has been going for a few years now. There is also an issue with save files disappearing, 
 so remember not to switch off your 360 with the disc still in, as the issue can be avoided by booting 
 up the game from the 360 dashboard. A patch update for the game is scheduled to come available 
 sometime soon on Xbox Live, to fix a few of the issues. Overall, the online game is a nice novelty 
 feature but dont go out of your way to pay the Xbox Live fee for it. Save that choice for a true 
 multiplayer specific game like Perfect Dark Zero or Halo 2.
  
  Weve covered quite a bit of information on a simple game, in a simple genre  but weve yet to 
 touch on the graphics! On the right television (preferably on a High Definition, VGA or Widescreen 
 capable set) , it looks the part. The fluid character movements arent a far cry from their real 
 life counterparts, although a few graphical issues do indeed ruin the splendour. Dead or Alives 
 trademark bouncy cleavage also returns, with American wrestling character Tina being one of the 
 main offendersor pleasures. It, erm, depends on your perception really. The character models themselves 
 are, as always, a beautiful strike between anime style and real life. Characters like Russian commando 
 Bayman look gritty, while the suave British assassin Christie is more stunning than ever.
  
  As said in the paragraph above, there are a few graphical issues. Entities in the environments 
 (such as trees, rocks etc.) sometimes turn transparent so that you can see your fighter if they 
 move behind such an obstacle; yet the effect still looks quite cheap and isnt much progress from 
 the founding 3D beat em-ups such as Tekken, Virtua Fighter and Mortal Kombat. The environments 
 may be lovely looking, but over time they do get a little bit repetitive.
  
  The audio is quite nice. The music suits the settings and even includes the Halo 2 theme tune (including, 
 of course, the fretwork of Steve Vai) in a special unlockable Halo themed level. The voice acting 
 is a hard aspect to review. You see, the problem is that its nearly all in Japanese. As much as 
 I want to learn fluent Japanese, Im not doing it just for the sake of hearing one of the characters 
 give some sort of age old proverb that I probably wont understand. Well, that and the fact that 
 there are English subtitles. Overall, it sounds like your average anime cast. The environment noises 
 are spot on as well  everything seems in place.
  
  The locales of where you are fighting stay true to the Dead or Alive universe. Yet, those are not 
 the arenas best features. Most of the arenas have multi-tire levels so if you hit someone over 
 a wall, they fall down to the next level and lose a bit of health before you join them down there 
 (without taking damage) . The destructive environments and interactivity are two other great features. 
 For example - when you slam someone into a fruit market stall, the stall will smash; the fruit 
 will fall out and roll down the slope. They dont disappear on-screen; you literally can see them 
 rolling all the way down while you continue to fight and destroy other things. It may not seem 
 much, but it again shows how much processing power the Xbox 360 has behind the hood. Watch out 
 for cars knocking you over in the Las Vegas style level and a runaway cheetah bashing into you 
 on the safari level. It wont stop for you, but you can try and time a block so that the damage 
 is lessened to a degree.
  
  If youre looking to buy Dead or Alive 4 cheap, then try and get it imported. The game is region 
 free, meaning that it works on American, Japanese and European consoles alike.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  To summarise, Dead or Alive 4 is a great addition to the series. It adds enough 
 new content to keep DOA fans happy, has enough appeal to hook in newer gamers and with Xbox Live 
 or just versus multiplayer, youll have a good laugh. That being said, if you dont have any extra 
 pads or any friends/a significant other interested in playing, mark it down a bit score wise  
 since online play is far from perfect. Just try and overlook its shortcomings and focus on what 
 it was made for: pixilated pummelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game really has no purpose it doesnt need to be a 360 game it might have slightly better backgorund 
 graphics but otherwise its just the dam same as doa 3 except the women have less clothes.
  
  anyone who plays this for too long you should start to worry about them a bit. i mean its a 
 decnt game but uts not all its cracked up to be and could do with sum work on like mini games or 
 anything other than repeatidly smacking the puch and kikc buttons with a reversal or too.
  
  its just another fighting game and it does nothing new for the series. an unwelcome addition 
 to the allready dry franchies of half naked women smakin each other. 
  
  damn, not good at all
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhockey9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the first fighting game out for the 360, thus making it a "must buy" for fighting 
 fans by default. And as that first fighting game, it does a good job of offering a good gaming 
 experience with visuals that will showcase the muscle of your new 360.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  As far as fighting mechanics are concerned, DOA4 has a solid system. There are plenty of moves 
 to learn for each character and the countering system, while difficult to get accustomed to, does 
 add depth to the gameplay. The movement is very fluid as well. The problem with the gameplay lies 
 in the difficulty. To be honest, unless you are a fighting game prodigy, you will have a lot of 
 problems defeating the A. I. (at first) in the various game modes on the default settings. In fact, 
 it can be too hard at some points, even discouraging. That is definitely a problem. A challenge 
 is good, but wanting to throw a controller against a wall because the last (and unplayable) character 
 stomps you for the xx-th time gets old quick.
  
  Graphics - 10
  There is no other way to describe it but "Wow". These are some top-notch visuals and the finest 
 yet on the 360. The character models are simply fantastic and oozing with detail. The same is true 
 for the interactive environments in which you do battle on. Truly amazing. Screenshots don't do 
 these graphics justice.
  
  Sound - 8
  Overall, the sound is pretty solid. The music for each stage is nice. The are a mix of electric 
 and rock with a Japanese feel to them. At the beginning of battle, the characters will taunt in 
 Japanese (with subtitles) , and that is a nice touch. In battle, there is the standard assortment 
 of groans and grunts for attacking and getting attacked.
  
  Value - 10
  This is a mammoth of a fighting game as far as variety goes. There is plenty to unlock in ways 
 of characters, costumes, and a few extra stages. Unlocking everything will takes plenty of hours 
 of your life to complete, but it is pretty fun to do. There are a lot of game modes to try your 
 hand at including Story, Time Attack, Survival, etc. So there is always something interesting to 
 play. If you have Xbox Live, then you can enjoy the bliss of the online mutiplayer, which is a 
 blast. Not to mention that once online, there is a lot to consider as far as customization of your 
 online avatar (s) and such (you'll have to try it to see what I mean) . Plus there are online leaderboards 
 for you to try to rank up on in various game modes. And if you do not have access to Live, you 
 can always invite your buddies over for some good old multiplayer fighting. All in all, this game 
 has a lot to offer to keep you occupied.
  
  Tilt - 8
  I personally found this to be a very enjoyable fighting game. There was a lot to do, and playing 
 with friends, online and offline, is really fun. I am not a huge fighting game fan, but I've gotten 
 a lot of mileage from this game thus far. I will admit that it took me quite awhile to get used 
 to the fighting system and the steep difficulty, but things got better once I did.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 surely isn't the only fighting game out there. However, if you are a fan of the 
 series, or have a slight interest in discovering what it is all about, then this game will not 
 disappoint. It offers an overall solid fighting experience with plenty of flash to go along with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliterate
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Easily the best in the Dead or Alive series, DOA4 redefines the fighting genre. Though it significantly 
 lowered the counter-time many are used to in DOA3, 4 still finds a way to get under your skin and 
 keep you hooked to the TV. The graphics are just gorgeous, and the fighting is seamless and blurringly-fast. 
 Easy to learn, hard to master.... this's how fighting games should be. Lots of goodies and costumes 
 to keep a bunch of friends entertained and the Live play makes it all the more fun. Though not 
 for those who can't keep up with button-mashers (that's why you learn the counter system as best 
 as you can) , it is a great overall game and is undermined by the fact that some people just don't 
 know how to work the combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  dead or alive 4 is above the typical fighting game. the great part about it is the amazing combos 
 and reversing your rivals combos on them. it has all your typical doa people plus the spartan. 
 no, not master chief the spartan, who is a girl. this game has a great online mutplayer. thats 
 is the main reason to get it rite there. if you dont have live its just like anyother fighting game 
 and gets boreing quick other than the spartan. the controls are great and so are the combos. live 
 play can frustrate you for the fact of the people who dont let you get up and do the same cheap 
 move to win over and over but all to gether this is a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miscs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  great game lots of unlock ables like costumes characters levels like most fighting games although 
 the difficulty gets really annoying online play isn't bad could have been improved if it didn't 
 lag as much as it did. plenty of play time with the survival mode time attack the story isnt bad 
 it could have been better some of the character endings dont make sense it kind of like I thought 
 all those people for that sometimes you can fell as if youve wasted your time but if you like 
 fighting games and youre a fan of the dead or alive serious you wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsking613
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much if i could id just sit and play it but i have a life. It couldnt be much 
 better. Its a bit hard at first but once you get the hang of it yur hooked. The only thing truly 
 irratating in this game is the boss shes way to powerful but you eventually figure out her pattern 
 and develop a stratagy of beating her i cant stop playing this game it beautiful in every aspect. 
 Theres pretty much a character to fit anybodies likes and dislikes and plus the girls are super 
 hot. the action is fast and hurts just to watch some of the nasty moves the characters pull off 
 with bone breaking style. you must play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  There is not alot to say about this game. There are a few of the origional characters form previous 
 D. O. A. games. Its a great game that has all the good graphics and gameplay that the previous D. O. A. 
 titles have had. The online portion is really good, glitchie at times though. There is alot of 
 pretty worthless crap that you can buy online like different avatars for when you are walking around 
 the lobby between online fights. Besides the online play, its pretty much your average D. O. A. title 
 with a little facelift. Well, other than the Extreme Beach Volleyball.......... sorry, I just threw 
 up a little in my mouth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button MashinButton 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button 
 Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button MashinButton Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
 Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. Button Mashing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikaku9
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja have always been great in my books. DOA has always been a fighter thats so much more 
 involved than say the Mortal Kombat and Tekken series. However, DOA4 is far from being the great 
 game that all the reviews on websites and magazines have made it out to be. 
  
  Gameplay - Never have I played such an infuriating game. The counters are harder to accomplish.......... in 
 fact they are impossible, unless you actually ARE the console itself. And they do less damage now. 
 That takes away your only chance of beating the IMPOSSIBLE AI. As soon as the computer gets you 
 in a combo you may as well put the controller down. The final boss my as well be called God, 'nuff 
 said. Please bare in mind that I've been playing games for years, especially the DOA series, these 
 issues I had on normal mode! There is no easy mode in this game. Beating each mode really is luck, 
 not skill, as humans cannot process the speeds needed to successully think AND react to the high 
 speed combos the computer uses to pulverize you.
  
  Sound - Same old girly/butch screams and taunts with the standard Japanese  
 music.
  
  Graphics - Superb graphics, finally a good point, though VERY VERY flashy in some levels and fast 
 moving. Be wary if your a seizure sufferer or have sensitive eys! In fact, I wouldn't recommend 
 this game at all for your own safety. Character models are the same Japanese sterotypes, big-chested 
 girls or massive hulks......... and the same characters and moves from the last games bar a whole 
 2 characters.
  
  Overall - This is basically DOA3 with over-hauled graphics and the difficulty stuck on ultra-impossible 
 mode. Next-Gen console, Old-Gen game. Re-make it brand new from the ground up or just leave the 
 DOA series to die in peace. 
  
  DOA4 IN A NUTSHELL - IMPOSSIBLY HARD, FRUSTRATING, SAME OLD CHARACTERS GETTING OLD, GREAT GRAPHICS 
 BUT TOO MANY FLASHING LIGHTS.
  
  This game WILL make you angry.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbossmin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  If you are going to get a fighting game for the Xbox 360, this is your game! Excellent gameplay, 
 wide range of characters and fighting styles, excellent dynamic backgrounds (that you can interact 
 with) , and I do not need to tell you how excellent the characters look! There are lots of options 
 to play with too (vs, sparring, story mode, etc...) and use Xbox Live to take it to a whole new 
 level. This is a game that you can play for a long time, and never really get bored with. There 
 are different difficulty levels, and the A. I. on the Xbox 360 picks up pretty fast. Don; t get me 
 wrong, this is a button masher, but after awhile the A. I. will get a smack-down on you when you 
 least expect it! Buy it - you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1o0oDOMo0o1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is great because the onlin for 360 is awsome and it gets really competative while playing 
 with ur freinds and enimies. people should buy this game if they are a fan of the series. you will 
 not be dissapointed if you purchase this game. it will have you playing it for hours because u 
 want 2 become a higher rank. the only bad parts are that it does take some time to get a match 
 online and there is a glitch that you can make your rank a ss (best rank) . besides those this is 
 a great game and is worth 60 dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  It's good for the first few hours but then again, isn't every game. You will have to play thirty 
 minutes for each story mode over and over again. It is to repetitive. Time attack mode sucks. That 
 Alpha chick sucks. She plays like she cannot lose and if she does lose once she will not lose again 
 so it's basically impossible to win time attack. My advise is go to the settings change it to one 
 win instead of two on time attack mode and you will get your achievements. You should rent it and 
 get a nice 500 gamer points. Instead of wasting sixty bucks.
  On the other hand this game has great graphics and movies that you can unlock and you will learn 
 some Japanese. Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmjm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  A great fighter that will challenge you every step of the way. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are unparalleled by any other fighter. It is a total 3-D so 
 you can't compare it to Street Fighter, however if you have played the previous games in the Dead 
 or Alive series you will not be disappointed at all. Make no mistake - this game is very hard, 
 even on the normal difficluty. 
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is the first fighting game for the 360 and does a great job of designing a very 
 broad and intuitive combat engine. I will put it this way: I guarantee that you will not just be 
 able to sit down and blaze right through the game. 
  
  Again for reiteration -the graphics are among the best I've seen on the 360 so far, and the characters 
 look absoulutely stunning. Not only are the characters just awesome but so are the backgrounds 
 and the environments that make up each scenario.
  
  This game is very fun, I certainly recommend it. If you enjoy fighting games like Tekken and Street 
 Fighter as well as Soul Calibur and the other DOA tiles in the series then do not pass this game 
 up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lateralus01
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game if you play it with friends. If you're planning on playing the single-player 
 mode, wear a helmet because you'll be bashing yourself in the head with your controller. It is 
 soo aggravating. However, the videos you earn when you complete the game with a character are VERY 
 impressive. I wish I could see Liefang's video but, hah, I can't even beat the second person with 
 her. 
  
  The graphics are amazing though. The character models and fighting moves look very realistic and 
 in that department it's the best in the series.
  
  The xbox live is probably fun, but when I tried it I spent about an hour as some lame ninja character 
 waiting in a room watching other people fight on this big weird screen. I guess I was waiting my 
 turn to play but it simply wasnt fun and I turned it off.
  
  Overall you can probably tell if you're going to like this game just by the looks of it. So if 
 you're up for a nice looking, but challenging fighting game - go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I am pretty dissapointed with Tomonobu Itagaki and team ninja.
  Their games on the original xbox seemed to always look a lot better than the others, and even have 
 more depth. But doa4 is just horrible.
  
  the games good is its online. we experienced online in doa ultimate, but now the online is perfected. 
 it has a funny lobby scheme, and the its fun.
  there are 4 new characters. the graphics are better. the countering system has been made more challenging 
 and less cheap.
  
  the games bad is that it barely seems different than doa3. the graphics look barely better than 
 doa3. the new characters, 1/4, have their own fighting style, while the rest have styles of original 
 characters, very cheap. the game is challenging, but not smart challenging, its just overpowering 
 and unfair on hard mode.
  
  this game is absolutely not worthy of being called a next generation fighting game. I honestly 
 think this game could have run on the original xbox.
  i was expecting more.
  
  team ninja has now seemed to have lost it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newaged
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  This is a button masher by far, and if your stuck in a daze, kiss about half your health goodbye, 
 because that bot will just keep you in a combo in the air till you have to fall down. All the voices 
 are in Japanese which gets really annoying, and there is absolutly no story put into this game 
 at all. Sure the graphics are something, but all they have is just women with DDs. Thats about 
 it. Thanks alot Japan, we thought you could do something helpful for us, but noooo. The game has 
 about 15 chracters, but it doesnt matter cause they pratically have all the same moves. And it 
 wont even mattrer about the moves cause everything will be reversed by other players. I regret 
 playing this game by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niGhtXIX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  What we have here?? It's the best beat 'em up game I've ever played. Graphics is marvellous. Sounds 
 are nice. Gameplay is simple but it doesn't mean that it is easy. Oh no, it's very hard. Expecially 
 against the cpu. An example?? Stage 3: the cpu knows every your moves... that means 3 counters minumum 
 a round. The counters increase increasing of the stage, so it could be frustrating (species if 
 the controls are not learned well) .
  Offline line is wonderful, also the online experience although some bug.
  
  Sincerely I prefer 
 the gameplay of the second chapter... but DOA4 is incredible to play even if much difficult. The 
 TAG is magnificent. Graphically it has an only style (and not listened to those that are complained 
 of the manga characters) . It's a must buy. 
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series seem as if it's been going on forever. With games released on PSX, DC, 
 Xbox, and now Xbox 360, it does seem like an ancient series. That doesn't stop it from consistently 
 delivering fun and addictive fighting gameplay that almost always reinvents the entire genre. The 
 latest entry in the DOA series, Dead or Alive 4, is its best installment to date. First, I might 
 want to say, Brad Wong and Christie... welcome back. For some odd reason, these two characters were 
 missing in Tecmo's last release for the Xbox, and now they make a triumphant return on the 360. 
 Also new to DOA is Lisa (better known as La Mariposa) of DOAXBV, and Spartan 457 (not the Master 
 Chief, but who can tell?) . Other than that and a slew of new stages to choose from, DOA4 is pretty 
 much just like its Xbox predacessors. There are a couple of new little moves also. For example, 
 if there's a jumpable object between you and your opponent, you can run towards it, and while in 
 the air, punch or kick your opponent while falling down. There's also critical punches and kicks 
 that you'll see your character charge up for, but these are a little difficult to master, and if 
 done against you, leaves you open for a massive combo. Though the game is still insanely hard for 
 me, I find myself slowly getting a grasp on the simpler grappling system, and not to mention, the 
 game is addicting as ever. Nonetheless, the game is still plenty hard. The main boss in this game 
 is a clone of Kasumi named Alpha 158. Not only does she possess the same move set as Kasumi, but 
 she also has a ton of different move that'll have your jaw dropping at first, but your controller 
 thrown later. She'll teleport right when you're about to hit her, pull off insane combos on you 
 constantly, and her grab moves will have you throwing a fit. Luckily, not every character has to 
 face her, so that way you should be able to breeze through everyone else's story, and get unlockables. 
 Dead or Alive has been known for having a ton of unlockables, and it doesn't fail here. In fact, 
 a lot of the achievements in the game are built around unlocking characters and costumes. The others 
 are built around online play. Online play was introduced to DOA in its last game, Dead or Alive 
 Ultimate for the Xbox. Online in DOA4 is less than perfect, but enough to keep you busy, especially 
 if you're good. The first thing you'll notice in DOA4 Online is the lobby system. My advice is 
 just go to the center area and join match. The whole avatar system in my opinion is a waste of 
 time. The overall online experience is fun, but it's spoiled by awful lag. When you're fighting 
 and watching, it's like you're watching a slide show which is caused by mainly lag. I originally 
 thought the problem originated from my own connection, but everyone else complains about it. So 
 I guess DOA online is fun, it's just really marred by horrible lag and a useless lobby system. 
 Overall, DOA4's gameplay has improved significantly from the Xbox versions, but there's still some 
 to be desired. The graphics in DOA4 live up to the expectations... somewhat. I will say, the environments, 
 clothing, and special effects are what stand out the most. Everything about the environments is 
 fantastic, the clothing is a lot more loose and detailed, and the special effects are fantastic. 
 Other than that, character models look the exact same, hair clips and there's a frame rate issue 
 when slow motion special effects show up and in online play. The sound in DOA4 is just the same 
 as in every other Dead or Alive game. Japanese voice acting (with the exception of Spartan 457) , 
 cheese music, and okay sound effects. Is it really that hard to hire a few English voice actors 
 for the characters that speak English? Dead or Alive 4 may have some of the same drawbacks, but 
 it manages to fix a lot of the major ones to make it a more enjoyable experience. Online play is 
 pretty much the only value you'll get from the game, so if the lag puts you off, that's pretty 
 much all you'll get out of the game. Nonetheless, DOA4 is the series' best entry to date, and is 
 a must have for fighting game fans with an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flandrien
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  It's hard to describe my feelings towards DOA4 after spending a fair chunk of time with the game. 
 In trying to get rid of the "DOA is for button bashers" image, Tecmo tried to incorporate more 
 elements in DOA4 that would make it suit better with hardcore gameplay. The game moves a lot faster, 
 a lot of the character's moves have been tweaked, and it's a lot harder to counter for example. 
 The result of this is a game that rewards devoted gameplay, but that may put you off as a casual 
 player.
  
  On a technical level, DOA4 can be considered the best game in the whole series. What we have here 
 is a game that bears more than a resemblance to DOAU on Xbox (even in the hud) , but that has been 
 finetuned to make for more exciting online bouts. And exciting they are, really allowing for all 
 kinds of combos and air juggling. Unfortunately I still happened to encounter more lag than I would 
 have liked to. Meanwhile there has been an Xbox Live update for this game that is supposed to deal 
 with the lag.
  
  Of course Tecmo hasn't forgotten about the people that just like to play story mode and unlock 
 daring costumes for their female fighters. Or have they? The number of costumes amounts to some 
 5-6 on average, so we're far off from DOAU where you could get as much as 20 costumes for certain 
 characters. A. I. has been made considerably harder too, especially in the shape of the new boss, 
 Alpha. She gives new meaning to the word "cheap", and if you have played The King of Fighters games 
 before, you'll know what I mean.
  
  As it stands, I think casual players are going to be put off rather fast by DOA4, as the unlockables 
 don't match up to the sometimes ridiculously hard A. I., that can make you look dumb and inept like 
 never before. Hardcore players on the other hand should really be in for a treat. Personally I 
 am falling a bit inbetween the two groups, but if there is one thing I can acknowledge, it is that 
 DOA4 is a technical masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PillarofFaith
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  The title says it all. This game is a ton of fun. It's a lot harder than your average fighter seeing 
 as there's a ton of moves for every character, not just 5 or 6. The environments are completely 
 immersive. The characters are well developed, carrying through this 4 part series, considering 
 again that this is a fighter. The story mode does get a little repetitive, however. Play through 
 and get all the characters then play this for the online play. I absolutely love getting in there 
 and taking on characters with real brains and being able to trash talk a bit. Buy it for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I thought it was gona be like every other fighting game there is. Go 
 through it about an hour or two and you know everything there is to know. But no, this game takes 
 a long long long long time to know what the **** you're doing. The difficulty is already set on 
 its lowest when you turn it on, and that normal. The computer somehow knows everything you're going 
 to do before you do it. The countering is just plain ****ing hard, after playing for atleast more 
 than 5 hours, I still don't know how to counter succesfully other than by luck. The computer pretty 
 much button mashes, they don't use combos, they just keep hitting you and not letting you fall, 
 they just juggle you while you're still on the ground. Even if you hit the ground they kick you 
 and prop you up, to continue more juggling. To be able to beat this game, you need to absolutely 
 master everything about it, just one character. You have to know every move, every position they'll 
 be in when you attack... etc. Over all this game is ****ing hard, that's pretty much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3idolon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is a excellent contribution to your 360 collection by increasing the speed of the combat and 
 still keeping it fluid. The counter system has been improved in every way making it more skillfull 
 to actually pull off these counters. Some characters even have up to 3 different counters for some 
 attacks which are more complex to pull off which really give these characters some depth in their 
 fighting style. The gameplay is all together a satisfying experience, and with xbl or multiple 
 players on the same box this will be a favourite for months to come, especially with the lack of 
 titles coming for the 360.
  The graphics are quite impressive, but looking at the previous installment of DOA, there really 
 isn't enough improvement to consider it higher than an 8 out of 10.
  The new characters in the game are an excellent addition, all of them good in their own way. But 
 the expansion on the existing characters is quite satisfying creating new depth to them, as well 
 as causing you do act differently while using them. The boss is extremely difficult and gets extremely 
 frusturating at times, but if I had a choice to make her easier, I would just keep things the way 
 they are, mostly because when you do get a good time in time attack you can be really proud of 
 it especially from beating Alpha.
  In the end, any fighting game fan should pick up this title. It is fun all around and will make 
 you work for some of the achievements which will keep you around for a while. This game gets a 
 9 out of 10, second best game for 360 so far, second to Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ismailachu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is probably the best fighter i've played, it may not compare to the combo crazyness in Dragon 
 ball Z or Mortal combat but its a DEEP game. There loads of different fighting styles, combo moves 
 and counters u need to know to be able to defeat an opponent. And the AI isn't cheap cos if u were 
 to play an SS grade online, I bet they would fight in the exact same way. It doesn't go easy on 
 you but if u can beat it then u can beat almost anyone online so theres somin u gotta consider. 
 The online mode is pretty cool apart from the lag but well its a 360 game u cant really expect 
 perfect gameplay that is amazingly fluid at 60 frames per second and graphically heavy without 
 getting some sort of lag. But they fixed the chappy frame rate that u get from lag and replaced 
 it with a new Matrix-esque slow motion kinda thing instead. 
  
  In summary
  
  Great Deep fluid gameplay, Great Graphics, Great online play, Offers a good challenge. The AI aint 
 cheap its just challenging. I beat alpha first time WOOOOOOOOOOOO, just wanted to say it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  doa here we go again with one of these repetateve titles lol im mean the wearing the game out it 
 the xbox 360 just came out and there already working on two more titles plz give me a break the 
 game is not that good not like it ended world hunger ort anything lol well i guess well see when 
 the other ones come out if they do any better until next review this is so stupid that u have to 
 write a review or aleast 100 words cause if u cant tell someone how good or how crape a game is 
 in less you dont need to write one hopefully this is long enough game on
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuhyabusa2112
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  The last boss is hard all the other fighting games are realy easy thats Why I love DOA 4. They could 
 of done a better job on the halo guy and use the real voice. The online play is really fun worth 
 geting the game. The online gime play is a little lagy if u play with someone with a bad conection. 
 Your graded on how well u do online that is really good thing. there are no content download im 
 mad about that If u get a xbox 360 u must get this game u will play it for hours this is the 2nd 
 best game that tecmo made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be pretty fun. I like'd a couple things about it. The cover is 
 good, and the name isn't that bad.
  Gameplay- DUMB! You never know when you are going to finish a story line. On top of that its really 
 hard after you get past the first couple guys. The only fun thing about it is the chicks.
  Graphics- The best thing about this game. They are really really good. This is what kept this game 
 above a 5.
  Sound- Could be better. When I'm fighting somone, I want to hear some intense music, not some Japenese 
 crap.
  Value- Not worth it... Its to short once you finally beat a guy to buy. Its def. a game you rent.
 
  I didn't like this game at all. I think that Mortal Kombat for the SNES was alot better then this. 
 At least in that you can see when you are going to be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Well, it's an amazing looking game. It plays really nicely. And this does feel like the series 
 is evolving more and more. The environments are really nice and the fluid fighting is great. 
 
  Here's a few bad things: The stories are for the most part pretty lame. The cutscenes are just 
 plain embarrassing and borerline on perversion. Hey, i'm all for sexuality in games, but there's 
 no need to have these girls sound quite literally like 3 year old toddler giggling. Not sure why 
 Tecmo did that, but it's pretty sick stuff. Aside from that, the cutscene are pretty useless and 
 just too contrived.
  
  This game will probably make you want to break your xbox 360 and anything else around you. The 
 end boss is the cheapest AI boss in the history of the series, by a long shot!!!! In fact, the 
 boss is so cheap, it's not even fun playing the end boss, at all. It's actually pretty dumb. You 
 have as much chance beating the end boss by randomly hitting button and looking away from the TV 
 as you do concentrating on what you are doing; i know, i've tried it. My official strategy for 
 the end boss is this: no strategy. Works pretty good too!
  
  Also, a lack of an easy mode is just unexcusable. it's just plain dumb. I'd like my female friends 
 to play the game, especially since they've loved other games in the series but now are forced to 
 get their asses kicked because Tecmo didn't have good sense to put in what should be in every game: 
 an easy mode for the casual gamer. Also, the difficulty mode is erratic. Sometimes you'd swear 
 the game was on ULTRA difficulty, sometimes you'd think it was on ULTRA easy.
  
  But the game is fun. Actually, it's even worth buying despite all these stupid mistakes. It's definetely 
 worth renting and trying out. It's a really really good fighter, but has some really unecessary 
 flaws.
  
  I've put the tilt at 7 because of the frustration factor; it seriously hurts the fun. If they release 
 a patch in which they include an easy mode, I'd say the game deserves a bit higher score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the first fighting game for the 360 and does a great job of satisfying the fans. 
 (with the fighting and the girls) The graphics are among the best I've seen on the 360 so far, 
 and the characters look absoulutely stunning. Don't get me wrong, I don't gawk over the women, 
 they're not even real, I'm not that perverted! 
  Now that I got that out of the way, I would like to discuss one of the major frustrations about 
 the game, it's difficulty. Perhaps Team Ninja made the AI a little too intellegent, don't you think? 
 But unless you're an expert at DOA, this won't be a problem.
  This game is fun nonetheless, from pulling off insane combos to crashing people throgh walls, DOA4 
 will keep you satisfied for a while. If you cant handle it's difficulty, start practicing; practice 
 makes perfect. Overall, if you like beating the crap out of people, this is the game for you.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiwanvader
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  I am insulted at having spent as much money as I did on a game that I can't even enjoy. I know 
 that in order for a game to give the player any satisfaction, there has to be a challenge, but, 
 this game is so difficult (even on normal) that it sucks all the fun and entertainment out and 
 replaces it with repetitive, frustrating game play. A game, by definition is supposed to be fun, 
 enjoyable, entertainment, but in this game, fighting from character to the next is a daunting task. 
 Some matches I had to play like 9 or 10 times before I won and was able to move on to the next 
 opponent, and the final boss is so ridiculously hard to be that when I finally beat her, there 
 was no sense of satisfaction or accomplishment because I took a pasting from her nearly 20 something 
 times before that. Yeah it's got super graphics, sound, character models are flawless and look 
 and move very realisticly, but, that's about it. If I wanted to spend money on something that simply 
 looked and sounded good I'd go by a dvd movie. It's games like these that make me glad that there's 
 MORTAL KOMBAT, the best fighting game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkef0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for 
 DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant 
 wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, 
 Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for 
 DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant 
 wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, Cant wait for DOAX2, 
 Cant wait for DOAX2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper2491
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  How can you say that this game is good? All the players are the same story line is the same as 
 EVERY other fighting game. How the hell are you meant to memorise 64 different moves for every 
 player and how can you expect to beat the computer over and over again when you have no easy setting 
 for those who are new to the DOA games. Its like an uphill struggle even if you want a quick one 
 on one. 
  
  But the thing that made me mad was how the computer knows how to reverse all your move at the right 
 time and how it seems to know and use all the moves for each player as far as I am concerned there 
 is no way that a human could have reflexes fast enough to 1. reverse moves when it counts and 2. 
 Pull off any of the special moves while playing. 
  
  Maybe if you could customise players to make them stronger faster more defence life etc then there 
 would be more reason to play the game. If the computer were then to beat you go away level up then 
 come back and wipe the floor with him simple. But no you have to fight and fight until you are 
 lucky enough to finally beat him/her. 
  
  For a next gen fighter I would expect allot more than a bog standard side scroll beat em up that 
 looks nice. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untitled-One
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  If you've played any DOA title before you know exactly what to expect. 
  Dead or Alive is probably the best in the series but purely for superficial reasons. Those visuals 
 just keep getting prettier and prettier. The new characters aren't much to get worked up about, 
 even Spartan. The characters that were missing from DOA Ultimate are back so they feel somewhat 
 new again. The online mode is pretty good but can suffer from lag frequently but is still way playable. 
 The new lobby system in this title seems quite unnecessary considering the interface in Ultimate 
 worked just fine. It also must be said that DOA4 has one of the cheapest last bosses in fighting 
 game history. So that blows but overall the game does rock. If you own a 360 and like fighting 
 games this one's really a no-brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViciousKnight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game and all, but the graphics were nowhere near as good as they should have been. 
 Playing on a regular TV, the graphics only look slightly better than DOA3 on the xbox.
  This game is good for a rent, unless you love online play and want every character, but the games 
 get aggrivating, and the Alpha character can take up to an hour to beat.
  It might be that my 360 froze right after I beat Alpha 157 after trying for an hour, but I have 
 all of the systems, so Im not being biased, it's just that it lost potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Not a big fan of dead or alive but it has to be said I plyed this for hours
  
  Like all beat n up s like this it could do with a arcade stick to play with this hurt my hands 
 playing this.
  
  The line up of contenders are sexy sleak young things (I am only talking about the girls and Halo!!!! 
 is in there two
  
  Loads to unlock loads to beat up a good honest bash
  
  Fan of DOA then get this its the best one so far
  
  The on line play is ok but the lobby system 
 is a bit messy and stupid I hate the lobby bits!!
  
  cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  After all those years it is time for the 4th installment of the DOA series.
  It's just THE game to show off new hardware (Like PS, Dreamcast, XBOX and XBOX360) . Since the 1st 
 DOA the game has first of all become more beautifull and has increased their options and playable 
 characters.
  
  The 4th DOA has a absolute great graphical engine, it really show what the XBOX360 can do (I know 
 games will be more beautifull in time...) .
  The characters look more real than part 3, the enviroments are bigger and have a lot of interaction 
 in them.
  And also the special effects have never looked this good!
  The story goes further where part 3 left of (not with all characters) ,
  DOATEC is again busy 
 with bad things and must be stopped.
  And at the end DOATEC .... (oops! almost spoiled the end...)
  The options of the game have extended 
 also;
  There is an option to make pictures of your favorite battles and save them in you photoalbum. And 
 they introduced DOA Online (wich was in the remake of part 1 and 2 - DOA ULTIMATE - but is official 
 new to the series since it wasn't in part 3!)
  We get an extended arsenal of fighters, such as Lisa (from DOA Beach Volleyball) and The Masterchief 
 (from Halo) .
  Gameplay hasn't changed much since part 2, there are a couple of extra moves but nothing to write 
 home about. But why change something that works great already?!
  
  If you are a fan of fighting games you must definatly check this one out, especialyy when you loved 
 the DOA series before.
  After the many sequels of Mortal Kombat and a new Soul Calibur (that hadn't much new to offer) 
 you have to be begging for some next-gen fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is probably the best in the series but purely for superficial reasons. Those visuals 
 just keep getting prettier and prettier. The new characters aren't much to get worked up about, 
 even Spartan. The characters that were missing from DOA Ultimate are back so they feel somewhat 
 new again. The online mode is pretty good but can suffer from lag frequently but is still way playable. 
 The new lobby system in this title seems quite unnecessary considering the interface in Ultimate 
 worked just fine. It also must be said that DOA4 has one of the cheapest last bosses in fighting 
 game history. So that blows but overall the game does rock. If you own a 360 and like fighting 
 games this one's really a no-brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  DOA is one of the most popular fighting franchises in gaming, and just a little after launch DOA4 
 arrives on store shelves, and lemme tell you, it packs a punch. It looks great. Not next gen looking. 
 It really doesnt look all that different from Ultimate on the XBOX, however the enviroments sure 
 look great. The game will take some time to learn how to counter (which is the main way to play 
 the game) and once you do then you in. The story modes are fun and are followed by some wacky and 
 hilarious movies afterwards. As for the online mode, its awesome. Its like the arcades, when you 
 win, you stay another game while the others watch and wait their turn, so the pressure is on to 
 win every single time, its really great. Extremely impressive fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABMike3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was hard for me. I usually don't have problems with games, but I was grinding my teeth 
 the whole time while playing it. When I first started, there was no guide that helped me learn 
 the controls for the game. You just jump right into story mode, or sparring. Sparring isn't too 
 helpful unless you want to be bored for an hour. The first few matches in story mode are easier, 
 but then the computer plays hardcore and counters your moves and combo you for 1/3 of your health. 
 I guess for some people I can see this being a good game, but if you don't have the patience to 
 let the computer whoop on you this wouldn't be too great of a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microsoft4life
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, iam not going to sugar coat it, this game sucks. While it will take you awhile to beat the 
 whole single player mode and offers you play on the online mode, i cant help to feel that this 
 is disapointing. The sound, same as DOA3, which is pathetic Also, CAN WE PLEASE GET SOME NEW COSTUMES 
 AND CHARACTERS. The graphics are amazing and pretty to look at, but does simply not cover up for 
 the fact that it gets repetitive and boring. This is definatly an avoid. This game may be worth 
 a rent but not $60. I'd say hold on to you money and wait for Oblivion or buy GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonCreme10
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Intro - Dead or Alive 4 was one of the first 360 games released, and for the most part, it made 
 me smile. But after playing through it for a couple of hours, I noticed the flaws and *sighs*.
 
  
  Gameplay/Story - This was what really made me want to take the DOA4 CD, pee on it, and than throw 
 it out the window. You can easily take down an opponent with simple button mashing. Jamming on 
 the A button can easily score you a win even on some seasoned opponents. The countering system 
 is very disappointing. It is very hard and you have to perfectly predict and time your opponents 
 next move to block them. When you are kicked into the air, say goodbye to your sweet health, because 
 expect your opponent to pull off some huge combo (during this time, you cannot counter, dodge, 
 or press the "self destruct" button)
  
  Graphics - The dudes over at Team Ninja really coated this with mouthwatering graphics. The hair 
 is like silky smooth and sways with each movement. The dresses also do the same. The characters 
 actually look REAL. The boobies also juggle nicely! You can expect to see huge enviorments with 
 multiple rooms, sections, and levels, but what disappointed me is that almost 90% of the time, 
 the battle wasn't long enough to reach more than 3 different sections.
  
  Sound - Nothing really special here. I heard the same effects, kick, punching sounds as I did in 
 the first one. The soundtracks I can barely notice as they really don't bring my attention. 'Twas 
 just an average christmas in the sound department.
  
  Value - Not worth it. I regret spending $60 on a game that is only worth about 10-20 hours with. 
 I mean come on... its a fighting game. What do you do after you unlock all the costumes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Into - DOA4 is a very difficult fighting game that at first glance is mearly a frustrating mess... 
 but you need to give it time. After learning the new moves, the counter system, and how the computer 
 fights, this game will become one of the most addicting games you will ever play!
  
  Gameplay - Much much more complex than the previous games, it is harder, and much more rewarding 
 to learn. The counter system seems nearly impossible to learn at first, but give it time and you 
 will learn to love it. The finaly boss (alpha) is extreemly difficult at first, but after a while 
 you will wonder why you lost so much at first.
  
  Graphics - Amazing! yet graphical flaws (such as your clothes going thru yourself) prevent them 
 from being perfect.
  
  Sound - By far the weakest aspect of the game. all of the voices are done in japanees, yet when 
 you unlock the character voices (for who says "you win!" etc...) they are in english and dont even 
 really sound the same. i can respect wanting to keep the original voices, but reading subtitles 
 gets old, and the music in general just isnt all that great either.
  
  Value - Endless! in order to unlock everything (i have not yet done) you have to beat the game 
 countless times on every mode, each character has tons of clothing options that you can unlock, 
 and the ranked muliplayer online is a very nice aspect to mess around with after you get a hang 
 of the fighting system.
  
  Tilt - I really liked the game a lot, and still do. I play it more than any of my other Xbox360 
 games right now (although GRAW is not out yet) , if it werent for the poor sound and graphical errors, 
 this game would be up their with the original Soul Calibur on DC. Yes... it is that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan on team ninja games. So i knei was not going to be disipointed. Shure 
 enough if wasnt. Being the only fighting game that offers a way to counter attacks one of a kind. 
 The graphics are nice and beautiful as always. It Does not offer much of a sound track. Its online 
 play is immpresive. It gives you pints to buy lobbies and avitars to have ffun with in lobbies. 
 The new patch has fixed lots of online probs. I was disipointed with the lack of costumes. The 
 number whent from over 10 per charicter some with 20, down to under 8 per charicteI expected mor 
 costumes not 5 times less. That is very disipointing. it affects replay alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthfisto
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  IS FREAKING AWESOME! its the game i bought the 360 to play well it and perfect dark but anyway 
 i loved the graphics the characters rocked (woot woot kasumi!) and it flowed so easily to me caus 
 ei am a vetran of the series but i noticed when my little brother was playing he had a kinda hard 
 time because of the way it is easy to counter and block so i guess its a little bit of a learning 
 curve to it buy overall this is my favorite game made for the 360 so far hope theres alot more 
 that are this good oh yeah and before i go i'll tell u like the best people to be. personaly i 
 like a mix between speed and power so these are my favs: kasumi, ayane, and jann lee. i still think 
 that this game will be the life of the 360 like halo 1 was for the xbox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  Fancy slick visuals, bright and colourful and fast moving. Good sounds too.
  Gameplay is pretty much untouched as previous games, the fighting is still not as complex as the 
 likes of virtua fighter, which is a bit dissapointing.
  A fun game but not much lengh to it, the story can be completed very quickly with any character 
 having only one round per person if you win. The end boss is still anoying imatating other peoples 
 moves (how original) .
  The gameplay is super fast, but like i said the game can be completed with out much fought when 
 you fight. The cinematatics are freat with each character having there own. This series does not 
 tread any new ground apart from the fancy graphics being updated each time. But still an enjoyable 
 fighting game and the best on 360 so far.
  worth a rent only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief375
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  DOA4 for the Xbox 360 is awesome!!! The fighting is fast paced and the visuals are extremely smooth. 
 This DOA has the best visuals I've ever seen on the Xbox 360 so far. It's the best DOA in the series 
 and there's alot of new characters to play with. The only problem I have with this game is the 
 difficulty. Some opponents are extremely hard because they use cheap combos while you're in the 
 air. Some opponents do too much damage. Alpha 51 takes about 25% of your health from one attack. 
 She can also teleprt making this battle alot harder than it should be. This game is perfect and 
 should be in every 360 owner's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is a good game but it just can get boring after awhile. The gameplay can get really 
 frustrating when you play it because the characters sometimes can be very hard to beat. The graphics 
 in the game are pretty sweet and clean except the hair on the women. Sometimes the hair on the 
 women will go through the arms and just doesn't move around like hair does on women. 
  
  It also makes me laugh at how Team Ninja made the game, the characters 'eyes' are really big, and 
 the brief nudity in the game kind of makes you think what the hell is the Japanese thinking? I 
 guess they made the eyes exceptionally large because of how their eyes are . . . well, you get 
 the idea.
  
  The sound is good, the voices of everyone is good. Without the captions . . . I would be totally 
 lost by the Japanese. The Spartan's voice is alright, sort of weird hearing a woman's voice as 
 a Spartan. There really isn't a lot of dialogue either, when you win, they say only a couple of 
 different things. It gets kind of repetitive too.
  
  In overall, it is a good game for the Xbox 360 but it could have been better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is one of the first 360 games to come out! It has made an improvement. There are more characters, 
 secrets and the environment is more interactive! The graphics are looking beautiful! And everything 
 is going smoothly! Great multiplayer for those that like online gaming! The gameplay as whole (which 
 we all know) is fighting style. It is a great game. If you are deciding to pick up this game, you 
 should I mean, *scuffs* this games if also recommended for all those DOA fans (including myself 
 :D) . Go buy it you'll never regret it I can assure you that! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: africandragon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting. It has excellent graphics and gameplay. THis game can really piss 
 you off though. IF you are really good though then this should be the bomb. The only problem i 
 really had with this game was that the computer people were very hard to beat. Maybe there were 
 some easy ones but mainly it was hard to beat which was not fun at all. I tryed online and i was 
 freaked out and i didnt know how to do anything. THis game is a buy unless you have little patience. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  sdgf jgkd fkldg dfgjk ldgkgd fgkljdfgklfkd g dghfhfghkfklghsd; hsdfh; slf; l fsd l; dfs ghsdf ;lsfjh 
 fd; hh jdf; hjs; hs; hskjh ;dfh sh sdf; lsh; ldsfh; ldh sd; hfsd fl; sl; fd slfd gfldjhg ghljfd hdk hfd; lhdfh 
 sdf; l hgdls; hsfdl;; sfdlfk sfdgjl; kjf gfkls; g sfg ; gjkl lg ljkhjkflsj kl rg kgjjklkljfkjfskjjkl 
 klj kj fgd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  At first, DoA4 will seem like a good enough, maybe even great game. But then, at about the 10 hour 
 mark, the great graphics and sexy characters give way to how shallow and ultimately broken this 
 fighter is. Blocking and reverses are broken. Just get the right character, and mashing on Y and 
 B are sufficient strategy to winning. Not knowing what you are doing and winning is a commonplace 
 here. Someone picking up the controller for the 1st time can just mash on Y and B and usually beat 
 an average player. Sure the veterans can counter this sometimes, but other times this cheap strategy 
 can lead to a super frustrating endless, unstoppable juggle until GREATEST pops up on the screen. 
 No announcer woman, not great. Not great at all.
  
  Lets see, the graphics are good- most of the time. Except when alternate costumes glitch through 
 people and when the long flowing hair looks more like ribbon flowing in the wind. The interactive 
 environments return, and as they look gorgeous, they don't seem to have the insane 5-6 tiered efforts 
 of DoA3. 
  
  Ok, more complaints. The AI pulls off cheap a$$ combos all the time, especially when you get them 
 low on health early on. Ummm, the punch noises are the same ones from the 1st game, the counter 
 system is broken, some characters are waaaay too overpowering, but there is the Halo SPARTAN and 
 her accompanying level, which are very cool.
  
  Overall, this game bored me to death by the 14-15 hour mark. this is a no-brainer trade in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is an enormous amount of fun to play multiplayer. The fights are fast paced, fun and 
 there's always that great sense of achievement when you pull of a cool looking move on one of your 
 friends.
  
  The learning curve is good, and it's also a great pick-up and play game if you're stuck for choice. 
 The graphics are sensational (apart from the annoying glitches with long hair) , and the end-of-game 
 movies are occasionally so bizzarre you'll be laughing. There's a good selection of characters 
 (once you've unlocked them... see below) , and the Live mode is pretty good, without too much lag.
 
  
  However, this game is NOT for people who are easily frustrated. In order to get the widest selection 
 of characters and costumes, you have to repeatedly beat the game's single player and time-attack 
 modes. And these are HORRIFIC.
  
  It's not that I'm bad at the game - I've completed it, and I have a B rank on Live. The AI is FAR 
 too clever for it's own good, and makes FAR too extensive use of the counter and blocking systems, 
 pre-empting your strikes in a way that can only be explained by 'it's the computer'. And the final 
 boss (Alpha-152) is perhaps the most poorly conceived boss ever created, almost as if it were DESIGNED 
 to frustrate the hell out of gamers. And this wouldn't really be a problem in itself if you only 
 had to fight her occasionally. But no, you have to fight her every time you attempt time-attack 
 mode, and at the end of almost every single-player mode (the exceptions are when you have to unlock 
 a new character) . And, even if you're brilliant at the game, beating her - even with it set to 
 1 round - can take as long as 15 minutes, which just isn't fun when you have to do it for all 21 
 characters.
  
  So basically, if you're a patient, fighting game fan, this is the game for you. If you're a regular 
 fighting game fan, buy the game and get one of the previous guys to complete it for you. That'll 
 maximise your enjoyment of it... and if you don't like fighting games at all... steer WELL clear. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I have never played any other game in the DOA series before this one, but it delivers enough quality 
 and playability for even a noob to pick up. A fast-paced, beautiful and long game is what DOA 4 
 is.
  
  The gameplay in DOA 4 is just like any other fighting game, you punch, you kick, you block, you 
 throw, and you have your character's own unique moves to pull off. But there's a twist, in DOA 
 4 almost any attack, if timed right, can be countered. So if I were to try to punch someone, but 
 that someone pressed a button at the right time, I would not only not be able to land my punch, 
 but I would get hit back.
  The singleplayer doesn't have a story or anything but there are many gamerpoints to be earned, 
 characters and costumes to unlock and scoreboards to beat playing the campaign. Multiplayer is 
 great because its like standing in line at an arcade to play a fighting game, you can see what 
 the people ahead of you playing the machine are doing, and you can trash-talk until its your turn. 
 Multiplayer on one console is also great because you can play as long as you want free from frame-rates 
 chugging. My one problem with the gameplay is that some of the characters are unbalanced, some 
 characters are slow but strong, and other characters are slow but weak, so it doesn't make a whole 
 lot of sense.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, great character models, huge multi-tiered enviornments, and 
 in HD its even better. Some of the best graphics I've seen on the 360.
  
  The sound is pretty good, the sound effects are top-notch but my biggest problem is the voice acting. 
 It seems Tecmo does not want to put their V. O. s in English, meaning you'll mostly here people speak 
 in Japanese. The music choice is also kind of a weird match-up to the Japanese voice-overs because 
 the soundtrack is in English.
  
  You'll be playing this game for a while, if you want to just beat the singleplayer for each character 
 it'll take you about 10 hours but you can play the game for a really long time thanks to a great 
 Xbox Live, tons of characters and costumes, and challenges.
  
  If you are a fan of fighting games, or just action games, check DOA 4 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  wow. how long has it been. someone kiked me off for my review of halo because it was raw and gritty. 
 o yah im crazy_ferret_123 thats me. IM BAK! so brace urself. visit my older profile for other reviews. 
 but enough about that, this game is alright. its very generic and hard to pull off cool moves, 
 but when u do, u feel awsome with like o moments. and the graphics are great, but i dont see reall 
 like woooo these are next gen. no this is not this kind of game. the enviroments are fun to fool 
 around in and they are very interactive. this game is hard and i only beat it with a few characters. 
 look if u dont like fighting games and ur intrested, give it a rent. if u love fighting games, 
 this is the one for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  A week before I purchased DOA 4 I threw in my copy of DOA 3 for a while so I could compare the 
 two. After fiddling with both It is hard to say that much is different. The biggest difference 
 for me was in the difficulty. I have never been the greatest at fighting games and after 1 hour 
 with DOA4 I was about to throw my controller thru my HDTV. Luckily I regained my composure and 
 went on to find that after getting use to the new systems in the game it was quite enjoyable after 
 a while. Once you master the blocking and countering it is a lot more fun to play and besides wireless 
 controllers and HDTV's are not cheap.
  
  Playing thru the story mode is fun and unlocking new costumes will keep you occupied for a while 
 but once all that is done I went online and that is where I had the most problems. The game is 
 abundant with lag. I have a very fast connection speed at over 6MBPS so I now it was not on my 
 end. Why will no other game company embrace what Bungie did with there matchmaking system? Let 
 the server choose who has the best connection so that we can have a much better online expierience. 
 I played over 100 matches the first night and over 50 of them had serious lag and another 10 had 
 minor lag. That's 60% of games played are nearly unplayable and yes i did go between rooms I never 
 stayed in one room.
  
  Overall I really did like this game but if the online ,which is the only reason to play this game 
 after beating all the other modes, does not function properly then I am forced to take a it's score 
 down. If they come out with a patch that adresses these problems then my score would be one higher. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_newsome
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I purchased DOA4 today and after playing it for a few hours i have to say on the whole this is 
 a very hard game to play properly (properly being the key word i. e. not furious button tapping) 
 with so many moves per character (around 100 unique moves each) you need a computer hard drive 
 for a brain to remember them but on the whole very nice graphics as would be expected for a 360 
 game. In my opinion the game plays a bit short only 9 stages per character in story mode and i 
 have already completed story mode about 4 times! but i have to say i do like this game, with the 
 survival and time attacks mode extends the game play a fair bit but i get the feeling i may get 
 bored of this game quite quickly. we'll have to wait and see after i have had it for a week or 
 so. I haven't taken it online yet which i imagine is gonna be awesome but i figure im gonna need 
 a hell of a lot of practice first tho so im saving this for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry-boy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay was great, the single play mod its good and the online mod its even better. The story 
 mod unlocks the new chart and all those character movies.. OMG really love those..
  
  The graphics and sounds its clearly a full point for me, I dont know many ppl says that DoA4 havent 
 inproves anything from DoA3. But for me I havent play any of DoA before. I think its probably the 
 best looking fighting game yet.
  
  Value, almost there but not quite.. something its missing.. i dont know what but its something 
 which is bordering me. The gameplay is easy to learn and hard to manage but still feels like something 
 is not right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the DOA games to date and I have give my recommendation for this one. The graphics 
 through my HDTV are outstanding, and the AI provides more of a challenge than on previous games 
 (almost to the point of being cheap) . Plus having a Halo Spartan (Master Chief type) as a playable 
 character is great. The only critique is that the hair on characters seems to behave rather unnaturally 
 and the difficulty may be too hard for someone not used to fighting games. But all that a side, 
 let's not forget all the great "fan-service" in this game -- 'itties! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icemancell
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  this is still no TEKKEN or VF, still the same button masher with alot of beautiful girls. Only 
 reason why its great is the online mode, where you just go and fight other people online. The story 
 mode is lacking and the endings have nothing to do with your current story in the story mode. Its 
 almost as if they just threw it in at the last moment. It does have great visuals and sound because 
 of the new X360 hardware. Training mode is also improved as well as the bonuses in the game. You 
 can unlock almost 7 costumes per char. Also get to play a Master chief like char. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinomanrex94
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was marvelous! The graphics were amazing and the gameplay was fabulous just 
 like the previous games. I was addicted to it since i got it and could not leave my room. I failed 
 two quizzes cause of it! I think it was just simply amazzing and that you should buy this game. 
 I love all the characters (RYU'S THE BEST!!!!!!!!!) and the interactivity in the game was awesome. 
 I loved the level w/ dinosaurs and the one on the savannah. I totally reccommend getting this game 
 and i think it was fabulous! (O yea dontlisten to the guy who gave it a two) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  And this game has not changed my mind. It is an incredibly beautiful game, the graphics are amazing. 
 My major complaint with the game is that it gets HARD AS HELL after about the 4th or 5th person 
 in story mode. The AI just seems cheap: It pulls off combos that seem impossible for anyone other 
 than a speed freak to perform. The one thing it does have however as far as gameplay goes, is replayability. 
 If you enjoy fighting games, and this one inpeticular, theer is alot to do to unlock achievements 
 - and if you are lucky enough to have xbox live, you will be able to tack on your friends (and 
 enemies) online.
  
  Overall i would say - RENT IT FIRST. Unless you are a die hard DOA fan, you may just want to preview 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackThompsonAmI
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Okay first I want to tell you guys I've been a fan of the series since forever. I even own every 
 DOA game. Unfortunatly this was the worst in the series, however that doesn't make it bad in any 
 way.
  
  Gameplay: The best part about the DOA series is the excellent gameplay. The game is just incredible 
 fun, and the fun never wears out. 
  
  Graphics: Oh boy. The reason I gave the graphics such a low score is because well quite frankly 
 their exactly the same as DOAU's graphics except that the girls hair doesn't go through their bodies 
 in DOAU. I really expected more considering the 360's Is supossed to be "next-gen".
  
  Sound: There really isn't anything to complain about the sound is spectacular.
  
  Rent or Buy: 
 If your a fan of the series then buy it you won't be disapointed with the gameplay, however you 
 may not like the fact that the graphics didn't improve. If you've never played the series well 
 I guess you should buy it anyway because you can't not like DOA. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive has always been a successful series. And it seems like eventually they will slack 
 off on this game. Well, this is not the game that they slacked off on. Dead or Alive 4 adds to 
 Dead or Alive 3 in many ways. Of coarse exceeding it. DOA4 has absolutly stunning graphics and 
 an awesome physics engine. Interacting environments were another thing that i enjoyed alot. There 
 are only a few problems. First off, there are a small handful of grapfical issues, but nothing 
 too serious. Second, sometimes online matches can get a bit laggy, but that isnt enough to hold 
 me or many people back. DOA4 is definatley a homerun so go pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  THis game is your basic DOA game, but with better graphics and an awesome on-line foundation. Other 
 than beating the story mode with the characters, this game was extremely hard for me, even on-line 
 the competitors are tough, i would only recomend this game if your ready to bring your a-game. 
 To get achievemants on-line you definetly need to be one of the best, the combos are also hard 
 to nail. All around the game is crisp if u like this certain type of game, the coolest part to 
 me was the unlockable spartan character, which is why i bouth the game. All in all, 8/10.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the fighting genre. I'm a new owner of an Xbox 360 (many many attempts before 
 I finally got one within my possession, btw) . The first time I heard that DOA4 was coming to the 
 Xbox 360 (at E3 2005) I simply said to myself that I must get this game! From a pure spectator's 
 point of view, one can not deny the beautiful graphics (and the DOA ladies) that DOA4 certainly 
 impresses on a graphical standpoint. For the single player, you have the standard story mode, time 
 attack mode, survival, training, etc. With various costumes, these single player modes are self-motivating 
 (if you're into collecting all the costumes and getting an achievement for it) . Button mashing 
 noobs will win victories, but not online. I wished the voices were in English as well as Japanese 
 (having that option) . The countering system is more advance than the past DOA games. Online play 
 can be addicting as well as frustrating. There's nothing worse than winning and then suddenly the 
 game freezes on you. There are many lag times that I encountered while playing online. However, 
 Tecmo did provide the option of seeing online player's internet connection speed to prevent encountering 
 fights with heavy lag times. A major disappointment that I experienced myself was that after I 
 had unlocked all the characters, costumes, etc, I had found my save file to be erased! I believe 
 there is some sort of glitch that Tecmo hadn't worked out yet? I've talked to many others (you 
 can read the forums on this also) that experienced the same mishap that I have. Also, I have also 
 gotten more than 100 wins online . . .but still no achievement for it? Why not?? Aside from these 
 cons, I still recommend the game to those who enjoy fighting games or DOA series fans. It's certainly 
 worth checking out if you own an Xbox 360 system . . .b/c what other fighting game is currently 
 out? =p Happy fighting and respect the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexc0000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The games leaves lot open in live and it's really a learning experience with the entire lobby thing. 
 Overall the single player and the overall graphics is what really got me. The graphics is some 
 of the best that I have seen on the 360 yet, coming is second to Perfect Dark Zero. The new characters 
 that they put into the game seem to even out the game a little more than the last games in the 
 series. It has a bit more than any other game on the console a fluid control style and really tries 
 to make use of the processor and ram power on the 360 by using almost completely destructable environments. 
 All aroudn this game gives the Xbox 360 a better start in the next gen race by giving us hints 
 of what the console is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosh3000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is without a doubt the best fighting game ever created. One thing that really puts 
 it over the top is it's graphics. No detail is left out, whether it be your fighter's silk robe 
 flying in the wind, or your cowboy hat getting kicked off. Each level has at least two areas that 
 can be reached by booting your opponent off a cliff, through a wall, or even down a flight of stairs. 
 This adds variety to your fighting experience every time your play. Along with the great versus 
 mode that is fantastic for parties, the single player story mode is quite addictive. Each character 
 has their own story and to unlock the next item, be it a costume and/or hidden player, you have 
 to beat 8 stages against different fighters. During the story mode, you will encounter fighters 
 that require 10 trys, and some that will take one. This makes the story mode difficult, but not 
 to a point where you give up. During the story there are little cut scenes that develop the story 
 of the character. The stories are seemingly random, but quite humorous to watch. When you complete 
 the story mode with a female character, you are rewarded with a tantalizing movie that you can 
 watch over and over again in the movie theater. Overall, I could find no flaws in the this game, 
 so I am proud to give it a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stretch31
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is one of the most extrodinary games i have played in a long time. 
  i was at my friends house and we were planning on trying out fight night round 3 the entire night. 
 when we went down to his x360 we found DOA in the game tray and decided to give it a shot. 5 hours 
 later and i still havent played fight night! the graphics mixed with such a great diversity in 
 characters and fighting styles make for a truly all around great game.
  the number of characters and ability to learn their combos and attacks within the first few rounds 
 really makes for a long story mode. altough it has a very spread out gammer point system, the points 
 that you earn are even more rewarding even though they may not be in the most significant ammounts.
 
  Also the characters are so diverse that whatever your personal style might be they have a fighter 
 for you. if your looking for long combos and hitem hard punchs and kicks then somone like a ninja 
 or martial artist would be right for you. or if your more of a grappler and throw fighter then 
 why not try one of the wrestlers that can turn a fight around with a quick series of thorws and 
 holds that raelly take some skill to defend. 
  All In all DOA4 really hits the spot and was very worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  What ever other people say i think the game is great. It has stunning visuals. ( not just the girls.) 
 The fighting system i think is the best. The game is much better than soul calibur. The online 
 community is fun and interactive. With a ranking system to pair you off with people of your skill. 
 The way they present the game lobby is very unique. Its graphic lobbies the user can walk around 
 make tag teams with and all sorts of other options. The game has much repaly value. Rangeing from 
 acheivements to survial mode and time attack. The unlockable are also in a new fashion. If you 
 cant see to unlock somethign then hop on line and buy it . The fake money you win form games is 
 used to unlock items. Its over all a good game . The only complaint i have about it is the ai calculates 
 you attacks and makes an adverage of them and then can predict your next move. Its kinda cheep 
 ai but it makes for heated battles , iD suppose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzynuts
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is for the 360 is exactly what DOA: Ultimate was for the original Xbox. Nothing new about the 
 game except for a few additions to the roster. The game mechanics are the same and the online play 
 is identical to DOA: U. If your new to the series the game can get frustrating due to its learning 
 curve, but after a few hours you'll be able to hold your own. The visuals are the best so far in 
 the series but I wouldn't expect anything less from a next generation title. A welcome addition 
 to the game La Mariosa (aka. Lisa from DOA: Extreme Beach Volleyball) has very unique wrestling 
 moves and is sure to become a fan favorite. However the new character Elliott is easily forgettable 
 and the Spartan in the game has no back story and feels more like a novelty than a new figther. 
 The end boss this time around is truly cheap, just when you think you have her beat, she teleports 
 out of sight and goes crazy on you which is my only complain about this title. Overall DOA4 is 
 a solid fighting game that does nothing different than any of the previous titles in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kotaro_Fuma_88
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  
  DOA4 is the game that I have enjoyed playing for my Xbox 360. It was also the first game that I 
 had with my Xbox 360. At first, I was going to reconsider getting it as a lot of people were saying 
 that it is hard. 
  
  I think the game is amazing, there is plenty to unlock and plenty to do. The graphics are top-notch 
 and superb. Sound is great as always. 
  
  The only bad points about this game is mainly the difficultly. At times it can be really hard, 
 as well as frustrating. And other bad points are that, it still does not do anything new, just 
 a few new characters. 
  
  So my conclusion would be a great and worthy game that really does the Xbox 360 proud. The difficultly 
 may disappoint others but, a great game that is a great challenge. 
  
  Well done Tecmo!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crueltylizer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  The game many has been waiting for is finally on the shelves and people are going at it online 
 as you read this. 
  
  First of all let me say i have loved the while DOA Franchise and DOA4 is the real deal for all 
 fans. This might just be the game that make you buy a Xbox 360. 
  
  Lets start out with the graphics!
  
  Graphics wise its incredible beautiful at times and at 
 some points you might think that this game would be able to run on the Xbox. But all in all it 
 is a beauty. 
  
  There is a lot to do if you don't want to play online (Which would be a shame) .
  Storymode, Time 
 Attack and survival is the 3 game modes that will make you play the game for a long time. 
  
  There isn't to many new things that wasn't in DOA Ultimate. 
  There are a couple of new characters 
 and whole new bunch of maps for you to play on. But no new game modes or anything like that. But 
 you won't miss it as you will be using your time on the regular modes. 
  
  A couple of changes have been done to the countersystem so now you have to be even more precise 
 to make a counter. 
  
  Multiplayer is as fun as always! Who hasn't dreamed about taking on the whole world with your favorite 
 character? Well here is your big chance! 
  I have experienced lag and lock ups a couple of times but it is very rarely!
  
  All in all 
 if you have got a Xbox 360 go buy this game and if you havent go buy a Xbox 360 and DOA4!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_Hayabusa1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 Rocks.
  Amazing graphics autstanding cutscenes and sexy endings.
  This game is a must BUY for EVERYBODY.
  And the charaters like BAYMAN and HAYABUSA are pleasent 
 to play. The present of new characters like elliot Kokoro its very satisfying. And this game online 
 option is fantastic, THE BEST OF THE BEST.
  This game is worth buy an xbox 360 because DEAD OR ALIVE 4 is a must buy. And if you think Dead 
 or Alive Ultimate has many costumes just try Dead Or Alive 4 All the characters got new costumes. 
 And for me the best character is BAYMAN, RYU HAYABUSA and KAZUMI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drangel_jam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  My review will simply support my hook.
  
  Graphics: In HD, it is perhaps the best-looking game of all time. 'Nough said. 9/10 because I bet 
 this game is not pushing the Xbox 360 as much as DOA 3 did push the Xbox. In addition, view special 
 effects are at worst disappointing like the physic of certain objects rolling on a slope, water, 
 fire, and hair. Best hair ever: Zacks Rasta. LOL
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 because this game allows you to control every bit of a combination and the controls 
 are so responsive that you wont believe that it has never been easier to fight with the back facing 
 your opponent. You can pause a combination in order to confuse your opponents parrying, and/or 
 to simply switch to completely new different type of attack (i. e., throw) . The equilibrium between 
 the offense and the defense is almost perfect. At first, it seams like the most basic defensive 
 action is useless, but you quickly realize that even when you block there is a slight timing to 
 take advantage of your cool. The gameplay of this game is ahead of the other fighting games because 
 the way the game forces you to vary your attacks make the offense and the counter-offensive as 
 exciting as ever. All the players have a fair chance of countering and vary their combos. However, 
 they all still have their specific fortes, according to their fighting style.
  
  Sound: Its good not great. Perhaps, the worst element of the game. Dont get me wrong, I like 
 Aerosmith, but the BMG as well as the FXs are not as hard-hitting as they should be for each character 
 and stage. I like the upgrade on the characters voices. Now they actually wail and yell when they 
 are having a Taste [of] the Pain. Its the new generation and I want to hear sounds that are 
 more distinctive. For example, different gears should make different sounds (tennis shoes, boots, 
 cowboys boots, bare foot; as well as the armor that some characters carry, rather its metal, or 
 cloth. Its also time to make the tracks sound like the stage we are fighting in or at least be 
 thematic to the respective character. The Story mode would have more wait if the fighters had a 
 special tune each like the famous Street Fighters. Ultimately, there is nothing to wrong with 
 it, it just that DOAU almost did the same job in the sound department. THATS NOT ACCEPTABLE.
 
  
  Value: 10/10 because if you take the time to develop your skill the game proves to be very worthy 
 of the time you spend in it. Manage your early frustration! Just remember, in order for you to 
 become a Mortal Kombatant you mostly need to balance your offense and defense, as well as varying 
 them. (Attack or parry low, middle or high in a mixed way [in case your reflexes cant keep up 
 with the speed of some fighters. Lets face it, if you want to make a move when you actually see 
 some blows coming, well, some characters will simply eat you alive -- Christie is one of them.] )
 
  The online is simply a paradise! Youre able to avoid any kind of players, those who are too strong 
 and only want to play you in order to get to the next grade level, as well as those who keep you 
 from evolving your skills for sucking so much. There as modes like the Tournament of the Iron 
 Fist -- Tekken, Survival, Team Battle, Kumite, Loser Stays, and the conventional Winner Stays. You 
 get to set all kind of options like the Match Point of Solo and Tag, Life Gauge, Language, the 
 range of the skill of players that are allowed to join your session, the name of your session, 
 the numbers of players 2-16, etc. If you like the game, you can either like the online mode or 
 LOVE IT!!! 
  
  Tilt: My favorite game will always be Street Fighter. However right now Im enjoying DOA 4 more 
 than any other fighting game out there, including Soul Calibur. Itagi is really showing some love 
 for the Xbox 360. I rather live in the moment that in the future. Of course I hope that the sequels 
 of the big boys will be better than DOA 4 (the more competition the better, right!?) ; namely Tekken 
 6, Virtua Fighter 5, Mortal Kombat (next-gen) [6!?] , and Street Fighter 4 or EX 4. Im a fighting 
 game enthusiast, SC and SF are still in my heart, however, I cant help it that DOA 4 is surely 
 assuring a place in it too.
  
  Notes: +, -, ?, !, ask Tecmo
  +++Graphics, gameplay, and interface
  ++Scenarios are the best, even tough they arent as groundbreaking 
 as they used to be.
  +Online lobbies: humoristic and interesting even though you cant enjoy your avatar while youre 
 waiting for your turn. 
  ----Few bugs here and there
  --The poor told characters stories still a little bit their own charisma.
  -Sound, I just want 
 moreDo why have to switch to T-Mobile??? :p
  ? Why wouldnt a fighting game have the Easy difficulty setting?
  ! They are few people that 
 take the title of the game literarily. Please dont! The drama of the storyline is a Dead or Alive 
 situation/ chaos; that doesnt mean that some characters have to die. I surely wouldnt be happy 
 to see Jann Lee a zombie. Im already disgusted enough with Liu Kang in MK Deception.
  
  Ask Tecmo: more costumes via Xbox-Live and more Tag Stages. More plot please! Im tired of this 
 unfinished puzzle of short scenes that do say something, just not quite saying it. If-you-know-what-I-mean.
 
  
  There you go! Buy this game ASAP. You wont find in a while a true brawler for the Xbox 360 that 
 can substitute DOA 4. This is actually the reason why I rushed in January to buy the console. Before 
 this game came out, I was just like, Where is my beatem up in the first place?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeoj7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best fighting games i've ever played next to sc3. Why give it a 8.6 you 
 ask? #1 ITS TOO DAMN HARD!!!! Everybody knows that who has this game. #2 Would've Aced my rating 
 if they put in english voices for anybody who is illitterate. #3 Random. Some of the story modes 
 are so RANDOM like Bass's story mode. He just wants his daughter not to be a rock star. RANDOM!! 
 Nothing to do with the Alpha. #4 Repetative. It would've been alot better if they put like finishing 
 moves in there. Well there you have it Tecmo and Team Ninja. Do your homework for DOA5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game offers your standard Xbox 360 fighting controls. The game has a pretty good storyline 
 but tends to get repetitive even though they try to make the storylines for the different characters 
 different. The game moves well and seems to have many aspects that make a great fighting game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The game is graphically stunning. The detail in the player models is amazing and the only downfall 
 is some of the character's hair seems to sometimes be more like dreadlocks than individual hairs. 
 The creators put a lot of work into the women's breasts, and every player will notice that the 
 creators gave them huge breasts, that bounce often during the game. Looks nice, but really isn't 
 needed. 
  
  Sound:
  The game features some good music, and some interesting sound bites in japanese for the different 
 charcters. There are really no problems here
  
  Value:
  The game has very good value because of Xbox Live support and the many acheievements that the game 
 has that have to do with the multiplayer. The game really doesn't get tedious, but it does get 
 frustrating when there is a lag and also when it is the winner stays kind of tournament, which 
 can leave the player not playing a match for a very long time. 
  
  Pros:
  Great fighting
  Great multiplayer
  Graphically stunning
  
  Cons:
  Lag
  Long wait times
 
  Frustrating gameplay, especially the bosses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headhunter01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Excellent game, definitely worth buying if you like fighting games at all. Lots of unlockable costumes 
 and different play modes. I have a little trouble with lag while playing online but when it's working 
 smoothly it's tons of fun. I also like the online lobby system. The number of fighters is good 
 although the Spartan character and Halo level are goofy in my opinion. The character models are 
 impressively detailed but the backgrounds are not all that amazing. Even when I finally got my 
 HDTV the arenas still didn't impress me that much but hey.... it's a fighting game so to me it's 
 not that big of a deal. One cool thing about the arenas is that they consist of multiple levels/rooms. 
 You can go smashing through a wall, falling down stairs, etc. and end up in a new area of the stage. 
 I think the learning curve is less than 30 minutes only because everyone knows the basics of fighting 
 games. However, you cannot be competetive online just mashing buttons as fast as you can. You might 
 be able to beat the cpu on easy with this "strategy" but you won't get anywhere against another 
 person unless they are doing the same thing or you just get lucky. Also, it takes a while to be 
 able to do the counters consistently and effectively. Part of this is just playing long enough 
 to learn other characters' combos and to anticipate what type of attack will come next. But when 
 you can pull them off it is oh-so-satisfying.
  In summary, this is a great fighting game with good graphics that is a lot of fun online but has 
 enough modes to stay interisting offline also. In my opinion, it was worth the money spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a really good game. I think this game is going to be the best fighting game of the 
 year because it is verry good. It has the best fighter on the game. They added some other characters 
 from other games, and it is very cool. For exampla Master Chief, Master Chief is in the game halo 
 2 and he is a fantastic shooter. He has never been on a fighting game before andd he is really 
 awesome at fighting. Another good player is Ninja Gaiden. He is a verry great fighter on the game. 
 He is the favorite fighter of all the people. Also on the gameplay and the graphics were a verry 
 good job. Hope part 5 comes out!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8tball99nyr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Kicks ass. All i got to say. Gfx could be better on players. But the back rounds are amazing. The 
 gameplay is highly addictive. I play online all the time and when my friends come over we have 
 out litte tournys. Doa Ult. If you ever play had a alot more customs tho :- (. But this one has 
 more charchters :-) . Also doa ult. has more courses for tag battles. This one disapointly only 
 has three. The story is kinda repetive but the ending once u beat it with all charchters makes 
 all the sense. Although the story is kinda lame, its not what you would by this game for anywaz. 
 Other fighting games dont have the speed and style of doa. The countering system is so awsome, 
 which makes it different from other fighting games. IF you have a friend who knows just one cheep 
 move, then you can just learn how to counter it and you will be able to stop him. It is because 
 of this system that I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin_xbx360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I was reading a few of the other revews and decided I should write a my own for this title,
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is a great game but first of all i would like to talk about the difficulty 
 of this game. Personally this is not that hard of a game for me but to the average gamer who doesn't 
 play games often you may find it a bit harder. But please, please, don't judge this game because 
 it "may" be too hard practice its fairly easy to learn the combos and get the timing right for 
 the counters you should have no problem at all. There are many ppl that are intimidated by difficult 
 games but i promise if you practice and are somewhat decent at video games then you will have no 
 problems after a couple of hours getting used to it.
  
  Now for the actual gameplay.
  
  Lightning fast upgrade in gameplay from the last 3 DOA's. (Great for me practice time for others, 
 no offense) Hundreds of different combos great countering mechanic what more could you ask for 
 well i cant think of anything else.
  
  Final Word:
  
  Buy or Try this game its not a game that needs to be missed if you are a doa or even just a fighting 
 genre fan you will be right at home, for others the beautiful graphics and amazing gameplay and 
 dont forget the online modes
  could possibly bring some average gamers into the world of hardcore gaming.
  
  P. S. the difficulty 
 i shown is personally what i saw it may be harder for some or i doubt easier for others
  Don't listen to the biased reviews listen to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Castorz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  One must always be reminded how gorgeous college chicks and ninja mobs strive to take on capitalism 
 in its crudest form, still incarnated by the DOATEC conglomerate in the present instalment, the 
 latest up-bringing in Itakagi s mostly acclaimed franchise pits you up against a French opera 
 singer named Helena whose objective is not only to annihilate all opposition but to also make sure 
 her hair-do remains stylishly tied up with a ribbon, which oddly enough won t let loose or be 
 carried away by a well-placed hit unlike Texas cowgirl Tina Armstrong s hat or even her father 
 Bass s glasses. Another graphical inconsistency, much less forgiveable this time around, is how 
 power moves will produce a cloud of brown dust no matter where you stand, and that can feel really 
 out of place in certain arenas.
  
  Since most instances in brawling games prevent the storytelling from being a focal point (meaning 
 you have to play over and over again in story mode, or time attack to begin unlocking cool outfits 
 and new characters) ; I d rather suggest frying the competition online through matches and tournaments 
 to start racking up Zack points in the process, which then lets you redeem those for custom avatars, 
 extra costumes (turns out not everyone has the same number, it can vary from 8 to as low as 3, 
 which places the double pack above DOA 4 in this regards, and becomes quite a let-down upon discovering 
 that your fave fighter has kind of an empty closet) or even themes that serve as the game s lobby 
 mode on Xbox Live. Winning is of course the only right way to maximize your earnings or reach a 
 reputable rank which then shows up alongside your gamertag and provenance.
  
  Survival is done very well, takes place in a wrestling ring and the goal is still to pick up funky 
 items like gem collars and donuts, or even an X360 or original Xbox consoles that will be dropped 
 once in a while and' ll boost your total score pretty high; even if you haven' t reached a significant 
 amount of defeated opponents overall. Specific taunts are available at this stage for the luchadora 
 in the game (comparisons to rassling end there, besides grapples and throws, there' s no way of 
 tapping it out, or surrender to what could be the sweetest pin ever for the one under) also, take 
 too much time to get rid of your challenger and the A. I.' s difficulty will increase.
  
  Some of yall will need to ventilate your space properly, as the world-renowned jiggly bouncers 
 are back and they' re ain' t mediums, also count in the simple, more refined but still intuitive 
 counter system; often will you make the camera switch perspective by pulling it off by reflex, 
 that could certainly start making people online fed up with your skills, alongside your ex-to-be 
 (come on, we all know girls are really into DOA) so don t worry about practicing because it will 
 soon become like a second nature to you. 
  
  The truth is, any average Joe can be good at DOA 4, the landing sequences (although twin battles 
 will undoubtedly require you to know combinations by heart, if you want to come out victorious) 
 can be easily pulled off by button mashing but the sickest struggles will involve checking and 
 learning the list commands; using them properly will allow you and you opponent to really get into 
 furious arguments where one might be jumping over a dead tree or barrier only to be denied by a 
 quick reversal, the best thing about it is that you can record your most impressive feats, capture 
 screenshots using a clunky polaroid-like cam (often resulting in blurried-out pictures) and then 
 show off to your friends; but without the addition of online sharing. 
  
  
  Don t expect much of the scenery to collapse following an overpowering blow or anything like that, 
 the interactivity in levels is brought upon by extensive secondary areas that can be found only 
 in certain levels (others confine you with fences or laser beams) or by boxes of apples that look 
 like juggling balls being knocked off, doors being shattered, cars, cheetahs and raptors (?) acting 
 as moving hazards etc. Next-gen isn t too far fetched from what we were used to play in DOA Ultimate; 
 I ll tell you straight up that major improvements are lacking but the simple fact that ancient 
 fighters in the series have been resurrected for the sake of putting them in an Live-enabled version 
 of the game should be good enough to warrant a purchase. I was also somewhat disappointed that 
 you couldn t switch your GT for another online nick, like that was the case in DOAU.
  
  Good luck getting all 1000 points in accomplishments, you will need a steady record and fast thumbs, 
 but it can be done, as long as you can find someone that suits your style and hold on to it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame_of_Nova
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Its fast, beautiful and the characters are loveable. This game has it all; anything a fighting 
 game fan has been looking for is here. The online play is amazingly fun with that added visual 
 lobby system with text and voice chat. Its the only online killer app game on the 360 at the moment. 
 Everyday when I put it in I just want to keep playing and playing because youre always going to 
 find a fight with really good players. Sadly I dont think this game is very good for a person 
 that just wants to go online and win. Youre going to have to put some hard work into learning 
 whatever character you like the most. This game wasnt made for noob fps players (Theres a lot 
 of them on here that believe that they should win all the time) it doesnt work like that. Its 
 a very rewarding game once you learn a character and really know what youre doing and once that 
 update comes out its going to be even better. I already thought the game was balanced but they 
 are going to fix a few things with it that should make it a little harder for Noob Hayate and Hayabusa 
 players to own so damn bad.
  
  In short this is the best damn DOA game ever, and one of the best fighting games ever made. Thank 
 Team Ninja! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IaMnOtHeRe89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  This new installment in the Dead or Alive series has arrived. The gameplay has been tweaked and 
 changed to make it more strategic. The time for countering moves has been cut in half (seems like 
 it's even more) and each character has been modified to make them unique. With the Xbox 360 having 
 more (power I'd like to say) some characters have 120+ moves. The A. I. in this game has also been 
 changed compared to the previous games. The A. I. is sometimes a practice dummy, a challenge, and 
 then it seems it's programmed to just kill you nonstop. Even with all of this the game is still 
 fun to play. Fighting the boss Alpha-152 so many times was annoying and irritating, but has to 
 be done. 
  
  Online is the best part with this game. You can watch others play and see who's good, and who's... a 
 giant stepping stone. There is some lag now and then, but usually when you are playing it is a 
 lot faster than when you watch a match. The ranking system goes from F (secret achievement) to 
 SS (achievement) . So when playing online you can host matches and set the levels that can join 
 your lobby. This way, you can have fun playing online and not get pissed about getting your butt 
 kicked and for people online to see. I recommend play a few games with people who joke around and 
 have a good time playing you. And if you play people who spam moves and talk trash, report them 
 and go on your friends list and avoid them. It's also fine to avoid players that are really good, 
 but do not report anything negative about them, it's not their fault they beat you badly. For Dead 
 or Alive 4, playing online is essential to get the full experience. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Hands down, this game has one of the best graphics on Xbox 360 for an early title. The levels 
 all have fine details and beautiful lighting effects. The hair and clothing physics are better 
 than before. Very few times you see the rendering get jagged, but that's usually only when the 
 clothing or hair is bending in an unusual angle as the body moves. But the wind effects the clothing 
 and hair even when the character is in their victory pose (and their eyes keep on blinking) . The 
 endings are all CG and really well done. The graphics are one of DOA4's best strong points.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound is well done. The music for each level fits the part. The character 
 voices are practically the same (Japanese) except the Spartan who's voice is in English. And like 
 DOA Ultimate, Itagaki uses an Aerosmith song for the ending video. You can like it or hate it, 
 but it definitely makes the mood for the video.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  This game is definitely a must have for DOA gamers. Anyone who hasn't played the game before, should 
 rent to see if you would like this title. If you have played the earlier versions, and like the 
 old gameplay, this is either a hit or miss with you. But if you would take the time, and practice 
 on the game, you would probably really get into it. This is a game that is a reason to get Xbox 
 Live for fighter gamers.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10/10
  
  I love this game. The controller's sensitivity is just right compared to the earlier versions. 
 There are a lot of achievements in this game, and I'm still trying to get them. It's a fun game, 
 sure the A. I. might just be kicking my butt repeatedly, but I get practice on countering for when 
 I go online. All in all this is a great game.
  
  Note: For help and strategies, go and check out DOACentral. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrarmagedon
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically just a small expansion to DOA: U, with really the only new things being some 
 new characters and a very cranked up difficulty level. Sure some fans of fighting games might find 
 this fun and challenging, but the average gamer will spend most of his time throwing the controller 
 to the ground. The only way to really be good at this game is to learn the combo system. Which 
 requires literally split second reactions and the right combination of buttons. (9.9% your opponent 
 will kick your ass. 
  
  The modes of the game.
  Single player- Single player is pretty much worthless in this game unless you looking to unlock 
 new costumes, which most of them are either school girl outfits or just simply reskins of other 
 costumes. You might also want to see the character endings. But if your not a DOA fan most of the 
 endings will just seem immature and a waste of time. I personally felt that most of the endings 
 where directed at horney 13 year olds, but that's just me.
  
  Time attack- By far the hardest part of the game. Beginners will probably take at least 15-50 minutes 
 beating this mode. Due to the extremely unfair last boss battle.
  
  Survival- This is surprisingly fun, but in the end with lack of unlocks or anything at all it is 
 really just a time killer.
  
  VS.-The strong part of the game. Since it is the only part where you actually have a chance taking 
 on another player who doesn't know the combo system.
  
  Multiplayer- Harder than single player since all the fanboys just slaughter you. Master single 
 player before even trying this one.
  
  Overall this a very unfinished game. The best use for it was trading it in for fight night which 
 is a lot more fun and in dept. DOA is no where near the next gen point either. The only thing that's 
 better graphically is the back ground. But it still as little difference from other games in the 
 series. The game play is also identical to the last installments of the sereis but only a lot harder. 
 This game was simply just fell victim to the lack of development. Hopefully the next Doa will actually 
 be a worthy next gen game. Til then I probably will stay away from the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNumonerian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I dunno what some people are saying about that this game is a let down because it's an absolute 
 great fighting game!!
  
  Ive read in some of peoples reviews that DOA 4 is frustrating, a let down, "all flash no substance" 
 etc. I think they are totally wrong. First of all it's a fighting game. It gets frustrating at 
 times I know, but you can't just base a whole review about a game because at one point you lost 
 because the computer chose a better fighting pattern than you did! Besides you chose to buy or 
 rent a fighting game so you asked for it! There are plenty of ways of beating the living daylights 
 out of the other person!!!
  
  Anyway, aside from all the complaining and bickering, nattering etc. DOA 4 in short is the best 
 fighting game going right now. The graphics first of all are mind blowing! The texture, lighting, 
 clothing everything was done just so well! The fighting styles of all the characters were just 
 awsome, especially in tag team fights. I'd almost laugh at my character who just got his a** kicked 
 by a spinning twirling ninja and then have another ninja spring out of nowhere and nail me straight 
 into the wall! The way the entire game was put together really impressed me and I had a lot of 
 fun playing it.
  
  Now, the only downside of the game that I can think of is certain parts of the stories, and the 
 dialogue. For example, having to kick some guys a** just because he slung num-chucks just as well 
 as I could is not a very deep way of starting a fight, but you have to admit it is funny... lol 
 The dialogue, well, certain things are fine, but saying "I am death, I shred your soul to ribbons" 
 would just wanna make me burst out and start laughing rather than get angry and beat the crap out 
 of you...
  
  In the end though, DOA 4 is a really great fighting game if you are into the fighting genre (gotta 
 love those skimpy dressed chicks that are American but talk Chinese all the time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmacyao111
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is an all right game when it comes to fighting games but this game is extremly 
 overrated. The fighting games today have absolutely no substance as they did once before. Tekken 
 is still the best 3-D fighting series to date and Dead or Alive doesn't come close well I shouldn't 
 say that it does come pretty close but Virtua Fighter is still playing second fiddle to Tekken. 
 Dead or Alive is all flash no substance. Sure it has glossy graphics but it just goes to show you 
 Dead or Alive 3 on the xbox was crazy good looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomedtakedown
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This Game is amazing. This Game is Next-Gen.
  
  First thing is the Goods: You Get 4 New Charcters. Pretty Cool. More Destructable Enviorments and 
 Using it for example. When you play as Jann Lee he can grab the enemy and sit while sliding down 
 the stairs grabbing the enemys head a clobbering its face on the stairs. One word for that AWESOME. Graphics 
 A+ Stuff. And Also there is tons of unlockables (including achevements and gamerpoints) that your 
 hooked to the screen.
  
  Bads: There is not much that is bad it's just sometimes it gets difficult.
  
  Overall: This Game 
 is Amazing. I Give it a 10 Out OF 10.
  
  Forgot to say this game has tons of replay value. 
  
  DOA4 is NEXT-GEN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  first let me say, i will give any game a fair chance, reviews usually dont mean much to me when 
 buying a game, everybody is different. i just recently bought my 360 and there are no titles as 
 of yet, maybe 10. but one of the games ive purchased was this..... graphics arent much of a step 
 from the original xbox. i played doa 3 at a friends and figured this one had to be good because 
 it was part of microsofts starting line up, wrong! let me explain....
  
  i started my first match, the computer hit me once and before i could recover, started a combo 
 that didnt end until 3/4 of my power was gone. i dont mind losing dont get me wrong but i mean 
 cmon! they expect you to already be a master, i just figured i needed to play and get better. well 
 thats not the case at all.... the computer will be in the middle of a move and counter your attacks 
 like they were standing still. the unlockable characters are few, the graphics arent up to par, 
 the story mode makes no sense, there is no english , controls are relatively sloppy.
  
  doa is a miss for me, and thats sad because it had such great potential, if youre a big fan of 
 the series check it out, if youre new to the series rent it or borrow it from somebody else first. 
 this is just my opinion, and you may love it but from my take on the game it wasnt worth the $60 
 i spent.... sad but true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samwise911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  I went and bought this game a few weeks ago, and i didnt stop playing it until 3 days later. i had 
 about 4 hours sleep. it is the most gorgeous game ive ever seen! i was literally drooling at the 
 visuals. You step into the single player game and youve got a variety of characters to choose from, 
 you play through them all to unlock new characters, like the very much talked about spartan-458. 
 personally, when i unlocked her, i was quite disappointed, i preferred the halo level that was 
 given to me.
  there are 7 characters to unlock, most of them you have seen before, but one or two are new faces.
 
  with the default characters, there are about 2 or 3 new additions. they are all very good characters 
 to use.
  The control system works like any other beat em up, one button punch, the other kick, the other 
 block, etc. it works a dream. and tecmo/team ninja have done an excellent job on the countering 
 system. you dont need to know every move to be decent at it. perhaps, if your a Japanese kid with 
 no life and has the ambition to be the best online, then go ahead. but it isnt needed.
  I recommend this game to everyone. even if your not a fan of beat em ups, i say give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustThinkAiden
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  the game is very good it has amazing grapics and its got 2 player online plus youre aloud a spartan 
 on it. youre aloud to play with the old charters, thats good because i liked the old games and 
 all the charters, so i want to play with them. Its good how they put 2 player on it because now 
 me and my brother will able to kick everynoes ass on it so you might want to watch out for justthinkaiden 
 or me and my brother or we will, WE WILL kick youre ass. I think its great how they put a spartan 
 on because everyone plays halo so they even might buy the game for that or they might play with 
 the spartan all the time i know i will, they shouldnt have put the spartan as a girl it just ruining 
 it because the spartan is a man, i just think it should be a man because its got that mans uniform 
 on so make it a MAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  After becoming thoroughly frustrated with Tekken 5, DOA4 is a huge breath of fresh air.... I mean, 
 the game had too much problems like the overexcessive use of juggling, and a HUGE lack of enemy 
 A. I. (I'm sorry, but blocking isn't A. I.)
  
  So when I picked up the controller for the first time, and started playing, already, I got into 
 the game quick. DOA is really easy to get into, you can learn the combos really easy, and there's 
 a good line of characters, each with good moves. In particular, the spartan, ryu, and hayate were 
 the best characters to use in Tag Battles.
  
  So I'd get my ass kicked by the computer now and then, BIG DEAL. It didn't frustrate me, not one 
 bit. I'm just glad that my hits actually do damage, and that the enemy doesn't just stand there 
 and block... like in some fighting games...
  
  However, the fun really starts when you're in a good tag battle with other people in the multiplayer 
 modes. The combat is nice and quick, the way fighting games should be.
  
  The graphics are top-notch, and I thought DOA: U looked good, this game one-ups Ultimate, and Namco's 
 Tekken 5. Everything just looks spectacular. My only complaint is that there's a lack of visual 
 damage to characters... like Bruises, and Cuts, but hey, thats what sequals are for.
  
  The sound is easily what you'd expect from fighting games. And with the 360's new dashboard feature, 
 you can easily port music from your PC and play it while fighting... its a small, but nonetheless 
 neat feature.
  
  So while DOA4 isn't perfect, its a sure-fire game that should be in your 360 if you haven't already 
 bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  First off this Dead or Alive like the others is a good fighting game. Kinda weird to master moves 
 due to each moves extreme simularity to the other moves. Now this game delivers all the fighting 
 game and graphics expected for an xbox doa. However this is 360... maybe something more than a SLIGHT 
 improvement in graphics would be needed here. The costume selection is miserable especially when 
 you bought the Ultimate for xbox and that had up to like 20 costumes for some characters. This 
 game really lacks content in that way. The online mode is filled with laggers and whatever else 
 plus you can hold control of your room unless your winning the fights which allows anybody to mutilate 
 your room with theyre own options. Basically you have played this game before.... they just shined 
 it up a lil for the 360... however once again thats not to say its not a good game just a rip off 
 at this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparda012
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is very cool you can be all kinds of awesome people. The best person in the game is the 
 spartan. It is a great game it is a wonderful just to play every daY IT NEVER GETS BOARING. I f 
 you want to get tengu to make it easier go into options and switch it to 1 fight per round. The 
 only thing that gets me pissed off in the game is Alpha-152. She is so hard to beat. Overal this 
 game is one of the best games i've played for the xbox 360. I sugget this game to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  the game has alot to hold but it only holds u for a while and then you will just want to turn off 
 the game and do something else....... but the multiplayer is fun but if u are alone and all u have 
 too fight is the cpu then it not that great to begin with.... if y have never played dead or alive 
 before then i suggest for u to get DOA3 for the original xbox other then 4 for xbox
  360 but well it plays very well the character grafics egt sometime really chessy when the fighting 
 goes really wild but for the most part if u are a fan then u should rent it not buy it cuz u will 
 get bored after a while... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ij2band
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Calling it a train wreck is the best description I can think of... the graphics are phenominal, 
 and it's fun to just watch. Sort of like driving by a car accident, we all look, but we're greatful 
 we're not actually IN the accident, except in this case, it 's not an accident, it's 60 dollars 
 I'll never get back.
  
  It's ALOT less fun to play. The 'special moves' are anything but... the recovery time for a character 
 from getting hit is so ridiculously long, that your opponent can manage to get in enough blows 
 to about do you in after one good hit.
  
  Considering the fact that I payed for a game that was coded for North America, I find the TOTAL 
 lack of English being spoken ( even by the supposed "American" and "British" characters ) to be 
 annoying. Would it have killed anyone to hire an actor or two do do a voiceover? Not to mention 
 the extreme stereotyping done with the characters... as Americans you've got 2 wrestlers ( both 
 blond, a male biker, and his daughter, the blond bimbo ) , and a DJ. No real story lines behind 
 each.
  
  If you're going to spend 59.99 on a game, Call of Duty 2 is the best available and actually worth 
 it. Quake 4 and Need for Speed Most Wanted are both good, and you won't regret the expenditure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buschschwick
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Fan of the DOA series? Then buy it. Looking for another game to play for your xbox and thought 
 about picking this one up? Don't. Unless you like these horribly frustrating type of games where 
 they kick your...... all day long, then go for it. For a person like me, just wondering into the 
 fighting genre, there is no easy way to learn. They throw you in to get devoured. The actual game 
 specs though, rock of course. But be careful when buying this game... you may regret it, like me. 
 If you want to beat some people up maybe look into Condemned, with easier hand to hand combat mixed 
 with other weapons... I almost think that i would have been happier playing Kameo (another game 
 that is generally out of my genre) . Good luck with this game, and please have pity on the controller. 
 its not ITS fault this game blows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Team Ninja is out with another great fighting game... Dead or Alive 4 packs all the aspects to keep 
 you playing... well except combos are very cheap/good. In the sense that this game is flowing and 
 transitions, my only complaint is the obsessive combos, maybe that is a beginners standpoint... but 
 in a way it can steal from the public's likeness of the game. By combinations, I mean the situations 
 within in the game where getting a punch on the computer is almost impossible. Aside from the sometimes 
 combo annoyance, Dead or Alive 4 is a pure and great fighting game. Back with some of the orginial 
 cast and still kickin'. The online mode recieves a plus as do the time attacks and other various 
 game modes. Thumbs up Team Ninja on a crisp next generation launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthecritic
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Im a big fan of beat em up games mortal kombat street fighter tekken bloody roar etc etc.. but 
 this is the first time ive played a dead or alive game. I was told the game was great by a mate 
 and the review it got on this site. I turned it on to be happy with the perchase the visuals were 
 spot on. Then something bad happened i started playing it. Playing against the computer is the 
 stupidest thing to do on this game they hit you once and then for the next few moves they do on 
 you your character can't move... pathetic. the british and americans dont speak english (WHY!!!!) 
 was there a point of not having them speak properly? 10 mins after playing the game the music is 
 annoying saying that its helped by the game play irritating me. 2 player mode is a good laugh but 
 still its no mortal kombat. The controls are annoying cant a shoulder button be grab and have the 
 standard kick punch buttons as XYAB. Arghh In conclusion just writing about this game is annoying 
 me but in all fairness if you enjoy fighting games (like i do) try it out round a mates or rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABCD-DEMON
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is ok but for it to come out so soon is bad they could have took there time and make 
 it and much better game i did not buy instead i played the one my friend got and there was a downside 
 when playing online i dont know if it was his 360 or something else because when we played online 
 it would lag very bad and i could say if it didnt lag my friend would had won all of his games 
 he played but i did pretty good online but ya other then that well also it mostly a button masher 
 to me and i dont think they should have gane that way they should haved made it more better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is a all around great game. If I would have known how great this game was i would have 
 picked it up when i got my games for the 360. Instead I picked up PDZ0 and PGR3... oh well.. 
 
  
  Anyways, back to the game rating :)
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - Their alright, not the best, but deff. Next-Gen.
  
  Gameplay - the play of 
 the game gets a little tedious sometimes... you know what i mean, when you can't beat a person.... 
 9/10.
  
  Sound - The voice overs and everything are just amazingly done. 10/10.
  
  That's about all for this game.. but all i have to say as a closer, is if you want a good game 
 rather than a FPS deff. pick this up :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Very dissapointing same game play, nanno meter increase in graphics (even on my 57in. HDTV ) and 
 the maps are just ok. Now don't get me wrong it is still a good game, but the lazyness by Tecmo 
 and Team Ninja is just unacceptable. Same moves on every carachter, let me repeat SAME MOOOOOOOOOVES, 
 I mean come on man it is comical how easy this game is ( the days of skill I fear is behinde us 
 R. I. P Killer Instinct, Tekken, Soul Caliber) even when you know every move in the game all you 
 have to do is counter, now they did make it a little less easy to counter but still way to easy 
 to do it. So if you forked over the cash for the 360 then I'm sorry to say it is almost a must 
 buy right now for multiplayer and online play, because of the lack of quality multiplayer games 
 on the 360, COD2, Quake, both good but both better on the PC with all settings maxed (I don't know 
 why you would want to play an FPS on a console anyway) , if you don't have a good PC then yeah ok, 
 but PGR 3 and others are not the best online anyway. So if you like fighting games and play with 
 friends or online then pick it up but I'm affraid the next-gen price is not warrented if you ask 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was promised at release date and they didnt make it. Still i am glad I this one out. 
 At its core this game is a arcade fighter with some hot chicks in skimpy outfits, aka a mans dream. 
 The previous ones were not bad but there was no online play. Thanks god they put it in with this 
 one. There is not much lag but sometimes it will go inot slow motion. There are some new fighters 
 including a special someone from Bungie. Yes the big Master Chief himself or in this game for some 
 reason he has a voice of a girl but that doesnt matter. Also is Ryu from Ninja Gaiden. All have 
 special moves. The one thing is that in some games the designers made the boss basically invincable. 
 That problmen has occured in this game. The boss can take 70% of your help away with one hit. Alos 
 the thing can teleport in the middle of a combo. This has great graphics and the enviroment is 
 improved and they incourage you to use it to your advantige. If you a hardcore fan try this one 
 out for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire3333
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Was I the only one waiting for a little more then slightly better graphics and a new photo taking 
 mode? Or was it just me? The hype for this game was so huge that I looked forward to it ore so 
 then Halo 2..... so what the hell happened? Here's what you get in the box... around three new characters... HARD 
 opponents in any difficulty (rendering single player campaigns tear inducing swear fests that should 
 never be witnessed in a so-called "next-gen" game. Hmmm.... what else? All the old modes plus like 
 two new ones. Honestly, who takes pictures of videogame characters? What, do they show there "friends" 
 the pictures when they come over? Its so stupid. The graphics are nice but, wow.... theres $75 I'm 
 NEVER getting back.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Budbrowny
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst game on the 360. I have no idea where gamespot got their rating from but it's 
 completely wrong. 
  
  Are fighting games supposed to be this insanely frustrating? Probably not because Soul Calibur 
 1-3 and any mortal combat's aren't. The fact is, the computer is so insanely cheap that it's impossible 
 to find any fun on single player.
  
  The only mild amount of fun this game produces is in its online play but even there it's sketchy 
 because of frequent lag and arrogant people. Basically if you win online your opponent will give 
 you a bad rating, if you lose you have to deal with relentless trash talk. 
  
  Another problem I have is just how Japanesse it is. I dont mean to sound racist but DAM this is 
 supposed to be the North American version. I want some voice acting in english and no annoying 
 asian noises when fighting (whaaaaa's and huuuu's and kuuuuuu) . I also dont want to see character's 
 who origonate from Germany for instanse named Horiku (or whatever it is) . The German char should 
 speak german the UK fighter should have an english accent and everyone else is alright i guess.
 
  
  The visual's are stunning. I love every visual moment of this game and would have loved to give 
 it a 10 instead of 9 but gooood god they effed up again. They must have spent days studying and 
 developing the motion's they created in the **** of these girls. Don't call me a homo for not liking 
 this because if you play the game to watch **** jiggle, you're as sad as that poor little japanesse 
 animator who spent a week developing and masterbating to the creation of these giant jiggleing 
 video game ****.
  
  The controls suck.
  
  Basically the whole game sucks actually.
  
  If you like to be frustrated and angry or are super horney I'd definatly recommend this game 
 and a friggin psychologist, cuz u gotta be insane to enjoy this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is an easy game to recommend to anyone, but that doesn't make it an easy game. 
 In typical Team Ninja style, this game is as difficult as fighters come, with a sharp AI who utilise 
 all of the moves available to them.
  
  However, you of course have a similarly sized arsenal of punches, kicks, combos and throws to use 
 against the computer. In this respect, DOA4 is one of the more complex of recent fighting games, 
 with most fighters having about 80 - 90 moves. This gives the game some real lasting value, there's 
 always something new to learn, and makes the game a more enjoyable experience.
  There are times, however, when your command list is just not enough. Team Ninja have made the AI 
 so difficult, that you'll be throwing your controller out of the window after the first 40 mins. 
 This fixes itself though, with you learning the ropes, and figure out techniques to thwart your 
 opponents.
  That still doesn't account for Alpha-152, the uber-difficult last boss of the game. The difficulty 
 on this fight is so ridiculous, unless you're an absolute master and can reverse every single punch/kick, 
 it descends into mere button bashing, and plain luck.
  
  The defensive system in the game is a fresh addition to the classic beat-em-up style system. When 
 you first play, you'll go by the "the best defense is all out offense" rule, but you'll learn that 
 it only gets you so far. You'll then have to block, parry, and even catch and reverse your enemy's 
 blows. While this is a new idea, it's a bit strange, and takes a lot of practice and/or luck to 
 get right.
  
  The single player modes are averagely lengthened, with story mode, survival mode and time trial 
 modes. In story mode, the story isn't very good at all, and feels a bit incomplete, like an excuse 
 to put you in brutal hand to hand combat all over the world.
  Survival is fast-paced and easier then story mode, but then you have to survive as well, so it's 
 about as rewarding/frustrating.
  Then time-trial mode is something to do once you're convinced you're the best. It's just so difficult 
 to score 2 rounds against the later opponents, you'll be trading it in when you don't really want 
 to.
  
  Online modes are strange, but fun. With a wacky host of "avatars" and lobbies, you can create your 
 own unique style. The lag is to much to bear sometimes though, with framerates dropping to 0.5frames 
 per second in watch mode. However, when your turn finally comes you don't notice the lag, and it's 
 rewarding to be the winner in "Winner stays on" mode.
  
  The presentation in the game could be better, with dull menus, however it looks tidy. The textures 
 look amazing, with great detail and are relatively solid and stable. The player models look convincing, 
 but the faces are completely wrong on some of the female characters, with a strange mix of western 
 and eastern looks. The cutscenes are just amazing, with superb special effects and use of lighting.
 
  
  All in all, a challenging experience, but a rewarding one at that, with fresh ideas and long lasting 
 online modes, this is a title worth checking out for beat-em-up fans, or for anyone looking for 
 a title to tide them over until the second wave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runcollie
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is the best fighting game I ever played. Well the last fighting game I played was street fighter 
 in 95 bit its really damn good!!! dum ass zedron33 the game ain't that hard I mean that was the 
 first time I played A 3D fighter. When I first started to play It i suked but thats why they created 
 sparing zekron33. You reading this just give like 30 miniutes to sparring and trian with one charecter. 
 Ya hear zekron33 its called sparring!!! But If you like fighting games this game is number 1 yay 
 yay!!! Im from hawaii so the games we get aren't much so If you go get a game here you get it fast. 
 Well I have to go. In hawaii instead of saying peace or somthing like that we say keden so keden 
 people. oh ya If you have xbox live for 360 my gamertag is ;the budda; I put those things there 
 so you thats my gamertag alright so keden!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetotheizzle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is a beautiful looking sequel to the disappointing third installment to the series. 
 But let's not stop here, because buying this game just because its got flash is like crossing the 
 street without looking both ways, with less dangerous potential consequences. The graphics may 
 be nice, but as we can see with DOA3, that doesn't get you very far.
  Being somewhat new to this genre, I have not played classics like Soul Calibur, Tekken 3, or Virtua 
 Fighter 4. Having said this, I don't feel like I am missing out if I have a game like Dead or Alive 
 4 to play in its place.
  
  Dead or Alive has many unlockable features and characters, making the replay value of the game 
 tremendous. It has 3 single player game modes and 2 multiplayer, along with a sparring mode. There 
 are over 60 costumes to unlock from completing the story and/or time-attack modes with each character. 
 By the way, the 1000 achievement points that this game holds don't come easy. It will take you 
 quite a long time, and maybe even a few bottles of visine before you reach that lengthy goal.
 
  
  Okay, its got nice visuals, and leaving it in my 360 is not going to be an uncommon feat. But what 
 about the gameplay you ask? Well, consider this, my skeptical reader. Each character has an average 
 of about 70 or 80 moves in their movelist, and the animations and strengths for each of every character's 
 hold moves are unique. The AI gets increasingly difficult as you advance through the story mode. 
 If you don't feel this way though, you can adjust the settings accordingly.
  
  P. S.
  Me and ESRB have a word of warning to all those who are buying this game solely for the online 
 play: Game experience may change during online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the same tired rehashing of fighting game conventions that have flooded the 
 market for the past couple of years. Sure it looks nice, and some of the game's cinemas are flat 
 amazing, but the core action of the game and all of its modes simply feels average. Couple this 
 with A. I. that varies almost randomly from insanely difficult to pushover on the normal setting 
 and the result is a game that won't see much playing time after the initial graphical wow wears 
 off. Online play is decent, but again after you unlock the game's achievements, you'll be wondering 
 exactly why you wasted $60.00 on this game. Definitely not a must-have title for the 360 but when 
 you first play it, the game does have its moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 brings the long franchise to the Xbox 360 to give it its first fighter and quite 
 possibly the game for the several months after the initial launch of the game. The smooth style 
 of the game along with the incredible graphics, gives Dead or Alive 4 the privilege of calling 
 itself 1 of the top 3 titles for the Xbox 360 and would give Perfect Dark Zero a run for its money 
 on the title of best exclusive title for the Xbox 360 to date. Given the small amount of flaws 
 within the game and the tremendous amount of time that you can play the game for, it is certain 
 that you will find this an enjoyable and time consuming game.
  
  Dead of Alive 4 has several different modes within the game, but the most prominent is the story 
 mode that you will go through with each of the characters. Through each of the characters you will 
 experience a short story interconnecting some other characters in which you will finally come to 
 facing the finale of the game, Alpha 152. As you progress through the story mode you will find 
 that the already difficult AI will just get harder and you will find yourself having to play some 
 of the same people over and over until you can finally move on. The only real disappointing part 
 is that sometimes you will get to Alpha-152 and be able to beat it on your first try. Although 
 that may not seem like the biggest disappointment in the game, it will definitely not feel like 
 you had been fighting up to the hardest part of the game.
  
  Sparring, is one of the other modes that Dead or Alive 4 gives you the opportunity to play through. 
 It is not really a combat mode per say, because it is the tool in which you will learn how to do 
 all the moves with any of the characters that you currently have unlocked. It is really beneficial 
 to run through this a couple of time in order to get some of the best moves for each of the characters 
 down, because it will help you when you are doing the story mode or even the time attack mode, 
 and even the survival mode. The survival mode is your standard lets see how long you can last 
 before you succumb to the ultimate end because of all of the fighters.
  
  The AI, as mentioned before is quite possibly some of the most difficult AI ever encountered even 
 on the default settings. The best thing to compare it to is the AI in F. E. A. R, because it acts 
 in quite possibly the same way. It will learn from you and it will take what it has learned and 
 use it to kick you but. The best thing to do with the computer is to try and stay on top of them 
 as much as possible, because it will not give them the opportunity to start a good combo on you. 
 That is another thing to mention, sometimes the AI in fighting games will only pull little dinky 
 3 or 4 hit combos on you, but during Dead or Alive 4 you will find yourself at the punishing end 
 of a brutal, deadly, and long 10 hit combo that will leave you reeling. The AI loves to be able 
 to do combos especially when it comes to laying the smack down on you after you have tried and 
 failed to hit them with a combo. It would be easily said that the AI for Dead or Alive 4 is the 
 most difficult faced in the series, let alone all fighting games.
  
  The graphics in the game are spectacular and we are not just talking about the features on the 
 characters. You will find yourself just gawking at the player models constantly. Now the graphics 
 are not that much of an improvement off of the previous Dead of Alive 3, but the power of the Xbox 
 360 helps to make the models look that much better than the high bar that its predecessor had already 
 set. The scenery and arenas in the game look spectacular also. They are not just there in order 
 to provide you with an area in which to fight, but they also add to the fighting themselves with 
 their sometimes interactive areas. In some arenas you will be able to knock an opponent to a lower 
 level while hitting them with a good amount of damage in the process. Some levels just provide 
 that little touch that you really dont notice unless you sit back and just watch the scenery. 
 Things such as the trees blowing in the wind or little birds that fly away help to add to the ambiance 
 of the game, even though they are not interactive at all.
  
  The story mode may be fun and all but where you are going to want to spend a majority of your time 
 is through Xbox live because that is where it is really fun. The best part about it is that you 
 can go and bond with other cultures, by kicking their butts in online mode. There might be some 
 times here and there where their might be a little bit of lag, but for the most part it is lag 
 free, which is a great thing, especially if you are facing someone and you start a combo only to 
 have it reversed or stopped on you because your connection went laggy for a second. Basically if 
 you do not already have online capability you will want to get it because of the major live component 
 of the game, cause after all you can only play with the computer and gawk at the models for so 
 long before you yearn to kick some human butt that you can gloat in front of.
  
  The controls of the game are something that you will want to play with for a while before you find 
 the combination that best suits you, because the default combo may work well, but not well enough 
 if you are going to be pulling off any tricky moves. The customization of each of the characters 
 is a pretty nice thing to have. Each of the characters has at least 4 different costumes or colors 
 for their costumes, so feel free to go through and unlock them all in order to flaunt your new 
 digs. You can also unlock alternate voices for the characters and they can be pretty fun especially 
 if you dont like the current voices for your character. Dead or Alive 4 gives you the opportunity 
 to get more and more awards for the game, which is a part of why people will come back to play 
 the game more and more.
  
  Audio in the game is something that people might gripe about only in a small way. Each of the characters 
 has a speaking voice in Japanese with English subtitles. This may be a little perturbing to some 
 people who will want to here English but well it is still nice to have people who seem really into 
 their character. There is a pretty good soundtrack that keeps you in the fighting mood at all times. 
 The nice thing about the punches and kicks is that they all seem to be timed correctly and when 
 they connect they sound like the really hurt especially if you have surround sound speakers. Now 
 it would be really cool to hear the cracking of bones, but alas it was not meant to be. 
  
  If you are a fighter fan then you will definitely want to get this game to add to your collection 
 of Dead or Alive titles. You will want to play this game until your fingers are bloody and raw 
 because of all of the unlockable stuff that you can get so long as you keep playing the game. If 
 you get the game you will most certainly get out of the game how much you spent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  When I started playing the game, I felt like it looked and played like DOA Ultimate. After about 
 an hour of getting my butt kicked by Alpha- 152, I realized that this game was like Ninja Gaiden, 
 hard and challenging. DOA 4 is not a button masher at all like the past games in the series. If 
 that is what you do, you will get your ass kicked over and over again. This is a smart person's 
 fighting game. The game play has been redone and the counter system is better than ever. Once you 
 play with a character for a long time, you can go round after round without a scratch, that's why 
 I put the learning curve up so high. I could go on and on about how the game plays but let me get 
 to the other aspects of this great game. The characters look great and are highly detailed. I love 
 the flowing hair and and outfits. The only disappointing thing with the characters is that they 
 still look bland compared to backgrounds. Their skin looks flat and doesn't really have a shine 
 to it. I guess Team Ninja didn't want their characters looking like sweaty bad asses like all the 
 QB's in Madden 06. The ending movies are really funny to just plain crazy. Watch Brad's if you 
 don't believe me. The stories main boss Alpha-152 is by far the hardest boss in the series. Tengu 
 has nothing compared to her. I got to the point that I had to turn down the volume because I wanted 
 to throw my controller at my TV after I heard you lose for 70th time. Beating her with the Spartan 
 was hell. The online mode is a whole lot better than DOA Ultimate too. I haven't got to play a 
 whole lot on live but what I have played is really great. I like the whole new lobby where you 
 and other avatars waiting to duke it out can watch the competition on the big screen TV. DOA 4 
 is really good game and an even better fighter. It offers tons of hours of gameplay that doesn't 
 get old and only makes you better while playing on live. Quit playing COD 2 and PD0 and go and 
 get DOA 4, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rancid125
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is a all around great game. If I would have known how great this game was i would have 
 picked it up when i got my games for the 360. Instead I picked up PDZ0 and PGR3... oh well.. 
 
  
  Anyways, back to the game rating :)
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - Their alright, not the best, but deff. Next-Gen.
  
  Gameplay - the play of 
 the game gets a little tedious sometimes... you know what i mean, when you can't beat a person.... 
 9/10.
  
  Sound - The voice overs and everything are just amazingly doin. 10/10.
  
  That's about all for this game.. but all i have to say as a closer, is if you want a good game 
 rather than a FPS deff. pick this up :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game may not have been on time to the launch party but it certainly came out with a bang bring 
 a great fighting game experience to the Xbox 360 and it has great online experience to the system 
 with host rooms and moveable and useable avatars to explore the world with. Also DOA 4 is a good 
 game for anyone to start off a brand new Xbox 360 with when you consider it is Xboxs version of 
 Tekken and street fighter. Overall DOA 4 for the Xbox 360 brings an all around great game. I would 
 definitely recommend this to anyone who wants a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaChaorules
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game will depend on if your willing to spend all these hours practicing on this game. The 
 reverse system is very hard to learn so without that you will find yourself with you lose on the 
 screen alot. Computers are extremely hard even in normal due to the fact the computers can do reverses 
 so easily. Graphics isn't that impressive as there are no skin details and the hair during fighting 
 can look alittle weird and unrealistic. sound is great and the arenas are really fun with the good 
 physics. this game will not be as fun as you think as it will frustrate you. online is a must for 
 you to get the full fun of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idealbasher
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  the best, most fully featured Dead or Alive fighting game. DOA is the right up there with the best 
 of em' in the fighting genre. The gameplay is smooth and the story behind each character along 
 with the sound effects only adds to the excitement for each character. I think they could have 
 added more gameplay effects to the DOA 3 though, although it only call more more focus on character 
 development. I ablsolutely love playing this game. Of all my clooection it's one I don't mind going 
 through over and over.
  Surely if your interested in fighting as much as I am, you won't be dissapointed with this pick 
 up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwk80
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The game doesnt live up to the next gen expectations, it feels like DOA3 in HD, the gameplay is 
 not much different, and the graphics are medicore at best. Dosent look or sound any better than 
 DOA3, the charater models have gotten no significant upgrade and the arenas you fight in dont look 
 any better than what has been produced on the xbox. Infact it feels like its was originaly planned 
 for the XBOX and had the XBOX 360 sticker slapped on it at the last moment. That said if you love 
 the DOA series you should get this game but dont expect a next gen game in terms of graphics or 
 sounds.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that I absolutely love this game. I've been a fan of the series since 
 the arcade days and my level of interest and the overall impression the series leaves on me is 
 hightened with each release.
  
  The graphics are beautiful - balancing fantasy and reality in such a way that makes the game a 
 real joy to play, assuming you don't get caught by a dragon spin kick while you're gawking at the 
 water effects on the bridge level. Enough about that - I'm sure it's already covered in every other 
 review.
  
  My real immersion with this game stems from the level of difficulty it presents in a day and age 
 when games are about as soft and powderpuffed as they can get. Team ninja has shown unique dedication 
 to keeping classic gamers interested by amping up the difficulty in everything that they do. With 
 over 10 hours in the game, I still haven't been able to complete the time trials on Hard (i can 
 get through the first 7 fighters with relative ease, but Alpha 152 has my number every time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sesshoumaru03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This new edition in the DOA series brings to you new characters, stages, and very cool moves. The 
 gameplay in this game is very solid and if mastered will have you pulling off some very impressive 
 combos. The story mode in this game is everything you expect, fight a series of enemies, with a 
 few cutscenes in between and (after completion) are rewarded with a short little movie thing. And 
 those "short little movie things" are very visually impressive and next-gen looking. But, of course, 
 the greatest thing in this game has got to be the online play. Competition can get very competitive, 
 as you'll probably meet someone who (more than likely) plays this game all day long and has mastered 
 every combo by heart, and you'll find yourself slamming that new Xbox 360 wireless controller straight 
 to the ground. Also, the lobby is really neat. So, everyone out there lucky enough to have an Xbox 
 360 should definitely get this game. If you have online that is, it's really not worth getting 
 if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is underrated in my opinion. Sure it has been given its share of 8 out of 10s but except 
 perhaps pgr3 this game is the most next gen thing you could possibly want to play. The single player 
 is not its strongest point taking me only 3 hours to complete with everty character but unlocking 
 all the costumes will add another few hours to that. 
  
  Where this game truly excels is the multiplayer. This being good when you have friends round but 
 even better when you kick ass online. The online is this games crowning aspect except perhaps the 
 graphics. 
  
  This game will keep on giving and giving and all it asks in return is hours of your life energy 
 and perhaps your soul. All in all this game is a must have for all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiphoi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Initially, I was worried it was yet another rehash of the DOA series, but once you see the content 
 there is to unlock and attempt, you'll see that there's much more to this game than meets the eye. 
 For the player at home, there's plenty to do and unlock, from Sparring (to get character voices) , 
 to Story and Time Trial (to get characters and costumes) . There's always something to do. For the 
 player online, you cannot help but be impressed with the online lobbies where you get in line to 
 fight in virtual theaters, where you get to watch the best of the best duke it out. It amazes and 
 continues to do so. Do yourself a favor, if you own a 360, you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bean23
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  
  This is a game for people who like to chit-chat with others while waiting for their turn to play 
 online or for those who have a buddy to play with either on the other side of the couch or in an 
 online match set up specifically for the two of you.
  
  Simply put, the single player AI is incredibly cheesey. Even veteran players who "know the fighters" 
 will have to deal with a lot of try-and-die gameplay when running through the singleplayer modes 
 to unlock the various unlockables. This really makes wins feel much more attributable to luck than 
 any amount of skill.
  
  Also, remember how fun it was to simply press back and block with good timing to mess up someone's 
 killer attack combo with a nifty counter? Well, you can kiss that goodbye. While countering is 
 still in the game, they have added an incredible amount of complexity to the counters. Now you 
 will need to push in varying directions based on the hit location of the incoming attack and whether 
 or not the incoming attack is a punch or a kick. . . yes, you still need precise timing to counter 
 effectively. . . but now you need precise timing and memorization of all of the characters moves 
 in the game.
  
  While this may add some depth to the game for highly skilled players, it leaves those of us who 
 enjoyed the game's former paper/rock/scissors dynamic out in the cold. Unless you are willing to 
 invest a year becoming a guru, DOA 4 is now a button masher.
  
  Spamming attacks and learning juggling combos like every other fighter in existence is now the 
 name of the game.
  
  Still, the graphics are sweet. The levels are cool, and the stories while as cheesy as ever, are 
 entertaining.
  
  If you are looking for a fighter to play with friends on the X360 or you don't mind watching more 
 than playing in the "arcadey" matches set up through Xbox Live, this is worth buying. Otherwise, 
 give it a rental or a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing... the levels are awesome... and the moves are out of this world. This game 
 has a pretty tough learning curve online, but it's definitely a good game. My personal favorite 
 character is Spartan 458. She's really strong but she is slow. I love Halo 2, so that's why she's 
 my favorite. If you like fighting games then this is right up your alley. If you are a DOA fan 
 then this game is a must buy. You can even unlock Tengu from DOA 2.... he's an ugly sucka, but hes 
 really good if you know how to play with him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is like any other fighting game but it is still very fun. Some of the secret charecters 
 are Leon, Helena, Tengu, Ein, and still many more. There iks also now a knew charecter to teh Dead 
 or Alive series Spartan 458 or should I say Nicole. She is basically a girl version of Spartan 
 117 or should I say Master Chief. There are different kind of modes in the game like survival mode, 
 time attack mode, story mode, versus mode, XBOX LIVE versus mode, and some more. So if you're a 
 fan of fighting games I say buy this game it is awsome and really really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian1480
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 is challenging, but rewarding, and addresses many of the concerns and desires of DOA fans. 
 It's worth owning... and will be worth it for a long time.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -The graphics are simply sensational on my HDTV. My jaw dropped when I popped it in for the first 
 time.
  -The gameplay is top notch. It's much faster than previous iterrations of the series, but after 
 awhile, you'll get used to it.
  -The sound is appropriate and sounds good. And there's certainly nothing wrong with a little Aerosmith.
 
  -Online play is as fun as ever. DOA: U had a great forumla, and they stuck with it, with a few 
 cute additions. If it ain't broke, don't fix it!
  -Achievements make you come back for more in the single player mode... even when you don't want 
 to!
  -Those same achievements will have you pushing yourself online as well. It's awesome.
  -The counter system adds a dynamic to the game that makes DOA unique and great. now more refined 
 than ever.
  -All the characters are unique and bring their own style to the game.
  
  THE BAD:
  -The speed of the game may be too difficult for some.
  -Some achievements are too 
 difficult to reach without the arcade stick. 
  -Certain characters have moves that are nearly impossible to pull off in-game or in sparring for 
 that matter.
  -The boss is rediculously hard. Discouragingly hard for many people. Hard enough that after you 
 get all the off-line acheivements that involve you fighting her (eg. unlocking all costumes) , you'll 
 never want to play the single player again. She's that hard. Sometimes it took me 30 mintues to 
 beat her. After it took me 7 minutes to beat the 7 or 8 characters leading up to her.
  
  THE BIZARRE:
  -The online rooms. Impossible to describe. Just plain wierd. Not bad... just wierd.
 
  -Zack. Can we get a normal black male character? Can we borrow one from Tekken? They seem to have 
 several...
  
  All things considered, if you're a friend of fighting games or previous DOA games, this one won't 
 disappoint. It looks better, plays faster, and incorporates many new fighting styles and techniques 
 to make it a new, fresh and exciting experience for everyone. And with no hot fighting games on 
 the horizon anywhere for the 360, for fighting game fans this is a a MUST BUY. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game has everything you want in a fighting game. Great graphics, large roster of charcters, 
 varied fighting areas, rewarding fighting system, and TONS of unlockables. A (kind of) new addition 
 to the series is the on-line play. Once you fire up Xbox Live you will select an avatar (the default 
 one is a Ninja, until you unlock more) with the avatar you can join a game, if two people are duking 
 it out you must wait in a lobby that has a big screen TV showing the fight. Your avatar has "emotions" 
 you can control using the right analog stick. They affect the game in no way, but I always get 
 a laugh when I see my avatar laugh/cry. Once you get into a fight it seems like your playing it 
 off-line, yes it is THAT smooth. If a person joins the lobby, it gives you a heads up at the bottom 
 of the screen, when the game does lag up (which is very rare) it doesn't get "chuggy" it simply 
 slows down so you are still in sync with your opponent ( a feature FPS need) . You can get achievments 
 while on-line, too. For Example, if you beat five people in a row you get an acheivment. For what 
 it is I really enjoyed this game, well worth the prcie tag. If your not a fighting fan, please 
 skip this game. If you are, or if your just looking for a fun and accessable game to get when you 
 get your Xbox 360, please do your self a favor and get this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turnj23
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Lets wind the click back a decade or so. I was in high school and Street Fighter 2 was the big 
 thing at the time. Me and my mates could lose hours battling our way through the single player 
 mode and then having great fun in 2 player mode.
  
  Time passed, I went to university and the next game to capture our imiginations was Tekken 2. Night 
 after night me and my friends would trundle back from the pub and finish the night off with an 
 hour or so battling through the single player game or taking each other on in 2 player mode.
  
  The thing that made these two games special was that playing through the single player game 
 and unlocking all of the characters was just as much fun as the 2 player mode. The computer would 
 put up just the right level of the fight to make the game challenging but not annoying. This is 
 where Dead or Alive 4 falls flat on its face in a big, bad way.
  
  I'm guessing that during development the game designers we aiming to capture the look and feel 
 of the fights from such films as Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon etc. To be fair they have done exactly 
 that. The battles are simply fantastic to watch and have a truely exciting cinematic quality to 
 them. The thing is, in single player, watching is pretty much all you'll be doing. This gets very 
 boring very quickly.
  
  Whilst watching the computer trounce my character I've had plenty of time to think about why playing 
 against the compueter is just so bad and I think I've managed to narrow it down a just a couple 
 of simple but catastrophic flaws.
  
  1. Where's the easy mode?
  Where as most other fighting games have easy modes for you to cut your teeth on DOA4 just straight 
 to the normal mode (please read impossible) and instead gives you a sparring mode. This isn't a 
 new thing but without an easy mode to go with it it's pretty useless. There are almost 100 combos 
 and special moves for each character and whilst the sparring mode can help you learn them it's 
 far too boring to be of much use. Basically the computer player just stands there whilst you do 
 all manner of masty things to them. The computer can be programmed to do a few simple things but 
 to be fair who cares. Its the sort of mindless drilling that you would normally see in an MMORPG.
 
  
  2. The countering and blocking
  Back in the good old days there was a high block and a low bock. If you got kicked in the legs 
 it was low and everything else was high. DOA4 has low medium and high. The main problem is that 
 medium and high attacks look identical. I've been playing this game for a good few hours and still 
 it's just blind luck on whether I manage to pick the right block. This takes out a lot of fun and 
 makes it even more annoying when the computer magically manages to pick the correct block time 
 after time. This takes me to what I see as DOA4's biggest failing. The countermoves. I'm sure this 
 sounded like a good idea when the game was being designed and they do add to the cinematic feel 
 of the game but the sad truth is that they pretty much ruin the game. They are pretty much impossible 
 to pull off against the computer but time after time after time the computer will simply grab one 
 of your kicks or punches mid air and KO you. Even if you are mid way through a kick ass combo the 
 computer has no problem stopping you dead in your tracks and giving you one hell of a beating. 
 Before you think about stopping the computer mid combo forget it. You can't. Ever.
  
  3. The combos
  That brings me on to the last major problem with DOA4. The combos. In theory a 
 great idea. In 2 player a great idea. In single player just bad. As I've mentioned before the computer 
 has the ability to stop you mid combo when ever it feels like it but when the computer gets going 
 you just have to sit there and watch it. A good example would be this: On the level with the bridge 
 I was playing against Geng Fu. The round started, Geng Fu instantly countered my punch and then 
 unleashed a 7 hit combo. The last hit knocked me off the bridge and KO'd me. Fun? No. Basically 
 the stupidly long combos takes away the impression of control and gives the game the feeling of 
 one of those nasty interactive movies from the early to mid nineties. They really are a limit to 
 the amount of fun you can have in single player as a casual gamer.
  
  4. The sound
  I feel bad even mentioning this but it's just something that annoys me. The characters speak Japanese 
 with English subtitiles. Not a major thing but if you are going to introduce storylines for the 
 characters in an appempt to make people get more involved them it might be an idea to have them 
 speaking in the same langauge as us. Also the main theme is 'Eat the Rich' by Aerosmith. Why? I 
 like the song but doesn't fit with the game at all.
  
  
  Anyway, that's the bad side. There are some good bits. In 2 player against your mates button bashing 
 can still lead to some fun and spectacular fights. The levels are fantastic with plenty of interactivety, 
 special effects and a scale that I've just never seen in any fighting game before it.
  
  In conclusion DOA4 is okay in 2 player. The fights can be fun but for casual gamers it's still 
 pretty much just button bashing and blind luck as to what happens. No where near as much fun as 
 PRG3 or Perfect Dark Zero multiplayer. In single player DOA4 is terrible and just not worth bothering 
 with.
  
  Not worth 45. Don't buy. I'll be trading my copy in very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkfanatic501
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  well i'm new to the DOA series. and thi is a good fightning game. It hs cool graphics. Nice gameplay. 
 u gotta love those girls. There is some funny cutscnes in this game. There is a nice story to each 
 character. The only problem is, that me and my uncle beated everybody's story in at least 8 hours. 
 It also get's harder when u progrees throug the story. DOA4 is a good start to the next generation 
 of fightning of fightning games. Just wish it was a little longer. So if u have xbox live then 
 u will have a great time with this game. If not, then u better have alot of friends so u can keep 
 on playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawndart07
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day after I bought my xbox360. I had played the previous versions as rentals... mostly 
 because I liked the way it looked. Now that I own it (mostly so that my wife could play against 
 me... she likes mashing buttons) and have had the time to get into it, I remember why I never decided 
 to buy it before.
  First, the good points. It looks awesome. It's to be expected of team ninja. Of course, as a guy, 
 the females are the main draw, but this time, the backgrounds and cg scenes really shine. a lot 
 of love and care was put into the characters, backgrounds and design.
  The game is fun against another person ,online or in your own house. It doesn't take a master gamer 
 to figure it out. Punch, kick, throw and block. Pretty simple. Heck, most of the time you pull 
 off a tail whuppin' combo without even knowing what you pressed. 'Course, you can still pretend 
 you did it on purpose. Even button mashers have a chance. So if you have people over all the time, 
 it's great.
  It's the single player mode that may turn off the casual gamer. At first, say, in the story mode, 
 the opponents are desceptively easy. As you progress through the story, they become more difficult. 
 That's cool. pretty much all games get harder as you progress. But the way it gets harder is not 
 because the bosses are bigger, faster or smarter. if that where the case, then you could say" okay, 
 I need to chip away at his/her/ its? (zack in a telletubby suit) defences and I'll be victorious. 
 No.
  It seems like the only thing the designers did to make it harder was to internally chose the "hard" 
 difficulty setting for the characters towards the end. I only say this because characters whose 
 tail you creamed in a previous run-through, with the same character, suddenly become unstoppable. 
 Your opponents can predict your every kick, punch or throw. They counter-attack your FIRST ATTACK. 
 No, they don't just block it, they Counter it. they do what, to us, would be (in my opinion) impossible. 
 We'd have to figure out: okay, high kick? low punch? low throw? etc, and then push the directional 
 pad and block button accordingly. The computer does that, and then-some, in the blink of an eye. 
 Worse, it'll stop you in mid-hyper fast combo, and pull a counter-attack. Another thing that a 
 casual gamer could not do except by sheer luck.
  When it attacks me and starts a combo, it'll break a leg, then an arm, throw me against the wall, 
 stomp me while I'm down, and jump kick me half way across the screen when I get up. there have 
 been so many suicide-inducing moments where I have beaten my foe to within an inch of his life, 
 and he turns around, does a series of bone breakers and cuts me down from a full health bar to, 
 well, within an inch of My life.
  And don't even get me started on the boss. How fair is a disappearing, energy shooting, ultra fast, 
 monster combo making, floating, naked (sort-of) chick sound? 
  These things may be okay to hose who devote themselves to mastering the fighting system, and choose 
 the harder levels. But to those of us who just want to see the endings, or get the cool unlockable 
 characters, it can often feel like a repetitive chore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  If you have played DOA 3 or any DOA game, then you already know this game. And that's probably 
 what makes me say that this game is just... so so. Too much of the same old thing.
  
  Sure, graphics are superb (especially in HD) , the characters are well designed, the moves are incredible... 
 but it still the same gameplay as previous version and since I am not a big fan of multiplayer 
 mode, the game gives me a big impression of DEJA VU.
  
  On a technical side, I wish TECMO do a better job with the loading in this game. Like DOA 3, each 
 time the game is loading something, it seems like it actually performs multiple seeking before 
 finding what it wants. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  It's a good game... not great... not bad... just good. If you are a hardcore fighting fan, you'll 
 love it. If you are expecting something new, then you'll be disappointed like I was.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatthewTJohnson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to write a lengthy review in regards to DOA 4. First off, I think it should be known 
 to the reader that I hate fighting games. HATE. It is nothing more than brainless button mashing. 
 These two facts alone have inspired me to write a review for this game. It is amazing. I have never 
 actually consistently played a fighting game as much as I have with DOA 4. There is something more 
 to the game than just slick graphics alone. The fighting styles differ enough and the control scheme 
 is complex enough that it takes time and patience to master both the combinations and timing. The 
 counter button is tricky enough that timing is very important and only after quite awhile playing 
 this game will you be able to use it efficiently. That being said, in no way can you really master 
 the counter, but rather use it sparingly in an effective way. You add the great gameplay to great 
 online capabilities as well as the accomplishments on 360 dashboard that you will be addicted in 
 no time. I hate fighting games, but I love DOA 4. If you want a different experience for the 360 
 that was not offered during the initial launch, go out and grab a copy of DOA 4... you will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilor
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The game is good graphicly, and it is fun to play against friends, but playing the computer is 
 just freakin dumb. You have to be insane at this game if you want to play the comp. Even if you 
 are really good at the game it's still has it's problems. Like the fact that the computer is basically 
 psychic, I swear they can predict your move before you even do it and counter with no problem. 
 I've also had problems with the comp countering me when I'm sitting still, it's like the comp thought 
 I kicked or punched and countered it even though I didn't and I still took the damage. The fact 
 that they can get a ten plus hit combo on you wth little to no effort depite the fact that you 
 could be trying everything you can think of to get out of such combo, doesn't make the game very 
 fun. Now for my last complaint, this has happend a few times when I was playing against Brad Wong 
 while playing the Kokoro story mode. I would be all the way across the level and he would kick 
 ( if your lucky enough to get away you'll notice that he's pretty much always attacking) and I 
 would fall to the ground and take a lot of damage. I don't even want to get into my rant about 
 alpha-152. Anyways the game is really good, but only if you play against friends if you don't plan 
 on doing that then don't bother unless you want to get very frustrated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onthezone34
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  When i first rented the game it's fun to play against others, but once you play the computer the 
 easiest setting is like expert. When ever your trying to do a special or a little kick the computer 
 can interrupt you, but you can not interrupt the computer. It's a good game to play against a friend 
 but once you play the computer thats where it ends. If your looking for a good fighting game i 
 would wait or at least look for another game, because this game play just sucks. I'm just glad 
 i didn't play for the hole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaboose111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  this game is amzing let alone gorgeous with the 360 the graphics are amazing so real so fluid and 
 well running the game is fun and there is a high learning curve if u want to fully beat the game 
 its not that simple i really like the game because its not a button masher a hate them its much 
 more skill and timing and patience fighting game much more skilled gamer needed to master. i actually 
 just bout three hours ago beat all the storys. many different modes to keep the action new and 
 fun but like i said simple and full of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablostarz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is the best game on the XBOX 360 besides Perfect Dark Zero. The challenge, the fun, the graphics 
 and everything else is perfect. This is one of the reasons to buy an XBOX 360 and in the Future 
 there will be games as good or better than this so start buyin'. Also the challenges are fun to 
 do and the online is spectacular in being one of the best online games I have ever played. I recoomend 
 this game to any fan of figthers or hot chick because you will like it a lot. There is not much 
 more I can say than go out and rent or buy this game because you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asphyxiati0n
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  I loved every thing about this game. The characters were wide spread with alot of different move 
 and styles. The stories were ok but I just loved wupping up on the computer. This is one of the 
 games that if you dont have live its ok. i played this game for a couple of days without stepping 
 foot in to live and it is a soild game. Once you get in to live its a whole nother story. Hands 
 down one of the best "launch" games. The only thing i disliked was Alpha, the last boss. That is 
 the hardest boss I think. "I also like that if you kept turning up the age you get more bounceness. 
 The older gamers need to know this. It is a most know for this game". (Just playing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthonyuser
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This is the first xbox 360 game i got and it's still fun. it will keep u busy for awhile because 
 there are a lot of challenges and costumes to unlock. if you like fighting games then you will 
 probably like this game and if you are a halo fan iwould buy it because i am and trust me it's 
 worth the trouble to unlock the spartan she is awsome and very strong. if your looking for a fighting 
 game with flashy special moves then don't get this no flashy moves just kick butt kung-fu. Anyway 
 it's a pretty great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviates1080
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive has been a fantastic fighting series, but with fourth version released at last expectations 
 were high. Unfortunately it doesn't live up to the hype.
  
  Thats not to say it's a terrible game, because it's far from being that. The graphics are stunning, 
 and the interactive fighting arenas are breathtaking. In particular the fighting in the road arena 
 is fantastic.
  But the gameplay just doesn't feel fresh or new, despite the addition of a number of characters. 
 The game has failed to iron out the problems of previous DOA games. Some characters can do the 
 same move constantly and make it almost impossible for them to lose. 
  
  All in all its a fairly good fighting game, but it by no means stands out in the current catalogue 
 of XBOX360 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakemaycryX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 has the greatest action and the best graphics I have ever seen. The Girls of Dead 
 Or Alive 4 are very sexy, especially Ayane. The gameplay rocks and there is a huge variety of characters.
 
  
  If anyone says the graphics of this game are anywhere below Perfect then tell them they dont no 
 S**t about games. The just look at the sexy girls and you will know.
  Ayane is the prime factor of the graphics. She has the most sexiest hair and charming eyes. Her 
 body looks so nice and it has nice curves. Her moves are the best also.
  
  The sound rocks as the characters voice acting rocks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this 4th installment in the doa series is probably the best and the hardest. i have spend well 
 over 50 hours trying to unlock things do to the end boss being a cheep shot when it comes to moves. 
 this game is fun though and i cant stop plaing it. the graphics are crisp and the plethora of moves 
 makes it a gem. anyone who is a fan of the series will agree with me. new characters and great 
 scenery make the game more packed with fun. online play is a little wackey though because how long 
 it takes to take on your opponent because of the amount of people on the room. lag can get bad 
 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow wow wow wow wow!!!!! Best game in the series!!!!! awesome online play!! fun matchmaking and 
 lobbys!!!!!! Super graphics! This game can get frusterating at times when your stuck on one person 
 for awhile but once you beat it its great!!!!! When i went to the store to buy this game the guy 
 there wa like dont get that it has terrible graphics?!?! well i dont know what the fu*ck planet 
 he was on b/c this game is off the heezy foshezzy!!!!!!! worth the $60 if your a fighting game 
 person!!!!! unlockable players are great!! only other problem is that you cant save when your going 
 thorugh a story mode yet it only takes 30minutes or so for one persons story mode!! BUY this masterpice 
 now!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enja
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Best in the series, a fast paced beautifully designed game with stunning backgrounds and the best 
 interaction with the levels i have seen on a game something the other top fighting games need to 
 think about.
  Online play is also nice challenge for the more advanced gamers with a reasonable ranking system, 
 the lobby looks a little childish for a fighting game you also get rushed kinda feeling from it 
 as well.
  Even though it's the best in the series it still could have done with a create character mode because 
 the costumes they give you for the original characters are very similar, aside from that it is 
 the perfect fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fast, challenging and intense gameplay, stunning looking and interactive environments, 
 a lot of modes including an online mode that will keep you busy for a very, VERY long time
  
  The Bad: Some minor graphical flaws (not very like you Team Ninja) , and some moves are ridiculously 
 hard to perform
  
  The Review:
  Delay, after delay, after delay, and now it's finally here and I couldn't be much more happy about 
 it. Yes it' of course the eagerly awaited sequel to the great fighting Xbox launch title Dead or 
 Alive 3, and this game improves on everything from it's predecessor. 
  The gameplay is a lot faster and button mashing won't take you far, counters, throws and special 
 moves have now to be made by skill if you want to win any fights in this game, even on the default 
 difficulty.
  The graphics have also improved, especially the environments whitch looks really awesome, and they're 
 interactive too, WHEEEY! However the character models could have been more lifelike and they're 
 hair and clothing may sometimes move in strange ways.
  The sound and soundtrack is solid but there is room for improvement.
  The value is top notch, 
 there is tons of unlockables, such as costumes, characters, easter eggs etc. and also a lot of 
 modes like story, survival, time attack, sparring and the of course the best of them all... the 
 online mode! The lobby system is cute and a neat idea to interact with the other players, and the 
 idea of having up to 16 of your friends playing together is awesome!
  So you see DOA4 has the whole package including gameplay, graphics, sound and value, it may not 
 perfect on all these points, but it's more than enough to keep a high demand gamer like me satisfied.
 
  
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Despite tough competition, the Dead or Alive series has managed to carve its own territory in fighting 
 game history. And, unlike some games, the series has not just been content on creating a .2 or 
 .3 version with a few extra characters, but instead looks to reinvent the fighting genre as we 
 know it. Although reinventing is a far stretch for proper terms, you can't say that ride so far 
 hasn't continued to be fun. As the first "next gen" fighting game, DOA 4 continues the series with 
 yet another fun and challenging fighting game with flash and style.
  
  Graphics: Backgrounds are fantastic. You can tell that a lot of work went into creating each fighting 
 stage for this game, and the work is well appreciated. The fighters themselves look fine, although 
 I don't see too much of a difference between the models now and the models of DOA Ultimate. Of 
 course, the anime style that surely used here doesn't really leave much room for detail, but the 
 models are definitely clean, so no complaints. The flowing hair effect looks okay, but seems kind 
 of strange at times. 
  
  Sound: Not much different here than the previous game. Don't expect much in the way of English 
 voiceovers either, except from one lone Spartan warrior. In other words, expect more of the same. 
 If ain't broke.... ah, you know the rest.
  
  Control: Not much different...... I think I see a pattern here. Some moves have been switched a 
 bit, but characters play pretty much the same as they did before. Some moves are harder to pull 
 of do to the fact that they are more suited to an arcade stick and buttons and not the 360 controller. 
 Otherwise, everything else is tight and responsive like it should be.
  
  Gameplay: Not much dif.... just kidding. The game is a blast to play. You've got lots of characters 
 to choose from, and unluck new ones to play with after finishing story mode with certain characters. 
 You could spend hours just trying to master your favorite character, and still have a long way 
 to go due to the depth of each character's ability. Of course, the real star of the game is the 
 online mode. This is what fighting games were made for, and its good to see that Tecmo realizes 
 this. Finding an online match is quick and simple. However, you should make sure that your internet 
 connection is really good, because otherwise, game-breaking slowdown will kill the fun for you 
 and anyone else involved. In a game that requires split second timing, stuff like this can really 
 ruin your day.
  
  Challenge: The game is hard. Period. Even on normal difficulty. This is not a pick up and play 
 and mash buttons game. You actually need to learn to play to get anywhere in this game. Fighting 
 Kasumi Alpha can be a very cheap and profanity ridden experience that will make you cry, curse, 
 and renounce your religion. Okay, maybe not quite that far, but it is a pain in the butt if you 
 don't take the time to learn some moves. Practice makes perfect. And if you plan to play online, 
 you better practice or prepare to get your butt handed back to you most ferociously in bullet time. 
 Wait, that was lag wasn't it?
  
  Final Words: Dead or Alive 4 is a fun fighting game that will have lasting appeal due to its online 
 ability. I reccommend this game for anyone who likes to put in the time to learn a game inside 
 out and try to become the best at it. For anyone else, its the only fighting game on the block 
 right now, and a good one at that. So if you're looking for some good hand to hand combat for your 
 360, DOA 4 leads the next-gen pack for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyashabosk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja has made an other masterpiece.. DOA4
  Excellent Graphics
  Excellent Gameplay
  Online play gives a long value and competition
  This game is Great overall..
  
  First thing 
 that really striked me was that how hard this game actually is..
  I mean Alpha is pretty darn vicious with her counters and damage.
  
  But i see this as a good 
 thing because in my case the hard difficulity prepared me for online play and made me a pretty 
 good fighter since i had to hone my skills pretty harshly to finish the game 100%
  
  And the counter system is harder.. Not by alittle but by quite alot, This is also a good thing 
 so that you cant spam counters and win like that..
  
  One bad thing about the gameplay is that Throws seems like an after thought in this game.. you 
 seriously never throw, unless the one you are fighting are only blocking and stuff..
  
  The graphics are awesome the only reason why i dont give the graphics 10/10 is because the character 
 models doesnt look entierly new.. they look like upgraded versions of the older ones.. Dont get 
 me wrong the characters looks amazing (specialy the girls ;) ) but they could have been better..
 
  
  The sound.. oh the sound.. the sound of bone breaking and the character grunts are totally amazing, 
 gives me the chills :P
  
  And the online play is very entertaining aswell.. although alittle laggy its a great feature that 
 everyone with a DOA4 copy and XLive Gold shouldnt miss..
  
  Overall this game is an Amazing looking game with alot of debt to the combat and a long lasting 
 value..
  
  Highly Recomended.. 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicRevolver
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of the DOA/Gaiden Universe. I found it on the xbox and fell in love 
 with all of its incarnations, including the much maligned DOA xtreme volleyball (perfect way to 
 kill an afternoon, as far as it goes for me) . Then I heard of DOA4 being released in stores and 
 instantly snapped it up. The graphics are absolutely amazing, save for a few glitches with clipping 
 and how hair moves. The characters are more detailed and the extra little touches add lots of character. 
 ( Glad to know that Zack is a Rastafarian at heart :) ) 
  
  The environments are a lot more interactive than in the previous games, with lots of extra stuff 
 to destroy, and the new characters are awesome, with the old favorites Christie and Brad Wong coming 
 back which impressed me a lot. The music is better, actually making the fighting experience more 
 deep. And, as always, the lovely ladies are back to make the game the gorgeous experience it should 
 be. The movies are expertly rendered and Team Ninja has more than exceeeded my expectations in 
 all but a few areas. 
  
  The one major flaw for me in DOA 4 is the difficulty. This is not a game for beginners by any stretch. 
 I play DOA 3 religiously every morning while im having my morning coffee to wake myself up and 
 became almost expert at it. Then DOA 4 amped up the difficulty and knocked me for a loop. It's 
 amazingly hard to fight with the opponents, with scenarios where you'll have the computer almost 
 beaten and out of nowhere the computer will attack you with a move you cant defend against and 
 will flatten you. 
  
  More than a few times I was tempted to throw my controller in disgust.
  The hold system no longer 
 really works very well I find, as you cant stop an opponent once he starts to thrash you. This 
 is especially true of the boss, who can completely destroy you without a scratch left on her, if 
 you slip up. 
  
  I know that people are expecting a challenge when a new game is released, and thus game designers 
 will try to step up the difficulty in an attempt to challenge the gamer, but when Team Ninja released 
 this game, they werent thinking of either new xbox 360 owners who werent used to the system, or 
 newbies to the DOA universe. An easy difficulty would have been nice to guide you into the world, 
 but instead you are thrown in head first into a thrashing and are expected to know the environment 
 immediately.
  
  The only other two flaws I can find are the lack of reasoning for the survival mode in DOA 4.. 
 In doa ultimate, it had a reason to exist (to get items to unlock things) There also is a lot less 
 costumes and toys to find in the game. 
  
  otherwise, despite its glaring flaws, this is a perfect addition to the doa/gaiden universe and 
 I personally can't wait to see more from Team Ninja.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The usual Dead or Alive modes are back. You have your classic Story, Time Attack, Survivor, Spare, 
 and now, Online! There a couple of unlockable characters and a lot of unloackable costumes. Online 
 is laggy, and can be a pain, but worth it for the experience. However, blocking and countering 
 has been changed. You have to be standing perfectly still to be able to block, and countering actually 
 requires perfect timing. Can be a pain, but you'll get over it. Oh, and the game has become a button 
 mashers heaven.
  
  Graphics:
  Beautiful. I love the smooth anime look of the game. The backgrounds are very rich in detail. I 
 wouldn't think that an "unrealistic" looking game would actually be one of the better looking games 
 on the 360.
  
  Sound:
  The music is basically the same as the last ones, as well as the voices. Nothing really new, except 
 the quirky effects online, but that's it. Still good though.
  
  Replay:
  Tons. With lots of unlockables this time around, loads of characters, and online, DOA4 will keep 
 you busy for a while.
  
  Overall:
  If you love DOA, you will love 4. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 is some old DOA gameplay (Which is far superior to Tekkin or Mortal Combat) and jazzed it 
 up with multi teared levels and a few new characters and stages. If you Like any of the DOA's you 
 will LOVE DOA 4 i did. Controls are the same almost no new combos in my oppinion, multiplayer is 
 fun but most people are newbs and can counter very well. I love the new multi tear levels and moving 
 objects or one you can use against your opponent. Aside from the upgrade in graphics the gameplay 
 and characters are virtually the same as DOA 3 Ultimate. If you got a 360 (i do) and you want the 
 best fighting game available go for DOA 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fighting game fan at all. Never have been. When I got the 360, the guys at Best Buy 
 pursuaded me to get this game. And boy were they right. One of them most addicting games ever.
 
  this game is a perfect example of the high graphical quality of the x360. It is truely amazing 
 how lifelike the players look. Game play can be a tad bit frustrating at times, but you get used 
 to that the more you play. The game is fairly hard. The first time I played the game. The computer 
 killed me, over and over and over. It takes a lot of practice. But once you get good at the game, 
 you can't stop playing it. If you were like me, and don't like fighting games, download the demo (if 
 there is one) and try that, see if you like it. If you do like it, BUY IT!!! you wont regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the best fighting game i've played in years. I'd even say this is better than 
 Mortal Kombat.
  
  DOA4, with the development of Team Ninja, is all it's cracked up to be. Excellent graphics, Sexy 
 bouncy physics, and superfast extreme moves that really kick some ass. Though there's a few sexual 
 references a few times in the game, it doesn't mask the fact that DOA4 is one of the greatest fighting 
 games ever made, even if there is no blood!
  
  Though it's the original story of Ninjas vs Military-like people, the hidden character of Spartan 
 458 really adds to the flavor. Team Ninja nailed it just right by actually making you feel like 
 a living war machine, killing anything that opposes you.
  
  In conclusion, DOA4 is a must-play, even if you don't like fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from my local Blockbuster and had to return it about a week later. However in 
 that week I came to love this game, I mean it's just so much fun to play on and the fights are 
 great. The graphics are stunning and the landscapes are perfect. I was looking at teh detail put 
 into the characters and it's just mind blowing to see how seamlessly the graphics the blended togther 
 to make the images crisp and round. Of course the grls are great to watch and play with. Online 
 gaming is a whole new world, with the way it's been setup. I loved unlockig the costumes and getting 
 the achievements, I mean it just gets really addicting after a short period of play. I would reccomend 
 this game to anybody, who likes fighting games or any of the previous DOA series games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  The only fighting game besides this that i enjoy is soul caliber (mostly because i rock on it, 
 but thats another story!) . DOA4 is very different, as it replaces the weapon system, with a cool 
 countering system. Though not original, it is very well done, and it can save ur ass from time 
 to time.
  The graphics are great, and so are the combo and team moves which can be executed.
  Another great 
 thing is how the online lobby works. Instead of just a dank coloured screen, u run around as a 
 little avatar, interacting with the environment, in a bid to get a decent game. 
  The electric walls on the versus mode make it entertaining, especially when u trap ur opponent, 
 and beat the crap ou of them. Like soul caliber its all about getting the first move in, and snatching 
 priority from ur opponent.
  This is without a doubt the best 360 gam yet (till FFXI) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is the first good game on the 360 that isn't an FPS. The game is just as good as DOA Ultimate. 
 This game is perfect. The graphics are just beautiful. The characters have so much detail and emotions 
 on their faces it's amazing. The gameplay is the same DOA gameplay you'd expect and it is great. 
 The game is a fast paced game with abilties to throw your opponent off a building and destructale 
 envionements. X Box live is on it and from what I've heard it is great with little lag. The sound 
 effesct and voice overs are realy good too. This game is kinda pricy but it is worth it to get 
 the best X Box 360 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleuguy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  this is one heck of a fighting game, all of the styles have been captured perfectly. karate feels 
 stiff, rigid and and powerful, drunken boxing is deceptive and anoying to fight, ninjitsu is swift, 
 quick and powerful, and so on.
  
  The adding of the obsticles like cars and tables make the more varied and stylish.
  
  Each 
 character feels completley unique and different and controls completley different.
  
  The online mode is great, especially withe the comunicator
  
  The worst thing about it is that 
 the graphics could have been so much better!!!
  
  And then there's the bouncing..... ahh the bouncing....
  
  and just because i havn't writen 
 enough words im gonna talkn about some of the characters endings:
  
  Christie, WOW
  
  Lei Fang, WOW
  
  Kasumi, WOW, WOW, WOW
  
  Hitomi, WOW, WOW, WOW, WOW, WOW, WOW, WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McSkombi
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Hey guys, I know that i will be hated but i have to tell you my opinion about this game! Well I 
 read a lot of Reviews about the game and I thought, that it has to be the best looking Fight game 
 ever seen. Then I played the demo. First of all I were disappointed with the graphics! Should that 
 be the next generation of games? I cant believe that. The Gameplay is terrible, cause it is to 
 easy! DoA is no game for pros, the only thing you have to know is to smash some buttons! Look at 
 games like Tekken or Soul Calibur: The Movelists (of each character) in Tekken (f. e.) are about 
 two times as long and complex as the move-lists in DoA are. I dont know why everybody loves it! 
 Cause of the hot girls? (Yea they are hot!! Lol) Who finds errors can keep them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alik2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  the answer is yes it is .
  lets start with the graphics ..... they are very nice ,smooth ,and fantastic.
  
  then there 
 is the game modes it has the time attack , the story , such as doa 3 but what it has more than 
 doa 3 is doa online .
  
  doa online maybe is the best thing u get casue fights always seem fresh and cool when playing online 
 ,and ofcourse the achivment system really gives u the incentive to unlock everything.
  
  so if u are a fighting fan looking for a nest gen fighting fix u wont be disapointed and if u are 
 a doa fan looking for the next gen installment u wont be dissapointed ethier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Best in series. Th DOA sseries come a with great comeback after each game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY- easy to get involved to play. Each character has his own move and special characteristic. 
 8/10
  
  GRAPHICS- Incredible. Very detailed game. Tomonobu Itagaki knows how to motivate gamers 10/10
 
  
  SOUND- great sound. You can hear the water effects when you get punch down. 8/10
  
  Single Player- good story with each character. When you finished the storymode, you get cool movie. 
 8.5/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER- great online and offline. The online is well organized. 9/10
  
  **WARNING**- this game kills you game saves. When turn on your 360 and the disc is inside, this 
 may kill your saves cuz your profile hasn't been loaded and when the game cant find yet your profile, 
 it automatically create a new game. Best thing to do so the glitch doesn't hit, first turn on your 
 360 without the dics inside and wait till your profile has been laoded. Then you can pop the game 
 disc. more info here: 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/news/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=24198870 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamiRaider
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Doa4 is the best game ever made . the fighting, the graphics, and the environments are amazingly 
 beautiful and it flows so perfect. i have been a doa fan ever since dead or alive ultimate for 
 the ps2. I finally got my 360 today and bought this and it is a perfect game. I got into it the 
 first 10 mins and now i have the hang of everything. This game is amazing in every kind of way 
 and no other fighting game for the 360 will beat it. Doa 4 also has the best and funnest multiplayer 
 i have seen in a game . the lobby system is so fun. everything about this game is top notch perfect. 
 DOA 4 IS THE BEST OF THE BEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics for this are great. It's fun to play (as long as you are winning :) ) .
  
  What I liked about it:
  I liked the environments alot. I liked the interactivity with them, from 
 breaking fruit carts, getting kicked off bridges, into cars, and down long flights of stairs. Each 
 environment has effects that just add to the fight.
  
  Sparring Mode. I liked that there was a purpose for doing it (other than learning moves) . Each 
 character completion finished in sparring mode unlocks a menu voice for them. The mode is fairly 
 robust and includes button pressed feedback, visual demonstration of the move, and detailed hit/damage 
 information about them.
  
  Online. I liked the lobby idea with using points earned fighting online to purchase new avatars, 
 parts for the avatars, lobby rooms, and character costumes. Overall multiplayer ran well, and when 
 it did lag, it did so by slowing down the fight.
  
  Short load times. A matter of seconds to get into a fight. Can't beat that.
  
  What I didn't 
 like:
  Characters. While there's a good variety of characters, the focus is clearly on the female characters, 
 and even more clearly on their breasts and skimpy outfits. While that may be how DOA has been historically, 
 and while there's nothing wrong with showing a little skin, it seems like the female characters 
 all have about 6 or 7 different ways to do it and the male characters have 3... maybe 4 outfits.
 
  
  Moves. While many of the moves are simple cominations of punches and kicks, there are many moves 
 that are so insanely difficulty to do, that unless you spent hours on end mastering the timing 
 of that one move, you'd never be able to pull it off when it counts (and who wants to spend that 
 much time on 1 move, when there are 70-120 other moves to practice) .
  Not only that, but after spending nearly 15 minutes trying to execute a move in sparring mode, 
 and seeing the button feedback match exactly what the move definition said, and it not doing the 
 move, I got very frustrated.
  
  The Boss. I understand boss characters are supposed to be tough. And I'm sure there's numerous 
 strategy guides out there on how to beat the boss. But, DOA4's boss is ridiculous. She can kill 
 you in 2 moves (and has done it to me many times) . Now, in story mode you only have to beat her 
 once to finish, so its not too bad. Spend 15 minutes retrying over and over again, and eventually 
 you get it. However, in Time Attack mode (which you need to do in order to unlock the last character) , 
 you have to beat the boss 2 out of 3 times. Damn near impossible. I've done it with 2 characters 
 I think, and with one of my better characters I ended up giving up after trying for 30 minutes 
 and getting sick of being grabbed and having my neck snapped nearly every round draining me to 
 almost no health almost instantly. Not only that, but I found it near impossible to counter many 
 of her combinations, where on the flip side, nearly everything I threw at her she teleported away 
 from and then slammed me. Further, it was impossible to grab her. I'm all for difficult bosses, 
 but to me (and I'm no beginner at fighting games, or gaming in general) , this boss was so overly 
 difficult that it ruined the time attack mode for me.
  
  Online. The lobby. I mentioned it above as something I liked. Which is true, what I don't like 
 is how it isn't really necessary and isn't used except when you first join the match. Once the 
 fighting begins, no matter how many people are in the lobby, you all view the character select, 
 the level select, the load screens, and the fight all as if you were doing it. The lobby which 
 contains a screen to view the fight, is never seen if you want to be in line to fight. Also, I 
 would've liked to see multiple fights going on in 1 lobby at once for tournaments or large rooms. 
 However, that's not the case, and if there are a large number of people in a room (or even 4 or 
 5) you tend to be sitting there doing nothing most of the time, watching fights. Overall the lobby/avatar 
 idea was a cool idea, but it serves no purpose and there is no reason to have more than 2 people 
 in a game lobby ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: throwpooatthem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is very refreshing to see. In a genre that has involved button mashing as the key gameplay, 
 DOA4 has risked losing players at the expense of bringing in a new system.
  
  I would like to point out I am not a "fanboy" of the Xbox 360, Microsoft, Tecmo or whoever so my 
 review isnt biased.
  
  Gameplay - This is where DOA4 has set itself apart from the likes of Tekken. Me being a fan of 
 beat-em ups can honestly say ultimately it does come down to button mashing. But not anymore, on 
 DOA4 if you button mash you will lose. Playing against the computer isnt easy anymore with them 
 being able to learn how you fight, therefore enabling them to counter if you use similar moves 
 over and over. Then you have LIVE, playing against other players let the system come alive and 
 the ranks give you targets and make you want to continue playing. 10/10 
  
  Graphics - Obviously these are amazing. I havent got an HDTV, but playing the game on a normal 
 tv is certainly gobsmacking and hands down has the best graphics seen on any beat-em up. The stages 
 are amazing, and I mean amazing. Only tiny gripe is the hair on the females, they have obviously 
 tried to make it realistic but its slightly gone wrong. I have played it on my mates HDTV and the 
 graphics, not that I thought it was possible improved! 10/10
  
  Sound - The sounds in this game is perfect.... well almost. The actual in game fighting sounds are 
 great, with every punch and kick being brought to life with the sound. Then theres smashing people 
 through glass which has to be one of the most satisfying sounds ever! However, its apparently still 
 acceptable to not bother with an english voice over. This really bugs me, and has meant a drop 
 of a point here. 8/10
  
  Value - There is no doubt you are getting value for money here. 40 (Amazon UK) for the game itself. 
 Then the Xbox Live gameplay on top of that. Then there is the custimisation of your character with 
 up to 8 costumes for certain characters. There are the unlockable characters as well. All of this 
 adds up to major value for money. The game is practically ever lasting (well until DOA5) . 9/10
 
  
  Reviewers Tilt - Well I assume that means my vote. Well this game has shot straight to the top 
 of my favourite Xbox 360 games. I just love the fact of not being able to button mash, and this 
 also makes you want to explore the characters a bit more. The few tiny glitches (dodgy hair, only 
 japanese voices etc.) let the game down. I would give it 9.2 (yeah the .2 makes the difference!) 
 but I cant here. 9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukasz_erecinsk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of DOA then this is a must have. This is the best game from the series. Although 
 it is very similar to the previous games it still proves to be a worthy game to own. The game does 
 everything the previoues games did right - but it also adds a row of corrections which improves 
 the gameplay. 
  For instance: the pace of the game has been improved (it is quicker) , the frame rate seems smoother, 
 the game is smoother - the characters move in a smoother fashion, etc.
  
  There is no need to say that the graphical aspect of the game has been mastered. Yet, the graphics 
 are not alien to those who are familiar with the series. The only major difference lies in that 
 the whole world is in high definition. The textures are also of better quality then those in DOA 
 3. The light effects and the shadow effects are very impressive. The most impressive graphics can 
 be observed when looking at the texture of the water. The textures in the game are in a very high 
 resolution. The sharp graphics make beautiful scenery and form great backgrounds. when all of these 
 aspects come together it adds to the formation of the game mood. It is very important to say that 
 DOA 4 is the best looking game on the 360 at this current moment. All in all, the graphics are 
 great yet they seem all too familiar.
  
  The sound is good, however hot stunning. The sound effects are clearly recycled from the previous 
 games. This is somewhat cheap but it works just fine . The sound fits the game and works well with 
 the action. The music fits the atmosphere of action and the fights. In an overall, this aspect 
 of the game is not as important as one might think. Thus, making new sound effects for DOA 4 would 
 be nonsense while the ones from DOA 3 worked just fine.
  
  The level design is impressive. Many of the levels are made up of multiple layers. They are well 
 designed - characters can be pushed down stairs, thrown out a window, knocked down into a hidden 
 chamber etc. One can also punch his (or her) opponent onto electric fences and other objects with 
 add to the carnage. The levels are very large and diverse in nature. It is truly interesting to 
 see in how many ways one can use different aspects of the map for their benefit. The landscapes 
 are created with the greatest precision - which makes you stop and simply look around the fighting 
 arena. Concluding, the levels are large and beautiful, yet there is so few of them ... 
  
  The on-line gaming is great. It has the same feeling which the DOA Ultimate had - and those who 
 are familiar with the way in which the DOA U dealt with will recognize the way in which the lobby 
 system works. In basic terms the winner stays while those who lose switch. You can watch others 
 fight which is very cool. The on-line mode adds greatly to the games overall value. 
  
  The achivements in DOA 4 are unequally distributed. It is easy to finifh the game, yet that does 
 not yeild many achivements ( about 140 points) and the remaining points might be difficult to get. 
 For instance one of the achievements is linked to getting the level of SS in online mode. This 
 means that you have to be connected to get this, but even if you are connected it is highly likely 
 that you will not achive the rank of SS. Others require you to win e. g. 10 times in a row, or win 
 100 times collectively - these can be hard to achieve if one is a weak player. There are also "funny" 
 achivements - e. g. you lost 5 times in a row ( 0 pts.) oryou went down in ranketc. 
 
  
  Concluding, DOA 4 is a very good game with wonderfull graphics and great gameplay. But it is also 
 a game that can be recomended to anyone. One thing that has to be pointed out that is that the 
 game is hard and this might prevent weaker players from playing this game. Even the single player 
 is hard. Yet, this is one of the best games for Xbox 360 at this current point of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics are insane. The action is great. It takes all the elements from 
 DOA3 and increases them 10 fold. The new campaign is much better then in DOA3, and much more challenging 
 too. Alpha-152 is a much better boss then Tengu. Countering was made harder, but after a while 
 you get used to it. The online play is also very fun. Tag matches are great. Also everyone has 
 lots of costumes and there are lots of unlockables in the game. The only downside is that out of 
 the three new characters, only one (Lisa) is worth using. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulatman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Like many others, I fell for the hype about this game. 
  
  Yeah, the graphics are pretty special. Yep, the frame rate is smooth. Yup, the bouncing jubblies 
 are cool. The costumes are hot, the motion looks fluid, and the all important knicker exposure 
 is rampant (everyone likes a bit of knicker exposure) and at first glance, you might be forgiven 
 for thinking there is a serious game under all this stuff, but in my dissapointed opinion, you'd 
 be oh so wrong.
  
  1. COUNTER MOVES
  
  Maybe I'm slowing down in my old age (30) , maybe the old grey matter don't process as blisteringly 
 fast as it once did, but for me, in the previous games, one of the many enjoyable and accessible 
 aspects to DOA's fighting was the counter system. It really added an incredibly satisfying aspect 
 to the fights. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game has plenty of counter moves, far more than previous incarnations 
 of DOA that I have played, and they look real cool, but believe me, in this game, IF and when you 
 manage to pull off any counter attacks, it always feels like pure luck. 
  Because a different combination of button inputs is necessary to counter a punch, kick, high middle 
 or low attack, you never get that feeling of control. You feel like it's pretty random, and you 
 start to get the bleak feeling that each time you input one type of counter move (say for a punch) , 
 your computer opponent will invariably kick. So that feeling of control and ability is no longer 
 there.
  
  2. DIFFICULTY
  
  Another major sore point for me was the computer opponent difficulty. There just isn't the easy 
 option available from the start, and the Normal setting is in truth HARD. Many of you may think 
 "Hey great, more of a challenge", but for me, it simply meant that the game didn't have that accessibility 
 factor of previous games. Call me a wuss (and I don't doubt that many of you will, and far more 
 besides) , but the Easy setting is a great way to get acquainted with a fighting game. It is far 
 more forgiving, and therefore allows you to really discover favourite characters, timing of moves, 
 and study the moves of your opponents at a comfortable pace, and then progress to higher difficulties 
 to up the oh so important challenge. 
  But getting thrown in at the deep end simply means that you are forced to rely more heavily on 
 the sparring mode of the game to learn moves, but this gets tiresome very quickly. 
  
  It's great to study a single move from time to time in sparring mode, but it's effectiveness can 
 only really be seen and tested in the main game, and here, you will rarely get the opportunity 
 to do anything other than bash the buttons like an ape, and hope (that all the saliva and sweat 
 created by the insane amount of button bashing and frustration doesn't fuse out your wireless controller) . 
 In fact, an ape might have just as much chance at beating the game as you or I.
  
  If you are going to get into this game, into it's heart, you will inevitably have to go through 
 hundreds of hours of frustration, for such a little payoff. By this I mean that because this game 
 is so inaccessible, by the time you have really mastered one characters combo's, you will be ready 
 to put the game down, it will have become stale. There really isn't any long lasting appeal, and 
 you will never EVER be able to get really good at countering moves.
  
  3. STORY
  
  And finally, man oh man, what is with the lack of any intelligible stories or motives behind any 
 of the characters fights? As you progress through story mode, after beating the game with the first 
 few characters, you will wonder what planet the developers came from. Obviously their planet is 
 starved of any creative story telling, and character development. The clearest motive for battle 
 I found in the game is when one of the girls goes to buy a lettuce from some old green grocer. 
 She asks for a discount, but he doesn't want to give a discount, along comes this other girl and 
 buys the lettuce at full price. FULL PRICE I TELL YOU! Well, as any sane person can tell you, that 
 there is motion to war. Civilisations have crumbled over less. The Trojan war was really over the 
 fact that King Priam wouldn't sell two fallafels for the price of one to Agamemon. Helen was just 
 a minor detail.
  
  Trust me, the story in DOA was put together by 5yr olds. It is so non engaging. You really will 
 not be driven to uncover any character depth or motive in this title, because simply put, there 
 aint none.
  
  I could say so much more, but ultimately, it's just my opinion, and we all have one of those. Most 
 of you will undoubtedly ignore what I have been saying, and rightly so, so go and try it for yourselves. 
 Simply be prepared for a real let down. All the hype is just that, hype. Trust me, this game is 
 fun at first, for a while, but you won't be playing this one for long. You will tire quickly.
 
  
  Soulatman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osu_spectrum
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  We all know Dead or Alive doesn't exactly have the best reputation for it's blantant use of sexuality 
 as a sales market. However, do you honestly think that's the only reason (if a reason!) that people 
 have grabbed this game off of the shelves and played the crap out of it? I think not.
  
  The first thing to comment on is one of Dead or Alive's well-known traits: its graphics. DOA 3 
 and DOA Ultimate really pushed the X-Box to it's furthest points and made some visually stunning 
 games. DOA 4 had some high expectations following the powerful visual display that Ultimate created, 
 pushing the X-Box even further than that which was thought to be possible. This game is flat-out 
 beautiful. Let alone character animations and details, the stages are absolutely fantastic. Ranging 
 from the DOATEC mansion where an endless cycle of stairs and window blastings take place to the 
 streets of Las Vegas in which cars can hit you if you are not careful to counter the incoming traffic 
 is amazing. Some stages, such as the Ninja Hideout and Kyoto, are so expansive that you could end 
 up in a wide variety of enviroments. My only quirk with the character designs is their hair. It's 
 not really up to par and it looks a little blocky and chunky in sections. As well, as a friend 
 pointed out, it looks like Elliot's foot is broken half the time! It creates this obscure bump 
 above his foot at points and I don't think Elliot intentionally broke his foot, kept it that way, 
 and somehow fights with it. That would require super glue and a lot of drugs. Of course, he could 
 probably just borrow a drink from Brad.
  
  The sounds are a-typical DOA with electronic beats running rampant with the exceptional few tracks. 
 All the voice acting is pretty good, but especially Christie, who I later found to be the voice 
 actress for Sailor Moon! Imagine that!
  
  The fighting system is basically the same as always. You can become a very "on the offense" fighter, 
 but experienced individuals will definitely take advantage of the counter system. However, I, and 
 many others, were very perplexed by the increased frame rate and the effect it had on countering. 
 It's not quite as easy to execute, especially with the new strategy of pressing forward with guard 
 (rather than back) to counter a mid kick. I think this was a very smart change for Team Ninja to 
 take on. The counter system, especially in DOA 2 Hardcore, was far too easy to execute and dismantle 
 your opponent. This at least gives some strategy to the game, but not going to the extreme as such 
 games as Virtua Fighter and Soul Calibur. 
  
  Overall? If you have a 360, get out there and get this game. It's online play is getting much better 
 (as lagging was really hitting it hard during the first few weeks of release) and the competition 
 is fierce. It really becomes the backbone of the game along with all those secrets (although, in 
 my opinion, Spartan is a horrible player, but she's just really cool to look at) . So strap on your 
 skimpiest outfit, practice mind-numbing moves, and show your opponent the way to the pavement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceReject
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  What can I say? I was looking forward to playing Dead Or Alive 4 and had very high expectations, 
 but was generally let down.
  
  It's mostly the same characters.... with the same moves and its pretty obvious that some of the 
 new levels are just adaptations of old levels used in DOA3. 
  
  Don't get me wrong some of the new characters are pretty good! But please.... Kokoroot just looks 
 like a fat version of Lei Fang. YAWN! won't be playing her much, plus she moves as fast as an elephant.
 
  
  Next thing that annoys me about this game is the fact that when your on the ground, it takes about 
 10 years to get up, and by the time your on your feet your opponent is back on your case. Why put 
 this in... it wasn't there before, at least before you had a chance to get back in there! 
  
  Generally it's just DOA3 with a few new characters and some cool new levels (half of them are 
 just revamps of the old levels) The online feature is pretty cool, but nothing new. 
  
  Is it worth buying.... thats a hard question, the graphics are amazing, but for DOA3 fans, you've 
 been there all before! dayjarvu!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br3ttski22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  i've always been a tekken fan but this new dead or alive game is just amazing its got great graphics 
 great gameplay and its just a great game full stop there is a few graphical flaws like hair moving 
 in clumps but it docent look bad at all. The enviroments are stunning the game is so addictive 
 its gonna keep you up all night. i cant say anything about online because i don't have xbox live 
 but i heard its great the offline multiplayer is good if youve got a friend with you as with any 
 fighting game its a game you can keep playing and playing if you get KO you just want to keep going 
 and going till you've beat them it really is one of the best fighting games of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chief_of_tribe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  A wonderful game. Few fighting games today succesfully create so complete a virtual fighting experience 
 as Dead or Alive 4. The overall gameplay is outstanding. The visuals look incredible in high definition 
 and the sound effects are great in 5.1. There's also the fantastic online multiplayer option this 
 time around accompanied by a unique, fully customizable avatar to represent you in DOA 4's pre-game 
 lobby environments. There's even an online store where you can purchase new items such as clothing 
 or acessories for you characters, avatars, pre-game lobby environments and lots more! Whether your 
 fighting for fun, Zackz (the curency of DOA) , or for Xbox360 achievements, I'm sure fans of the 
 series will agree you'll have a great time doing it. This is by far one of the most fun fighting 
 games (or any game yet realeased for the 360) I have ever played. And I'll continue to play it 
 as long as it sits in my game collection. So whether you're a long time fan of the series, or a 
 new comer looking to see what all the hype is about, this is an incredible game well worth the 
 price tag. Go now and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  After playing many countless hours of DOA Ultimate, I was quite excited about DOA 4 finally releasing. 
 So, as soon as I was actually able to land my Xbox 360 system, I went and picked it up. Now, there's 
 no denying that the game looks fantastic... but it should. It IS running on a $500 system. Someone 
 else said it, and I'm just going to go ahead and repeat it. Graphics do not make a good game. And 
 Team Ninja really needs to stop and think about that instead of keeping with their "Do what we 
 want" attitude that's just costing this series alot of would-be new fans. What makes me say this? 
 Well....
  
  First off, as above mentioned, the scenery and graphics are amazing. Everything from the most obvious 
 (your character model) to the least obvious (individual blades of grass on certain levels) looks 
 incredible. And that's really all that needs to be said. Everyone seems to be hung up so much on 
 how good it looks, they totally forget that there's gameplay underneath that misleading display. 
 And let me tell you, it isn't pretty. Not at all.
  
  The sound is typical in-game, but it's amazing to me how even the non-Japanese characters are completely 
 fluent in Japanese, but not English..... it gets annoying. Really annoying. You would think they 
 would have fixed it by now, but I guess that's never going to happen. 
  
  The story is.... oh wait.... there is no story. Unless of course you count kung-fu fighting someone 
 over lettuce a story... and yes, unfortunately, I'm dead serious. The endings are so off-the-page 
 and make so little sense that you'll find yourself asking, "Why did I just put myself through that 
 crap to see this???" Granted, the FMV looks good... but who cares when the movies themselves are 
 so stupid it's beyond funny.
  
  Gameplay. Here's where this game completely goes to the crapper. For button mashers, it's practically 
 hopeless. Mash away, but even in the first fight you can expect to get nailed by ten hit combos 
 out of nowhere. And OMFG, this game "juggles" like none other. Every single chance the A. I. gets, 
 you're in the air and they're nailing you with combos that even the lead programmers on this game 
 can't do. And don't expect any different if you're not a button masher. This game's A. I. is by 
 far the cheapest I have ever encountered in a game. Period. Which means that, if you're a new comer, 
 you're not going to play this game much because it's that bad. And some would say that it's bragging 
 rights for those who can hang with it, but I say it's poor programming and a cheap way to make 
 a short game last longer. After all, if you have to face each enemy 20 friggin times to progress, 
 then it's going to take you a while to beat the game. And the last boss is ridiculous, always disappearing 
 at the exact right second and then reappearing with a 12 hit  
 combo. Oh, and to make it better, sometimes her throws do little damage... sometimes they take off 
 3/4 your life bar... NO EXAGGERATION! Come on now, that's stupid. Nobody wants to deal with that 
 kind of poor programming.
  
  In closing, unless you're into getting your butt kicked again... and again.... and again.. and again... don't 
 even pick up the box to this one. You COULD try to just play for the multiplayer, but then you'd 
 probably want to unlock the hidden characters and costumes... and you really don't want to bother 
 with that, TRUST ME. This game had such potential, but once again, the execution by Team Ninja 
 wavered, causing this one to fall on the bottom side of my Xbox 360 recommended games list. And 
 for all the people who gave this game a ten, I bet if the graphics were on the level of say... Mortal 
 Kombat... you guys (or gals) would say this game sucks. There's my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyee119274
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  i dont play anlot of fighting games, i just got into it. so, im over here kicking ass the day i 
 bought it. but after like 2 days, i get owned! i get hit once, he starts doing combos and i cant 
 od nothing and get knocked out. so the first day, i rate it 10, these days, i dunno. not to good 
 to me cause i get owned so bad that its not even funny. im sad : ( so... i hope i either play alot 
 and get a hell of alot better, or is there some kinda move to stop combos. im over here pressin 
 every button and i get knocked the **** out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Dead of Alive 4 is not only the best game in the series, but perhaps the best fighter of all time, 
 besting all others. Its gameplay is rock-solid, its graphics stunning beyond compare, and its vast 
 array of unlockable content and online modes are second to none. Team Ninja and Tecmo have truly 
 crafted an exceptional fighter with an equal amount of style and substance to draw you back time 
 after time. 
  
  One thing I will say about the game is that it is hard to master, even on the easiest level. This 
 is a game that lures you in to its sense of complexity and ceases to let go. It will take you a 
 while to master, and perhaps on several occasions will encourage you to throw your controller (don't) , 
 but after a while you will be aufait with the style of skill the game demands. 
  
  Dead of Alive 4 is yet another Xbox 360 classic and a truly amazing fighting game in its own right. 
 The visuals and aural senses are mind-blowing to say the least, and due to the insane amount of 
 content hidden in the game, you'll be playing for hours. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I am not totally familiar with the DOA series, I've only played the games in passing since I don't 
 really care for 3-D fighters (I'm a 2-D man, myself) but I really can't get enough of this game. 
 While it is difficult (maddeningly so, most of the time) you really feel rewarded for playing well. 
 Button mashing will only get you so far, it really pays off to get in good with a few characters... and 
 it REALLY helps to learn how to counter attacks effectively.
  
  I've logged plenty of time with this game and I will openly admit to STILL button mashing with 
 all but around 5 of the characters. Sometimes I can win, sometimes I get plowed. I have characters 
 that I can win with no problem, but even they sometimes get a serious ass kicking by the computer 
 opponents. The computer has an annoying habit of seemingly ESP-like powers. It anticipates EXACTLY 
 what attack you're going to throw and counters it. Characters that excel in throws (I'm looking 
 your way, Bayman...) are a real pain to play against. While it may detract some of the fun when 
 you are still learning, it becomes a great reward to finally beat those characters to a pulp once 
 you start getting good.
  
  There are plenty of unlockables, and most of them aren't so easy to obtain. Getting all the costumes 
 is a real pain, and I still have yet to get all the items from survival mode. This not only adds 
 to the replay value, but is something that fighting games don't really take seriously sometimes. 
 This game also marks the first nonpositive achievements. For getting low grades in online play, 
 your rank decreases below C and you get an emblem to show it. VERY cool idea that I hope gets put 
 into other games.
  
  Gameplay is frighteningly simple. There is a punch button, a kick button, block and throw. Who 
 would think that something that easy could make such an immersive fighting engine? It's really 
 impressive how those buttons make up such a killer fighter. Sometimes I did think it could benefit 
 from having a high/low punch/kick button setting... But once I got used to more characters moves, 
 I had no complaints.
  
  Graphics are ace. The character models may not be a huge leap from the Xbox, but the environments 
 are breathtaking. Not only are some of them HUGE, but they are also interactive. Never have I seen 
 a fighting game have levels this good.
  
  Soundtrack is pretty bland, honestly. I tend to play custom soundtracks while playing. It's not 
 BAD, it's just 'meh'. Sound effects are pretty good, but nothing to write home about.
  
  Online play is definitely this games biggest seller. It isn't perfect, it does freeze a lot and 
 it can lag if you have a crappy connection... but when it runs smoothly, it REALLY is fun. There 
 are plenty of modes and it's fun to sit back and watch others play while waiting your turn. It 
 really reminded me of being in arcades in the mid 90's waiting for my turn to play SFII. Ahhh, 
 memories...
  
  Overall, if you're a fighting game fan, what the hell are you waiting for? Even if you aren't a 
 fighting game fan you may enjoy the game... I sure do. I was kinda worried about buying this one, 
 but I'm sure glad I did. I can't get enough of it, even after all this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martbigz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  As I am a big fan of the Dead or Alive games, i had my hopes high for this game. And after buying 
 this game, and playing it for 5 hours, I can safely say that this game is the best game of the 
 DoA series.
  
  First off, i want to point out one thing : the fact that the game is difficult surely does not 
 make it a bad game, or less worthy game. On the contrary. The game should rather get a thumb's 
 up for that, since all other fighting games I've ever played were far too easy (like beating Tekken 
 5 on Ultra Hard with only bashing the kick button) . The fact that I had to work hard to finish 
 story mode with each character made me feel like I actually accomplished something in the end. 
 Yes, this game is harder than your average beat'em up game, and then some. And yes, you must play 
 a lot before you learn how the game works, but this is all good, since that means this game requires 
 skill, not button bashing.
  
  The graphics are, not surprisingly, astonishing. I really liked the looks and feel of this game. 
 The fighting runs so smoothly, the combos float through, everything just feels good. Nothing to 
 point out here really, as it's as close to perfect as it can come in my eyes.
  Or wait, there is one thing. I know some people responded negatively to the fact that Team Ninja 
 like to "arm" their female characters with a couple of airbags, and that they look very sexy. I 
 am not one of them who thinks this is negative, as it just adds up to realism, but some find it 
 offensive.
  
  The online part of the game is pretty brilliant as well. I had a few online matches, and I never 
 experienced any lag. Sure, once or twice during those battles the game stopped for a millisecond. 
 But this is online play, what do you expect. Other than that, i found it flawless. The online lobby 
 system was cute, but kind of just for show. But that's about what I can call negative. Oh, and 
 for those who find the awards for losing offensive and stupid : i guess sarcasm is not a part of 
 your language, eh. It's just for fun, not to show you that you suck.
  
  Overall I think this game is absolutely the best in the series so far. I can't wait till Dead Or 
 Alive 5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3tsniper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  personally i thought the game was good but lets face it when you are playing on normal you should 
 be able to beat almost everyone within two matchs but the final boss is the worst character i have 
 played against when see disappears almost at every move you do and also grabs you from what ever 
 position even if you are doing a combo or trying to run away it get pretty stupid you would think 
 that you would get a challenge when playing this game not getting your ass handed to you for an 
 hour or two let face it when you are fighting and alpha does one hit and kills you that is dumb 
 almost no point in playing the game because their is no challenge to that it is a massacre and 
 i am sure if you are reading this and have played alpha in time attack mode to try to open tengu 
 you know what i am talking about i give this game a 8.9 because i like playing with my freinds 
 with four freinds it is a fun game an i would recommend it for that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilrush
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this game was truly great. good graphics, good gameplay, good sound and everything else you would 
 expect. this game comes to life with its complex fighting engine and all the added material. it 
 looks like your average fighter but its the best fighting game i have EVER played along side with 
 soul caliber 3 witch was good but a dissapointment it didnt come out for xbox.
  overall this game is #1 game for 360. the only 2 problems i had were:
  
  #1) some great characters 
 like ryu should have more costumes
  
  #2) DO NOT TURN OFF SYSTEM WHILE IT IS LOADING!!!!!!!!!
  YOU WILL LOSE ALL UNLOCKED CHARACTERS 
 AND LEVELS!!!!!!
  (IT HAPPEND TO ME)
  
  BESIDES THOSE THIS GAME IS TRULY AMAZING AND DEFINATLY WORTH BUYING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + Superb Graphics
  + Over twenty unique characters
  + Great Environments add to the fights 
  + Online Component is well integrated
  
  Cons
 
  - Some Lag issues from time to time
  - Small, but noticeable graphical blemishes
  - Falls short in both, number of arenas and extra content
  
  The Dead or Alive series has been 
 around since the days of the Sega Saturn, and while it has always been deemed inferior to other 
 3-D fighting games such as Tekken or Virtua Fighter due to its simplicity, it has improved with 
 every installment. Dead or Alive 4 stands as a testament to these improvements as it offers the 
 fastest and more balanced Dead or Alive experience yet.
  
  The game is basically the same that you have seen since Dead or Alive 2 for the Dreamcast. You 
 take your characters into different interactive arenas and duke out while trying to use each of 
 the environments hazards to your advantage. The biggest change you'll notice from the get-go is 
 the speed and fluidity in which this game moves. Most bouts begin and end before you even notice 
 or even know what just happened in case you lost. This is to the game's advantage, as you continually 
 have to stay on your toes, trying to outsmart your opponent rather than sitting there just blocking 
 and waiting for an opening in your opponent's combo in order to throw in some jabs of your own. 
 The relative ease in which you can pull any of the characters moves is also a great plus, as novices 
 can jump right in and kind of figure out what's going on, while at the same time people who stick 
 with the game will eventually come to learn the intricacies of the game's system. And it's a good 
 thing that said system is deep and varied.
  
  All characters can throw punches, kicks, throws and counters, each easily accessible by pressing 
 the assigned button. The nuisances of the system begin to show however, in that you'll have to 
 input different directions with your pad or stick, in order to access the more effective moves. 
 The countering button does nothing by itself unless you enter the right directions that apply to 
 each type of attack, be it high, middle or low. So although it would seem that the system itself 
 is easy to pick up, you can tell the difference between an amateur which is only pounding on the 
 buttons, from someone who has taken the time to learn the game. The games controls are also very 
 responsive and it'll be hard to find yourself fussing about that move you didn't wanted to do but 
 still got in there somehow. The games AI also puts up quite the fight and it'll give you some good 
 honing of your skills so you can show to your buddies or online pals.
  
  The online mode is the best component in the package, as it delivers the best online fighting experience 
 on a console yet. The system is similar to Dead or Alive Ultimate, in which you can either join 
 other matches or wait for your turn, or you can host the matches, setting your own rules. The ranking 
 system also works very well, as you'll receive more points by beating higher rank opponents, while 
 at the same time lose a bunch of them should you find yourself losing to a lower rank than you. 
 The biggest addition to the online component is the lobby system, in which you can create your 
 own avatar and set it in different places, such as the South Pole or a Japanese castle. Its also 
 cool that you can buy different things for your lobbies to make them look better, but while the 
 whole thing is quirky and funny, it feels out of place, considering that the time you'll spend 
 in your personalized lobby is reduced to when you sign in.
  
  Graphically, the game is magnificent. The arenas look so vivid, that you'll wonder whether or not 
 they were taken straight from an adventure game in which you can just go an immerse yourself, exploring 
 every nook and cranny in the environment. The reactions that the arenas yield to the fighting going 
 on around them is also well done, as you'll be crashing opponents through windows and smashing 
 them against breakable objects and get the reaction you'll expect. The characters also respond 
 to the environment and its hazards, as you'll be slipping on water and bouncing in pretty realistic 
 manners against the walls. The characters themselves, while not very different from Dead or Alive 
 Ultimate visual wise, show an impressive amount of fluidity and each animation, whether it be a 
 simple punch or rolling down a staircase feels just right. The clothes and skin textures on the 
 male have had a slight overhaul, offering more realistic clothing and details such as veins from 
 muscles and the such. The biggest shortcoming from the graphics is the movement found in some of 
 the characters hair, mostly the females, as it looks like some sort of watery substance that flows 
 in strange ways and clips through the character models quite often. Still, this is only a small 
 nip-tick and not enough to detract from the game's gorgeous visuals. The audio is also very well 
 done, featuring some solid compositions and equally impressive sound effects. The game's voices 
 are all done in Japanese, which is a good thing considering how fighting games tend to do in the 
 English voiceover department.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is the best Dead or Alive to Date. It offers enough improvements of n overall tried 
 and true formula, a varied and developed roster of characters, plenty of unlockables and an online 
 mode that is sure to expand the life of the title and your overall enjoyment of the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmoney
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  i dont know how to start dis off. ok da graphics then. da frame rate goes 60 frames per second and 
 it looks like da best oooking xbox360 game ever (if u dont compare it to quake 4) . i played dis game 
 for mainly one thing. xbox live. da lobbies are really interactive becuz u got a avatar to pick 
 so u can walk and talk to people and look at profiles. da real cool part is dat i u can watch matches 
 and talk to every one dat has a headset playing and or watching da match (even while they are in 
 da lobby) . da loading time is quick and there is a grading system (f- to ss) for every time u win 
 a fight online. if u beat a guy or girl dat has a grade of an A+ and u got a c-, your grade goes 
 up but if u have da same grade as da guy or girl, it will take a longer time to get your grade 
 higher. if u dont have xbox live, do not buy dis game becuz dat is da best part of dis game i dont 
 care wat any of yall say. (and da loading times are quick even online) . da other thing is da characters. they 
 have more combos and da difficulty is harder and they moves are hard to master now. da replay value 
 is great though (i been playin dis for some straight hours) . like i said dis is da best online game 
 for xbox 360. they seriously need to put dis on at least one of da sony systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the fourth game in an amazing franchise which boasts a dynamic variety of characters. 
 Within its lineup, each of the characters within the game brings in their own distinct different 
 fighting style. Overall the main gameplay is quite diverse as the battle stages are interactive. 
 Things can be destroyed and characters can be run straight into vehicles. However beginners to 
 the game do have to be warned that the difficulty level may be a bit intimidating for those users 
 who are new to the game overall, and button mashing isn't exactly the way to tackle the game as 
 the CPU is quite smart. It can easily recognize patterns and find ways to counter it, so use training 
 to prepare yourself against the worse. As you complete the story mode with specific characters, 
 more and more secret characters will be unlocked from the game such as Spartan who is a female 
 version of Master Chief from the HALO series. However there is only one thing within the game that 
 I tend to ask. Why is it that in the cut scenes the characters are so powerful (especially the 
 ninja's with their special techniques) but they can't do anything regarding that within the game 
 itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtlarock
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Well ,everyone was saying how superb this is so I had to but it. First time i played got my ass 
 kicked,"mmmm... i'll come back to it tommorow". The next day ,same again,"awww, this is ridiculous, and 
 those japanese phrases are doing my head in". Next day ,"Ive had enough of this im going to put 
 it back on ebay".
  In short Im just not just anygood at this and found it somewhat annoying. Beautiful graphics, lovely 
 backgrounds but I cant help but think why they have to make a game soo darn difficult to get into. Im 
 sure I'll be regretting getting rid of this in the very near future, but "c'est la vie". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlchemicMetal
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutlynext-gen. It had the only true next-gen graphics i have seen so far, except 
 for maybe CoD 2; plus the DOA chicks are really HOT! The game kept entertained for hours, and I 
 am still playing it to date. The soundtrack is absolutly phenominal. The gameplay is high-paced 
 and action packed, although the countering system can take some time to get usd to. The story line 
 kept me interested no matter who I was playing with, even though ihad no idea what was going on. 
 If you haven't played this game yet, it is a must have, and you should go get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20051989
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This Game is so COOL. Tekken fans havent even seen a fighting game unitll they see DOA 4. The graphics 
 are so detailed and are very high defined it looks like a film in action. The characters are so 
 cool especialy the lasses, they look so good with their 'sassy' costumes. I recomend this game 
 to anyone who likes to kick some ass, 360 style! If you don't trust this review read others as 
 they will tell you the same, this is the best fighting game there is...... ever. Nothing will come 
 close to this untill Dead Or Alive 5 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerrilove4788
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game really is good. Amazing visuals, awesome gameplay and fantastic costumes. Only one thing 
 lets it down ----The AI. Capable of pulling off 200 button push combos in less than a second, blocking 
 every blow you put their way and generally wiping the floor with you. I'm sure after a lot of practice 
 it would get better.
  
  Online you take away the AI and play against real people. From the imaginative lobbies you know 
 you're onto something good. Playing with real people is much more fun as they don't have 0.2 second 
 reflexes.
  
  A great game, visually dazzling, frustrating at times but online is one of the best games i've 
 ever played on live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: najman28
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of fighting games (aside from Street Fighter II for SNES) because of 
 their lack of lasting appeal. DOA 4 changed my opinion of that. 
  
  Single player is fun. Can be contoller-breaking frustrating until you start to pick up the timing 
 & counter moves.
  
  Online play has great variety of modes to choose from, although you will take A TON of beatings 
 when you first start.
  
  I'm an achievement addict, and a good number of them are impossible. 
  
  Not a definate purchase 
 or a definate rental. Its one of those games that requires MANY hours to master, and once you have, 
 is very rewarding. You get out of it what you put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Cyn-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't for impatient people I'll tell you that much. The AI is too cheap for my taste 
 really, even on the lowest difficulty setting. Though once you get the hang of stringing together 
 moves besides the basic combos then you'll have an easier time. But playing humans at the game 
 is totally different. The AI stays up in your face put people tend to back off, which just kinda 
 throws you off the first few times you play online. The player models seem weird to me, they don't 
 really blend in with the environment. Other than that everything else is fine. One thing you have 
 to do though is stick with one character or you'll never get the hang of the game. I'd recommend 
 this to most people, too impatient people who really want this game anyway I'd tell you to play 
 with a friend, play online, or go into sparring mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSnake89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Doa4 Has awsome enviorment at its just huge. I like the avatars you can have but i cant stay in 
 the lobby and still play, I wish they would make a patch for that. Next, the AI is hard I think 
 their should be a easy setting for nooby players like me but theirs not. Next, its very hard to 
 counter in this game and the bots can do it so well. Then, you really want to throw down your controler 
 when you keep on losing. After that, I have no idea what the stroy is about. But when I play with 
 my nooby friends its a lot of fun and it has a lot of unlockables 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallze2004
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  The graphics are without a dought some of the best around and not just in a beat'em up, but that 
 said there are few other things appealing about this game. I'll be the first to admit that i'm 
 not the best at fighting games but they are fun so we all play them, but the fact that you can't 
 turn the difficulty down to get use to the controls and game play can make the game quiet tedious. 
 The blocking system is probably the most pointless factor of this game due to the fact that if 
 you manage to block a punch they just grab you instead to inflict even more damage, and if you 
 are able to land that elusive punch it will more than likely get reversed. I also think that the 
 developers lost their focus while making this game in the sense they seem to have spent less time 
 on the game play aspect and more time on how big the ladies chests are and how small thier costumes 
 can be aspect, honestly there is more bounce than punch in the game. All the problems aside, the 
 best part about the game is graphics, probably the best in any game on the market across any format 
 at the moment. With so much going on at one time and absolutely no slow-down is amazing, while 
 also keeping everything smooth and beautiful is jaw-dropping, and the interactive environments 
 are so much fun, kicking your opponent through a window form 100 feet up is just as fun as hitting 
 them against a calmly grazing rhino and watching it run off crying is the best. On whole playable 
 for about an hour before you just want to throw your pad across the room, (but don't their expensive) . 
 In a league of its own on the graphics, but game play-wise, tekken or soul caliber it ain't, overall 
 playable but a bit of a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konochi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive has always been a good fighter, well now it is AMAZING! The game may seem disappointing 
 to some DOA veterans in the beginning, but the more you play the more you will come to love this 
 fast and fun game. With an expansive cast of characters and even more expansive environments, DOA4 
 is something you really will want to pick up.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed a whole lot from the previous DOA games but it is sure to entertain. 
 The whole counter hold system has been re worked, so it is more difficult to counter. Also the 
 environments are so expansive, in the Temple on the Mountain arena there are 3 flights of stairs 
 and a secret temple entrance for you to fight to get knocked down (or into) .
  Also the interactions with danger zones are new, because some danger zones move, such as cars and 
 cheetahs. The gameplay is just plain the best in the series and it is much faster.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are great. Except for a few issues with hair and facial 
 expressions. For example, in many in game cut scenes you will see that the eyes of the characters 
 do not move, they just stare. But sometimes you get some great facial expressions such as the first 
 cut scene in Kasumi's story. Also sometimes the hair is just freaky. At times Kasumi and Kokoro 
 and Lei Fangs hair can look like little rubber noodles. And Tina and Hitomi's hair are segmented 
 and sometimes look a little off. But there are plenty of good hair animations such as Hayate's 
 and Helena's. Also occasionally you will see some clippings on Lei Fang's dresses, and see Hitomi's 
 Hair clip into her last 3 outfits. But in general the graphics are amazing the characters and environments 
 are very well detailed.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is my favorite fighting game soundtrack. It has some pretty funky music 
 in it. Each character's theme song fits them very well and sounds good too. Also the voice acting 
 are amazing, except for Nicole's (a. k. a. Spartan 452) . But what the Spartan lacks in her vocals 
 she makes up for in her theme song, which is a re-mix of the Halo theme.
  
  New Characters
  
  Kokoro - A striking character, doesn't have very good throws or counters, 
 but is still fun to play as. But she is also very difficult to learn to be good with.
  
  Eliot - A very fun character, he has a good mix of good striking attack and throws. And he oddly 
 doesn't sound that bad. And despite his 4th costume I still think he isn't an effeminate weirdo.
 
  
  La Mariposa - A very interesting character, she is in my opinion the best addition to DOA4. She 
 has many grapples and some pretty interesting strikes. She is also oddly important to the story.
 
  
  Spartan 452 - A character that the game would have been better off without. She only has 1 original 
 move, which is her plasma grenade throw. All the rest of her moves were animations from other characters. 
 But she does seem original if you are just playing as her (even though she isn't) , and her environment 
 and theme song are great.
  
  Story
  
  A great story is thrown in this time around. The dialogue is much better. Some storylines such 
 as Helena's are deep. And others such as Tina's are funny and fresh. A lot of good endings are 
 in this time around. Some are just hilarious, such as Zack's and Kasumi's (there actually is a 
 point to Kasumi's ending, and while it was disappointing, it was funny. And if you are looking 
 for the meaning, just listen to the lyrics of the song)
  
  Value
  
  In short DOA4 is a great game almost everything is perfect, and any fighting game fan will most 
 likely love this game, I give it a 9.8 because of some minor flaws. So the game is superb!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I dont actually own this game, my friend does but I have played every other DOA game. And I can 
 easily say this is the best by far!. The Countering System has been updated, so you can pull of 
 counter moves skillfully If timed well, Its also very rewarding when you do so. I played this online 
 today, and besides the odd lag here and there it easily beats DOA2: U. As the Charecter AI is simple 
 and easy to understand after a while, the online play is a stab in the dark, adding a greater challenge. 
 The customizable Avatar's, and Japaneese style cartooned lobbies are completly customizable, so 
 it gives you somthing to work towards. The online games modes are pretty much the same, the Story 
 modes is lengthy and challenging, Hundreds of Rewarding unlockables and charecters. Overall this 
 game will last you a long time and is a must-buy for any XBOX 360 owner.
  
  My Score: 10/10
  Fragseeker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool coolcool cool cool cool cool cool cool cocool 
  ol cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
  cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool ccoolool
  cool cool cool cool cool coolc ool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool
  coo lco olco olcoo 
 lcoo lco olco olco olc oolc oolco olc oolco occ oolc oolo coolo llccoolool cool cool coolc ool 
 cool coo lcool cool cool cool cool cool cool/ This is game is so awsome and fun and very cool to 
 play with, and the settings are awsome and it is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive 3 for the original Xbox was one of the best fighting games ever, and also one 
 of the nicest looking. There's not much more to say about this game, if you liked the old one then 
 you'll love the Xbox360 version. 
  
  There's no real story to go for so I go straight on the whole gameplay. 
  The new thing in this 
 game is the more interactive enviroment, not only walls that can brake apart or objectivs that 
 fells down. Now the combat can be interupted by different objects during different conditions, 
 such as cars, bigger animals and even dinosaurs in some maps. So you could use the enviroment to 
 perform different combos and special moves, the maps are really big and there's about always different 
 levels of the map which will let you kick down your opponent from cliffs, walls ect. and the enviroment 
 will change, like when you kick down your enemy from a specific location trough the glass window 
 they'll fall right on the street and the fight continous from there. 
  
  The new graphics is simply beatiful, even tho I haven't been able to catch a HD-TV yet, but even 
 on a regular TV it looks great with excellent details, shading and everything you would except 
 from a Xbox360 game. 
  And the controls isn't getting any better than this on a console fighting game, if you are used 
 to play fighting games like Tekken on Playstation 2 you'll find yourself with a more optimal way 
 to play, it's hard to discribe what makes it so good but it just directly falls natural. 
  
  Even tho how terrific the game plays out there's alot of things that will make you angry on 
 the developers of the game. The game has really great looking models, but it's extremetly sexistic 
 in the way that the males are always muscular and got cool outfits and the females doesn't wear 
 much to cover their over-worked breasts and body. This is something that got me upset, becuase 
 the females looks pretty much the same, they have about the same voice... or... whatever you'd 
 like to call it, they're not saying much they're just moaning. 
  
  Some of you might like this and it might not be very good to say this but you who have played the 
 game will soon find out that the developers of the game seems to be some horny japaneese guys basicly. 
 It just ruins the whole game, really. 
  
  So, last words would be like this:
  If you're a fan of fighting games this is something you have to get and experience with a friend 
 or online at Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeuscraig1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  i love this game. i been playing it for about 15 hours now and completed most of it but spend most 
 of my time now online fighting other people. it runs really well online and has alot of new unseen 
 features which are really funnny and good. you can like build yur own house and use as a lobby 
 for people to wait and fight. you will like this game i do AND I DONT EVEN LIKE FIGHITNG GAMES. 
 there are alot of achievements on this game which should keep u busy i should add. i am actually 
 on this game right now my gamer tag zeuscraig1 if u want to challenge me. i guareentee you will 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Well Team Ninja always come up with awesome games and this game is one of them. They are also known 
 to include some very hard challenges in there games which this one can do too. Although its pretty 
 easy to pick up and start killing.
  
  The graphics are done very well with smooth and great character models. The background environments 
 look amazing, and its great fun to smash your enemies through windows, wall or anything you can 
 find. However the only minor fault with the graphics is sometimes on the scenes after youve won 
 ect your characters hair or clothes might not look right. Eg: Your hair might go through your clothes, 
 this is not major or even that noticeable if you dont know. With fantastic frame rate, great effects 
 and flashy moves Dead or Alive 4 looks amazing.
  
  Well with a new and improved countering system it helps increase the fun. Even though the controls 
 are simple, doing huge combos and throws can become a little more difficult. The games difficulty 
 is not that hard even though it offers some good challenges but I think that this is the best way. 
 I can get annoyed of playing through a good game too quick just cause its too easy. From a wide 
 variety of characters which include Ryu Hayabusa and Spartan 458 which looks just like Master Chief 
 from the Halo games. There is also a lot of fighting styles as well such as Ninjutsu, Karate, Pro 
 Wrestling and a lot of other martial arts.
  
  The sound is great, just the whooshing of your punches and the crunching of your opponent as you 
 smash them to the ground or wall. Some of the soundtracks used in the fighting really helps build 
 the tension and makes you want to win even more.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 offers quite a lot, there is a Story mode for you to play with, Time Attack, Survival 
 Mode, Team Battle, Versus, Sparring and of course online which is great fun too. The game wont 
 last you that long but to say its a fighting game it is a bit. But its the online mode that will 
 keep making you come back for more.
  
  So personally I really really like this game, and cant get enough of it. Make sure that you definelty 
 check this game out if you havent already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fusion_Fox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I can finally move DOA4 for the Xbox 360 from my 'Wish list' to my 'Collection'
  
  What a game! Intense graphics, amazing gameplay and just plain fun with a friend. I recommend this 
 game to anybody with an Xbox 360. I never played any of the other DOA games apart form at my friend's 
 house and the only other fighters I have played recently were Super Smash Bros. Melee and Soul 
 Calibur II but woah, do I love this game! The countering system is really well executed and it 
 just feels like a very well made game. Well done Team Ninja, for another brilliant game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoomaster18
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  What were the developers thinking when making this game? Oh, yeah the only way we can get people 
 to actually play the game for a long time is to make it super impossible so that you waste your 
 entire life by getting all the characters and their alternate costumes. Which getting those is 
 also another waste of time. This game had nothing for me, the fights lasted about 30 seconds to 
 2 minutes at tops and the AI became seemingly impossible after a few fights in story mode. The 
 only way you can actually beat the game is if you get lucky. Save your money people, rent it so 
 you can get a real game with real substance later in March. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tranz07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay is as tight as its ever been, the online works great, the graphics are beatiful, and 
 the fighters are all fantastic...
  
  the new difficulty makes the game even more competative.. and the new characters are completely 
 unique!! 
  
  Only compliant is that the art style still makes the game look like the old ones... the graphics 
 are MUCH MUCH nicer now... but hopefully in the feature the characters wont look like anime characters 
 and instead be realistic... 
  
  The stages all look great and all offer something different. 
  Music is great to listen to while 
 beating some one up online.
  The lobby system at first look very very dumb... then i cant help but check everyday to buy new 
 clothes and gear for my avatar... and i only play to make money to buy the big screen tv... i need 
 it !!! ahhhhh
  
  Great game.. only problem is the lag on occassion and a glitch that freezes your 360 when some 
 one joins or quits while loading the online game!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SameOlSameOl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is a fantastic fighting game. Every aspect of DOA4 blows me away. From is massive array of 
 costumes to its multi-platformed levels. Don't forget the DOA girls. The game is relativly easy 
 to learn. But it takes some time to master. Take it from me. The first day I went online I lost 
 like 6 games straight. Now my record online is 183 - 102. Not bad but not good.
  DOA4 is all about timing. The combos are easy to learn and perform you just gotta know the right 
 time to bust em out. If you buy this game you will not regret it. Unless fighting games just aren't 
 your thing. So far i've been playin like 20-40 hours and im not even close to being finished or 
 bored. Although the story mode is extremely short and confusing the endings you get after, well, 
 ending the story mode with the different characters are SICK!! It's almost like watching a movie, 
 actually it is like watching a movie. DOA4 also features a Time Attack Mode, where you race to 
 beat 8 stages in record time, Survival, where you face non-stop opponents until you are defeated 
 and DOA Online. Now DOA Online is a whole different story. There are ranking system which are much 
 better than Bungie's Halo 2 ranking systems. You start as a C and work your way to an SS while 
 avoiding derankings and losing streaks. The ranks are F E D C B A S SS. After you win a match you 
 are given 50 points for each round you won, granted you won all the rounds. Then you are given 
 an additional for handicap, if the person you faced was a higher level you get more experience, 
 and for a streak, 10+ for each win. Most people think "Hey, I'm gunna face all the F's a beat the 
 livin crap outta em and become an S in no time" when the reality is that's the best way to derank. 
 For instance say your a B like me and you are facing an F. You have a streak of 5 wins against 
 this guy when suddenly a few stupid mistakes costs you the round. Guess what. The handicap on that 
 match is brutal. Its probably in the high 1000's or low 2000's. So fighting all the less experienced 
 players is clearly not the best way to go. Anyways back to DOA Online. In DOA Online they have 
 a store called a Zack shop. Winning matches earns you Zack points. Zack points are, obviously, 
 used to buy items from the Zack Shop. Items range from Avators to Accessories, Costumes to Lobbies. 
 The Zack shop adds more fun to the online and makes winning even more rewarding. Well, I'm getting 
 bored with this review. I will spice it up when I more time because I have an exam tomorrow and 
 I've wasted hours of study time on DOA4. So, Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zbox360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game is easily one of the most impressive game for the 360 so far... but it also has probably 
 the hardest learning curve yet... yes this game may be extremely impressive graphicly, but the 
 fighting is so fast, you have almost a second less time to react, and in the world of DOA that 
 is a long time. I don't no about u but i still haven't mastered the art of blocking and countering 
 in this version of DOA... Easily one of the hardest game to date to master. Sure button mashing 
 works, but who likes to play with so meone who hits the same button the whole match. So my point 
 is this game is most deffinatly not easily mastered.. probably one of the hardest fighting games 
 yet i'm to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Following on from the dead or alive series comes dead or alive 4, a fast paced fighting game which 
 is a beauty to look at. If this was a release game then it would have got game of the year. In 
 this game all of the characters from the series are on here, but also inclued Ryu Hyabusa (ninja 
 gaiden) and Spartan Nicole (halo) . Ryu is my personal favourite because he is amazing with his 
 kicks. The one thing you must not do in this game is button mash because you will get your face 
 kicked in. the blocking system is great because all those losers that button mash are stopped. 
 Also i live the interactive enviroment inlcluidng throwing people of bridges, kicking them into 
 electric walls. The online play (which i have only watched) is amazing. the graphics are a joy 
 to watch and the gameplay is fast and furious. This is easily the best fighter ever made. You dont 
 get any flashy blue stuff when you get hit like on other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 for the Xbox 360 has to be the best in the series. They took what was good in DOA 
 3 and refined them. The environments in the levels are simply amazing. DOA 4 can also be a good 
 pick-up and play game for some and a very difficult game for others.
  
  First I like to say the game is not easy, but it really depends on the person. I found it difficult 
 because I haven't played a 3d-fighter in a while so to a newcomer it might be a little frustrating 
 but in the end its all worth it.
  
  Theres a dozen game modes in the game like Story Mode, Time Trial, Surivival, Sparring, DOA Online, 
 etc. As far as online goes they do have a nice lobby system and there is hardly any lag. 
  
  Unlike most games for xbox 360 the achievements are a little difficult. So if your into unlocking 
 the achievements you'll have quite a challenge.
  
  All in all Dead or Alive 4 is a great fighting game for the Xbox 360 and if your fan of the series 
 or haven't ever played it I suggest you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgrewal16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I've played Tekken and Soul Caliber.... and to be honest DOA 4 for the 360 is a serious contender 
 and can be mentioned in the same lines as its competitors.
  
  great graphics, sound is decent and the gameplay is awesome.... the controls are responsive and 
 easy to use after about an half hour of playing or if u want to make your transition smoother.... just 
 spar!
  
  I haven't touched the multiplayer yet but from what i've heard... there's continuous hours of play 
 there so the value really flies up for this one.
  
  all in all.... its a great game..... im not too into fighting games but seriously this one kicks 
 ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Well I have been playing DOA from since it came out untill now , it has been my favorite game and 
 then i finally get a 360 and DOA 4 is there. 
  
  Ok so i'm used to the black and white buttons , since you do so many moves with them and none of 
 the moves are there. You press the shoulder pads and it's just taunts. A new thing with the fighting 
 though is that there are like cars in the level that crash into you and you can jump over some 
 parts of the map to get to your oppenet. The story mode is pretty easy it shouldn't take you long 
 to unlock all the characters. I'm not sure about the costumes so far and how many they have. 
 
  
  Now about the graphics , they look basicly the same . The framerate seems faster but the hair still 
 has glitches in the way it reacts with the character. The only visual difference is blurring and 
 more shiney characters. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  FIrst Off, I would like to say that the fighting genre of gaming isn't one of my favorites. I don't 
 hold much love for it, nor do I realy care for it. I rented this game for gamefly simply becuase 
 their wasn't anything much else to rent.
  
  DOA 4 is a great fighting game. It's challenging, good looking, and just plain fun. It's an amazing 
 game. It plays well. The AI is tough, and the fighting mechanic is easy to pick up if you take 
 your time to pick it up.
  
  Practice you must. If you've never played any DOA game, or any fighting game for that matter, this 
 isn't the one to get you started. I got my but kicked left and right for a good several hours before 
 I caught that you can't just tap "X" constantly and expect to win. 
  
  You must play know when to attack your opponent. At first you may get your face wiped into the 
 ground on a regular basis. However once you pick up the game mechanic you're opponent will chip 
 like the Great Wall Of China. It's rewarding when you win a fight becuase you know that you're 
 opponent is trying to literally kick your butt.
  
  The graphics in the game are gorgeous. Just like in past DOA games, the enviroments and character 
 models are well done. Infact to enjoy the graphics you could just watch the computer duke it out 
 for your viewing pleasure.
  
  The sound quality is good. I'm not a fan of the music, but when smashing someone through a wall, 
 or off a bridge, it does sound rather nice. If you've got the right set up, you can hear what's 
 going on around you, which makes you feel like you're in the fight and not just playing it.
  
  I didn't play the game online. I knew that I didn't have the skill too. However from what I've 
 heard from online friends, they said that it plays well with a few minor lag problems that are 
 easily overlooked.
  
  DOA 4 is worth buying if you're a veteran of fighting games. If you want a challenge, and an overall 
 great game, then pick this title up as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The fact that you can unlock the masterchief is awesome. That totally ups the game half a notch. 
 The graphics are good. The fact that the creaters made all the female characters breasts constantly 
 jiggle is an added bonus (are computer girls getting a lot hotter or what) . As being the first 
 fighter for the 360 it's definetely buying to get you used to the controller and the way that these 
 games are headed. It will provide hours for fun, once you get used to it. I still haven't checked 
 out the online function yet so I got nothing on that. In conclusion it's a better bang for the 
 buck than playing DOA beach volleyball you perverts. haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfgang66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is my first DoA game, but not my first 3D fighter. I have played the Virtua Fighter, 
 Tekken, Soul Caliber and Mortal Kombat games and DoA4 is the best, by far. This game is amazing 
 graphically and also an excellent fighter. Each of the many characters have different origins, 
 stories, fighting styles, and looks. Each detailed character is fun to play with but difficult 
 to master. You will probably stick with two or three characters the entire game though.
  
  It is a real treat to play in amazingly detailed environments online. X-box live adds a lot of 
 value to this game after you beat story mode. The lobby system isnt really needed but its a nice 
 idea to have a custom avatar. The only bad thing about the Live feature is lag. Sometimes it lags 
 when a lot of people are in the room, but most of the time it runs smoothly. 
  
  I reccommend this game to anyone who has Xbox Live and enjoys difficult fighters. DoA is very hard 
 so dont try to buy this game if you have never played a 3D fighter before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for all Xbox 360ers and is truly a masterpiece. I love this game so much 
 my girlfriend get jealous. her name is Jayla Marie Tomblin aka Twinky. She is always complaining 
 about my gaming and all the video gamers out there. But really this game is awesome. I have never 
 even played any of the dead or alives but after playing this one i wish i had. I was really surprised 
 at how good this game was. The back grounds and the stages really are beautiful. Also its cool 
 how the animals and stuff can attack you or help you a little bit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quantum_shift
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Dead Or Alive 4 is one of those rare sequels that takes the previous game and gives it a wack across 
 the head and says "Wake Up!" What I mean by this is that the previous game were games that you 
 could pick up and play regardless if you have had any experience with any others in the series. 
 DOA4 however does not follow this formula. 
  
  The first thing you may notice is that there is no easy difficulty. Normal is as easy as it gets. 
 Second off, there are a variety of characters that don't fight anything like anyone else (with 
 the exception of the unlockable Time Attack only Characters) . Three new characters add whole new 
 fighting styles which you have to spend time to master before you can hope to do some damage with 
 them. 
  
  Like all the games, the sparring mode is back and kicking. With some characters racking up over 
 100 moves, the sparring mode is something to cherish, especially the rightly named Exercise mode, 
 which offers you the chance of learning the entire character's moveset. You even get to unlock 
 the character's voice for your system, which is a nice touch. But sometimes, the Exercises can 
 be ridiculously hard (Hayate's for example) . 
  
  Overall, the game is the best in the series, and also the hardest. With a variety of costumes, 
 (about 7 per character, not so much compared to DOAU) , and great characters, this game will have 
 you playing for months. It even has XBOX LIVE support. A MUST BUY! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy182
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the ferst DOA game i have ever played and after a fue hours of playing I switched from 
 a Teken fan to a full fleged die hard DOA fan. I still love Teken but i thout it was the best fighting 
 game ever then i played this OMG I love the combat sistom from the countring to just the plane 
 look of the moves its extreamly fast past and im still haveing trobl ceaping up with the game.
 
  
  The multiplayer is so nuts you find yourself yeling at your freinds and the game Grandmas boy stile 
 if you have seen the move. You will go from match to match to match to match. I havent had the privledge 
 of playing online but it looks asome and it most proboble is.
  
  And the grafics will stun your eyes thats all i need to say about the grafics you will know what 
 i mean after 5 or 6 hours of playing
  
  The only problom i have with the game is that the game is just way to frustrating i still LOVE 
 this game but by the 6th stage im yeling at the game but its proboble becaose i suck at it.
  
  so over all this game is perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  doa4 has reallly good graphics, a good story and good costumes. and the online play is pretty good 
 but the game still has sum problems: 
  
  Graphics: the graphics look really pretty! mostly the backgrounds! they look very realisteic, and 
 colorful and stuff. but the thing i don't like is the girls hair. it goes thru their bodies and 
 it looks stringy and disgusting. i don't really like it. and the clothes r kinda weird cuz they 
 look textured or sumthin. but i guess thats a good thing. 
  
  Online: um i dunno wats up wit the online play, but it goes really slow 4 me (sumtimes it duznt 
 when im fighting certain ppl. when im fighting british ppl thats when it usually goes slo) maybe 
 i have a bad connection or sumthin but i don't think so. its fun meeting ppl n stuff, but sum of 
 them r really mean! (i mean ppl call u **** and stuff! and i actaully am black so it duzn't fell 
 2 good. i usually ignore them but still, sumtimes ppl jus go 2 far!) 
  
  Sound: the sound is pretty good. i wish everyone could talk in their own language tho, cuz japanese 
 gets annoying after a while. 
  
  Gameplay: gameplay is really good. i really like the story (maybe not all ppl do, but i luv doa 
 so im always gonna luv it) the countering system is really complicated. i wuz used 2 the one in 
 doa3 and doau n stuff, and then they added all this other stuff and there's not even a white button 
 or black button so i find myself making my finegr go down and there's nothin ther! i also don't 
 like the way u can do all these down moves when ur opponents on the ground. i think thats stupid. 
 and i think that alpha 152 (the boss) is a little 2 hard. it takes like 20 tries 2 beat her!!!! 
 and the only levels r NORMAL, HARD, VERY HARD! they should have easy! 
  
  well overall i think ppl should still buy it, but if u don't really like the doa series just rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spankman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  If you played Dead or Alive 3, or Dead or Alive Ultimate, then you've essentially played the same 
 game as Dead or Alive 4. The gameplay is the same with some small changes.
  
  First I'll start with gameplay. The game is pretty much advanced button mashing. You learn a combo, 
 then you start repeatedly tapping the buttons within it as fast as you can. Or you start tapping 
 the block button because you know that your opponent is about to open up a can of whoop- (arse) . 
 There's a method to the madness though, don't be mistaken. It is certainly not mindless button 
 mashing. "Should I hit high or low? Which way is he going to hit? Should I counter, block, or go 
 kick him in the balls?" There's definitely some though to it.
  
  The graphics in Dead or Alive 3 were revolutionary. Those graphics are up in the top 10 best graphics 
 on the original Xbox. But now the graphics are applied to the Xbox 360, and they seem kinda lame. 
 They didn't change. The hair is blocky, and the characters are definitely good looking, but it's 
 kind of a letdown. I expected better. Speaking of things that are visually pleasing, the perverted 
 game designers added in a lot more sexuality this time. Christie has an outfit that makes mothers 
 faint and/or yell at their children. And in two of the CG movies (that means computer-generated 
 for those who aren't geeks like me. These usually have excellent graphics because they're just 
 movies, and not interactive) there are some topless girls. Technically it's partial nudity, because 
 the part of the girls' chest that counts as nudity isn't shown. But still, these game designers 
 need girlfriends. I'm not saying that it's a bad thing to put in nudity, but come on, grow up.
 
  
  The sound in this game is also lame. There's probably a total of 5 sound effects for all of the 
 kicks and punches and bodies slamming into walls. It all sounds the same. But the worst part of 
 it all is that the characters all speak Japanese. There is one unlockable character who has about 
 4 English lines and 2 Japanese ones. Even the American and British characters speak only Japanese. 
 Come on! It's being sold in the US, why not speak English?
  
  The reason I gave this game a 10 on Tilt is because the online play is great, with the exception 
 of the occasional lag. There are tons of achievements (I think it's around 40) and also, while 
 you are online, you can buy an avatar that you walk around with in the pre-game lobbies. The "money" 
 used to buy the avatars and their accessories is earned by winning matches. It's pretty cheesy, 
 but it gives some motivation to play online. I also love games where you unlock stuff, and there 
 are plenty of unlockable characters, 2 unlockable levels, and a few other hidden goodies.
  
  Overall, I say that this game is at least a rental, if not a game that you will buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabloooooooooo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  OK I think im just a noob but is it just me or is it really hard to counter? anyways I think the 
 game is really awsome except sometimes I find it really hard and annoying (especially in time attack 
 against Alpha-152) . But besides that like I said its an awsome game. I think the halo character 
 is an awsome addition and the huge number of costumes keeps you playing. I don't really recomend 
 this game for people that get mad really easily or are just starting out with fighting games simply 
 because there is no easy option. Online is great, so I'm giving this game a very good overall rating! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I will be honest. When I first started playing DOA4, I started to question why I purchased the 
 game. I was enormously frustrated right out of the gate that my unstoppable button mashing skill 
 was not working. Actually, not only was it not working, I was getting my A$$ handed to me. I hate 
 to lose, so I wanted to quit right there.
  
  Anyhow, after a few day hiatus from the game, I decided to do some homework and give it another 
 shot. I looked through several walk-throughs and FAQ's, including a very helpful one through gamespot, 
 and with their help I was able to win a few matches. After a few hours of practice and a lot more 
 losses, I can finally say that I have an intermediate hang of the game.
  
  Bottom line: Do not come into this game thinking your are going to be a god out of the gate, it 
 will take time and patience and many frustrating, mind blowing, cuss filled moments. In the end, 
 I am glad I waited a few weeks to write the review being that my impression was much different 
 then than it is now. 
  
  Give the game some time and you will learn to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllHailTheSith
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Button mashers WELCOME. Everyone else need not apply!!! Everything that separated this game from 
 other fighters like Tekken is gone. I was pretty good at DOA3 but this game tweaks everything that 
 had to do with a smooth fighting experience. If you specialized in reversals and counter-attacks 
 in DOA3 than GOOD LUCK in DOA4!!! There is the same "X" button block-counters, but good luck using 
 it against this insanely hard A. I. The difficulty of this game is Ten-Fold what it was in 3. The 
 difficulty settings are: Normal, Hard, and Very Hard. The funny thing is, I think Very Hard is 
 easier than Normal!!! When playing the story mode expect to play each of the first 7 opponents 
 3-7 times, EVERY TIME! And usually the last opponent (Alpha) a good 12-14 times. I usually have 
 to resort to button mashing to finally beat her (and I HATE BUTTON  
 I have beaten her more effectively by staring at the floor while button mashing, which says to 
 me just how far a truly awesome fighting game can fall !!!! But it does look beautiful. So in the 
 end if all you want is eye-candy, or are one of the truly best players out there than get this 
 game, but if you where just good or even Pretty-Darn-Good, than RENT IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdinDragoonX
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has had nothing but problems since it was on supposed to come out. Being delayed to take 
 care of bugs and everything, this title was obviously rushed, and it shows. The game is unfinished.
 
  
  First lets start with the graphics. They are spectatucal, but among the other 360 titles, its not 
 the best. When you are fighting however, the detail is so small you hardly notice it. The hair 
 even flows in drawn patterns, with no physics what so ever. It's just odd seeing Kasumi's hair 
 flowing right through her body... and in a cutscene too.
  
  The gameplay is where this game really needs to be worked on. The attacks are unbalanced, counter 
 attacks do way more damage then they should, and button mashing combo's have no penalty, meaning 
 they are basicly encouraged. The worst part is, the game is too hard. Casual gamers who play a 
 demo dont want to buy a fighter game when they lose, they want to have fun with it, not be frusterated. 
 This game is way more frustering than it is fun. This is something a lot of people leave out of 
 their 9 and 10 reviews on this game... the fact that there is OFFLINE play too. The AI is just 
 too predicting and launcing a fury of quick unblockable attacks is just frusterating. I mean come 
 on, the game doesn't even have an easy mode. Playing through the game is more of, ok, I will just 
 tab B this time, and sometimes you cant even get a hit on the opponent.
  
  The worst part of this game in gameplay is the AI turns your character into a floating target. 
 A floating target is terrible, cheap, and frusterating. A floating target is when your oppnent 
 is able to kick you up in the air and just keep pummeling you while your in the air, and for some 
 odd reason you just stay in the air and never fall down until they hit, ooo, 7-10 combos on you. 
 A floating target can not block or attack, they simpily must wait til a pause in the attackers 
 attack. Yet another feature most of these 9's and 10's forget.
  
  I can not see why so many people are giving this game AAA ratings. They forget to mention the serious 
 flaws. The unbalanced damage system. The constant use of floating targets by the AI. The fact the 
 game is simpily too hard to be fully enjoyed. Not to mention the battles are so fast if you blink 
 you miss them. With battles so quick, you really don't have a chance to explore the one thing that 
 really defines DOA... besides the boobs... the new areas and stuff you can go to when fighting, by 
 punching a window or something.
  
  This game can also ruin your Xbox sometimes, eek.
  
  So, this fighting game is in no way worth $60, a rental, yes (Spartan) and if the online play really 
 stands out for you, maybe buy it then, but this game is seriously terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownDarkness
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  well as i said above the AI in this game is so hard it'll take you about 15 minutes just to beat 
 8 people (1 full game) . sometimes the computer can read your move, block it, counter it, and do 
 a combo that is impossible for anyone under the rank of SS to perform. some computer controlled 
 combos take away over half your health making it very frustrating. other than the extremely hard 
 AI system this game has stunning visuals and lots of unlockables. an interactive lobby system like 
 you've never seen before, sets the pace for what all online lobbys should be like. i would recomend 
 buying this game as soon as you get your 360. this is what next-gen games are going to be like. 
 (just wish the computer wan't so cheap) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I guess this review is aimed more at casual gamers than the hardcore fans. Simply being that hardcore 
 already read through and through on all games that come out for their preferred systems.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game offers what basic fighting games have always brought to the genre: mixed 
 forms of martial arts where you have x number of rounds and a life bar that depletes as each brawler 
 pummels each other. 
  In the fighting games genre, DOA4 stands as one of the easiest to pick up and play. It offers smooth 
 gameplay that it becomes possible to even "mash buttons". You fight AI opponents (which the difficulty 
 ramps up quite quickly) , until you get to the "uber" last boss. My only gripe is the fact that 
 the D-Pad on the 360 is not that great or precise for fighting games such as DOA4.
  All in all, if you've never played a fighting game before, DOA4 is a great place to start.
  
 
  Graphics:
  I will say this: the backgrounds are amazing. They truly show the potential of what the 360 can 
 do. However, IMO, the character models don't seem that great due to its "anime" style, where everything 
 is quite cartoonish. Personally I feel that DOA4 looks great, but not leaps and bounds over the 
 Xbox 1 iterations.
  
  Sound:
  Voices are in japanese, so who knws if it's good voice acting! Music is ok but can get grating 
 after a while. Punching and kicking and cracking sounds all sound over the top- which is appropriate 
 for a game portraying fiction fighting.
  
  Online:
  The game can sometimes get laggy, but overall it's very entertaining to play online. It really 
 depends on who you meet online. Some are friendly, some are jerks- the experience will change everytime 
 you log in to Xbox Live.
  
  Buy or rent:
  If you have XBL, then it's a no brainer: BUY. If you don't have an online connectivity, it would 
 preferable to rent and you would complete pretty much everything within a week or two at the most. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I have been waiting for Tecmo to spring DOA4 on us since the release of the 
 Xbox 360.... and the anticipation and hype has built up so much, that when it finally did come out, 
 I beat it in one day..... However, Tecmo did deliver as promised, another kick ass, superior fighting 
 game..... Dead or Alive 4 brings you fast-paced action, mixed with high definition graphics, and 
 superior environments.... Mix that together and you get a chock full of frenzied action and fighting.
 
  
  Graphics
  Just as in the other DOA games... brilliant.... From the lighting, to the slightest detail on every 
 single stage, you will notice your eyes opening wider every moment, as DOA4's eye popping visuals 
 draw you in.... Not only that, but the DOA girls are back in action this time around, and they mean 
 BUS'NESS...... Some other great effects are some of the integration with the characters and their 
 stages, and the environmental combo attacks such as dragging you opponent down the concrete staircase 
 by their face.... Thats always welcomed after a hard day of rape from school or work.
  
  Sound 
  The character models would sound as you would expect from a DOA game..... it's all subtitles 
 with Japanese voices.... Tecmo doesn't specialize in American dubbed voice-overs just yet, like 
 in the Tekken series. But that won't put a hurtin' on the score, since the game will have you playing 
 until your thumbs are red, and deforming. Other effects like parts of the environment breaking 
 , and crumbling, such as you throwing an opponent into a wall, or breaking a column, will sound 
 pretty realistic. 
  
  Control
  Fast, tight and responsive.... Just how you would expect a DOA fighter to be... Combos are slick 
 and easy to pull off, and some of the newly added combos are fun to watch, as much as they are 
 to perform.... The newly equipped Xbox 360 controller will make you feel right at home with some 
 of the presets to the DOA4 control scheme that will have you pullin off major combos like cuttin' 
 a hot knife through butta..... The controls are pretty solid over Xbox Live as well..... except when 
 there is lag, or slowdown.
  
  Replay Value
  With a fighting game, there is really no telling when you can actually beat the game. Actually, 
 once you unlock all of the characters, and costumes is really when you can say you beat it.... But 
 believe me, its no picnic unlocking the costumes. Sure there is an added bonus Spartan character 
 from the Halo series in here, but still, to unlock the 6-8 costumes for all the characters can 
 be a pain in the AZZZZMATIC.... Especially with that Kasumi clone at the end of practically every 
 character's last battle. But with the game stretching over Xbox Live, and there being barely any 
 lag or slowdown on most servers, will have you hooked for months upon months to come.
  
  Overall
  I have been waiting for a sequel to this game ever since I raped the crap out of my 
 DOA Ultimate back in the day..... Now that I have this game I think it's worth every penny, and 
 I wouldn't trade it in for anything...... It has solid fighting, kick ass combos, high def. graphics, 
 and an online component.... oh ,and a character from HALO... what more could you ask for?... Oh, and 
 in the ending movies, some of the girls are practically nude..... mmmm  
 I've said wayyyy too much...... But yea, if you're a fan of any fighter, you should check this game 
 out, because it seriously kicks off the next-gen fighting genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of best fighting games I have played of all time! Solid flowing gameplay makes 
 you feel like every hit you take and land is really and in your face. The graphics are second to 
 none with excellent character models and beautifully rendered cut-scenes*if ya know what I mean* 
 
  
  Live is better than online play from DOA: Ultimate with little to no slow down depending on who 
 your are playing and there connection. While for the noobs out there the easy and very easy modes 
 have been taken off from Ultimate so that only regular hard and very hard remain. While I found 
 difficulty ok for my preferences some of the new players will have to go into sparring mode a lot 
 to master this game and to have a chance to unlock all the unlockables. 
  
  Overall this game is great and I would recommend it for anyone who is a fighting fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  
  I really wanted to LOVE Dead or Alive 4. I was sold on hype alone prior to playing the game. Having 
 an Xbox 360 and noticing that I play Geometry Wars more than nine-tenths of my real library, well 
 let's just say I was hoping Hype was right.
  
  I can see why many people like Dead or Alive from the get go. Visually the game is pretty surperb. 
 Many will say that it's the same as every other DOA game but when you take the time to focus on 
 the small detaisl and character design you start to see the power of the 360 over that of the regular 
 xbox. Frame rates are nice, character models feel smooth, even the fighting screen's interface 
 feels a tad slicker than others. If you have high-definition you will notice the small details 
 in the grass and water that you don't get when you play on a regular television. That being said 
 DOA4 leaves you with a strong first impression. 
  
  When you dive deeper into the gameplay is when, ironically, the game starts to feel a bit more 
 shallow. Role reversal! As a fighting game overall gamespeed vs character choices just seems broken. 
 DOA4 moves faster than other games. Fast characters are indeed fast, while slow characters seem 
 like a normal fighting games fast character. So button mashers with a very fast character will 
 find themselves in at least an ok situation. Mix this with a horrible blocking system and the result 
 is a game where whoever is on the offensive usually has the advantage. The only wildcard to the 
 gameplay is how reversals work. There are 4 different kinds of reversals (by tapping a button and 
 pressing a direction based on the type of attack, high, low, mid punch, or mid kick) . If you time 
 this correctly you will pull off an automatic reversal. Mess this reversal up and you become open 
 to hits or even a stronger grapple attack that will do extra damage. 
  
  This fighting system leaves a lot to be wanted. The real skill with this game is to hopefully pull 
 off a reversal move more than your opponent or just stay away from most attacks. Blocking is horrendous 
 in this game so you have to be on the attack. Almost all of the combos are varations of low and 
 high attacks. There is not much "air Juggling" and very few string attacks or creativeness on your 
 part. Combos are pre-written and leave little room for mixing up your own attacks other than the 
 occasional switching a high with a low attack of vice versa and if you do stray you will find the 
 programmed ones to do the most damage. The simple fact that you can't even just take a defensive 
 stance (Street Fighter, MVC, Tekken, Soul Calibur, etc all do this... allow someone to hold block 
 and absorb a series of attacks) makes people who button mash get more hits than are needed. Blocking 
 is just insanely hard - and not hard as in people with skill can do so - but hard in your ability 
 to control your character to do it. Your best option is just trying to get out of the away of the 
 attack and retaliating as they finish.
  
  The game has a series of modes for you to play. From sparring to story, online and survival modes, 
 and both single and tag battles - there is a lot to do. Ironically, the modes just don't feel too 
 much different from each other. With the exception of online and survival - they might as well 
 just had 4 modes as the time attacks, story, and even the verses mode play out similar to one another. 
 Online is obviously different which I will touch on in a bit while survival is very fast paced 
 and a nice refresher ( and is the main way how you unlock all of the extra costumes the game has 
 to offer) than the other modes.
  
  I started with the story mode - which I suggest anyone who reads this first should do - to help 
 get reaquainted with the DOA world and to help unlock more of the characters that start out hidden. 
 I found that the game gets quite difficult early on - especially for anyone who has no clue to 
 how the reversal system works and/or has slow reflexes. The AI can be very cheap as the levels 
 progress and the final boss is over powered compared to other characters.
  
  Sadly, By the fourth of fifth time playing through on story mode the game starts to just mesh into 
 one and the same. Some characters have endings that are related to each other but for the most 
 part the stories and scenery seemed tacked on and lackluster. All of the graphical wonders that 
 you noticed during the first hour or two of play seem to just fade away as the game's speed - both 
 during matches and through it's story - passes by just way to quickly for you to really feel like 
 you are in the world at all. In some cases this can be good. Overall aesthetically the speed is 
 what brings this game down from being any hall of famer.
  
  To take a break from the constant assault of story mode and character repetition, sparring mode 
 is a good alternative. Sparring mode is a little slower and teaches you the basic mechanics that 
 will almost never come naturally in this type of game. It has every character's move for you to 
 test yourself with - including the convoluted reversals - which is something much needed to master 
 the game. A good place for you to start preparing for survival and online. 
  
  Online play is pretty strong. DOA4 TRYS to do something really cool but fails sadly. When you get 
 online you have to create an avatar to use in these virtual arcades (themed by different locales 
 - water, graveyards, etc) . Each arcade has a TV that is playing whatever match is going on. You 
 can walk around and do emoteable things with your avatar (much like any MMO) and even type to chat 
 if you want. The sad part is, if you want to take part IN the matches, you have to leave this screen 
 and go to a waiting Queue which practically makes you leave your avatar behind. Why they don't 
 allow you to watch the matches while in queue as your avatar is beyond me, but the whole system 
 is worthless unless they find a way to let you join a match while staying in the arcade. Another 
 bad note - quitters don't get punished. So anyone who is trying to achieve SS rank, they usually 
 quit if they are losing and only stay if they are winning. Subsequentially - they are usually playing 
 best of 5 or 7 matches because it'll give them a clearer idea if they should quit or not. (if they 
 are up 2-3 rounds, they'll stay. As soon as they are below a round - quit) . Even worse, if someone 
 quits mid-play, the whole room freezes for around a minute or so. Really annoying and an online 
 killer at times. 
  
  Thankfully, thanks to the xbox 360's achievement point system, there IS a reason to keep playing 
 for a bit if you find the overall gameplay to be lackluster. Each mode has it's series of accomplishments 
 - Get a fast time on Time Attack and unlock a copper, silver, or gold medal. Get 100 wins on survival 
 for another gamer achievements. Starting out I attempted story mode to get a feel of the game and 
 see what unlockables the game had in store for me. The online achievements are the only horrible 
 ones because the achievements promote cheaters to quit to get their rank up. Whether people would 
 quit anyway is unknown to me but I do know some people do it just to get that "perfect" gamer score 
 for the game. 
  
  Overall the game is one of the better Xbox 360 titles currently available. Unfortunatly that isn't 
 saying as much when all the games on the Xbox 360 have been pretty disappointing. 
  
  Good for casual gamers, but I would recommend elitists and hardcore gamers to stay away. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen5148
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  I loved DOA3 for the xbox played it for more then 100 hours i'd say but this game is a step backwards 
 for the series and i'll tell you why.
  first i'll start with the good so called online play.
  if you love really laggy games online 
 then I surpose you will love it.
  every game I played it lags really bad and it's not my connection either cause other games like 
 PGR3 run well.
  and then theres the gameplay issues.
  while the overall gameplay looks the same and all well it isn't and I noticed you can't even block 
 attacks even if you press the guard buttion since 95% of attacks go right though it why bother 
 and then theres the AI that reads you like an open book it's like it knows what your going to do 
 before you do it and it always starts on the 2nd level I dare you to beat the game without diying 
 once I dare ya.
  and yes the graphics are great thats about the only thing I like about this game but graphics alone 
 don't make a game.
  and the story huh? oh I forgot there hardly an't one.
  the endings look good but none I really cared for awhole lot.
  and the sound could have been 
 better the soundtrack on doa3 was alot better then this.
  this game might be good to rent but paying 60$ for this game I don't think so
  thanks for reading 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcpicasso
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The first thing that grabbed me about this game was the incredible graphics. Not only the incredible 
 level graphics but the details in the characters and their movements. At first I was disappointed 
 by the game play because it seemed simplistic and flat. As I have played more, however, I have 
 found that the simple system can create complex fights. Different combos, counters, and throws 
 together with interactive environments make for unique fights even with the same characters on 
 the same level. Learning the controls takes about 30 seconds but i am yet to master them as the 
 computer can always seem to break into my combos with a counter or throw. All in all this game 
 is must have for the 360 and great purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vamroc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is like "The Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster" from H. H. G. T. T. G. which was called the greatest 
 drink in the known universe. This is the best fighting game on the planet and it to hits your brain 
 like a lemon wrapped around a large gold brick. Yet every time I play I want to play longer and 
 longer. I don't even have DSL or Road Runner yet I stil have logged 30+ hours on the game. Doa 
 4's video for Aerosmith's song "Amazing" was stunning. I almost cried when I thought Helena was 
 dead and nearly shed tears of joy when she's rescued. Or Kokoro being shot in the head by Christie 
 I mean who the hell saw that coming. Why did Christie kill Helena's sister? Another mystery we 
 will have to wait till DOA 5 to solve. There should be an actual DOA 4 novel . Don't laugh the 
 Halo books have sold well and are pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  One word. WATER!!!! DOA totally knows how to make water look real!!!!!
  In fact the guys at Ninja make awesome graphics!! The levels have been enhanced since the last 
 DOA's where now we can get hit by cars or destroy certain things. The character's are back and 
 they added a little Halo to the mix but all these things are but small compared to the ability 
 to go online!!
  
  The fact that DOA is online now bumps it's calibur up immensly as once you've beaten a fighting 
 game there is no real reason to replay that much. Now with online you add replay value as well 
 as xbox gamer points being earned in online matches. 
  
  The features for online are very nice as well as the offline and the amount of unlockables and 
 gamer points are stupendous. Awesome graphics, Awesome caracters, Awesome online =Awesome game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I love this game.. It's addictive, & quick & has great replay value & it's Xbox Live lobbys are 
 'charming' & it's character videos are either sexy, cool or just plain stupid... But this game 
 is teribly frustrating... This is the first fighting game I ever owned... I was always on the tip 
 of the ice berg about DoA, but the Spartan character tipped the scale, it was a stupid reason to 
 buy a game, but I'm happy I did... & I loved the story & the like 5 characters that are involved 
 with it... Good soundtracked too... Japanese launguage, english music was perfect... & I loved 
 how they finished it off with Aerosmith - Amazing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDawq69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  oh man where do i begin...
  i love the game its awsome, i havent played my own yet but i played at my friends house for the 
 past two days and man it is pretty dam good. its like oh **** im having fun and im kicking some 
 ass haha
  but yea story mode is cool... i hate the final boss but what can you do... i wish hyabusas could 
 still do the handstand but what ever, but all in all the games good... multiplayer is awsome and 
 i love being able to view games and finally play online it was pretty cool. 
  
  oh yea and the graphics for this game are **** sexiii!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kctree
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Ah, DOA 4. The first game to make me say, "Wow! Look at the graphics capability of the 360!" I 
 took this to a friends house and plugged it into his widescreen. We could see every drop of water 
 coming down the waterfall. The graphics look better than anything I've ever seen so far that doesn't 
 fall under Cinema. 
  The simple controls allow for button mashers to jump right in and beat on each other and look good 
 doing it. However, you need to have more tact and control to survive online. The only downside 
 of the game is that it is so repetitive. If this is the only game in your collection you'll be 
 tired of the "Hiyaa! Yipp Yipp! OOOf! You Win" shallow sound effects. However, I guess this is 
 pretty much the case for all fighting games, and probably why I've played very little games in 
 the genre in the past. I love long games with deep systems like roleplaying games. The "story mode" 
 is an abolute joke. I mean, you only see a max of 10 seconds of shallow meaningless cinema in between 
 a couple of the fights.
  However, the new online play allows for some crazy moments against people all over the world. The 
 fluid ballanced gameplay allows for some intense trash talking multiplayer matches. You absolutely 
 can't be afraid to lose though because some of these cats online are actual followers of Daoism 
 and meditate on the floor before each match. The deffensive element to the game actually works 
 because real people have patterns that you can watch. Yeah, I said watch! You actually get to watch 
 the other players before you fight them! Imagine doing this on Madden or something. It really helps 
 more than you can imagine. The gamemodes online are flexible and extensive. I only wish you could 
 spar for fun in matches that don't count so you could experiment with friends. I suggest going 
 online unafraid to lose. I know, it's hard. I can't stand losing, but once I let go of the fact 
 that I may not be undefeated.. or even have a winning record.. I was able to jump into the pit 
 of fighters swinging away blissfully with every limb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KodiakGTS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from DOA4, as I had not read many previews regarding the game. I am 
 satisfied to say however, that the game is definitely a good buy.
  
  Gameplay: All the fast paced attack/counter action that the series is known for is back, along 
 with some interesting level designs that really spice up the fighting experience. Although the 
 game is a little difficult on single player due to the increase in counter damage (which the computer 
 does a lot of) and the very challenging final boss, the game still manages to stay fun, no matter 
 which mode you choose. Combine that with the awesome online play, and you have yourself possibly 
 the best fighting game ever made.
  
  Graphics: The graphics might seem a little underwhelming for someone expecting something on par 
 with say Gears of War screenshots or Fight Night, but the game does look significantly better than 
 anything on the previous Xbox. All the characters are crisp and well designed, and the animations 
 are flawless. The levels offer gorgeous details, whether it be interactive objects that you can 
 bash your opponent into, or the lush backgrounds prevalent throughout. In addition, the ending 
 cinematics have to be seen to be believed.
  
  Sound: Not much to comment on here. The sound is good quality, and the music represents the mood 
 of each fight fairly well. I think my favorite song from the game remains the halo theme song, 
 however :-)
  
  Value: With the replay value from splitscreen or online play, and the well thought out achievements, 
 this game with entice you to play until you've achieved perfection.
  
  Overall, my favorite DOA game and a very nice addition to any 360 owner's collection. Cya on Live!
 
  
  Gamertag: Novabear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20851948239850117501608001012182-ecg28713
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I really havent played a fighting game quite like this since the SNES days. This game has brought 
 back the appreciation of the fighting genre back in my life.
  
  Graphics: For this part of the game, it looks great and the environments are just mouth watering. 
 I could just look at the stages for an hour if I could. The movement of the characters is also 
 really well done. There are not a lot of games out there that looks as good as this title.
  
  Gameplay: This game has both a deep fighting system and it is really easy to pick up and play. 
 The gameplay hasnt changed a lot from its predecessors but, it has a new counter system that 
 you must master to become the ultimate DOA player.
  
  Sound: The game has a pretty good sound track and the sound effects are great. The sound of break 
 glass has never sounded so beautiful. The character sounds are also a great addition to the game.
 
  
  Overall: The game has a lot to offer but, if you have any other DOA games it is probably worth 
 more of a rent. If you love fighting games and you love everything DOA pick this up you wont be 
 disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is my first and only game purchase for my Xbox 360 so far but I've only just got my hands 
 on the system two and a half weeks ago. Since then I've been playing DOA4 every day trying to unlock 
 all of the characters and let me say it's been a blast.
  
  I want to get one thing out of the way though, if you already own DOA3 or Ultimate then you might 
 want to pass this one up because not a lot has changed. The DOA series has always taken an evolutionary 
 approach to progressing the series but rest assured this is the best iteration yet. 
  
  The last DOA game I played was for PS2 so for me this new DOA4 on Xbox 360 is a significant jump 
 for me. I'm really pleased with the depth they've added to the gameplay. Every character has between 
 80-140 moves so there is a ton of variety in how you can attack. A lot of the combos look totally 
 insane and very painful when you dish out the hurt. This kind of fighter is still easy to pick 
 up and play for newer players but it isn't hard to learn some advanced tactics and really get into 
 the meat of the game. DOA4 will reward you for putting in the effort to learn all the in's and 
 outs of the fighters. 
  
  The countering system DOA is famous for plays a lesser role this time because there is a very tiny 
 window of opportunity to pull off counters. They definitely do happen but much less than in the 
 previous games which is a good thing because it allows for more freedom doing awesome combos. You 
 will still get countered a lot if you repeat the same simple combos over again so it pays to learn 
 the harder ones. 
  
  There is also more moves to perform while your opponent has fallen down which is nice because in 
 previous games there were only a few moves to perform in this state. 
  
  Unfortunately the game doesn't have an "easy" mode. I guess Team Ninja wants everyone to just "learn2play" 
 rather than be hand holded through the game. They still should have included the option but it's 
 ok because the game definitely encourages you to improve your game and that is actually the key 
 to really unlocking the inner part of the game. The more challenge you have the harder you will 
 need to practice and you will find yourself getting into some intense battles where a split second 
 decision at one sliver of health could either give you the win or make you cry like a school girl.
 
  
  Although this is a challenging game, it comes with superb sparring mode that will show you how 
 to perform all the moves from all of the characters. You may also easily program the AI opponent 
 to perform a certain action so you can practice specific areas such as countering, blocking, throws 
 and holds. 
  
  The worst part of the game I can think of is the end-game boss Alpha 152. Team Ninja, shame on 
 you for making a boss so incredibly cheap! Yes this thing can teleport at will, unleash virtually 
 unblockable 10+ hit combos and other moves that can cut your health in half in one second. Suffice 
 to say the only way to beat her is random luck. Sometimes it will take a few tries or maybe 20. 
 I think the best strategy to beat her is to just be cheap as well and spam running hits like a 
 flying kick.
  
  DOA4 is one of the most spectacular games to look at on 360 especially on an HDTV. I've played 
 it on both types of TV's and an HDTV looks much better but the game still looks awesome on a standard 
 so don't worry. The character models are even more detailed than before, with muscular definition, 
 flowing clothes and hair. Animations are also more smooth and life-like. The punches and kicks 
 really look like they connect and there is little to no clipping that I could detect. I would say 
 this is one of the most beautiful examples of artwork in motion as you watch two foes perform the 
 dance of death. The moves just look mind blowing. The fighting environments perhaps look even more 
 stunning than the characters. They are chalk full of little details and of course many destroyable 
 areas. I would even go so far as to say some backgrounds look near photo-realistic. The only bad 
 thing I have to say about the visuals is that for a next gen game I still expected characters to 
 have more detail and some effects are lacking such as hardly any splash when fighting in the water.
 
  
  The sound hasn't changed much from other games but overall it sounds even better mostly due to 
 the Xbox 360's high fidelity 5.1 surround sound support. All the hard hitting sound effects you 
 would expect are here plus system voices for all the characters and some pretty kick-butt music 
 tunes as well.... and some Aerosmith if that's your thing.
  
  If this game was not online I would have to say the lasting value would be a little on the short 
 side. It won't take long to beat the game with all characters on normal difficulty. There are many 
 achievements to unlock for completing milestones but that doesn't appeal to me that much. Perhaps 
 the most rewarding aspect of completing story mode is to see all of the ending movies. These are 
 the best, most action packed and intense pre-rendered movies I have seen in a game since Final 
 Fantasy X. That is saying a lot and you will be totally blown away when you see some of them. 
 
  
  Playing on Xbox Live against real people with the headset and all is where the real lasting value 
 comes from. I think I will be playing on Live for many months to come. It is very quick and easy 
 to get into an online match and there are several different types. The most common one being winner 
 stays. You can also watch matches while your not fighting so you always have something to do. So 
 far I'm dissapointed with the connection quality because sometimes there is a lot of lag while 
 other times its lag free but then all it takes is one person to join the game and suddenly it's 
 lag city. Of course you know lag and fighting games don't mix at all so if there is even the slightest 
 lag you pretty much just have to quit the game since it will only cause frustration. This is something 
 happening in other games too so I think it has more to do with Microsoft's service than being the 
 developers fault.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to any fighting fan that doesn't already own DOA Ultimate or 
 anyone with a casual interest in fighters. The last fighter I owned was Tekken for PS2 but it didn't 
 take me long at all to become reasonably skilled in this game and the better you become the more 
 fun you will get out of it. There is more strategy to the matches in this game than before so it's 
 not just a button mashing contest and it's better for it. I really love how the course of a fight 
 flows. The game really connects you with the controller and the moves which gives you an intense 
 experience that will immerse you into the game. This is a great way to kick off the Xbox 360 launch 
 and DOA4 is probably one of the top 3 best games for the system. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavysetHollis
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I always enjoyed the DOA series but never like this. 
  
  good graphics and in depth yet simplistic game play will have every one from veterans to button 
 mashers having fun.
  
  not the best graphic but not bad at all.
  
  from flying ninjas to beautiful babes this game has almost all the old characters and a few new 
 ones.
  
  the XBL features are pretty cool, you can make your own avatar, chill in the fight lobby with others 
 or jump in line and get ready to duke it out with the best of them.
  
  I am not big on fighting games but this one might be more than just rental material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb, I simply just love it. It has all that a gamer would want in a beat-em-up 
 game. Keeping all that we know and love about the Dead Or Alive series it adds plenty more such 
 as new moves, combos, a whole new countering system and even new characters. The graphics in this 
 game are absolutely beautiful, the sound in this game is super realistic, the gameplay is so great 
 it blew my mind the first time I played. The value of this game is superb allowing you to unlock 
 many costumes, characters and superb end of story mode cut scenes.
  
  P. S. The Dead Or Alive women are the sexiest women in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  The DoA4 visuals are eye-candy; whether you're brawling in the streets or in a dinosaur-infested 
 jungle. Despite the fact that the environments do seem to look a whole lot better than the actual 
 character models, but the way that the characters interact with one another make up for the 'plastic-like' 
 anime characters.
  
  The story mode is nothing impressive. It's just simply eight fights in which you will knock out 
 your opponent. With an extraordinary tough boss at the end of each one. Even though the Story Mode 
 isn't something that you would want to play multiple times; you will find yourself completing it 
 with some characters 6-7 times in order to unlock all of thier costumes.
  
  DoA4 online is what really impressed me. There are little lobbies that you can buy along with avatars/clothes 
 for your avatar to go with that lobby. Players will sit in the lobby waiting for thier turn to 
 play, watch other matches, or tag up with other online players. The ranking system is really well 
 put together as well. It's based on grades other than numbers, meaning SS, S, A, B, C, D, E, and 
 F. 
  
  Despite the game's late arrival, fighting game fans have no doubt already purchased and poured 
 their heart into what this title has to offer. For more casual players, DOA 4 offers entirely typical 
 gameplay. Button-mashing won't get you as far as it will in the Soul Calibur series, and the level 
 of replayability for the average gamer may be somewhat low. If you're looking for a simple, good-looking 
 fighter Dead or Alive 4 will serve your needs well. Those looking for brains with their beauty 
 may want to look elsewhere.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll_jun10r_ll
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has been out for almost 2 months, but the only fighting game that has a destination 
 for the system forthwidth, was dead or alive 4, which came came out 2 weeks ago.
  
  The latest game in the series, bring to you, new characters, levels, moves, and modes for you share 
 with all your racist 12 year old friends with too much money.
  
  A cool feature is the tag team mode. You will be able to choose 2 characters to use as you fight. 
 Depending on who you choose and change some of the things that you are able to do. For example, 
 if you choose a certain ninja that most Xbox owners should feel very familiar with, and Kasumi, 
 they would have a strong bond together, and be able to perform powerful combos together.
  
  One of the most popular characters to find this game will probably turn up to be Spartan 458. However 
 the downside will that she is huge, slow, and rewuires you to play the story mode with every single 
 player, to unlock another character and then beat it with her, but don't fret, the slick gameplay 
 shouldn't get very old for a while, but if your a newbie like me, you may get very annoyed, like 
 i was, but if your a devoted gamer, you'll go into the training mode and practice to get better, 
 like I did.
  
  The gameplay was very smooth and fast paced, however, because its so fast, all the moves you work 
 so hard to perfect become useless because you won't ever get that chance to use them. What bugged 
 me though was when i was very close to beating the computer, he would completely go crazy. Sometimes 
 leaving you unable to even move. Online, however, is a completely different story. You'll often 
 notice lag, and sometimes completely freeze and be forced to restart your game.
  
  Now the graphics are incredible, they surpass almost all games beforehand, even some of the most 
 recent 360 games, namely Quake 4 and Perfect Dark Zero. However even, though they are grerat, you 
 might notice that though they are great, but are only so much better than than the previous game
 
  
  The sound is what you would expect from a top notch franchise and on the most powerful system ever 
 made, abosutely great. All the characters, even though they don't speak english at all, have a 
 real personality and sound unique.
  
  With the smooth gameplay, great sound, and even the laggy online, Dead or Alive 4 is a great fighting 
 game and well worth the wait. You'll enjoy the high flying moves, huge vibrant levels, spartan 
 ass kicking, not to mention the one thing we all know and love about this game. This is definately 
 worth playing someway, whether you rent or buy, you'll want to have this game, whether you a noobie 
 or veteran of the fighting series, you will have to play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just wow! This game is the most fun I have had on the 360 yet!
  I have to admit - there are a few very unoccasional lockups and bugs but that still doesnt matter, 
 THis game is gust fun. Beat the crap out of everyone - but in style. This game is easy to learn 
 but difficult to master, and the great fighting system makes button Mashing a thing of the past. 
 Accurate and precise controls make up part of the good gameplay this game has to offer and its 
 short learning curve makes it a grab-and-go game. The CG sequences are amazing - graphicswise, 
 but most of the ending CGs have absoluteley no point; they have absoluteley no realtion to the 
 game and leave you wondering just what the heck happened. Another strongpoint of the game is that 
 there are alot of characters - and each character is unique but not cheap.
  Other than the small bugs and random ending sequences the game is a must-play and a must-have.
 
  And another bad point I just remembered about is the (well actually 2 points) is the soundtrack, 
 its full of some poor sounding Aerosmith (hope I spelled that right) and the cheap countering/hold/grab 
 system during online maches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnum200
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the best one on one fighting game on the market and upholds the genius for the 
 dead or alive series It has the best combo system of any game and the graphics are better than 
 perfect. If you have played a previous dead or alive game all the old characters are in it plus 
 some new ones including Kokoro, Eliot, and La Mariposa. They are all a great addition to the Dead 
 or Alive game. The enviroments are so real looking it is unbelievable. I must admit the hardest 
 part of the game is the last boss for some characters by the name of ALPHA-152 if you don't know 
 the name you obviously havn't played the game and you should pick this game up you won't regret 
 it. It will be an asset to your gaming collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ourladypeace505
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is definitely not lacking in graphics, but in my opinion isn't strong in pretty 
 much every other part of the game. The fighting style is really cool but it is ridiculously unrealistic. 
 You can perform moves to where the opposing player is thrown about twenty feet into the air, and 
 I am not exaggerating. Not to mention it's a little stupid how even the people in the game that 
 are from Texas don't speak english. Also some of the endings are really cool but all this game 
 is about is boobs. The endings to the story mode have no substance and leave you saying "that's 
 it". Although the background graphics are highly improve from doa3, I dont think it makes up for 
 a game thats most noticeable feature is animated characters who's sole purpose is to get males 
 to buy the game because they all have huge boobs that bonce around every time they move. Definitely 
 not an 8.8! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jose_miguel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Dead or alive 4 is one of the best fighting game i had play. It's a cool game and i like cause 
 battles are quick and fun. If you are not a fighting game fan, you are going to become one in the 
 instant you play this game. Maybe the story mode is a little easy and you can complete it fast, 
 the other modes and specially in on line gaming is where the fun is. If you prefer Microsoft over 
 Sony or Nintendo you are going to like even more this game cause the variety of awesome characters, 
 my favorite ones are ryu and, obviously, the spartan.
  If you haven't played a fighting game in a while, this game is going to fresh your your memory 
 and not only that, you are going to see how fighting games have developed.
  I recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergamerjohn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I like the game is fast and kicks butt but and also you can get a spartin you know the one in halo 
 but its a girl cool right ! yea! but the bad thing is that the controls are a hard to get use to 
 but after doing about ten hours of sparing with each player you well be not a pro but close lol.
 
  
  Now the online play is cool and everything up to 16 players but the bad thing is that you have 
 to wait in line until you get to the time you can kick butt and the watch thing is pretty cool 
 while you wait you watch the fights and talk with them and stuff thats cool ! lol 
  
  but other then that its a good game for the money if you like a good fighting game this might be 
 it lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  this is the first dead or alive game taht i have played, and i would have to say taht i am hooked 
 on it. the online loby is kind of gayy but the tag team matches are fun as **** although the computers 
 can be very very cheap at times, espically Iona or how ever you spell it. her and those damnn spins 
 of doom. she really rattles my cages. all the computer does with her are the spinny fancy crapp 
 and counters. my god i hate the counters, espically the russian and his counters, or sould i say 
 scuba steve with his third costume on. but like i said befor this is teh best fighting game since 
 super smash bros. melee, and i was a big fan o that game. so now i am happy to say that i found 
 a new one, and it is for the xbox 360, I LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokoro360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The Dead or Alive series has always been ridiculed for its lack of depth and being hard-core fighting 
 game, but DOA4 puts the other games' shallowness in the dirt. 
  
  Graphics: Not too much of a change for DOAU and is a little disappointing seeing as how Team Ninja 
 usually has a large step up for their graphical engines. The character models have only changed 
 a bit in that they've added a few more facial expressions and more detail to thier hair and more 
 muscles to the characters that were nessecary for it. (like Jann Lee for example) The environments 
 are very well designed and extremely beautiful, they even look more interesting than the characters. 
 All kinds of visual flares are in this game, but one thing that could've been done better is the 
 use of more bump-mapping in the environments. No doubt the best looking fighting game out there.
 
  
  Sound: The music and dialouge has always fit in well with the DOA games. (with the exception of 
 DOA2: Hardcore's english dubs) The characters (with the exception of the spartan) speak japanese; 
 for the better. The music ranges from serene, traditional japanese recordings, to the flare of 
 modern day pop. All of the tunes fit well with the fighting and you can listen to your own too.
 
  
  Gameplay: DOA has always been the fastest fighter around, but it improves on the speed. All the 
 characters seem faster and a bit stronger. Every character has had some changes to thier move-list 
 and require new strategies to use. The ninja character for example operate more like ninjas and 
 are extremely fast. The technical characters have more variety in thier move sets and are bent 
 with taking opponents down by patience and driving them into the ground and such. As you may have 
 noticed, there's a halo character in this game, but she's only got 56 moves compared to the 120 
 of some other characters. She's good, but underdeveloped. You can use the environments as weapons, 
 like the Vegas Strip like stage where combatants can be hit and ran over by cars and fly about 
 20 feet into the air. Very amusing. The ending movies are well designed and quite enjoyable. 
 
  
  Overall this game is quite deep and to some extent very hard (due to the very challenging AI) but 
 it nails what games should do properly. Good addictive fun. A few flaws here and there, but a very 
 valuable item for any fighting game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lookbehindyou
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I have had the game for over 2 weeks, gave it a very good play through online and offline story 
 mode (cool scenes after you beat it with each character.... some are very very well put together) 
 The gameplay is very on point after you get used to the different button combonations and drection 
 you push on the controller. It is also a WISE thing to do is go to the comand list to learn the 
 moves, also to go to the traning room where you get to see ALL of the buttons you pressed and alos 
 the direction you pressed to see where you messed up to pratice a new move or combo.
  
  Now the online part of it real intense fights when someone matches my connection speed (cable 7.5 
 megs per sec) so I always have a great connection but some matches lag when I faced people with 
 dsl.... but none were to bad that I couldnt finish the match and I won all of them that had lag.... guess 
 it was because I had the better connection..... maybe! But it is a 10/10 experience when there is 
 a lag free match (87% of the time) . CANCLE DSL AND GET CABLE YOU SCRUBS!!!!
  
  The Spartan character from the Halo series is a neat prize you recive after you beat all the story 
 mode plus beat Helena.... aw forget review over.... this game is worht it to buy... freinds over+online 
 when not over= a fun time get the picture... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This is game is terrific, one of the best for the 360 thus far. The gameplay is very good and immersive. 
 The graphics are very good, even compared to the rest of the 360 games, the graphics are superb. 
 The sound is as well done as you could expect. This game is $59.99 like most Xbox 360 games, but 
 the value is still not that bad, considering that if you have a 360, you need games, and this is 
 one excellent choice for your collection. I really iike this game so I am going to give it a tilt 
 of 10. One warning, however, if you are looking for an easy source for gamerpoints then this may 
 not be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostbuster187
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game however it is still a fighting game so your not gonna like it if you didn't 
 like any other fighting games. The main difference between this game and the others in its series 
 is that it has the Halo character but it takes a while to get halo character. As for the graphics, 
 I can't really tell you whether they really are different from the dead or alive game on XBOX because 
 even though I have heard that they are much different and that you need a HDTV to truly appreciate 
 it, I'v never tried this game on an HDTV so I wouldn't know. However I believe that it is probably 
 true because the same thing is true for call of duty 2 on a regular tv and with that game i have 
 seen it in both HD and regular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amun_ra2083
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  DOA4 the first DOA for the xbox 360 was a good game but could have been better. The problems however 
 don't out way the things this game does well.
  
  GOOD
  fighting machanics
  background enviorments
  practice mode
  movie theater mode
  charecterr desighn for the most 
 part
  multi tier levels
  new charecters
  
  BAD
  no easy or very easy diffaculty levels 
  feels like a harder learning curve for the counters
 
  the charecters look just as good as DOA 2 ULTIMATE OR DOA 3 360 could have done better
  on-line play is a little laggy
  
  SPOILER 
  the introduction of lisa from DOA vollyball is 
 awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Softaco21
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Well, actually I really dont think that highly of it. Ive seen it and am wondering why so many 
 people are saying the graphics are so wonderful. It looks only slightly better than the last game 
 in the series. I dont understand why we must fool ourselves into thinking a game is great simply 
 because it is a "NEXT GENERATION" game. It really isnt that good, and I am dissapointed that so 
 many of you are happy with a game that has been barely improved. I hope your all happy with the 
 pain and anguish you all have caused for me and my 9 brothers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djklink20009
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  pure genius, the guys at tecmo and team ninja in my eyes are the only ones along with squaresoft 
 final fantasy creators 
  who can create such beautifull women stages environments and effects and make them work with little 
 slow down or problems using our great technology today.
  
  the producer says he fried 5 xbox 360 cores making doa4 wow that man will do anything and push 
 his graphics to the maximum i guy like that gets my full support as a fan.
  
  alot of people get the wrong impression about dead or alive games perticually reviewers and just 
 plain critics who sit on there buts playing these games for a few hours or miniutes and think up 
 a quik few lines of words decribing the game and how it can be better ect ect
  or they just make a massive review about kasumi and the girls of doa abusing and making sex comments 
 about them like one perticually xboxmag i read that i was discusted with no comment. 
  
  well that was my review hope peaple like it i havent actually played the game so cant say much 
 about it but i can give my 100% garantee that it looks good from the vids and pics on this site 
 and alot of guys and girls like it . 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyuvildens
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The thing that mostly caught my eye about the game DOA4 is its multi-player. Whenever i go online 
 or play with a challanging friend DOA4 has the ability to get me on the edge of my seat pounding 
 the controls so hard with my thumbs, not even worrying about the blisters i got from the day before. 
 To the point where 4 hours go by and your still sitting there with the same enjoyment and pleasure 
 from in which where you started from. "off with the game"... Even though the games single player 
 isn't the most fun since the Atari, the multi-player is what makes DOA4 a great game for you and 
 your friends and the wonderful world of "online"...=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinD1979
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Dead or alive 4 is a good game for the 360, but i have some feeling of being cheated. Let me start 
 by saying that the graphics for DOA are off the hook. The way that everything seems to flow in 
 sync. The problem I seem to have is that the combat system was confusing and hard too get to learn. 
 I am new to the series and playing Doa4 for the first time has gotten me thinking of just waiting 
 until Tekken drops later this year. The online mode in the game is very entertaining. The story 
 mode left something that could have been more. I kept saying to myself, "I went through all that 
 hard @#&% for that." I mean this is the next gen era and a girl making a salad, half naked (i din't 
 mind that part) as a ending. The story could have been better in my opinion. One 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Well, this is another button mashing classic. I loved the graphics and online mode, but that is 
 about it. To me there just wasnt anything special about it. It was fun to play for about an hour. 
 I thought the fighting was fun but not too much skill was needed to beat the game. I wish there 
 was a few more characters to play as. Not to sound pig headed but I did dig the sexy and skimpy 
 outfits for the ladies. That was one big plus in my book. If you love fighting games then it is 
 great for the collection. If not, then go ahead and rent it and then leave it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rei_kun
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The release of Dead or Alive 4 on Xbox 360 is very similar to the release of Dead or Alive 3 on 
 the original Xbox. It really showcases what power the console is able to reach. Although it might 
 look similar to the other DOA games don't let looks fool you. This time around, most of the characters 
 have a bigger move set than in past installments. Also the counter system has been reworked so 
 now it's not as easy or cheap to pull them off. Also, like DOA Ultimate, this game includes an 
 online mode. With it you can create an avatar and a lobby that you customize it to your hearts 
 content.
  Matches play with little to no lag. Graphics wise, it's one of the best looking 360 games. Altho 
 the characters show minor differences to the other installments, the backgrounds are the real star 
 of the show. Especially if you own an HD-TV, your eyes are for a visual feast! Everything from 
 the beautiful Kyoto in Bloom, to the water effects in the waterfall stage look amazing. 
  
  This game might put off some of the hardcore fighting game fans, but everyone should at least try 
 it once. It is a great game and a preview of what's to come in this next generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 comes to xbox 360 by itself in december, and theres little to compare it to, but 
 it comes a full package, the most complete fighting game ever with some minor tweaks and a few 
 technical specs that hold it back.
  
  First off, DOA4 is not the best looking xbox 360 game in 2005, that award still goes to PGR3. DOA4 
 has the best cutscenes and the awesome CGI animated videos for each character, but its in game 
 graphics leave something to be desired. The graphics are bright, colorful and the blurr effects 
 rock but they character models are blocky with square hair and backgrounds that are both strikingly 
 well conceived and poorly animated. I found that most levels, the levels with animals especially 
 were well planned and have excellent interaction, but the animals themselves are low rez and blocky 
 with moveable legs but otherwise their whole being stands totally still when they move. It feels 
 a little bit undercooked.
  
  Sound is the games #1 blunder. Ever attack be it a kick, punch or thow gives the same sound that 
 sounds like a hard smack. Character voices are mostly just short screeches and cheesy catchphrases 
 in Japanese. Overall, its fallen behind in both of its in game technical aspects (graphics and 
 sound)
  
  That being said, DOA4 is a highly addictive fighter that rewards skill, punishes button mashers 
 and can be played for hours on end, especially online. Mode for mode, Punch for Punch, DOA4 is 
 the most complete and decked out fighter yet, which fits its next gen status perfectly.
  
  Offline you have your basic story, versus, tag team, time attack and survival modes, all of which 
 are fun and reward with achievements for any skill level provided you can simply finish the challenge. 
 The story mode is a brawls of intense fighting that starts out very easy and ends up annoyingly 
 hard. In my first few days with this game, even on the easiest difficulty setting (normal, easy 
 and very easy were scrapped) , I found myself angered and kicked around and bullied by the games 
 unfair last boss and its super AI that can autocountert attacked. This boss fight is in almost 
 every characters story mode, and I could barely stand it. Despite the one bosses unusual difficulty, 
 the other enemies are challenging and they evolve to your attacks. Like punching low? they block 
 low. High kick? they will start to counter high. The AI are smarter than the previous DOA games 
 and buttion mashing will just get you repeatedly owned. Precision timing and proper combos are 
 the way to go, and practice almost always improves skill. The game is excellent at rewarding dilligence.
 
  
  Online is where the game truly shines. It has a full tournament and freeplay style combat arena 
 where you can fight in a lag free zone for achievements. Its fast its furious and its over xbox 
 live, what more could you want out of an online fighter? DOA4 has it all.
  
  When all is said and done, DOA4 is a unique experience that is very well rounded and feels complete. 
 Its a must for fans of either fighters or DOA, but its also a great conventional fighter and if 
 you need something to replace COD2 that you have worn out, DOA4 is the one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidof422
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Now I am a good gamer, I play a lot have all the systems but this new installment of DOA had me 
 wanting to throw my controller. 2 me it is still the same game with a slight upgrade in graphics 
 but I dont have a 5000 dollar TV so it might be better. The gameplay however is where I HAVE MOST 
 MY ISSUES. If you get to know the moves and can pull of long combos and have cat like reflexes 
 your good. If you get stuck in a corner the computer will punish you. There are times when you 
 can not even get a shot off before you die or even block for that matter. There were a many times 
 when I had full energy and one hit away from winning and the computer would pull 12 hit combos 
 back to back and I could not block or anything. Yes I beat the game at every level but like I said 
 I am a gamer and for the average gamer it kinda sux and you will die often. ALL AND ALL BASIC FIGHTING 
 GAME AND I ACTUALLY LIKED SOUL CALIBER 3 BETTER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeroshift
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  DOA4, although slightly dissapointing makes up for the bland, third addition. Fans of the series 
 will recognize that the old flare is back.
  
  In DOA4, you will be getting some old fighters back as well as some new ones too. The variaty of 
 fighters are fair, but their fighting styles are pretty awesome and would probably be fun to master. 
 The story mode features a very good challange and only one round fights which are more reasonable. 
 The fighting AI is tough and pretty smart. The moves are pretty slick and the enviornment around 
 you is very interactive. Overtime, the fighting can be repetitive and it loses value. But the online 
 fighting really doesn't become repetitive. The fighting is more fresh online and it gives more 
 value to DOA4. I could say now that the online mode saved the gameplay. If it wasn't for the online, 
 it would be just another fighting game.
  
  The graphics are needless to say terrific. The attires, and the overall visuals of the fighters 
 are magnificent. The fighting areas look sweet and super fresh. The physics too are smooth and 
 awesome. 
  
  As for the sound, it was full of mixed reactions. Some of the music tracks and sound effects are 
 good, but some of the music tracks aren't that great and are pretty bland. Also, they still don't 
 effort to try and put in some english voice acting. The sound I believe could have used the most 
 work.
  
  The first time you would play through this you would probably think its not that great. That its 
 too tough. But play it the second time and the game will become better in your experience. This 
 game could be loads of fun. All you have to do is give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4
  
  Dead or alive 4 was first indended to be released as a launch game but has arrived a little late. 
 Its very impresive and fast with great Xbox Live and graphics to match. It takes a big leap from 
 what the series used to be like with the online play being able to fight against other Human beings 
 around the world.
  
  But some parts of it remain similar to Dead Or Alive Ultimate , speaking in gameplay with the exeption 
 of a few new special moves. But the gameplay is smoother and more fast paced and more polished 
 overall with the arenas being more interactive whilst fighting. Though some of the clipping needs 
 a little work , occationaly your character might clip through your opponent seldom. The objective 
 of every type of game is to K. O eachother as always. It also includes tag-team which is a blast 
 online. The game strikes many as a button basher but those who just bash buttons will be easy prey 
 and defenceless. There are around 12 or so characters to choose from , the majority being female 
 and some being hidden at first and unlockable. All of their fighting styles are different with 
 different moves , strength , speed and special moves.
  
  The online play , extra characters and better looks remain the biggest additions to the game since 
 its proceeder. The new character that stands out the most is the Spartan- 458 out of Halo who is 
 basicly master cheif but a female as you can hear her voice. They come with their own arena designed 
 to look like a level out of Halo 2 for the Xbox this is kind of a new addition to the standard 
 characters and style that have followed the game since the begining. The game also features many 
 unlockables including costumes for characters which are around 10 for each , give or take a little. 
 The costumes are not ment to be anything special and just have colour differences and minor tweaks.
 
  
  The story or offline part of the mode remains good like the previous games where you pick a character 
 and work your way through the eright different rounds. There is a different story to each induvidual 
 character though the story is mediocre its still fun to wach and adds depth into the games offline 
 mode. The story mode offers some small thrills and activities but the sequal had the oppertunity 
 to expand the DOA universe beyond what we have seen in the previous games but this is not a big 
 flaw. The game is rumored although I havent experienced it first hand for its saves to dissapear 
 and you to loose all of your characters and progress but this is rare and should not put you off 
 buying a tile this great.
  
  Online there is seldom any lag but it is known for the game to freeze up very rarely but this can 
 always be fixed in a patch and the lag never ruined my game or experience. The online play features 
 many different modes to try out and see which one you prefer wheater its the standard fight or 
 tag team or anything fancy.
  
  The game does not try anything far out and new or exiting but it is a leap forward nontheless and 
 should be recognised as a great fighting game in its own right. The Game can be very hard for those 
 less experienced gamers out there with no easy difficulty. Simmilar costumes and graphics not that 
 better than DoA Ultimate but its a must buy for any fighting genre. For people who are not interested 
 in fighting games you should deffinetly consider buying this.
  
  9.0
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Sound 8/10
  Value 9/10
  Tilt 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninm156
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Game is pretty there is no doubt about that, the chrs background everything are just beautiful. 
 The sound is good, the ending cinemas are gorgeous but dont do anything for the story which is 
 pretty much non exsistant like most fighting games. The problem is that this version is pretty 
 much like all the other versions. The end boss alpha will make most average gamers take their fustrations 
 out on their 50 dollar wireless controller. Time atack for the last chr, beating ALPHA twice in 
 a row, is meant for 15yr olds on crack. The Computer AI counters and combos pretty much at will 
 to make the game challenging. Why cant the AI be made to make the fight feel fair and challenging 
 at the same time. The life bar adjustment in the options menu should always be cranked up when 
 playing to enjoy the background. Otherwise the fights will be over before you can truly appreciate 
 the work that went into the game. The multiplayer for the most part is lag free and enjoyable against 
 players that will fight with any fighter other than MR Ninja. If you put achievments in the game 
 to award for excellence it will usually bring the multiplayer experience down. If there is a way 
 to exploit the game, gamers will find it, and abuse especially if there are rewards in the mix. 
 In my opinion you should award for time played and leave achievements for tournaments. I think 
 the real point of any game is enjoyment which sometimes get compromised by people going for rankings 
 and/or achievements. Which unfortunatley limits my online game experience to a small group of friends 
 that are there for a good time and a good challenge. VS tag team is a blast. and the fact that this 
 is the first game to really bring an arcade feel to the fighting multiplayer environment. You can 
 still chat with the players you are fighting with in a loby while waiting your turn is sweet. No 
 more one fight and booted back to the loby. In the end its the multiplayer experience which makes 
 this game worth picking up. You just have to avoid the achievement room with players picking the 
 same charcter over and over to win another match.
  
  Just the way it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depopopo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  The mighty flagship fighting game for Xbox has returned again at the beginning of Microsofts new 
 consoles life. Dead or Alive 4 (DOA4) narrowly missed being released at launch but appeared on 
 Japanese and American shop shelves up to a month later. Fighting games have never being plentiful 
 on an Xbox console and with Tecmos/ Team Ninjas support of the Xbox and of course the new blood 
 Xbox 360 it is good so see that fans of the genre have something to get their paws on. DOA games 
 have always been about fast paced fighting with a number of characters from across the globe and 
 I think that other than the actual fighting one of its main appeals is the option to unlock various 
 outfits for each character. This has been a big part of the game since its early appearance on 
 the Playstation One and now several years later on the Xbox 360. You might argue so what, who 
 cares for costumes but when you consider most fighting games offer few and most likely simple 
 colour variations, DOA games are a breath of fresh air on the eyes at least especially when some 
 characters had up to 20 different outfits. Well that was then and this is now and DOA 4 is the 
 latest fighter in the series and the first fighter to appear on the Xbox 360. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The basic premise of any fighting game is to pick a character and then enter into 
 matches verses the computer or against a friend and whilst many novice players can probably have 
 a fair bit of enjoyment out of the game randomly hitting attack and block buttons at the correct 
 time; the real depth to most fighting games is when you begin to look beneath the surface to discover 
 that your chosen character has more than the 10 moves you used simply by randomly tapping buttons. 
 Anyone new to fighting games or in fact new to DOA 4 should first hit the sparring mode which allows 
 you to learn some moves (theres a viewable comprehensive list) and start to understand the nuances 
 of your chosen character. The sparring mode not only allows you to perform each move but also allows 
 you to go toe to toe with a computer opponent who you can program to do all sorts of moves to help 
 you practise certain situations that will occur during normal play; things like blocking combos 
 or even learning to counter attack moves can be learnt here with relative ease but also a little 
 bit of time investment. Sure you can throw yourself into the deep end and begin to attack some 
 of the other modes on offer and maybe have a few victories from the offset but then you would be 
 robbing yourself of understanding the game fully. 
  
  The story mode is probably the second place you are likely to enter as it is here where you are 
 able to follow a rather vague storyline featuring your chosen character (there are 16 in total 
 with one un-lockable character) . What this translates to are various cut-scenes and dialogue prior 
 to each fight as you work your way up to the end boss of the game. Completing Story mode with a 
 character unlocks a movie sequence and an alternative outfit and again more outfits can be unlocked 
 on subsequent plays. So if you want to get every outfit for all the characters then you are more 
 than likely going to be spending a fair bit of time here. Story mode features only one round per 
 bout and so depending on your skill doesnt take too long to beat the 8 stages. 
  
  Time attack is more traditional fighting where players have to beat their opponent twice before 
 they can progress to the next stage. This eliminates any fluke victories and also gives the loser 
 of the first round a chance to hit back. As the name implies the onus here is on beating all who 
 oppose you in the quickest time possible. Once complete you can check how you fair against other 
 players across the globe if you are connected to Xbox Live. If not then you can still try and earn 
 bronze, silver and gold awards for beating your opponents quickly. Time attack also allows you 
 to use some of the characters unlocked from beating the story mode portion of the game. 
  
  The tag mode makes a welcome return and is pretty much the same as a normal match except this time 
 you are allowed to pick two characters on your team and switch between them at any time during 
 a fight. Tag matches allow for some rather spectacular team moves to be performed and naturally 
 the person who isnt fighting gets the chance to recover some energy. Tag matches also allow for 
 some new combos to be unleashed and with some experimentation you can do some pretty flashy yet 
 devastating moves. 
  
  The survival mode also makes a welcome return and allows players to take part in single or tag 
 survival matches. In this mode there are no breaks in the action as once an opponent has been defeated, 
 another takes his/her place by jumping into the ring. Again players can compare their scores with 
 others across the globe but also try and attain the bronze, silver and gold awards. 
  
  The other modes on offer are various verses modes (more about those later) and of course the Watch 
 mode which allows you to simply kick back and watch two or more CPU controlled characters duke 
 it out for all eternity. Watch mode allows players the chance to mess around with the camera angles 
 and also the option to take snapshots of the characters in action and store them in a gallery. 
 
  
  Now on to the actual fighting; firstly you choose a fighter from a healthy mixture of combatants 
 comprising of various male and females from across the globe and each with their own style of fighting. 
 Then its into the game to take on your first opponent. If you have spent some time in sparring 
 mode and are familiar with past DOA games then it becomes quite clear that the game has changed 
 a little from previous outings. Sure the mechanics are pretty much the same in that you punch, 
 kick, counter and throw opponents until their health bar reaches zero but the nuances of the game 
 have been altered. One thing that is more easily noticed is the counters which use a four point 
 system for countering high attacks, mid attacks, low attacks and mid kicking attacks. This is nothing 
 new but the timing has become a lot more challenging in the sense that players have a smaller window 
 of opportunity to counter an attack than previously. Also the game offers a lot more moves for 
 each character and a steady amount of moves which allow you to launch your opponent into the air 
 and follow through with more attacks (Juggling) before they have a chance to counter attack or 
 even block. Also being hit near walls can prove deadly as smashing an opponent into a wall and 
 then following up with more attacks as they rebound seems to be a lot more effective. Ground attacks 
 have also been slightly altered in the sense that you can hit a grounded opponent with more low 
 moves. It also means that floored opponents need to use more thought in actually getting up such 
 as using tech rolls (get up as soon as they hit the floor) or timed mid or low attacks from the 
 side; being wary that a skilled player can launch another flurry of attacks should you get up sloppily. 
 
  
  One of the most noticeable changes is in the level of AI difficulty which appears to have been 
 beefed up significantly. What this translates to is a computer controlled opponent countering your 
 moves more often and being a lot more aggressive compared to previous games in the series. Some 
 of you might call out the Cheap card and complain that the AI simply cheats and does the impossible 
 where as more experienced players translate the AI to being clever in the sense that it forces 
 you to learn powerful combos and also forces you to mix up your moves more. Simply repeating the 
 same moves over and over isnt going to get you very far at all unless you have mastered the art 
 of blocking or countering. The most obvious cause for frustration amongst lesser skilled players 
 is the end boss Kasumi Clone who not only attacks aggressively with huge combos that can drain 
 half of your health bar away but can also grab you to cause similar damage. Again with simply learning 
 and perseverance it becomes clear that even a character such as this has very distinct weaknesses, 
 which you can use to your advantage. Smaller additions to the fighting include things like jumping 
 over low obstacles and launching an attack whilst vaulting, which certainly looks impressive but 
 is not something you will be able to use often unless the fight moves that way. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  A lot has been said about the games graphics from the early screenshots that 
 appeared last year. There seemed to be two schools of thought with one camp saying the game looks 
 the same as DOA: Ultimate on Xbox and the other saying otherwise. I think its safe to say that 
 there is probably some truth to both sides of the argument because although DOA 4 does not look 
 like a huge leap forward in terms of graphics there are nuances that you will immediately notice 
 whilst playing. The character models look mightily similar to their Xbox cousins but are animated 
 a lot more with things like flowing outfits, ribbons and hair moving more realistically than previous 
 games. The costumes themselves have been given a lot more polish and by using higher resolution 
 textures look much better. The most noticeable improvement is probably found when looking at the 
 stages which user better textures on surfaces and generally look fuller than previous games. On 
 one stage which features a small stream below a rickety old wooden, rope bridge you can clearly 
 see a higher level of details when looking at surfaces, especially the rocks which look almost 
 photorealistic. Theres always been a level of interaction with the stages in DOA games and DOA 
 4 simply carries on this tradition and adds some of its own flavour such as vaulting over low objects 
 during combat. What is more the game runs perfectly smoothly with all this high level of detail 
 and its here where you have to appreciate that the Xbox wouldnt be able to cope with it all. 
 
  
  Sound 
  
  Sound is as you would expect for a fighting game which features plenty of groans and fighting cries 
 combined with the sound of knuckle or foot against body. There is dialogue in Japanese (there are 
 English subtitles) which bring to life the characters and being foreign I can only say that the 
 voice acting well performed. The music is rather lacking in my opinion and features remixed themes 
 from the previous games. Its actually quite low in the mix and something that is paced enough 
 to suit the mood of the combat. Players are able to use their own music via the 360 dashboard which 
 is a good thing if you are not so keen on the in game music; however there is some enjoyment hearing 
 the Halo theme music being featured in the game when using the female Spartan un-lockable character. 
 
  
  Longevity 
  
  When is a game complete? A good question when it comes to fighting games because in theory it could 
 take months to learn all the moves for each character and then perfect them during combat. In the 
 sense of unlocking everything in the game then competent players can probably accomplish this in 
 a few days of solid play. Beating personal top scores is one thing to attain for after unlocking 
 everything as is challenging friends for a game or two. If you are connected to Xbox Live then 
 you have the added bonus of fighting against players from across the globe in various Tag and Single 
 battle match types. Winning or losing in matches affects your overall ranking and also gains you 
 points which can be used to purchase new costumes for the Characters or new items for your lobby 
 avatar character. The lobbies online all have various themes and little characters running around. 
 Here you can chat with other players and also watch matches that are taking place. You control 
 the character and can dress him/her/it up to your hearts content if you have enough funds. The 
 lobbies are simple, unique and a minor distraction from the main game, especially in appearance 
 as everything is cute looking! 
  
  Overall 
  
  DOA 4 is an excellent addition to the current roster of games that have appeared since launch. 
 It offers fast paced fighting with some familiar and new faces and it certainly looks very pretty 
 indeed. The art style of the characters remains the same as in previous iterations of the game 
 which is heavily influenced by anime (Japanese Animation) . The core game mechanics feel fluid and 
 fairly balanced; as no single character seems to dominate I guess time will tell if there is a 
 tier system for the characters when the experts have had more time to experiment. Each character 
 has their own style and level of difficulty to learn and it is here where players can invest the 
 most time. To truly master any fighter you need to be proficient with all characters. DOA 4 offers 
 an enjoyable yet frustrating experience depending on your levels of skill and patience. Players 
 should be warned that they shouldnt expect to be able to beat the game on a first play as the 
 computer can be a little tricky at times; practice makes perfect and is more reliable than luck. 
 DOA 4 is an impressive looking and solid fighting game which is a fun to play and look at addition 
 to anyones gaming collection. The more work you put into this game the more you will get out of 
 it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makka8787
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics are great, but it's a little bit the same as the previous games of DOA. So this is a great 
 game but it could have been better i think. The most of the characters are the same, but like every 
 gam of DOA there are some new characters ( MASTER CHIEF!!!!) . The game is very good but it will 
 be boring you after playing it a long time because it's all the same, as i said before. But it 
 will amuse you for a lot of days and hours. To play the game with friends is even greater, when 
 are you feeling better than beating your friends thats great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whalenapp81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  doa4 is a great game, very polished, pretty much ur standard fighting game fare as far as controls 
 and stuff go, it doesnt do anything revolutionary in that department, graphics are great, esp the 
 backrounds, really good for a first gen title, music and sound is good, again pretty standard (will 
 prob want to plug in ipod after awhile though) , the content is great, great replay value, will 
 keep u coming back for more, one of my only complaints for this game is the final boss, which has 
 an insane difficulty, (key to beating her is by pressing right trigger repeatedly) , other than 
 the boss, i would say doa4 is a good start, this series def has a lot of potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost I'm saying this game is hard. I'm not a hardcore gamer. I'm a gamer, I'm just 
 not that into fighting games. I like Tecmo. I loved Ninja Gaiden. I decided to buy DOA4 to surport 
 Tecmo and their decision to keep their games on the MicroSoft platform. I've played the previson 
 DOA games on the XBOX and I never really loved them, but I enjoyed them. The graphics are always 
 sweet. The gameplay is usually solid. But here, controls are hard to master. I cannot block/counter 
 for the life of me! I barely survive the last few battles in story mode. And Alpha-152 is way too 
 hard! Maybe I just suck at this game, but I think on the default difficulty setting, the AI should 
 be slightly slower to react to my openings in position when fighting.... anyway, if you like sweet 
 graphics, multi-tiered levels, bouncy poloygon breasts, and frantic online play that boarders fun, 
 than you'll enjoy DOA4. Thanks for the broken thumbs Tecmo : ( j/k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  For the past several years, publisher Tecmo along with brainchild Tomonobu Itagaki and his genius 
 crew of game developers have continued to break new ground in the fighting game realm. Back in 
 2001, when Microsoft introduced their new console to the world, Itagaki-san and gang were a step 
 ahead of the crowd with their release of Dead or Alive 3 to accompany the consoles launch. It 
 featured never-before-seen visuals, jaw-dropping combos, and a slew of new characters including 
 the new fan-favorite Hitomi. 
  
  Fast forward a few years. Last year, Team NINJA let loose a genre beast known as Dead or Alive 
 Ultimate. Ultimate was Itagakis way of saying, Microsoft rocks my world, and in return I want 
 to bring every installment of the Dead or Alive series to the Xbox to express my dedication. 
 Ultimate was a double-pack boasting a graphically revamped Dead or Alive 2, and a port of the Sega 
 Saturn classic Dead or Alive 1. The main selling point for Ultimate was its online play. Some fans 
 were disappointed though because it wasnt exactly a step forward, rather a rehash of two old games. 
 And thats where we come to Dead or Alive 4.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is the all-new sequel to the Xboxs critically acclaimed brawler. This edition 
 of the series couples the online play of Dead or Alive Ultimate with the character selection of 
 Dead or Alive 3 and painstakingly snuggles it all together to create a fanboys dream. This is 
 the game youve waited years for, and take my word for it, you will not want to pass it up. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Dead or Alive 4s story is a complicated ordeal. Helenas dad, Fame Douglas, 
 has died, and now its time for the kinswoman to take over DOATEC. Strange forces are brewing, 
 and an evil scientist enters the picture and generates a dangerous Kasumi clone by the name Alpha-152. 
 The fighters arent merely entering the Dead or Alive tournament for fame and riches this time 
 around, but for a much more significant and heroic reason  to destroy this mess of a machine, 
 save the organization, and break the demonic stranglehold that has been placed on daughter Helena. 
 
  
  
  
  The Dead or Alive series has always received a good amount of flack by the hardcore throng for 
 being too easy, too simplistic, and focusing too much on graphics and beautiful character models. 
 Team NINJA promised with the fourth rendition that the gameplay would be taken to another level, 
 both in complexity and difficulty. Let me be the first to say, they werent kidding. The AI has 
 been set on attack and conquer, and there are more combos and modes than one could even begin to 
 comprehend. 
  
  Right from the start, there are sixteen characters ready for battle (six unlockable) , including 
 three new contenders  Kokoro, La Mariposa, and Eliot. No particularly new styles have been introduced 
 with these new characters, but each have an assortment of distinctive moves. Kokoros style is 
 similar to your faster, yet grab-efficient characters such as Christie and Zack. La Mariposa, if 
 you couldnt already tell by the outfits, is a wrestler and has a very comparable fighting approach 
 to Tina. Eliot is my favorite new brawler out of the bunch. His master, Gen Fu, taught him well. 
 His style, in a way, is akin to his masters, but in reality its much quicker and assured. 
  
  The combat in the Dead or Alive series has always been based on its lovable counter system, 
 and this installment is no different. You can counter low, mid, and high attacks. Pretty much every 
 move can be countered, except for a few exceptions such as Jan Lees unstoppable high lash out, 
 and maybe a few air attacks. This whole countering obsession has never been so utilized. Before, 
 countering a boss was unfeasible, but Alpha-152 can be countered and grabbed just like any other 
 fighter. However, youll have to think quickly if you want to pull off a successful reversal on 
 this devil. This deadly Kasumi clone will teleport and do peculiar, almost inescapable assaults 
 forcing you to use up those unlimited continues more than anticipated. This boss is without a doubt 
 the most frustrating in franchise history, but a skilled player shouldnt have too much trouble. 
 My advice is to be cheap and continually use the same sudden combos so she wont be able to set 
 up some strange teleport laceration. And when you knock her down, run over before she hurries to 
 get up. With these small tips, anyone, skilled or not, can be prevalent against Alpha-152. 
  
  Now that weve covered the offline portion, lets move on to the heart and soul of the package. 
 Dead or Alive 4s online play is similar to last years Ultimate in several ways. One way being 
 in the modes of play. Winner-Stays, Loser-Stays, Kumite, Survival, and Tournament have all returned. 
 Tag and Team Battle can be applied to these types of play as well to make things more compelling. 
 I was a little disappointed that no new modes were added, but when you have a selection such as 
 the one present, theres not much to complain about. There is, however, an interesting new lobby 
 system. In addition to this, Zacks Shop makes an appearance for the first time since DOAX. Its 
 certainly not as stocked as the one in DOAX, but there is still a hodgepodge of things available 
 for purchase. After earning money by winning matches, you will be able to obtain large screen TVs 
 where you can watch fights from the lobby, acquire new outfits, and gather a variety of unique 
 items. 
  
  All of the modes and depth found in the online section of Dead or Alive Ultimate can be seen here, 
 but one thing I wish wouldnt have carried over is the lag. Yes, I know, its sad. It can unquestionably 
 be a major problem. The fighting system can be abused when there is lag. Adversaries will be able 
 to read your mind like an open book if you or your opponent is not on a smooth connection, or if 
 youre facing someone in another country. This will obviously result in a great deal of frustration. 
 
  
  Its that complete, satisfying, and rewarding gameplay that gamers want when they slap down sixty 
 bones, and candidly, there arent many games out there for the Xbox 360 that will deliver this 
 aside from Dead or Alive 4. Sure, the online has some lag, and Alpha-152 can be a pain, but all 
 things considered, Dead or Alive 4s gameplay is absolutely amazing. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Beautiful environments, staggering character models, smooth and fluent animations this is the 
 best looking game currently available on the Xbox 360 in every aspect. The computer generated endings 
 (which can be watched at any time after unlocked in theater mode) are mind-blowing. They not only 
 look amazing, a number of them are actually pretty darn well produced movies  some definitely 
 better than others. Hayate and Bayman sport the best, while Hitomi and Kasumi have the worst (not 
 necessarily visually) . These CG productions really wet my mouth for whats to come for the console. 
 I get goosebumps when pondering about what Team NINJA has in store for Ninja Gaiden 2. Eek! 
  
  
  
  The in-game offering is no slouch by any means. The characters possess more depth than 
 ever. While there arent as many breathtaking outfits at your disposal as there were in Ultimate, 
 the apparel that is present looks stunning. We still havent quite reached the point in video games 
 where character models will look CG-esque, but Dead or Alive 4 is as close as we will get to that 
 point in a good deal of time. 
  
  As mentioned, the environments are gorgeous. Not just hey, thats lovely detailing they used 
 there on the surroundings, but whoa, can games actually appear this lifelike? There also 
 arent just three or four places to duke it out in either, there is a plethora of available arenas, 
 several boasting multiple layers and wonderfully done destructible structures. If youre a graphics 
 whore, this game has your name written all over it. Truth be told though, this is Team NINJA, and 
 I didnt expect anything less than astonishing. 
  
  Audio:
  
  Finally, gamers are able listen to Elton Johns Saturday Nights Alright for Fighting while 
 playing a fighting game! For those who arent keen on using the custom soundtracks feature, the 
 actual audio and music is superlative. Its not just that techno garbage anymore it seems, rather 
 some more rock-ish tunes. The sound effects have been amplified seven fold, too. Jan Lees annoying, 
 ear-piercing voice sounds exceedingly clear, and Hayates deep, sultry voice is more provocative 
 than ever. Wait, what? Moving on. 
  
  Controls:
  
  Dead or Alive 4 has never had too many problems concerning its controls. The game gives you the 
 choice of either using the analog stick, the d-pad, or if you have the money, the all-exclusive, 
 all-inclusive, limited edition arcade stick. So, whether you want to be a slick next-generation 
 gamer and use the sleek analog stick, kick it old-school and use the good old, conventional d-pad, 
 or want to reminisce the days of yesteryear with the super-hot arcade stick, the choice is yours. 
 
  
  Replay:
  
  Here is where Dead or Alive 4 shines like an eagle gliding across the vivacious blue sky. Not only 
 do you have an unbelievable amount to accomplish offline, such as unlocking costumes and characters, 
 obtaining all the videos in theater mode, and honing your skills in sparring mode, but you can 
 take this sick puppy for a spin online and double  check that  triple the fun to be had with 
 this title. Itagaki stresses the fun factor in his games, and thats something to be applauded. 
 Dead or Alive 4 is enough to tide gamers over to the next batch of quality games, and then some 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MortalMoxie
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Are the graphics ok? Sure. The gameplay? Yup. Controls....? Ofcourse. Level design, feel, fluidity, 
 and anything else that can make a game classy are spot on. BUT, Team Ninja made the game too hard. 
 It's more frustrating than fun. You should be able to progress through the game naturally, but 
 by the time you get to the 3rd battle in story mode, you've already "re-fought" someone 30 times. 
 The computer AI is absolutely horrifying. They unleash devastating attack combos, and kick your 
 character while down. Their impossible to block, and all around GODS!!
  
  Team Ninja's excuse for the increased level of difficulty is that fighing games have too often 
 been overly easy. True, but this isnt going to fix that. The level of difficulty should adjust 
 to how you fight back. The 360 CPU can handle that... no?
  
  Great attemp on a great franchise, but the game is too hard to get into without breaking your shoulder 
 buttons. 
  
  This game sold well because of it's name. Not because of any new innovating features. Say I suck 
 at games, but I've put my time in, and this game still frustrates me. 
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelleriii
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 is a great game in terms of graphics and playing with friends . However the single player 
 games need to be reworked. Every critic has said you have to play the other DOA's to play this 
 one WRONG!!!!! This game is nothing but button mashing not that there's anything wrong with that 
 and that the computer cheats and I mean really cheats. But overall its a must have game for the 
 360 until i hope and wish Virtua Fighter 5. I have to admit though that the spartan does have an 
 advantage in terms of power but she is kinda slow. The end boss is crazy hard you will see what 
 I mean about the cheating and button mashing when it comes to defeating her you basically just 
 get lucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-evil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Team Ninja might work in mysterious and confusing ways, but the well-known Japanese development 
 team always delivers tough, beautiful, and compelling games. Dead or Alive 3, Ninja Gaiden, and 
 its re-make, Ninja Gaiden Black have all spoken to and been targeted to hardcore players willing 
 to put in extra time to reap the riches found deep inside them. And now Dead or Alive 4, the team's 
 first creation on Xbox 360, takes the fighting series to new, divergent levels with Tomonobu Itagaki's 
 infamous brand of knockout graphics and a much more serious level of fighting.
  
  
  At first glance, Dead or Alive 4 might seem like more of the same... with better graphics. The visuals 
 comprise relatively similar looking characters heightened in detail with backgrounds that will 
 make you look twice. But graphics don't a fighting game make. The Dead Or Alive series always has 
 been criticized for its simplistic counter system and lack of depth. Dead Or Alive Ultimate was 
 adept at taking the game online, but didn't provide the long-term fighting experience for which 
 gamers were hungry. Dead or Alive 4 addresses every issue thrown at the previous iterations in 
 the series with varying degrees of success, tackling everything from the counter system to cancels, 
 the ground game, blocks, and interactions with the environment.
  
  But once you get past the button-mashing phase and are finished enjoying the novelty of having 
 a new Xbox 360 game, you'll find the game has changed pretty significantly. The counter system 
 is less forgiving and will definitely challenge fans of the series, especially those fond of DOA3. 
 This affects every other area of the game. The harder characters to master are even more powerful 
 now, and there is more of a ground game, in addition to careful use of the backgrounds. And the 
 online game is definitely improved. The question, however, remains unanswered -- will you the player 
 "I myself" like it..
  
  In this first wave of Xbox 360 games, one is hard pressed to argue that Team Ninja's final version 
 of Dead or Alive 4 isn't one of, if not the best, looking game on the juvenile system thus far. 
 Anyone worth their salt making fighting games these days has to endeavor to match the intensity 
 and layered fighting styles of Sega's Virtua Fighter, the profound technical depth of Namco's Tekken, 
 or the smooth grace and immense fun of Soulcalibur -- all of which look excellent on the current 
 generation of systems. DOA4 does a few things extremely well, while remaining relatively static 
 in others, but does indeed move the graphic factor up a notch in this next generation. 
  
  For starters, the speed with which each of the characters moves is incredible. This game blazes 
 away at 60 FPS with nary a hitch, and the art team worked diligently to create smooth animations 
 that blend between every move, fall, throw, and taunt. With the powerful Xbox 360 grinding away 
 in the background, Itagaki and team have created a fighter that will satisfy your twitchy split-second 
 demands without any issues. Oh yeah, and DOA4 loads in four seconds. Yes, it will load in four 
 seconds from any mode of play.
  
  The characters, on the other hand, are a mixed bag. It's not that they aren't good looking. They 
 are. They're intricately detailed and imagined with flourish and style. Kasumi, Leifang, and Ayane, 
 for instance, show off noticeably flowing silky hair. All the characters display special moves 
 and superbly motion-captured animations that are worth watching repeatedly. When the characters 
 grapple each other you won't see the clipping or body melding seen so often in wrestling games. 
 These characters grab each other with precision and eye-catching animations. Characters such as 
 Ryu Hayabusa, Jann Lee and Bayman all show increased musculature and heightened emotional intensity. 
 Bungie's Spartan-458 looks excellent too, fully suited in specialized Mjolnir armor.
  
  But none of the characters have made a significant graphic jump in design above their predecessors. 
 The women still look like satin dolls and the guys like burly thugs. It's not a big gripe, but 
 one that's worth discussing a little given the advances in current videogame facial expressions 
 and potential emotional output. The character design is more of an amplification of the previous 
 roster's clean looks than a major shift or advancement. And when compared to the spiffy backgrounds, 
 they stand in even greater contrast, looking simple and unrealistic. Perhaps that's just a peeve 
 of my own, because the game overall really does look great.
  
  On the other hand, from both a visual and a functional standpoint, the background environments 
 are terrifically designed. Following the dynamic set of environments from DOA3, this year's model 
 features levels that highlight destructible objects, exceedingly gorgeous effects, multiple breakaway 
 sections, moving backgrounds, and animated creatures and vehicles. There are dozens of examples. 
 Waterfall Valley, Kyoto in Bloom, and Temple on the Mountain boast the game's gorgeous photorealism. 
 The trees still look like cross-polygons when viewed under a microscope, but on first and second 
 inspection, they're damn good looking. Falling leaves and cherry blossoms create a feeling of place 
 and realism. You'll constantly see up-close focus and distance blurring working all the time. And 
 the river water looks and moves with impressive motion. The Las Vegas level, Gambler's Paradise, 
 shows off water, too, only you'll see reflections with more intensity: puddles on the street reflect 
 the city's bright lights and structures with impressive realism, while also affecting the fights 
 themselves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  AHAH!!!! Got ya attention didn't I?!?!?! Anyway there isn't anyhting negative except the AI can 
 be very difficult at sometimes. But, besides that flaw, this is a totally awesome game. This was 
 a total success for the XBOX 360 and all the DOA gamers out there. It has incredible graphics, 
 charcters, attacks, and violence in this game. If you enjoyed any other DOA fighting games then 
 you'll be in love with this master piece. This is a little short but sooooo fun. It can get a little 
 tricky at times but, if you get the hang o this game quickly, then you'll master it easily. It 
 is one of the best 360 games up to date so far, until Halo 3 comes out. This was a totally amazing 
 game for everyone. It is soooooooooo worth the money and wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  I haven't played fighting games heavily since Bushido Blade 1 and 2, so some of this game may be 
 old news to most of you. But for me, it's martial arts bliss.
  
  The counter system works incredibly well and is very indicative of true fighting: the way you counter 
 a straight punch to the chest is vastly different from say a roundhouse to the face. Countering 
 combos and throws really brings the game to life and being able to turn the tables on a match this 
 way is thrilling.
  
  The arenas are also worth note. Many have multiple levels that you can knock your opponent down 
 to for extra damage (and fun) . Like fighting on a balcony where you can throw them down the stairs 
 or threw a glass window.
  
  The computer is _hard_, hence my gameply score of 9, and not 10. Only the weird boss (you'll know 
 it when you fight it) , seems impossible at times though. Every character has a slightly different 
 style, and learning how your character counters that style is key.
  
  Many have complained about this game being soft porn. The female body does seem to be animated 
 without the help of sports bras, but that's this series catch, always has been. Mortal Kombat has 
 more blood than the body holds and DoA has boobs. Get over it. The cover clearly states "M."
  
  Some of the story mode is incredibly weak, but it's short and doesn't get in the way much. 
 About half of the characters show a pretty good action story though, when all pieced together.
 
  
  Not only do I enjoy this game, but so do the rest of the adults in the household, so I've finally 
 managed to place the 360 controller in all hands willingly! And that's the first step. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanDOBS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Awesome game but counters are a little harder and i dont like that much but overall awesome. It 
 was a great game and is really fun. It gets you into the storys by letting you unlock other characters. 
 Multiplayer is awesome as always and it is a must play. I played this game a long time and almost 
 beat the story modes at my friends house but had to leave. I wanted to play with the spartan really 
 bad but never got to. The countering is super hard to do now. You have to press towards them for 
 kicks and away for punches and not to mention the usual guessing where they will be at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeviouz1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Well at first glance Dead or alive 4 looks and feels like any other installment in the dead or 
 alive franchise, but under close examination you will find one of the greatest fighting games every 
 created. 
  The frame rate in this game is a consistent affair and you will be hard pressed to find a point 
 in the action where there is any slowdown. Character animation in this game is dead on accurate 
 leaving you with a feeling of total control of your character. 
  There is all the usual gameplay modes that you are use to in a Dead or Alive game, story mode tag 
 battle, etc, but the one thing that makes this game shine is the online play. 
  When you begin your online legacy you are allowed to chose one lobby of your choice for free. 
 
  This lobby is where players congregate to battle in one of many different gameplay modes. 
  However even with all this a lot of the game play in DOA feels rehashed and eventually all of the 
 eye candy losses its shine. 
  Overall Dead or Alive 4 is a fine installement in the franchise and a great first fighter for the 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronaldmonster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  When i first put DOA4 in my 360 i didn't know what to expect i. Yet afther my first fight i was 
 hooked i played all day long trying to master this game! I was surprised that the countering system 
 was the best i've seen since, well, ever! the online play is surprisingly smoother than it was 
 in doa ultimate. The new charecters are very interesting. Sorry kasumi. the fighting is difficult 
 to master (imagine tekken with only one puch and kick button) . then not everygame is perfect. You 
 need a HI-Def T. V to get best out of the graphics. this game needs a quest mode or somthing similar 
 to vitua fighters kumete mode to customize you charecters. And the ending CG movies entertain more 
 than explain more about the charecters. but all in well it's truely a next gen leap for the doa 
 seris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this short and sweet. First off let me tell you I'm new to the series as I just 
 bought DOA4 like five days ago and never played DOA before then. So I am not a fanboy of this game. 
 This is a unbias review.
  
  OK....
  
  Well first off the the AI in this game is hard. A good challenge even on Regulare (the lowest difficulty) 
 difficulty unless you're kick ass at the game ofcourse. Bit easier once you get really good. Well 
 that doesn't really matter cuz DOA4 is really all about unlocking the characters and costumes pretty 
 quickly and then mainly just play online. So how good is the online play? AWSOME! Sure it will 
 lag, at times so bad that it isn't even really playable, and it will freeze up here and there, 
 but what online game doesn't have atleast a little lag? Don't get me wrong it doesn't lag lag lag 
 so bad frequently that you won't want to play it. It will run really smooth with maybe just a sec. 
 of lag here and there nothing really disrupting the game for the most part. Anyways great online 
 play.
  
  Try to keep this some what short....
  
  The graphics of this game is amazing really. The stages look so darn good. The characters look 
 great too. Not most detailed faces exactly, but they are suppose to look kinda anime. One of the 
 best looking Xbox 360 games for sure.
  
  Audio is awsome. Only complaint at all I have is why does someone Russian, or German, or American, 
 or whatever speek Japanese except for Spartan-458? (The Halo character) It just doesn't make a 
 great deal of sense.
  
  This is the kind of game that I believe a real fighting game fan would be playing till possibly 
 DOA5 or just till another big fighter comes out atleast. It is just really fun and addictive. Only 
 time it isn't fun is when you're loseing online and losing points. See there is a grade system 
 (F-SS / F, E, D, C, B, A, S, SS) and depending on how many points you have decides what grade you 
 are. Win points by winning fights and lose points by loseing. Pretty much you just want to upgrade 
 to the next grade then the next I guess just as a sign of improvement. So if you end up on a loseing 
 streak and lose a lot of points it just gets a bit frustrating making it not really fun. If there 
 was a way to play so you wouldn't lose any points if you lose then loseing over and over wouldn't 
 feel nearly as bad and would be more fun. Still overall this game is a blast.
  
  One problem I got with the game is that some certain characters being, Bayman, Leon, Bass, Spartan-458, 
 and Tengu when useing them and fighting against some one real fast like Christie or Kasumi (or 
 multiple others) it just seems unbalanced really therefore kinda making those five characters (all 
 being the biggest characters in the game as some refer to as "heavy" characters) kind of some of 
 the worse in the game. Actually those are like the worst characters in the game just cuz all the 
 other characters have more speed. Also for Leon, Bass, and Bayman who all have throw combos (do 
 a throw and combo it with another throw) can all be escaped easily for the most part therefore 
 taking those guys main weapons away pretty much.
  
  Besides some characters being unbalanced some, every one else is pretty well balanced. Overall 
 it is the skill of the player and not the character that wins fights no matter what character they 
 are useing.
  
  One last thing.... This game is not all about **** and ass with no depth. It isn't just some button 
 masher. This game has a lot of depth to it. Any real fighting game fan should give this game a 
 real chance for sure. Just buy it. You won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdclanc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of fighting games even though I have played many of the one out there: Soul Caliburs, 
 Street Fighters, Mortal Kombat, etc. I haven't truly enjoyed a fighting game, beyond a couple of 
 hours, since the original street fighter. However, I found this game to be very fun.
  
  The gameplay has depth, but not so much that it will drive you crazy. The graphics are... well... amazing. 
 I don't usally care about graphics, but these are so good that it makes a difference. The music 
 isn't bad; it's just not memorable. The extra costumes are worth unlocking so this game will last 
 you awhile. Xbox Live will make it last forever. There are enough bad people online that you won't 
 be intimidated, but there are also so many good people that you will always be challenged.
  
  It is the best X-Box 360 game yet. I would even go as far as to say that it's the first must 
 have game for the system. And don't forget, I don't even like fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatNact
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I have been a fan of this series since its debut but have always had issues 
 with certain parts of the game like the computer AI and random modes of difficulty no matter the 
 setting and the way some characters moves are geared towards button mashing. The introduction of 
 the Online mode of this series was what it needed and is the most valuable attraction the game 
 has but it suffers from many and frequent lag issues that its only playable for a short time so 
 if you are like me then that leaves you playing against the computer and this is exactly where 
 the fun factor turns into the frustrating factor. 
  Team Ninja appears to have alienated some casual players by the elimination of a more forgiving 
 difficulty mode because even on the normal setting the computer AI can be brutally frustrating 
 and this in combined with some characters *Blender* like fighting style and much much less forgiving 
 counter system ( forget ever trying to match the computer on counters, this cant be done) and not 
 to mention a flawed AI fighting system where the computer is programed to perform a throw move 
 even if you attempt to block a chain of attacks. Now if you have that friend in your closet just 
 waiting for you to pull him out whenever you want some competition then this game is surely perfect 
 but most of us are not so lucky and with the invention of a single player experience you can bet 
 that developers realized this also. So to wrap this up I do not enjoy this game and every time 
 I pop it in to play and get through one session I am usually so frustrated and in spite of the 
 non-enjoyment im having that I turn my system off and put in another enjoyable game. For a game 
 that has tons of moves and outstanding graphics and animation its sad to see it suffer from online, 
 AI that promotes button mashing and lack-luster counter system that is only useful against anyone 
 but the AI it was not what I had anticipated. I do not recommend this game for the casual gamer 
 or the gamer thats not a hard-core Dead or Alive fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I hesitated to pick this game up, after everything I'd read on forums and reviews about the game 
 being "way too hard", "final boss is impossible to beat and very cheap", etc.... because that stuff 
 is all over the Xbox. com DOA4 forum and elsewhere. And, frankly, while I'm an experienced gamer, 
 out of all the game genres, fighting is probably my weakest, and I have spent very little time 
 on fighting games in the past. So I figured if I was going to get it, and satisfy my curiousity, 
 I'd have to accept that I wouldn't get far. BUT....
  
  I actually recommend that anyone who may be a little under-confident about this genre pick it up. 
 I beat the "impossible" boss with multiple characters. Had to be patient and persistent and retry, 
 but the feeling when I finally did it was priceless. You have to REALLY earn your accomplishments 
 in this game, and it's an incredibly rewarding feeling once you do it. It's not necessarily (this 
 is good news for people who aren't "fighting" experts) about how skilled you are at fighting. It's 
 ALL about persistence, determination, and patience. Even a "fighting expert", if they didn't have 
 those things, could probably not master this game. But if you have these things, you can. As far 
 as I can tell, you are allowed multiple continues as you go through the storyline mode, unlike 
 other fighting games in the past, which really gives anyone a chance who's willing to try hard 
 enough and not give up. 
  
  I actually got a workout playing this game. I got that "muscle burn" in my arms, the kind you get 
 after lifting weights, and it really felt good! You may even be able to burn a few spare calories 
 playing this! Bonus! (Note - I had to pause often to rest my hand and arm)
  
  The graphics are incredible. Total eye-candy. The scenery (which is interactive, by the way - you 
 can throw someone down stairs, off a bridge, or into oncoming traffic, for example) is very colorful 
 and beautiful to look at. I even enjoy watching the computer play itself, when I need a break, 
 it's so nice to look at. The characters give a lot of variety. There's tons of unlockable stuff 
 (love unlockables!) like multiple costumes for each character and unlockable characters, to reward 
 you for all that effort.
  
  Gameplay and control is solid. But although the game would like you to use throws and counters 
 consistently, I found that, at least in my case (not fast enough?) I'm not always able to do that. 
 But there are so many moves that by hitting a lot of punch and kick combinations you can pull off 
 a lot of moves without going through and memorizing them all. All-out button mashing is not effective, 
 though. However, a training mode is available, where your opponent will stand still if you wish, 
 so you can learn at your own pace without being attacked (another reason this game is good even 
 for those inexperienced in fighting) .
  
  The computer will come at you fast and furious, so you need to be prepared to give each match your 
 full concentration. If a match does not have your focus and concentration 100% you will lose it.
 
  
  I feel exhilerated when I play this game and accomplish something new, more than most, if not all, 
 the games I've ever played in the past. This one is a treasure. I'm glad I didn't listen to the 
 negative comments from people who gave up early. Remember, you can keep trying on any given match 
 you may have trouble with without worrying about being booted back to the beginning with other 
 fighting games, so while it is harder, it's also more forgiving. Every 360 launch window collection 
 should include this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpac040488
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up my copy of Dead or Alive 4 I had only played one DoA game previously. This 
 one was Dead or Alive 3. I bought the game at launch for the original Xbox. I was wowed by the 
 graphics, but dissapointed with gameplay. After pickup up my copy of 4 for the 360 I was wowed 
 with everything, excluding one thing: the character models. The characters look as though they 
 have been transferred straight from Dead or Alive Ultimate. I was expecting this to be the game 
 that would push my 360 and amaze me with its graphical capabilities. The enviroments are gorgeous 
 and the water is breathtaking, bu the character models are by far the most dissapointing thing 
 of this game. This is not a huge aspect of the game so I will continue that the gameplay is amazing. 
 The game is extremely easy to pick up for beginers, but don't mistake this for a button masher. 
 The learning curve on this game is huge. If you want to be great at this game you cannot simply 
 button mash (which you can still do and have fun) . Learning to counter everythign constantly is 
 an excelent way to make this more of a "skillfull" game
  This game is by far my favorite of all of my six 360 games (PDZ, CoD2, Kameo, King Kong, and PGR3) . 
 This game should not be missed and although I have spent an enormous amount of time on this game, 
 I won't be stopping anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gulstaff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  The most important part of any fighting game is how easy is it to beat the AI, and is it worth 
 playing over and over again. Most games you will find yourself knowing exactly how to beat each 
 character within an hour and there is not much of a reason to play against the computer after that 
 point. DOA 4 is definitely not an easy game by an means.
  
  Gameplay:
  The AI in this game is hardvery hard, and it seems like they adjust to your fighting style very 
 quickly. All button mashers beware, because you will not make it far in this game. The best thing 
 I found is to take one character into the sparring room and try and learn every move possible (combining 
 mid, low, and high combos) . Trying to beat your opponent with mere force is not an option either 
 given the amount that they counter.
  
  Unfortunately with this game, trying to counter becomes like a roll of the dice. Sometimes it works, 
 and other times you do not understand how it does not work. That is my only complaint with the 
 gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  What else can I say, but wow. As long as you have a high-def TV, you will be awe-struck by the 
 graphics in this game. Every character looks so realisticespecially the females if you know what 
 I mean. It is with out a doubt a game made for the fellas.
  
  Sound:
  Playing this game in surround sound adds a lot. You feel like you are in the game. They did an 
 excellent job with the music as well as the ambient sounds in the game. A big thumbs up on the 
 sound.
  
  Value:
  This game will have a lot of replay value, especially with the online capability. Trying to learn 
 all the moves for one character will not take long, but trying to become a master is where this 
 game will truly shine.
  
  If you love a complex and challenging fighting game, look no further. If you get frustrated by 
 a very intelligent AI system (almost like it know what you are going to do before you do) , then 
 this is not the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfirestunna
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  So basically i wanted this game because it has a spartan in it. I don't advise you to do the same 
 if you have the same intentions. Luckily, it turned out to be a great game by itself. I had alot 
 of fun playing through the story modes in order to unlock the spartan, but it was difficult at 
 first. There is NO EASY DIFFICULTY LEVEL. There is only a normal, hard, and very hard.. and normal 
 feels like its hard at first. Once you learn some of the mechanics, the game becomes easier and 
 no longer a button-mashing fest. If that's all you're looking for, it will still fulfill your needs 
 against friends, but it won't work as well against the computer. There is a complex reversal system 
 that adds tons of depth, and seperates the casual players from the gamers. The online mode is a 
 little bit laggy, and the lobby system is unnecessary. Overall, Team Ninja made a great game that 
 anyone can pick up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Verceties
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say this is my first review and I am very proud that I am doing this so Kudos to 
 you gamers of the world and everyone at gamespot. This is one of the few games that the x360 that 
 they can actually be proud of to soulfully own, and its not just the company name that have the 
 true bragging rights but it is all the gamers out there that are dedicated enough to watch and 
 listen to master pieces like these to come out (Halo 2,3) and when they do we just go crazy and buy 
 these people out sometimes will spend months locked up in there room (or closet) and just play the 
 game for days while ignoring everything else around you which to me is a beutiful godgivin right 
 that all of us gamers have to enjoy. there was only one problem I had with this game and that is 
 that this game could have been longer and have more characters including all the origanal characters 
 in the game. Finally I say my farewells as I finish my review, and I would just like to say this 
 to everyone reads this, NEVER STOP GAMING!
  PEACE OUT GAMERS!
  your best Bud,
  Verceties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keatsthepoet
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I wanted to enjoy this game; the 360's initial release library isn't 
 vast, and with most titles in the $60 range, I trusted that DoA4 would be money well-spent. I loaded 
 this beauty and expected to wade in with fists and feet flying. Imagine my surprise when I was 
 defeated by the very first opponent that I faced -- and I'm talking trounced.
  
  After multiple failures to significantly advance through the story mode, I copped out and searched 
 for the difficulty setting. I saw that I was playing on normal and thought, "Oh well, just bump 
 it down to easy and that'll be that." Guess what? No easy mode. After fifteen or so failures to 
 advance past Bayman, a Russian soldier who looks surprisingly Japanese and counters like a madman, 
 I went to the game's practice mode to try to learn a few things. I found that the fighting system 
 works a lot like VF4's, except that the game moves much faster, which is not necessarily a good 
 thing. If you're not careful, one mistake can cost you a significant portion of your life meter, 
 and the insane AI counter system ratchets up the controller throwing factor to a 10. I can understand 
 what Tecmo is doing by making combat more difficult, but the AI is downright oppressive at times. 
 
  
  The presentation is a mixed bag; the backgrounds look great, but the character models are just 
 not that improved from current-gen standards. This game is definitely high-gloss but is a little 
 too glam for my taste. I thought I was picking a female character at the select screen only to 
 find out that my ninja was a he. The game is Japanese-heavy, which is fine, but again seems a little 
 too cutesy for a non-animal or card trading game. The sound is so-so, and the cutscenes are largely 
 abysmal and confusing.
  
  I will keep playing, however, because I'm not willing to succumb so easily to the idea of a blown 
 $60. I do think that this is a potentially fun game, especially in online mode, but the learning 
 curve is likely too steep for most mainstream gamers. I had high hopes for DoA4, but these, like 
 so many of my attacks in-game, were unfortunately countered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off the game can be very fun at times. Most of the time though i have to admit it sucks. 
 When your fighting apponents no matter what difficulty, you can never land a good grab attack or 
 combo. The people dogde it almost everytime, unless your doing sparring which is fun because you 
 actually get to do the moves. But my biggest complaint of the game is the online. Its a fighting 
 game, how simple can online be just to make it run smoothly. If you've played it before you know 
 the lag is unbelieveable at times. And finally for online, probably kids like you doing the same 
 move over and over again so you cant get up and its an easy cheap win for you, just fight you pu**ys! 
 and holding down the block button until the persons attack is over isnt concidered fighting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSplitter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Some may say it's a game for perverts, others say it's for fighting game lovers. It's reallly for 
 the second, but if you're younger than 13 I understand. This game is by far amazing in every aspect. 
 The graphics are gorgeous (and I haven't played on HD yet) . The sound effects are top notch, the 
 gameplay is very deep, but nearly playable for begginers, and the replay value is amazingly high. 
 The graphics demonstarte uncanny realism, from head to toe. The sound is sweet, the characters 
 kihap (for non-martial artists when they scream or go ay-yah) and also when a player hits an electrical 
 wall is sounds SWEET! The gameplay is great with in depth reversals, long combos, and the different 
 characters. The replay value is great with the costumes to unlock, the modes, the characters, the 
 online (almost as much here as the offline) , and just the fun of the game. I highly reccomend this 
 one foe anybody who wants to kick some serious tail! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leifang12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played DOA for very long time now and i think think what I have seen is it the best fighting 
 game ever. when you play tekken is the graphic a little hacked somewere on the breasts but in DOA 
 is it much better I havet seen a fail yet maybe just the hair could be fixed a little but the 
 gameplay is alot faster and more clean the every other fighting game and so that new you can do 
 in DOA you can get hit by animals and cars and that its very cool..... but everything is amasing. 
 A game you shuld own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLeifang
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Good thing i didnt give up on this game cause of the so many delays but this game is damn good! 
 the graphics are bueatiful the characters and background. the gameplay is smoother and faster how 
 i like it. the AI opponents are a bit harder and the last boss was definitly a **** but its good 
 to have a tough challenge every once in a while. The online is great I don't mind the lag tho i 
 had to deal with it in doa ultimate i can deal with it in this one. the lobby is funny and i like 
 it. only thing i didnt really like was that they put the spartan cause it was a stupid idea, she 
 sucks in the game anyway so that was a waste of data but that doesnt stop me from enjoying this 
 game. go buy it if u have a 360 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FORKFIGHTER
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing doa since hardcore2 on the ps2 and this is my favorite by far. The ability to 
 play with a friend online, on the same tag team is one of the greatest features ever. The only 
 complaint I have at this point is that there aren't more costumes for the characters but I'm sure 
 team ninja will fix that with a patch later in the year. If you are a fan of fighting games, THIS 
 WILL BE YOUR NEW FAVORITE GAME! There is some bit of lag from time to time but it depends on what 
 room you join and connection speeds etc. 
  Everything being said, I give this game a 10. If you ever want to play me my gamertag is FORKFIGHTER.
 
  See you online!
  ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dautreguy88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is simply put a great game. Im glad Team Ninja took their time making this game 
 because it paid off. The online gameplay is like no other and super fun (and the online menu is 
 pretty funny) . The graphics are outstanding (but with minor issues) and the movies after you beat 
 the story just blew me away (especially Lei Fang's) . The gameplay is pretty challenging wich I 
 loved because the previous DOA installements were way too easy. I will admit the the new counter 
 system is annoying and it takes pretty long to master. The menu system is very easy access and 
 familiar. Im glad that Team Ninja kept the series pretty much the same and did'nt make huge changes. 
 The costumes, and character design is awesome. The chest physics (jiggle effect) is one of my favorite 
 things about the game. The sound is good but i would of preferred that the game was THX certified. 
 I also think that the game should have been $49.99. Overall the game is superb although some people 
 might think is too hard thats why i think you have to give the game a chance and you have to have 
 patience. NOTE: If you are not a patient person dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budlongmv
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  I'm a big DOA fan from back to DOA 2 on Dreamcast. So I was more critical on this version because 
 it's almost the same game as it was 6 years ago. I've always defended this series from people who 
 complain about how easy it is to counter, and how the characters looked in the game. 
  Sadly Team Ninja actually listened to the critics that were not even fans of the series more than 
 their fans who love their game. So now counters are extremely hard to pull off, but the cheap AI 
 can do counters any time it wants. I don't mind if they make counters harder to do, but don't make 
 it easier for the AI to pull of counters more than they ever did before. Team Ninja made an attempt 
 to make the game more skill based, and in my opinion they nearly took the fun out of the game. 
 
  Another major problem is that Team Ninja was lazy and just took the 3d models from DOA Beach Volleyball 
 and tweaked them. These are NOT next gen 3d models. So the characters only look slightly better 
 than DOA 3 on XBOX. This makes the game look strange since the enviroments do look next gen. So 
 you have these highly detailed environments that are beautiful, but that characters look like plastic 
 dolls. Team Ninja's excuse is that this is their style, that is B. S.. Look at their CG movies and 
 some of the charcters have way more realisim in them, although others like Kasumi still have life 
 less character animations in the CG movies. Also this excuse worked for Dreamcast, PS2 and Xbox 
 because the power wasn't there to make very realistic characters, but 360 has more than enough 
 power to make realistic characters. An example of this is to look at what Sega is doing with Virtua 
 Fighter 5. Those characters have taken a huge jump in realism since VF 4, but Team Ninja took no 
 leap in realism except the costumes do look better with fur and bump mapping on the fabric, and 
 the awsome enviroments. 
  In the end this is still DOA which is good, but it's not Next Gen. AI and Counters are frustrating, 
 but fighting moves are improved over past versions. I hope DOA 5 takes a leap in the series because 
 it's been almost the same since Dreamcast. 
  P. S. Nearly forgot another problem is that online the game lags like crazy, and it can get really 
 annoying when every other battle is fought in slow mo because of the lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandoncrane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is spectacular visually, awesome online, and very frustrating in the single player. 
 This is one of the hardest games you are ever gonna play if you want to get all of the unlockables. 
 All I have to say is Alpha 152 (she is very difficult until you figure out the secret) . 
  
  However, after you deal with all of your frustration and begin to learn the fighting system (ETA 
 15 hours) you realize that this is one of the best fighters ever to touch a console. The counter 
 system is cool, and the combo system kicks a#$. For those of you looking to buy a must have title 
 for your 360 and have plenty of time on your hands to learn a new game, this is it. 
  
  Also their are some new characters in this installment of DOA, Miss Chief is my fav. And many new 
 outfits and stages which add to the very sexual/exciting flavor that DOA loves to bring. Definately 
 a top 5 title on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawbwilsh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game has exceeded expectations. On different forums and reviews you hear about how hard the 
 game is or how cheap the AI is. That is total bull. Anyone can pick up this game and beat it with 
 almost any of the characters. The blocking or countering kind of reminds you of Street Fighter 
 3 but with more throws when you counter. I saw that this is one of the better games I've played 
 for the 360. The games I like are Call of Duty, Condemned, PR3, NFS. As for online it seems like 
 it would be fun but I think my connection is too slow. Its super choppy, I need to work on this. 
 But from my understanding make sure you have fast access if not online will be slow everytime you 
 fight online. So as for this review I say this is a must buy and it definatly surpassed my expectations 
 which werent high to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  OK. So this game got so much hype!!! 
  "Its gonna be so great!!! Its incredible looking!" Well whoever said that, you are wrong! This 
 is not a spectacular game! The graphics are just one step above normal xbox graphics, and the opponents 
 are way too hard. Somehow, they can do all these do all these incredible moves, but you can't. 
 What gives??? Also, all the stories make nooooo sensee atttt alllll !!! And most people will play 
 through the entire boring game, just to find out the spartan isn't that good. So all in all, there 
 is some fun to be have here, but you will have to dig very far in to find it. Dont buy this gam, 
 rent it first. I am actually ashamed that I rented this ga, e. It is very bad, and is way overated 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastaChief191
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Yep the 360 has come out and of course no Microsoft system would be complete without a DOA game 
 and it's here. I would just like everyone to know that this game is hard! But first let me go over 
 the game. The fighting engine still seems to be the same though they have added some new changes. 
 First the countering system has been tweaked so that its harder to pull of counters. Also the speed 
 of the games has been increased but not so much that the games just confusing. Another feature 
 is (spoiler) you can unlock a Spartan girl to play as. The modes are also the same and all the 
 character endings are cheesy as can be. The new characters are great additions from the British 
 boy who talks like girl Eliot to the geisha woman Kokoro. The Xbox 360 really improves the graphics 
 and all the animations are smooth. The only thing is that you will have to practice a lot... cause 
 this DOA is freakin hard. Besides that everything is great. Oh and by the way they still speak 
 Japanese with English subtitles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devin12345
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This dead or aive game will beat the crap out of you and the computer is annyoing has heck and 
 the last boss whoa stupid well thats the bad the good is that it has good graphics its dead or 
 alive y dosent it the gameplay rrocks. if your a dead or alives fan or just want to have a fun 
 fighting game this is it and it was worth the wait. just dont get mad just practice makes perfect 
 yeah right not in this game it will take some time to geat good at it and this is by far the hardest 
 dead or alive game ever made they and there isnt even a easy mode in the game but get youll love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VigoSOC
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  As an average gamer, I find this game to be way too hard on normal. I've never been that great 
 at fighting games, but this is more frustrating then fun most of the time. It certainly looks great, 
 but I wish there was an easy setting for this one. I've tried practicing on the exercise function 
 and with other stuff, but when it comes to the game, especially the time trials, I have much difficulty. 
 I fought the final level of the time trial for like 20 minutes and just gave up out of frustration. 
 It's hard beating that engineered girl or whatever once, but two out of three is daunting for me. 
 I don't really give a damn about achievments, I just want an entertaining game and I'm not really 
 entertained with this. I've thought games in the past like the Soul Calliber series were much better 
 as far as the fighting goes. Even DOA3 didn't seem as oppresive to me. But, I'm sure people with 
 much faster fingers will have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel3291
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Playing DOA3 on Xbox and not getting too much out of it, I wasn't expecting the world from DOA4. 
 However, the graphics just keep getting sharper, better, and have just about converted me from 
 casual DOA'er to a serious gamer. The expansive moves list, great counter system, good technical 
 juggling, and reactive backgrounds make it a complex game that is very noteworthy. It being the 
 only next-gen game that is available for play online helps it become one of the best fighters out 
 there. At least for now. Still waiting for Microsoft to make street fighter anniversary backwards 
 compatible. 
  
  Definetely worth the $60 price tag and replayability will keep you engrossed. Even a good game 
 to watch from the side as the environments are so detailed that you miss out on a lot of it as 
 the person playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  DoA 4 is a good 3d fighing game, it has so many new things in the game there lots of good content 
 too. 
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  
  Because the graphics are really detailed and has a lot of realistic things it has a high depth 
 graphics.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  
  Not only you see but you play there are lots of good gameplay in the game and the only problem 
 is it will only last for how much a person wants to play it.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  The sound are the most interesting part of the game believe me its true.
  
  Value- 10/10
 
  
  depends whether it is a really good game...
  
  Overall- 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FartSlash
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The first problem I have with this game is that the counter system is based almost completely 
 on chance. The characters move too fast to effectively predict their attacks and when you are able 
 to execute one, it's usually because the combo being used on you consists of all the same level 
 attacks. Also, this game is a button mashers game. You can simply spam the punch and kick buttons 
 with combinations of forward and backward and execute combos that the HORRIBLY ROBOTIC AI is sure 
 to counter. When the AI does counter you, which is about 3 or four times a round, the resultant 
 damage is ridiculous. The games boss is just a copy of one of the other characters but 3 times 
 as strong, and beating her is more of a chore than a pleasure. The games unlockables are really 
 lame to put it simply. All but one are characters from previous DOA entries and the only new character 
 is a female Spartan that borrows nearly all her moves from other fighters. BTW the block button 
 is almost completely useless
  
  AI- This game's AI pissed me off so bad that I'm making an entire section for it. There is a fine 
 line between challenging and just plain stupid and this game is so far past that line that it is 
 no longer visible. I am a fighting game veteran and I have won tournaments and the AI on this game 
 manages to kick my kiester so easily that it makes me feel stupid. The computer obviously works 
 on some sort of pattern program that manages to know the move you are inputting and counters it 
 about 40 percent of the time. I trained myself in the ways of the counter and I only manage to 
 counter the AI about once or twice around while they counter about 5 or 6 times a round. The counter 
 system is so overpowered that you can beat the crap out of the AI to the point where their health 
 is barely visible and they will counter you three times in a row and win. That is not fun, it is 
 stupid
  
  Graphics- This games graphics are only a slight improvement over its previous installment DOAU. 
 They are a bit more polished and move around in a more life-like fashion. Also, the game features 
 some pretty neat blur effects and environments. But the people that inhabit these environments 
 look so poor that it is beyond me why the developers included them. Perhaps the most disappointing 
 aspect of the graphics is the horrible clipping issues. Characters arms and legs go inside each 
 other. Their hair goes into their body and flops around in an unatural manner. Their are also moments 
 when a character will sink into the ground. The game does have a really good framerate though. 
 One more complaint about the graphics would be how stupid somem of the characters look (Ein especially) .
 
  
  Sound- The music in this game is not that bad. Every character has their own theme and the songs 
 of each level fit pretty well. The game also has good voice acting due to the fact that it is all 
 japanese. some of the hit sounds are recycled though which is really disappointing given the fact 
 that they have been the same since DOA2.
  
  Value- The game has plenty of unlockables, but very few of them are worth the effort. There are 
 some pretty neat costumes, A couple cool FMVs, and the female spartan, but pretty much everything 
 else is a total bore. If you do decide to unlock everything, you will be forced to play thousands 
 of rounds against the game's EXTREMELY CHEAP AI, and without the inclusion of an easy mode, this 
 is a very difficult task.
  
  Overall- This game is alright, but not worth 60 bucks. I suggest renting it. The stupid cheap AI 
 and crappy unlockables make this game pretty mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMitch24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is in no way a disappointment, however there are only a few problems I have with this 
 game. One being that the character models are only a tad bit updated from the XBOX version of the 
 series and the fighting system can get a little tricky at times until you can master grabs and 
 reversals. Early on in the game you will find yourself wondering "Why did I buy this game?" and 
 get all angry because you can't be the final boss, however after a bit of playing you will soon 
 realize that there is more to the fighting system than just punch, kick, and get hit. Blocking 
 is not possible, but grabs and reversals are. It is not until you master these until you can truly 
 appriciate this game and the quality of it. All and all this game is good, the backgrounds are 
 pretty and the flow of the game is great. I highly recommend this and in my opinion the 3rd best 
 360 game behind PGR3 and Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive is without a doubt a great series. Doing what they do best and continuing their sex 
 appeal with half naked ladies; Tecmo introduces it's long standing figther into the next generation 
 with DOA 4 for the Xbox 360. This new installment does little to distinguish it from it's predesescors 
 with deja vu graphics and game modes. The fighting has been 'tweaked' to appeal to more of the 
 button masher crowd but ultimately falls short of such technical acheivments such as Tekken 5 or 
 Soul Calibur 2/3 or Virtua Fighter. One comparing this game from it's Xbox premier DOA 3 will find 
 little change. Graphics, including the backgrounds, suffer from what used to be as they look very 
 similar to the former generation. The only true diference is that it is displayed in High Def. 
 The character models are laughable to be said to be 'next-generation' and to be perfectly honest, 
 the backgrounds are nothing to be amazed by. Game modes are the same as of old as are the online 
 modes. Characters suffer from unequal balancing in terms of power and speed and the game has absolutley 
 no sense of depth when it comes to the story line. The reason why I rant so much is because it 
 has got such a high review. This game is no special gem. Please, fellow gamers, be warned before 
 you even RENT this game, as it will surely no live up to the hype it has got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istonenerds
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  the story line sucks but game play is cool and graphics are sweet but it equals out to a 8.5 to 
 a 9 sound sounds coooooooooool but it could be better and in all i dont recomend this over dead 
 or alive 3. it is much funner and theres more hours. this game is fun but nothing more buy or die.. 
 no seriously buy or ill come to your house get a jackknive gauge out your eyes and hang em on my 
 wall...
  this game is fun and if you dont buy it you should be laughed at stoned and killed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobras075
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are no different then the ones on regular xbox. The normal dificulty is way to hard 
 for beginers and there should be an easy dificulty. I was so annoyed playing this game in the first 
 ten minutes i couldnt take any more and turned it off. I was greatly disapointed and i do not recomend 
 this game to anyone. Also i dont understand why doa cant put english into this game, i bought this 
 game in America not japan and when playing this game i would rather hear English than have to read 
 it. This game is the total opposite of a killer app and should be taken off the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burchanold
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  All i really need to say about this game is it is one of the most beautiful things i have ever 
 laid eyes on. Every characters hair flows with the wind, the clothes writhe while someones floating 
 through the air from a monstrous uppercut, and people have facial emotions from just about everything 
 thrown or said. Trees leaves fall, water looks more real than ever, and environments are very desctructible. 
 i dont think that spelling out beauty could justify the meaning for this game. B-e-a-u-t-y.... nope... not 
 cutting it. From knocking someone through a glass window soaring to the ground below, to kicking 
 someone and watching the many different ways someone can fall down the stairs, this game has majesty 
 written all over it.
  Now, before i blab on about how down right pretty this game is.. i must add... it is hard as hell. 
 There is no easy difficulty. So your stuck on the not so much normal mode. Many times i found my 
 self beaten from a perfect match... on the first stage. Not to mention that they get harder the 
 higher up, and the final boss is a goddess among clones (spoiler!) . The fighting is fluent, all 
 the way up to the counter attacks. But i still say.. its hard as hell. They added a lot of influence 
 from the environments. Knocking someone over a table then hurdling over it with an attack added 
 to it is just splended. And combos are sometimes pretty easy, since there is only a block, grab, 
 kick, and punch button. But.... its still hard as hell. Sometimes i wonder if they didnt put the 
 tortured mind of a psychic inside that white hell of a box, because you cannot do a damn thing 
 to your opponent without getting your fist caught, twisted around your back, flipped over, then 
 kneed in the face.... god i think i should be retarded from all the beatings i took. Moving on....
 
  There is a wide arrange of cast members in this movie of unproportional violence. You start out 
 with 16 different characters, and then move on and get a few more, with some really great add ins. 
 But to get them all... is hard as hell. I seriously spent around 6 or 7 hours straight sitting on 
 my bed, controller in hand, tear in eye, gritting my teeth trying to beat this game with all of 
 the characters. But, when you finally do, the reward is just, and perfect. The tread on that bumpy 
 road may be hard, but in the end you will thank team ninja, and cry when you realize that you forgot 
 to save your game and lost all of your earnings. I still have the gamerscore at least though *dies 
 a little on the inside*
  The online is just supurb. You get to have an avatar, that you can totally customize, and you also 
 get to have your own little theme for the avatar and his world, in which your battles will take 
 place... let me explain. 
  You get currency in DOA4 online, and the way you earn it is by winning fights. With that money, 
 you can buy clothes and themes for your avatars world. Then you can buy items to add to your world, 
 like different types of tvs, to tables, and other little decorations. Then someone can join your 
 world, or you can join theirs, and the fights take place in the tvs. You can literally stay in 
 your house, and watch the fights. But then you can join the fights, in which you wait in line, 
 winner stays, loser goes. Great add ons with the online play. But sometimes the controls online 
 can be unresponsive, and lag a bit, but what games dont?
  The story.. well.. ill just write one short... or long statement, depending on what comes out of these 
 fingers. There really is no story. Each characters ending theme just shows how incompetent they 
 really are, and tells nothing about each person... except germans like to dance naked and make salad. 
 The stories before the fight usually consist of hey your on my way, lets fight. Catch my drift? 
 Dumb story.. im sorry... but great gameplay... except for the fact..... that its hard as hell.
  This game has a great sense of style, and looks, along with the great levels, and characters. Online 
 play is just the perfect add on that makes the game unique, and very playable. Story.... we'll just 
 cut that out of my ending, and the AI is very very hard and ridiculously ruthless. But a great 
 game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Tecmo's great fighting series makes another run with DOA4 for the Xbox 360, and with great results, 
 with a large cast of amusing characters including a spartan, really good unlockable movies and 
 a solid online mode make this one of the Xbox 360's killer apps, but it is still not without its 
 flaws, a slightly confusing online lobby system and the difficulty of the game in general may overwelm 
 some more casual gamers, and obviously male gamers will love how the character models look if you 
 catch my drift, and the movies only add to that aspect of the game, overall, Dead or Alive 4 is 
 a fun if not hard game experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Best fighting experience, at home to date. It is exciting, fast pace, highly for recomended fighting 
 fans. Its fast paced, intense full of action. The multitired arenas in this game brings the whole 
 idea of this concept to the next level. A graphical master peice, the textures are beautiful the 
 player models are full o polys. Tons of 60 fps animation. I fine very little faults with this game, 
 although there are some. In the graphics dept, Although every thing from the arenas down to the 
 costumes are spot on, there is some antialiasing in the water effects in the game. And on Xbox 
 live there is some lag when you watch the matches, but other than those few things I still can 
 say this will be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domingo_X
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is possibly the best looking video game ever seen... at least as of it's release in December 
 '05.
  The issue isn't the graphics, the sound, or even the presentation... all of which are top notch.
 
  This issue is that this game is a poor excuse for a fighting game. It's fast, choppy, and relies 
 on little more than executing and countering pre-programmed attack strings. Blocking seems to be 
 something the programmers didn't really consider to be a valuable tool as you'll find that it might 
 has well have been removed altogether.
  Watching and playing everything from D-ranks to A-ranks online... you'll rarely see anyone block 
 anything. It's either counter the first hit of a string... or eat it. Ever get hit by a launcher? 
 Go ahead and put the controller down. Your character floats so painfull low to the ground that 
 you can often eat the same string 3-4 different times before touching the ground or hitting a wall. 
 A good player can end a round in seconds using one juggle. Mix that launcher with another similar 
 move and you'll realize just how flawed the system is. Had blocking actually been properly implimented 
 this wouldn't be an issue, but considering A-ranks can't seem to block any more than someone picking 
 up the game for the first time... it seems to have pretty clear flaws.
  Buy this game to have fun with the community feel of the games and for the graphics... not for a 
 serious fighting game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirk1264
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is a very challenging game. Probably the most challenging fighting game to date. First off 
 the game looks great far more detail in the characters and environments. Secondly the gameplay 
 feels very good and there is no lag in the offline modes. The countering system is perfect and 
 a good part of the game. It can get pretty annoying at first with the computer constantly countering 
 you but it gets easier with practice. Thirdly the final boss in the game is the toughest boss i've 
 fought since the original mortal kombat days like back in mortal kombat 2 with shao kahn as the 
 final boss. The final boss always finds your mistakes and counters so you have to be careful. You 
 can't just constantly attack her as she will teleport and do a massive combo on you. So you have 
 to use strategy to beat her. The other fighters fight like real people cause in real life you can't 
 just keep throwing the same punch or kick to someone without them finding out your real tendencies. 
 So you have to mix it up. Online play can feel a little crappy. Depending on how good ur connection 
 is the online mode can be lagging real bad or very smooth. The online lobby is cool as it makes 
 you feel like your back in the arcades waiting for your turn while the winner continues playing. 
 i also think its cool how you can watch other fighters while your waiting for your turn so you 
 can pick up on tendencies for when its your turn to fight. Overall DOA4 is a very good game and 
 one i'd recommend for the Xbox 360 and trust me at first i thought the computer was cheap but it 
 grows on you and makes you wanna try harder and makes you into a better fighter. Also you really 
 have to be a hardcore fighting game fan to really get into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraylemmon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 brings a very challenging Single Player to the table. Even on normal (there is no easy) , 
 you will most likely be thinking how good your 360 would look in a million pieces. It forces you 
 to learn to use the right counter, when to block, and memorise combos. Basically you will have 
 to practice a lot if you want to stand a chance. The online portion is great and I have had no 
 lag whatsoever. The graphics are the best I have seen on the 360. It looks great even on a standard 
 TV. A definite recommend for any fighting fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3lly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is based on the popular fighting series DOA (Dead or Alive) .
  This version is the fourth one in the series hence the number "4" at the end of "Dead or Alive".
 
  
  Dead or Alive should not be the name of the game it should be a question: Dead or Alive? hmmm....... 
 that is a tough question well the answer is dead because thats what you want your opponents to 
 be, but the answer can also be Alive because thats what you want to be.
  
  Dead or Alive has never been as good as Tekken series but definitely better than Happy Mega Super 
 Street Fighter 2 Alpha Zero Turbo Ultra Hyper Omega Euro Edition which was basically the same old 
 game except Capcom added on a few extra characters and some new moves.
  
  DOA 4 is a whole new different game but one thing that hasn't changed is the ultra realistic 3D 
 modeled female characters based on what "real women" look like, which is one of the main selling 
 points of the series.
  
  This is also one of the first Xbox 360 fighting game I've bought , now all i have to do is buy 
 an Xbox 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 is fast beautiful (aside from the posessed hair movement) and alot more technical than DOA 
 3. The worst part of the game in my opinion is the retarded block and reversal controls. They have 
 changed significantly from the previous DOA games in the series as you have to press the X button 
 and forward to counter some moves and than others you don't. This element adds a significant amount 
 of frustration to the fighting mechanics in the game. The difficuly in the offline mode is rediculous 
 for newcomers to the series and this is a problem because it creates a steep learning curve. There 
 is alot of things to do and see in DOA 4 such as unlocking characters and costumes and earning 
 credits for your online avatar. Overall the game is awsome for any fan of 3D fighting games because 
 it looks great, plays great, and has lasting value but DOA 4 is not for the impatient type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captnhaggis
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that I loved DOA 3 and I really like DOA 4. The graphics are 
 amazing, the combat is fast-paced and fluid, and the whole game is very cool.
  
  Having said that, there are some major problems with the game.
  
  1. They changed the catching 
 system. You now need pinpoint timing, psychic abilites and divine intervention to catch a move. 
 And to top it off, not all catch moves are Block and Back anymore. To catch kicks (but only mid 
 kicks, try to remember that in battle) you have to go foreward.
  
  2. The computer is like Attila the Hun, Terminator, Darth Vader and Bruce Lee all rolled into one. 
 I know i'm not the first person to say this, but let me just run over it again. This game is too 
 hard to be fun, plain and simple. The computer juggles you in midair until you die, catches all 
 of your moves even if they have no pattern or logic and basically kickes the living crap out of 
 you. I understand that some people have a zen-like mastery of the game, and think that all the 
 people complaining about the difficulty "suck". Fine. If you want a game so hard that average people 
 who don't have hours to train and formulate strategies can't play it, then you've found it. For 
 the rest of us, please for the love of GOD put an easy mode in!
  
  3. All your favorite moves are still here, but you can't pull them off. That's right, you can still 
 izuna drop with Hayabusa or break limbs with Bayman, but be prepared to do a much more complicated 
 combo in a fraction of the time, with perfect accuracy. Needless to say, the computer does this 
 flawlessly every time. I still can't get out of even the simplest combo throws.
  
  4. You will find religion while fighting the final boss. Enough said.
  
  Now that I've talke 
 the game down, I would like to reiterate that I really enjoy this game. I have managed to unlock 
 every character except tengu, and it is very fun to play against players, and online. But if you're 
 an average player looking for a good, fun fighting game to play in your spare time, look elsewhere. 
 This game is too hard for all but the most hardcore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanker123456789
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the DOA games this is the best game in the whole history of the games history, in all 
 my days these graphics ar ethe best seen. Even if the 360 has only been out for a little bit, this 
 game will be one of the best in the 360's history. This game is amazing.... amazing. If you have 
 a 360 and not to sure what games to get get DOA4. And if you are going to get on in the near future 
 (waiting in line) go out and buy this game before hand and learn some of the counter moves... just 
 a tip from a gamer to gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shupper96
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  The new Spartan is totally unrealistic. I know she's not 117, but there's no way a cyberneticly 
 individual should be so slow. The armor also is linked to there brain and reacts to there thoughts 
 increasing there speed. So why is the Spartan closer to Zippy the Wonder Slug than that of the 
 realm of 117. Maybe they can fix it and make a downloadable update or at least fix it for DOA5 
 whenever it may or maynot come out. Also maybe they can reduce the cheapness of the computers attacks. 
 As mentioned in my previous review. At least the Halo stage looks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Cool enviorments; Lots of cool characters; Loads of unlockables; Master Chief is in the game; You 
 can play online; Keyboard support
  
  Cons:
  Once you're put in a combo by the AI, you might as well put down the controller; Some characters 
 (such as that green haired weird black guy) are useless; Can't use your sword if you're the ninja; 
 Terrible online play (because of lag)
  
  Overall:
  Since it's the only fighting game on the Xbox360, it's automatically the best. But besides that, 
 it's a solid fighting game with a ton of moves and combos and some great online play (when not 
 lagging) . The only thing I would have done different is toned the AI's combo and reverses down 
 a bit and made the servers able to kick people with 999 ping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is definently my favorite fighting game. The characters have grown in number. There is a kid 
 named Elliot, and three new girls including Kokoro, some hispanic chick, and of course the huge 
 Spartan. Whoever said that a Spartan could be a woman obviously didn't read the Halo novel in the 
 part where it describes their training. No woman is like seven feet tall, and five hundred pounds 
 of solid muscle. Whatever, she is awesome to play as though. The graphics are very high res, fluid 
 in motion, and detailed. If you ever were a DOA fan at all, buy this game. All of the characters 
 ever used are in it. The Live capabilities are awesome, so awesome in fact, they characterize you 
 according to your account type. For example, if you are a "PRO", or "RECREATION" kind of guy, it 
 will match you up with players of your skill level. There are two major problems with the game. 
 For one, the pad really isn't the best for response, but you get used to it and adapt (3rd party 
 controller might be good if necessary) . For two, there aren't many tag team levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguyryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I first got DOA ultimate on the xbox awhile back and thought it was pretty cool. then i got a 360 
 and this was the first game i got. DOA 4 has so much more to offer than Ultimate. every character 
 has better and longer combos. The spartan has been added which is pretty awsome. This is probably 
 my favorite game on the 360. You should also have HD TV to really have the full affect. This goes 
 way past Mortal Kombat or Tekken. It never gets boring. I give the graphics a 9 unless your playing 
 on HD. In the end of each characters story mode it shows a very well developed movie that shows 
 how great the 360 really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  DOA4 is the 5th game in the series actually (if you count the Xbox remake of 2 as the 4th) It has 
 gone a long way with its fighting system difficult to master, but when you master it (as I have) 
 you will find this game to be quite fun. Aside from the fact that the online lag might mess you 
 up (done that to me) online is pretty solid, but I would say they could use more 2 vs 2 maps (there 
 are only 3) . Somethimes the CPU opponents act pretty cheesy, and the boss is the cheapest I have 
 sen in DOA (and beleive me, Omega was easier to beat then her) Still, after hours of frustration 
 and a sore thumb, this game finally shines where it should, not to mention the graphics are AWESOME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmacinnis
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is for the 360, and that being said there isnt anything about this game besides Spartan 
 454 (Niclole) that is really enjoyed. I found the fighting system to be less enjoyable than the 
 last ones. And there are more downsides to this game then upsides compared to the last few. Many 
 holes in the countering system (timing and execution. Plus the difficulty system... NO EASY MODE???!!! 
 WTF?!!! And personally I think they should have had Sparatan 454 available to use in story mode. 
 I mean they worked so hard on intergrating her into the game it only makes sence that she should 
 have her own story. Overall I give this game a 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallofDutyGuy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  While DOA4 has sweet fighting, and tons of moves and combos for a young warrior to master; it is 
 greatly flawed by the Bruce Lee rivaling AI. I bought this game knowing full well that every fighting 
 game is exactly the same, except for Soul Calibur which is much better than all of them, and basically 
 I hate myself for ever sliding the hellspawn of a disc into my 360. There is nothing in this game 
 that is better than Tekken 5 or Soul Calibur II. The fighting is very fluid, fast, and cool looking 
 but you wont be able to enjoy it because the DEVIL AI will be kicking the **** out of you from 
 the get go. The game has three difficulties and they are as follows: Holy **** I hate this game 
 mode, You have got to be kidding me she killed me in one combo mode, and I just busted a nutt because 
 this game is impossible mode, and they are all before you even get to normal mode. The graphics 
 are not even better than anything on Xbox. The characters all look gay and cartoony just like they 
 did in prior games. AND WHAT THE HELL IS WITH THE GAME HAVING A MILLION GIRLS?!! Are they filling 
 games with girls now because they are trying to market games towards women? GUYS DONT WANT TO PLAY 
 AS A HO WITH HUGE KNOCKERS!!! I'm not impressed at all and I hate whoever made this game........ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  PROS: This game looks soo freakin amazing that just thinking about it makes my jaw drop in disbelif 
 on how a game can look this good. The fighting is still there if you are a DOA fan. Online is cool 
 too, the lobby is pretty inovative. You create your avitar, then you run around an actual lobby 
 like some kind of cute anime cartoon. Tons of ulockable things to get like special endings for 
 each character, cosumes, hidden fighters... one of whitch is Spartin, who looks just like Halo's 
 Master Cheif, but Spartin who is a girl.... as we have seen in DOA half of the fighters on the roster 
 are chicks who KICK Major Arse so dont be suprised.
  
  CONS: This game is HARD!!! On the lowest setting you will get your but kicked by the CPU unless 
 you know what you are doing. Im not saying thats bad, but I play games to chill after a long days 
 work, and this game makes me stress even more! The online lobby that i mentioned is not really 
 that great. It pretty much just running around and stuff.
  
  RENT OR BUY: If you are like fighting games and want to have great title added to your library 
 then its a must buy. If not, then a rental from Gamefly. com will do just fine for the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja has finally outdone themselves. This is by far, the best DOA out, and the best fighting 
 game out. The fighting speed has been increased dramatically. If you thought DOA Ultimate was fast, 
 this is on a whole new level. A touch of next gen paint has been added, as well as three brand 
 new characters to the DOA Universe. Well... technically four new characters, including Spartan 458. 
 Indeed, after you complete the story mode with all the characters including Helena, you unlock 
 Spartan 458. Though it may look exaclty like Master Chief, Spartan 458 is a female. When you unlock 
 her, you also unlock a stage from Halo 2. She doesn't use any weapons however, its all fist fighting. 
 The thing that also seperates this game from its older brothers is that the story actually makes 
 sense for once. Each character will go through three cinematics throughout their journey, and one 
 CG cinematic at the end. Each character has a reason their participating in the tournament, and 
 I will tell you this; all the ninjas in the game are good, and have the best storyline. They all 
 still speak Japanese, except for Spartan 458. The graphics are highly impressive, and gorgeous 
 to look at, and each character displays emotions. One other thing that does seperate this one is 
 the difficulty. I will tell you, and warn you, that this game is hard. It will beat the living 
 hell outta you until you perfect each characters moves, especially Alpha 152. Alpha 152 is the 
 end boss you encounter this time, and she actually makes sense why she is there. Like I said, the 
 story makes sense and gives you an actual reason why the people are there. Though its hard, its 
 not impossible. It simply shows that Team Ninja spent more time making the A. I. more as if you 
 were playing an actual person. After alot of ass kicking and frustration I came out satisfied. 
 This is the must have game for any fan of the fighting genre. And this is by far, my favorite fighting 
 game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymus72380
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  this game have great graphics and to a point its fun to play however its overrated and faiLs to 
 measure up to the others fighting games . lets start by saying the easiest skill level is like 
 (All madden with the madden football franshise or legendary on halo one. ) i mean i dont even wanna 
 think about the hardest level lol u probably wouldnt get a hit in. they have a block button but 
 u can use it effectively probably like 20 percent of the time and moreover if u dont get the jump 
 on the opponent from the beginning u pretty much gonna get the smack down. it usually a one sided 
 battle once u get deep into the story mode ( which is ungodly short) now its not impossible to 
 beat however it is almost impossible to have fun with. for example one might wanna try out some 
 combo`s basically jus have fun with it, but u cant because your to busy gettin hit. i mean how 
 can u have fun with a game this hard?? the computer is tha master of 24 hit combos. once u get 
 the boss this energy lady she can kill u with like 3 moves. people DONT!!!! bye this game its only 
 a good title to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmhgh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best for the xbox 360 it has extremely interactive enviroment the graphics 
 are awesome the games online is a little weird but it is fun to fight other people .................... i 
 think if you like dead or alive or fighting games i highly reccomend this game i give dead or alive 
 4 for the xbox 360 a 9.7 it is a great game it is highly addictive and just plain fun.. it is awesome. please 
 listen this game game rulez it is a must have now go get dead or alive 4 please listen this game 
 is awesome the combos are fast for the fast and quick charaters and the slow big characters do 
 more damage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IXMAXIMUSXI
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  No matter what you may have read anywhere else, once you play DOA 4 you will see how great this 
 game is and how the series has evolved. The fighting techniques have been tweaked ever so slightly 
 (i. e. interactivity with the environment) to change things up just enough to let you know that 
 it IS DOA but a bigger and better DOA.
  
  The best thing about the latest installment is the default difficulty setting. Instead of giving 
 a quick and easy out with the EASY setting, this one sets a NORMAL as the lowest default. While 
 not that difficult, it still makes for a challenging enough AI to force you to learn chracter techniques 
 instead of button mashing. This is one of the first fighters that actually help make better players 
 and scale up the fun on a good learning curve.
  
  You can also expect better online support than the previous Ultimate had. This is the truest GEM 
 in this latest installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: das_beck
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  This is the first fighting game I've enjoyed since the SFII days. It really shows off the power 
 of the Xbox360 and the game is deep enough and strategic enough to move it out of the "button masher" 
 area I'd place most 3d fighters into. The characters are interesting, good looking and ahem, bouncy. 
 Great game to throw the initial punches of the next-gen system wars. 
  
  The balance of the characters is fantastic in that any advantage I was able to find with a given 
 character could eventually be nullified by another character's strengths. The fights can invite 
 my methodic, strategic style, but cunning stunts of quick-fingering are also rewarded. Great fun.
 
  
  DOA4 online wasn't the smoothest XB Live experience I've had but it's good enough to be fun and 
 interesting. Fighting games were made for Live as far as I'm concerned, the ability to go mano-a-mano 
 with people all over the world? Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Hype- its almost against the law these days for a game to actully live up to such a title, but 
 not surprisingly Dead Or Alive did it and did it to near perfection, the 360 has finally found 
 its savier and it comes at just the right time. what this game does so well is not so much innovation 
 of the fighting game genre, but as much as to take an already great formula tweak it next gen. 
 style give it smooth graphics, sound, and controls add a great online experiance and what do you 
 get ????? no not soul caliber, or tekken, you get dead or alive 4 almost the best kep secret in 
 fighting games had it not been for the second installment. This is without a doubt the best xbox 
 360 game if you wanted to show off the power of you brand new best friend. However not everything 
 is **** like for instance you will notice that even though you have never seen anythng like it 
 you will feel like your walking in familiar territory mainly becasue it doesent really try anything 
 different than any other fighter in the long list of them. But what you will get is the best looking 
 fighter ever to hit a console and that is an achievmant all in itself, this gives the xbox its 
 kick that it needs to fight for the top but it want be easy with stiff competion with the likes 
 of sony but this sure as hell is a good start dont miss out on this one your xbox was made for 
 this !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voyce_n
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  ok, everyone is obviously obsessed with videogame girls prancing around in skimpy outfits but no 
 one is really telling it like it really is. the games so far for the xbox 360 dont seem like next 
 gen games, they seem like xbox1.5, slightly better, you have to really compare to see any imporovemet 
 and im particularly sick of it. not a single game so far is that great, not perfect dark and its 
 crappy online play and especially not dead or alive 4. from a game's point of view, yes it is fun 
 to play and its nice to look at, but thats it. the game looks bearly better than the ones on xbox, 
 the online mode is still glitchy and laggy. the outfits that you unluck are pretty much the sames 
 ones from all past games, nothing new. the halo character is NOT an impressive one, infact she 
 downright sucks. it seems like all developers are just monopolizing one the launch of the xbox 
 360, i don't see any ingenuitive games, they are all xbox games just made to look shinnier and 
 what is with all the the damn shinniness and colour, that doesnt equal realistic graphics, all 
 the games just look cartoony. and one more thing, why does microsoft say that that there are packages, 
 the premium and core but all you can find is the core???? why??? i'll tell you why so you can buy 
 the core and buy all the parts included in the core for more money. the fans made xbox what it 
 is, and now the company is pretty much saying, here it anything we throw at you. please, enough 
 with the crap, send out more premium packages, but this is one xbox fan that is starting to swing 
 more in the ps3s direction. and why you may ask, but as a gamer, i feel ripped of by the uttered 
 crap the xbox360 is releasing, almost every game is a port. need for speed most wanted on the xbox 
 and 360, when you play the side by side, the graphical update is passable, what ever happened to 
 the huge leaps like the snes to the n64, the arrival of the ps1, the orginal xbox, the leap between 
 xbox and 360 is so tinny you actually have to play games side by side to compare, what the hell 
 is that. i dont wanna say, oohhh, look at the extra detail on the walls, i want to say, damn, the 
 games look SOOOO MUCH BETTER. my girlfriend who was an xbox fan doesnt even touch the 360. im starting 
 to sell an encore (dreamcast) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Round 1!
  Opening with a right Hook, swinging with a left jab, then quickly kicking the opponents, Dead or 
 alive will definatly give you a run for your money. The AI is quick to learn your moves and will 
 shut you down midmatch unless you are constantly changing your tactics and stances in some cases. 
 
  The Gameplay of DOA4 is Superb, however doing the exercises and seeing that you have done the move 
 correctly but it did not accomplish the move you wanted to accomplish, is always a disappointment. 
 The controls makes sense on how a move would be accomplished but unfortunatly, some of the moves 
 cannot be done in the order that they suggest, and you either push more or do a different move 
 all together to accomplish the move that you were trying to get done.
  The Graphics were fantastic, fast paced, and plenty to see and do. It was the Noodle hair, and 
 the hands that goes through the loose clothes that got me. This is the next Generation and we want 
 to see more interaction between people and clothes. 
  Sound sounded like what most fighters should sound like if they were in a ring... sometimes a little 
 goofy. But we live in America, and would like for the characters to speak in English so we can 
 understand what they are saying and not just have to read it at the bottom. Also we would like 
 to see the moves translated into english so we understand what a abshinho is.
  Overall Value for this game is Superb as well, since you can easily play it for more then 50 hours. 
 Not only online, but offline as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, not normally a fighting game fan, and that probably explains my lower rating then what most 
 have given me. But as it is a 360 game I am up for giving it a try since there are not a whole 
 lot out yet.
  Controls/gameplay - The controls are easily customizable, which I guess is good for those who are 
 used to fighting games. For me, I found the controls a bit unresposive. Of course I also don't 
 know perfectly how to do everything so take this with a grain of salt.
  Graphics/Sound - these are great. the motion with all the characters seems extremely lifelike to 
 me. Sound was amazing, and I just wish I could actually understand what they heck they were saying.
 
  If you like fighting games, this might be a great game for you. If you like graphics, and well 
 made female characters wearing skimpy clothing, it's a plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zornth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I love this game... BUT SERIOUSLY HATE MOST OF THE ONLINE PLAYERS USING THE FOLLOWING CHEAPASS 
 CHARACTERS
  1. Jann Lee- he can take you down really fast just BECAUSE HE IS TOO FAST TO STOP AND USES SOME 
 OF THE CHEAPST TECHIQUES WIHICH WILL MAKE YOU WANT TO THROW YOUR CONTROLER DOWN. 
  2. Brad Wong- This guy shows noobs how to kick EVERYONES ASS ONLINE JUST BECAUSE YOU CANT TOUCH 
 HIM WHEN HE IS ON THE GROUND DOING CHEAPO KICKS!
  3. Zack- Sorta like Jann Lee except his combos are so strong and esay to do you cant stop this bastard. 
 
  I know what your thinking "Oh well this guy is just wineing and complaining about being beaten 
 by these guys" NO THATS JUST SOMETHING YOUR TELLING YOUR SELFS TO JUSTIFY YOUR SELFISH EXCUSESES 
 FOR USING THESES CHRACTERS- (I want to get a good rank online without practice or hard work) so 
 please do not use these charcters online. 
  This game is fun and addictve but with a few online problems... and why cant you just have an automatic 
 compettion one on one. And the fighting graphics dont compare to the quitlaiy of the cut sence 
 graphics. Its a great game buy dont use those charcters online please... Thanks 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I want to point something out - many people are giving this game a bad reviiew. The 
 reason? "Its too hard". Im sorry but this just makes me mad. SUCK IT UP. Go cry in a corner. Just 
 because its hard, thats no reason to rate it bad. In fact, it gives it much more replay value.
 
  Anywho, where do I start about this game? The gameplay has not been changed much since DOAU, but 
 there is one noticeable difference - it is much faster. This makes the game extremely good and 
 very entertaining. Though I did find one problem - with the faster pace, the online gets hit - 
 lag can sometimes jump so high, it sometimes isnt even worth playing. But the fun crushes that 
 bad out, so it still is awesome
  The graphics.. well, They are gorgeous! The arenas are beautiful, and so are the character models. 
 The sound was awesome, but not wuite as good - during fights, sometimes Jan Lee's "Watchaaa!" can 
 get annoying :P
  The difficulty is hard.. unless you're uber good, and the learning curve , well, depends on what 
 character you're playing and if you've played DOA before. Jann Lee, for instance, could be mastered 
 very quickly, but Ayane (the best character EVER) on the other hand, takes a while to fully understand
 
  The value, as I state, is vey good - the computer always offers a good challenge, and if thats 
 not enough, go online and try beating some SS guys!
  So thats my review.. hope some people agree with me on my rating.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurudoll
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe gamespot only gave this game an 8.8. I think gamespot is a little too overly critical 
 and I don't even know what they're being so overly critical about. The graphics, gameplay, sound, 
 etc. are perfect. This game should've been atleast a 9.5. The same goes w/ DOA U. 8.8? 9.6!!! DOA 
 3? 9.4. So overall, what do I rate gamespot's rating? hmmmm 2.3. Maybe an extra point bec. they 
 make me laugh!!! 
  
  Now I give them a 2.0 bec. when I clicked the submit button, it said that I needed a total of 100 
 words or so. What is that? If I wanted my grammer checked I would've went to my English teacher. 
 This is no English classroom, this is supposed to be a review for a video game. Gamespot, don't 
 hurt yourselves!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the game, I felt it was fun. I beat all the story modes and unlocked all the 
 characters. I finally got the game and decided to do some time trials. I got about four characters 
 in when I started to get beat really badly. It turns out that the opponents in this game are flawless. 
 The opponent can KO you without you being able to do a damn thing about it. Once the enemy hits 
 you, or revereses, then they are capable of unleashing a string of combos that will kill you. They 
 will juggle you until you are dead. This is one of the most annoying things ever, making you so 
 mad that you want to kill something. Don't get me wrong, the game is a solid, nice looking, great 
 sounding game, but the AI is 90% impossible. Now I'm really not one to complain about games being 
 hard. This is the first and hardest game I've ever played. They made the opponents way too good 
 (Especially the main boss, but please don't get me started on her) . So if you can get past the 
 insanely hard gameplay, its a great game. It plays much like the older DOA games except the reversals 
 are tougher. They also threw in this crap where you have to push foward and 'x' to reverse kicks. 
 I do not like it at all. But the graphics are also nice, nice details, boobs still bounce, everythings 
 good there. So what it basically boils down to is this: Its a great fighting game as long as your 
 not playing it by yourself, because then you have to face impossibly good AI opponents. One last 
 thing, I promise that this game will make you mad. So if you have heart problems, stay away. I, 
 personally, am pissed at the difficulty. So you better have Xbox Live or you better get Xbox Live, 
 or don't pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPRooz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  To start off, DOA4's visuals (graphics) caught me offguard. I did not expect the game to look as 
 good as it does on an actual screen playing it instead of watching videos. So as far as graphics 
 go, this is the first TRUE "next-gen" quality game.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes... everything Team Ninja had promised in regards to the revampation 
 and changes have been done and DEFINITELY for the better. The game is multiple times deeper now. 
 The ability to hit your opponent multiple times on the floor and/or the wall makes DOA4 a worthy 
 contender of Tekken.
  
  The online play is SMOOTH and the addictive factor is insane if you have a friend who is just as 
 into the game as you are. I've been finding myself playing this game all the way until 4 AM sometimes.
 
  
  Anyway, Itagaki and Team Ninja have truly delivered and stuck to their promises for this has turned 
 out to be the BEST DOA YET. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The movement of the game is a lot easier than 1 to 3. The look of the game is one of the best looking 
 for the 360 and well worth buy. O but wait there's more the sounds of the game unlike the others 
 is very well done. The one thing i don't like is i wish it was different than every other fighting 
 game and was harder and longer. The colours were so vibrant and full of life they brought the game 
 to life. The value will never be very high because to play and buy this game you must love fighting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcownow15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  this is a great game the best fighting game i have played so far and the people who have gave this 
 game bad revews eher hates fighting games, or has not played it, or loves sony so much that they 
 cant give anything a chance. i cant wait for ps3 too but however 360 is out this is a great game 
 end of story When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 
 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose 
 to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. 
 We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local 
 disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  haha i hate typing
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  It seems that with every DOA that comes out, they increases the bounce just that much more. Wow, 
 I've never seen hooters quite like these before. I swear, if some charectors moved correctly, they 
 could KO themselves with their own breasts.
  
  -Pros: Obviously the first pro is watching a bunch of half dressed women and their incredibly large 
 bouncey breasts kicking each other in the dome. But there is much much more to the game then it 
 appears. The graphics are stunning, the enviroments original, and an extremely diverse set of fighters. 
 Even though I get pwned, online is a blast to play. The computer is incredibly challenging unless 
 your a DOA child prodigy (some of the kids online are so good it's insane) . Also, the cutscenes 
 are cool, and some travel to the land of AWESOME. Especially the one for the drunk dude when you 
 beat his story mode, very wierd and funny. Some are funny, some make no sense, but most are entertaining. 
 It's different yet traditional, and by far one of the best fighters I have played to date. 
  
  -Cons: Even though this game is fantastic, it has acouple small problems. Sometimes, when falling 
 or flying through the air, they're hair looks clumped and gross. Is it just me, or do even the 
 american charectors speak Japanease? Didn't the charectors speak the language of where they are 
 from in the last DOA? I can't remember, but I don't speak Japanease or like the language very much, 
 so it's just a touch annoying. All and all, mostly Pros here.
  
  DOA 4 is great, if you haven't played it, you owe it to yourself. Any fighting game fan with an 
 open mind is going to love this game. I don't think Gamespot gave it a good enough score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzychrono
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja did an amazing job with the latest DOA installment and I would have to say DOA4 is definitely 
 the best in the series. More depth was added into the gameplay this time by adding ground attacks, 
 more moves, and less time to react for counters. Although may be a bit on the challenging side 
 since there is no easy mode like in the previous DOA titles. Only difficulty settings are normal, 
 hard, and very hard... and even normal mode can sometimes strike a difficult challange especially 
 when fighting the extra cheap boss (clone of Kasumi) Alpha 152. Atleast Team Ninja didnt make the 
 boss battle's camera angle change on you like on DOA3's boss battle... so the boss battle is just 
 like any other standard fight in the game... but WAY harder. Alpha 152 is extemely quick and extemely 
 powerful and can take you out within 5 seconds of the round... so be prepared for a very frustrating 
 last battle. Luckily though not every character in story mode has to fight her at the end, but 
 in time attack mode you have to fight her everytime with everyone to unlock Tengu.
  
  The graphics look AMAZING. The backgrounds and settings are filled with ALOT OF DETAIL and really 
 shine. Alot more is going on this time in the backgrounds then in previous DOA titles, so try to 
 keep your eyes on your fighters instead of the beautiful settings while your fighting. The character 
 models have never looked better.. but not as much as the backgrounds though... so you won't notice 
 to much of a difference in the character models except with some of the very impressive ourfits 
 that just simply shine. Some of the characters hair looks really good.. some of the characters hair 
 could have been done better and have separate strands instead of clumped together. Needless to 
 say.. the backgrounds and effects is where this game shines.. character models could have been done 
 a little better.
  
  The sound is pretty impressive especially with surround sound. The special effect sounds are done 
 really well.. especially in the stage with the dinosaurs... The T-Rex gives off a very nice roar. 
 The impact sounds and other sound effects fit really well. The soundtrack music while fighting 
 pretty much have the same sound other DOA games have had but it fits the mood for intense fast 
 fighting. Expect more Aerosmith in DOA4 also.
  
  DOA4's character roster is larger than any other DOA game... Pretty much all the DOA cast from past 
 DOA games are here with plenty of new ones also... and the addition of a female Spartan from Halo. 
 So plenty of characters to work with and learn... each with their on characteristics and fighting 
 styles.
  
  DOA seems to get a little more perverted and filled with more adult content with each title... This 
 one I wouldnt recommend for kids for its difficulty and it contains some breif nudity and alot 
 sexual themes... Especially in alot of the FMV endings. Speaking of the FMV endings.. they look REALLY 
 GOOD.. although alot of them are cheesy... but some of them are really cool... but the true ended 
 comes with when you finish story mode with Helena.. her ending is a real treat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mis3ry
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, in short, is the first must have title for the Xbox 360. From it's stunning graphical 
 presentation to it's incredibly fun online mode, there is not one area that you can rag on this 
 game for. It's a game that you can safely recommend to just about anyone who owns a 360, and is 
 easily the best game in the system's 'launch window'.
  
  The first thing you will notice about Dead or Alive 4 is the detailed graphics, which do a really 
 good job of showing off the power of the Xbox 360 console. The character models look incredible, 
 have fluid, lifelike animations, and to top it off, there is a neat motion blur effect when you 
 send a character flying across the screen with a high powered move. The environments are very detailed, 
 and are very lifelike. There are a few graphical faults, for example, some of the characters hair 
 going through their bodies, and little things like that, but it's nothing particularily noticeable, 
 and it won't effect the gameplay experience a whole lot.
  
  The gameplay in this game is, while nothing revolutionary, a ton of fun. There is always a move 
 to counter another move, so the game is heavily focused on your mental abilites, as well as your 
 speed and reflexes as you pound buttons, trying to get the upper hand on your opponent. The characters 
 are extremely well balanced, and once you find a character you are comfortable with and learn how 
 to fight fairly well, the game will go smoothly, and then the fun will really begin. Not to say 
 the game isn't fun when you're a beginner, because it is; it's just more enjoyable once you really 
 start kicking some ass.
  
  The sound is definitely great in DOA4. From the sound of a well placed kick hitting someone in 
 the chest, to the noise from a car passing by, the sound is as realistic and wonderful as ever, 
 especially when you're playing with Dolby 5.1 Surround.
  
  There is always something in Dead or Alive 4 to keep you playing. Whether you feel the need to 
 unlock all of the characters costumes, or just want to play against some friends in the terrific 
 online mode, you'll always come back for more. There is a lot to unlock, such as characters, lobbies 
 for the online mode, and the before-mentioned costumes, as well as all of the achievements you 
 can unlock for your Xbox Live gamer card. Plus, the online mode is, simply put, a whole hell of 
 a lot of fun.
  
  If you're a fan of the fighting genre who happens to own an Xbox 360, you absolutely must pick 
 this game up. And if you're not much of a fan of the genre, well, this may be the game to change 
 your view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarcat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  By far the best Dead or Alive yet. The graphics had minor improvements (Its hard to take giant 
 leaps when the other games graphics are already amazing.) The sound was fabulous. I loved the Aerosmith 
 songs and the opening menu's soundtrack. And the hard hitting cracks when you land blows on your 
 opponent are satisfying. The game has unlimited re-playability and it the reason that I am going 
 to get Live soon. That's the good news. The bad news is that I can't give this game a ten because 
 I couldn't stand the newly added Eliot. I mistaked this Wantabe-Jessie McCartney pansy for a flat 
 chested woman before I read his bio in the instruction booklet and to my surprise he was in fact 
 a male and I lost my 25 cent bet to my buddie. This High School student is an insult to my British 
 heritage. And if that isn't enough he is also a bad fighter. If any good comes out of the fact 
 that he was added to the game it's the satisfaction of beating up the little twerp and leaving 
 him on the ground with his dress all tattered and torn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crymerge
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Do you like fighting games? Do you own an Xbox 360? Well if you answer yes to both, do yourself 
 a favor and pick this game up. If you played DOA Ultimate on the first Xbox then you basically 
 get the same game, BUT, the game itself feels completely different. The controls are especially 
 tight, which you need in all fighting games. The graphics are at first glance the same as DOA Ultimate, 
 until you actually sit back and look at it. Every detail is in the game. Just zoom in on the characters 
 and you will see what I mean. 
  
  The game itself is really easy to just pick up and play. If you like to button mash, well you can 
 do it in this game very easily. But once you start to get deeper into the game, you will be able 
 to pull off some of the most amazing combos you have ever seen.
  
  There are tons of options at your disposal. From training to single battles, tag team battles, 
 survival modes. Oh yeah, I almost forgot, online. That is one thing that set DOA Ultimate apart 
 from any other 3d fighters, and Tecmo did it again. Better ranking systems, and a really unique 
 lobby for when you just want to hang out.
  
  Anyway, if you want a game to tide you over until MotoGP 2006 comes out, pick this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok iv played DOA since DOA 3 the launch title for Xbox and i have always been bad at fighting games 
 but DOA i kinda could get used to well until this one. Graphics are gorgeous best on the system 
 as of now. Water effects are beautiful and motion blur is great the character look fantastic and 
 so do some effects *wink*. Sound is good but i was hoping that they would finnally put this game 
 in english but its ok cause there isnt mutch talking anyway. The soundtrack is decent but you probly 
 will listen to your own music. Gameplay is solid and hard as hell the AI sometimes seems like they 
 know exactly what your going to do and will get you into a combo thats damn near unavoidable or 
 they will counter all the moves you throw at um which is very frustrating and becomes so annoying 
 you will find yourself in sutch a rage you have to take break of playing. But the online mode is 
 the best part of the game seeing human beings are easier than the AI in this game (kinda sad really) 
 there is this game lobby thing in it that seems kinda pointless and tacked on doesnt really add 
 anything into the gameplay. The addition of a Spartan character from the Halo universe is acctually 
 built in the game well Bungi worked with Team Ninja to make sure people would not be dissopointed 
 (tho its not Master Cheif but instead a female spartan) and she is very good character as well 
 is a more blanced fighter with strong hits but isnt very slow. Overall the game is great but due 
 to the incredibly hard single player it suffers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsider101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  With out a dead or alive is the best fighting game , and again has brought a new challenge for 
 both veterans and new comers. With 3 brand new characters with completely new styles. Everything 
 about this game is amazing , including the new on line "Zack's shop" brings a purpose more than 
 just playing 1 vs 1 now u not only get awards for playing you get money for a avatar u can use 
 in the lobby of any game. If you are a DOA fan u will love it . So get and be prepared for hours 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  DoA 4 is finally here, and it was well worth the wait. Though at this point I have only had an 
 hour to play it, I have to say it delivers all the goods expected of it, that is; good graphics, 
 amazing moves that move gracefully from one to another, and amazing environments. The Sound is 
 quite good too, and really the only qualms I have with the game are some of the moves. Those annoying 
 half circle to 3 quarter circle rotation moves are irritating, they are incredibly hard to pull 
 off, even when you get the hang of it. It does however keep people from spamming them all the time. 
 If you are a fan of any of the other dead or alive titles then I recommend this one. It features 
 several new characters, as well as some unlockables and many returning favorites as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avamarine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  I've played COD2 and Perfect Dark Zero, but I've spent more time with this game. It's just beautiful 
 and the fighting ROCKS of ARCADENESS. I've played a lot of different games (Racing, FPS, Sports) 
 but not so much Fighting games. This was easy to learn, about an hour for me. Thats doing a lot 
 of combos and counters. I recommend this for anyone with an XBOX 360. The game is so amazing and 
 levels are incredible as most of them are barrier breakable. The characters are all great too looking 
 very life like. Each of them have different costumes and the ladies looking well endowed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksage2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is one of the best fighting games ever because not only of the improved graphics 
 but they have raised the fighting techniques for everyone, made it less likely for someone to win 
 a fight just by countering, and now just because you block doesn't mean you will be the dominant 
 player in the fight. There are also more characters to choose from and more levels as well. The 
 online features have also been improved greatly as well. That is why I think that Dead or Alive 
 4 is one of the best fighting games right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I have played at least 11 hours of that game and have fell in love with it. The characters look 
 as if they were still in doa ultimate with clothes from the next gen. The stages are beautiful 
 and so are the ending movies in story mode. The game does have its ups and downs though. Playing 
 online it seems like no matter where you are sitting as a player or host, you get lag. All the 
 modes are great too. Time attack is fun, survival can get pretty tough. I personally am glad that 
 this game did get pushed back just a little bit because this game is beautiful and this game has 
 great gameplay. Everyone who doesnt have this game should really go out and get this great game 
 for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedygride
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best game in the series, but unfortunately the developers haven't done 
 anything to progress the game other than update the graphics. The gameplay is solid and again the 
 multi-tier fighting is awesome, but with virtually nothing new in the gameplay department this 
 game is not a revolutionary game nor is it a must buy for 360 owners. Because this is the only 
 fighter most will probably get the game just on that alone. The visuals and animations, by far, 
 are smooth, crisp and beautiful. I'm waiting for the next Soul Caliber on the 360 and hopefully 
 it has something more to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlwalker1007
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I just listened to the gamespot review of DOA 4, which I bought upon release, and was shocked that 
 no one (other than users) complained about the game's issues with deleting saved games. 
  
  I couldn't wait to get the game, even though I did for a long time so they could "get the bugs 
 out," and when I got it I found it to be impressive. The graphics are inviting and the gameplay 
 pretty smooth. Like so many others, I stayed up all night to unlock all the characters only to 
 have them erased the next time I turned on my system. Other problems included critical issues in 
 online play - insane lag and tons of waiting time, not to mention the pointless and childish lobby 
 goof. 
  
  Anyway, the review mentions (very briefly) the online issues, but I have yet to hear a single reviewer 
 mention the saving problem. I would never have bought the game had I known this. Yet, every review 
 I read gives the game a nearly perfect rating. Is product reliability not included in the rating? 
 Did they pay you guys off or something? Many people use these reviews to figure out which games 
 they want to buy, and it seems that we have been misled. 
  
  So, if you haven't bought this game yet, wait! Despite the wait, it was still released too early. 
 And don't call the Tecmo helpline; they won't tell you anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmore007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is not hard. It's challenging. It's what makes it a good game. I have never played a 
 fighting game in my life and to be honest I never wanted to. I thought they were dumb and pointless. 
 Boy was I wrong. I'm a 22 female who has never really liked watching people fight but this is awsome. 
 When my boyfriend bought it I thought I would never be able to beat it. I got it yesterday and 
 I've played many fights against him, (most of them I have won) and I finished 2 story modes. I 
 have to admit it's not what I thought it would be. It's better. A hard game would be something 
 where once you die, your dead and have to start from the beginning. At least you get as many continues 
 as you need. A challenging game is good because if you pay $70 bucks for it (I'm in Canada) and 
 beat it fast, I don't know about you guys but I'd be pretty ticked off. As for some people calling 
 it "smut" if you don't like the "smut" don't play it. We are in an age where "smut" is life. Get 
 over it.
  
  For all the people who loved this game and gave it a good rating, I love you all. You know what 
 a good game is and you know how to rate things. You can't rate a game solely on what the characters 
 a dressed in. Thank you for being honest people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thespyhunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, let's get this out of the way -- DOA4 is great. The graphics are unparallelled on any 
 console anywhere, the fighting is fast and furious, and it's immensely fun to play once you get 
 the hang of it. Though the chararacters control at least similarly, making it easier to survive 
 no matter which one you pick, there are enough finishing touches on each one to allow you to find 
 a character you're good with (mine's Christie, by the way) . 
  
  However, it's not all wine and roses, people. The game is, for lack of a better term, WAY too hard. 
 With no easier difficulty settings, it makes the game incredibly inaccessible to new DOA players. 
 That being said, the computer AI is rather cheap, especially the final boss for most of the characters, 
 who can apparently disappear and reappear at will. Also, while the online system is cute, I agree 
 with the GS review -- what purpose does it serve? None that I can find of... just something different 
 that no one else has. Which makes the rest of the game stick out -- Team NINJA didn't bother to vary 
 the core gameplay at the heart of the game enough from it's predecessors. It's slightly faster 
 than other DOA games, but that's about it, leaving the game with a terrible sense of "been there, 
 done that." It's fun, but all the downsides of the game left me feeling slightly disappointed. 
 This is the Xbox 360 game that I was hinging all my hopes on? Thank God I really like NHL 2K6 and 
 NFS: MW, or otherwise, I'd have a 400 dollar paperweight on my hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja had a lot riding on this game. The DOA franchise has been so huge in Japan and the rest 
 of the world that this one had to be better. And they didnt dissapoint. I have been playing DOA 
 since the DC and this is definatly the best one in the series. With its amazing visual effects ( 
 expecially in the cinimatics for the girls hehe**) this is definatly one of the best looking games 
 on the 360. If you love fighting games or are just sick of the overdose of sports games on the 
 360 pick this one up I guarentee you it wont dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob139th
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is simply breath taking. I have no idea why the game was delayed but after playing 
 the game for a few days, who cares why. All I can say now is, it was worth the wait. I have never 
 discussed the topic with anyone about games that get delayed. So I am not sure how everyone feels 
 about games that get delayed but I always assume its for the worst. If not then why delay the release 
 of the game. So I had my doubts about this game and maybe that is part of the reason what makes 
 this game so much more enjoyable for me. Of course having a HD TV comes in handy as well. But having 
 lowered my expectations before playing the game help me appreciate the game for what it's. An A 
 title game for the X - 360 that button smasher and serious gamers can all enjoy and together and 
 of course, ONLINE!
  
  I like to just to point out that the ten for graphics is for my HD TV, but no need to worry your 
 self with that, I seriously doubt that the graphics will drop so much from HD to regular TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  How gray is the line between Current-Gen. and Next-Gen. ?
  I would say pretty gray for some of the newest Next-Gen. 360 Titles, But you can definitely see 
 what the future as in store a little more and more with each new game release for the Xbox 360. 
 
  
  I have to say I'm not a fighting game gamer, But DOA has always been a favorite of mine and being 
 the first Fighting game on 360 I bought it anyways. 
  
  The game delivers in many different ways, whether your the social gamer like myself or a hard core 
 butt kicker, you can get both here. Adding the Online Game lobby for chatters like myself was a 
 great Idea and worth a few weeks delay. I can't wait to see some of the new content download for 
 the game later and the favorite naked girl hacks or bugs. 
  
  Dead or Alive 4 for is a good fighting title, I say good because although this game had a lot to 
 offer gamers it also lacked a lot in levels, newer characters, newer types of gameplay , and the 
 unlockable version of that hard to beat son of a dawg, Alpha 152. Why not, that chick has moves 
 I tell ya, and I would love to pull off moves with any character like she does.
  
  Well heres the summary, If you have a Xbox 360 and I know you gotta be getting bored with everything 
 else by now go so go out and buy DOA 4, because you most likely won't find it available for rent 
 anywhere because all the freaking store employee's take these games home and never bring them back, 
 I'm telling ya, It's a damn conspiracy.
  
  Thanks for your time, I have other 360 reviews and lame opinions to spread around like a disease, 
 I'm telling ya it's bad.
  
  Peace and Thanks Again
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenzy_Airstrol
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This is probably Xbox 360's greatest game yet. Besides Madden and others, this game totally shows 
 how powerful the 360 is! One problem with it, is that the game is super hard, but the good part 
 is, that is you to solve! Another problem is that it seems that there are glitches. The girls' 
 hair kinda looks too wavy and glitchy. But everything about the game is what you would have expected!!! 
 Plus a rocking awesome Story Line, and there are no Stories for Fighting Games. Get this game while 
 it still lasts. It'll be the best early games until... Gears of War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeo
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  - gameplay in single player to to frustrating and difficult and no option to set it to an easier 
 setting.
  
  - online play is too laggy and if there more then 2 people in a room the gameplay turns into an 
 turn based stratedgy game...
  
  - oh ya did i mention the single player is frustrating, ive never swore so much in my life.
  
 
  - they need a patch to fix the laggy online multiplare and a lower difficult setting for the single 
 player.
  
  - tema ninja got my money but atleast i know this game will never get any good rep and will be 
 know for being a dissapointing game. team ninja fails at life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  DEAD OR ALIVE 4 - XBOX 360
  
  Gameplay - I think the gameplay should be divided into two sections, multiplayer and vs. computer. 
 Basically, reversals and counters are very hard to do.. for you, the computer will flawlessly brutalize 
 you constantly. The cheap tactics and lack of an 'easy' mode make this game for single player use, 
 frustrating. Keep in mind im not a fighting game expert but i do know what is considered just too 
 hard, and this is the definition.
  Multiplayer is a different story, with a friend or online, it's challenging but there isn't any 
 handicap, there isn't an insane amount of reversals, mostly just blocking. And the people are fun 
 to play with. Minor hiccups, and frame rate drops, but usually only when viewing action, not playing. 
 As far as controls go, this game is great, moves are easy to pull off, just not counters. If the 
 counter system was tweaked for more forgiveness this would have acheived a 9 or 10.
  
  Graphics - Sah-weet. These graphics are gorgeous, in comparison to other Xbox 360 graphics this 
 is by far the top game, or at least the top 3. Compared to Dead or Alive 3, nicer graphics, but 
 not a leap in graphics, just a little step. It's hard to improve upon it. Particle effects and 
 backgrounds look amazing, especially the animal level, very nice.
  Moves are performed flawlessy, no jaggies i could see on my PC Monitor.
  Only complaint could 
 be that i find it blurs a little too much, especially when trying to capture pictures, it's basically 
 a mix of colors and blur :S, not cool. 9.
  
  Sound - Nothing great but no problems. Standard effects, grunts, no big deal. I will give props 
 to the Japanese voice acting, not bad, it sounds better than if they had a buncha' white folk do 
 it in English :D. 7.
  
  Value - This game is going to last. Online, lots of story replayability, unlockables, multiplayer. 
 This is the game that you will get the most bang for your buck. No complaints. 
  
  Overall - Nice game, reversals and single player is a hassle due to a broken counter system. But 
 online and with friends is great. No reason to miss out on this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jug4Life
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible game. I have always loved this series ,with its over the top fighting engine
 
  and super fast action. This version of the DOA family takes the cake with those factors. The fighting 
 is fast paced
  but superbly smooth. the game seems more responsive and the animation is very fluid. which makes 
 fighting a fun.
  The eye candy is all over. Sometimes I just put it on watch mode to check out the whole deal and 
 just marvel.
  The difficulty has been stepped up a notch and anyone who reads the messages boards will know this 
 sucka has
  one of the cheesiest last bosses to date. So be prepared to be frustrated in story and other modes 
 when facing it.
  But don't let it discourage you... it is a game and though nobody likes to be cheesed try and be 
 positive. I mean get what
  you can out of the experience and keep practicing.... because the real fun is online.
  Get in 
 enough practice and test your skills in open water with real opponents. There are some slow down 
 issues online but I 
  personally have had none yet. I do try to keep my rooms to 4 peaple at a time and maybe that helps 
 ... maybe not.
  In closing all I have to say is if you like fighters and fun is not a problem go buy this.... DON'T 
 BUG!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelkinHalo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say it... wow, this game is amazing, the graphics, the gameplay, the online.... just 
 everything, let me go more indepth with this review.
  
  Gameplay - I hated fighting games, this game caught my eye though, so i bought it, ITS EXTREMLEY 
 FUN IF YOU DONT HAVE A HIGH TEMPER!!! Theres a sparring class where you learn everyones move and 
 the pure action and adrenaline is great!!!
  
  Graphics - It is just plain beautiful, especially with a good hd tv, the background makes you want 
 to cry, and the character models are pretty.
  
  Sound - The characters voice acting is well done, the background music is pretty good also and 
 the background sounds are easaly believeable.
  
  Vaule - This game will probably keep you going because there are plenty of unlockable characters, 
 maps, characters to master and to play online (i will go more in depth later) and etc.
  
  Online - ITS AWESOME!!! Unless if it lags alot, but it is still fun non the less! It really brings 
 you back when you were at the arcade waiting inline to play againts the unbeatable person, its 
 just like it online, take my word for it, and you talk smack and stuff, its just plain fun all 
 around and you make good friends also, and they also compliment you sometimes. Gee im tired, this 
 makes no sense, but the game is good :D
  
  Reviewers tilt - I owned Dead or Alive 2 and played DOA: U, this by far has to be one of the best 
 ones i have played, it is near DOA: U, but its a worth purchase, maybe not 60 bux... maybe 50 but 
 its still worth a purchase for your collection!! GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrickedOutPc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 rocks!!! At first the game is real hard, but after you learn the moves its awesome. 
 The stages charectors look amazing In HD everything looks smooth and perfect. I have played this 
 game a lot since it came out. Unlocking costumes, charectors, xbox achievements on line. lot a replay 
 value. Online is where this game really shines. If you love Fighting games DOA4 is a must own from 
 the amazing graphics to the precise controls. DOA4 takes the best from all the series and makes 
 the best version of this game yet. If you own a 360 this is easily one of the best games out for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3nextgenonly0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is finally released on the Xbox 360 after being delayed for a month but still made 
 the "launch window". This is the best Dead or Alive in the series and Team Ninja still offer amazing 
 graphics for the game. Although many expert fighters claim that DOA 4 is just button mashing, they 
 are incorrect as DOA 4 is balanced and has alot of depth to it.
  
  Storyline: For a fighting game, this game has a surprisingly good storyline. Nearly all of the 
 characters have beautiful FMVs and gives each character their own personality. Helena is the main 
 character and her ending is probally the best because it combines everything together to let you 
 understand. I won't ruin it more for you though.
  
  Gameplay: I have played nearly every fighting game released and consider myself an expert at the 
 genre. As I stated before, many Tekken, Soul Calibur, and Street fighter fans may consider that 
 this game takes little to no skill to play because of the button mashing. DOA 4 kills that idea 
 and it caters both to to the casual and hardcore. Every character has their own unique fighting 
 style and some with a hundred moves. I would say that you can master one or two characters but 
 it's really difficult to master more because of the depth of every character. The game's counter 
 system is changed because it was too easy to pull off in previous DOA. The countering system no 
 longer lets the counter hang there and waits for the attack because it was too long. DOA 4 fighting 
 system is very fluid as every character fights smoothly because of the amount of animation added. 
 
  
  Graphics: It's no surprsie that Team Ninja does a great job with the graphics in their game. DOA 
 4 offers one of the best looking game on the Xbox 360. The background of every stage is detailed 
 with amazing objects and mostly everything is interactive. From the cars whizzing through the streets 
 in Vegas, to the cheetah that kills you by running into you in the Saffari. This game is 3d fighting 
 at its finest. Team Ninja's approach to the characters are still influenced by the anime type look 
 instead of being realistic. The characters are still beautiful, but the costumes are gorgeous. 
 Every costume has at least 4 costumes with their own charm. It's still nice to see Gen Fu's cloth 
 filled with amazing fur particles. Also the Sparatan is in this game, she isn't as good as the 
 other characters but its still nice to see a 7 foot babe fighting.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is still good as you can hear every punch, kick, and every slam when 
 you hit the ground. Also it sounds great with 5.1 surround sound. Every stage has their own thing 
 going on such as the Las Vegas street filled with honking as cars passed by you. 
  
  Value: This game offers so many things to do for a fighting game. There are several modes such 
 as the Tag Team, Time attack, Survival, Sparring, Watch, DOA online, and more. While most of them 
 are self explainatory, the online is definately the reason to get the game. DOA online is a great 
 way to match up with other people in the world and challenge your skills in the game. No other 
 game has made me nervous before playing a higher ranked person. This is mainly partly due to the 
 game's arcade like feeling. After entering a game, you can queue yourself up like in the Arcades 
 and wait for your turn. The game's online mode still has lag but it's definately worth it. You 
 can easily avoid the lag though by joining games with 4 people or less (which is still alot imo) , 
 but joining with more people than that will cause the game to have lag. It mostly depends on the 
 people you play and their connection. There is a ranking mode so you can avoid those who are more 
 highly skilled than you. Also there are several achievements that are fun and worth going for such 
 as winning 20 in a row. Team Ninja also does a great job at making fun of players who do horriable, 
 such as getting an achievement for losing 5 or 10 in a row. Still get 0 gamerscore from them though 
 hehe.
  
  Overall, as a fighting fan, this game is easily one of the best I have played. The game is highly 
 tuned compared to the other in the series, several modes that will offer you a challenge and compare 
 yourself to others in the World rankings, and possible 100s of hours of fighting online. If your 
 new to the fighting genre or an expert looking for a good challenge, DOA 4 is easily the most have 
 game when getting a Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xecutionermvp
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics wise, this game is probably the best game I've seen on 360. But the game lacks originality 
 in all aspects. Fighting games up to date has been punch buttons and add directions to create combo 
 movements, and thats what this game is all about. A fast pace game without substance. As a gamer, 
 I like to use my own creative methods in playing but this game gives no room for that. You just 
 have to destroy the controller and try to beat your opponent before time runs out. While trying 
 not to get frustrated as your character is kicked and punched while he is down by cheesy tactics 
 of your opponent, computer or other players, you'll find yourself bored after couple of hours. 
 Im putting my copy on ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  The good!
  DOA 4 is a very solid game with the best 360 graphics I have seen so far, the sound is very good, 
 the controls are good after you get used to them, and the online play is where it's at. Their is 
 lots to do and unlock in the game which makes all the difference.
  
  The bad!
  The game is hard for people who have never played DOA before, the online can sometimes get laggy, 
 and the pre-game lobby is way to childish and japanese for a mature game in my oppion.
  
  So if you are a fan of the DOA series then this is a must buy for you, if you are new to the series 
 this is also a good game to pick up if you are a fighting game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiccup
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Doa 4 is one of the best game in years. It should not be missed on the xbox 360. The characters look 
 good and the gameplay feels great if you love fighting games the you should get this one. IT ROCKS. even 
 the girls look HOT .Everythings in tune you gotta get it. I promise it will convert you into a Dead 
 or Alive fan. Only one minor complaint that there isnt that many new enviroments even though they 
 look good and have destructionable enviroments its still stinks. so you gotta get doa4 for the xbox 
 360 its really that good. IT KICKS ASS SO YOU BETTER GET IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idonthavedsl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  This review will be short because by now we all know by now what to expect from the Dead or Alive 
 games. Intense fighting action, multi-teired stages, a good selection of fun and deadly characters 
 and fantastic graphics. 
  
  The intense fighting continues with DOA4 and is made even more deadly by the addition of new moves 
 and combos as well as changing up some of the established characters entire move sets. This works 
 well with the even larger and more elaborate stages. The new additions like obstacles that can 
 be broken jumped over and used to spring attack moves. The roster of fighters is quite large, 20+ 
 after unlocking everybody including Tengu and the Halo Spartan-458. All of this would be enough 
 to warrant a purchase but with the added benefit of absolutely gorgeous 720P high definition graphics 
 that popped off my 43" HD Widescreen this game is a necessity. Add to all of this the fantastic 
 online play and you have a fantastic game that needs to be played, immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malache-96
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I must start out this review with a disclaimer : I am a fighting game fan. I have played the best 
 and the worst. From Street Fighter I to Rise of the Robots. From Soul Calibur II to Fight Club. 
 If you can kick the snot out of someone, either virtually or as a living breathing opponent, I 
 have probably played it. So with that aside I have one statement : Dead or Alive 4 freakin' Rocks!!
 
  
  This game has it all... stunning visuals, character designs and ending FMV's. A deep move set that 
 is challenging enough to learn, but can be almost mastered by people who don't want to learn it 
 and just want to beat on buttons (sometimes in frustration of getting their arse kicked) hoping 
 for the correct counter or 9 hit combo. All that and an unlockable Spartan from the Halo universe 
 named Nicole... yeah.. a FEMALE spartan.
  
  There is also a lot of stuff to unlock such as items for a collection from each character, to alternate 
 costumes/color schemes an even a couple of extra characters. I'm not saying that it's easy to unlock 
 all of these things, but it is enough of a challenge to keep you coming back for more over and 
 over again. Devinately a lot of replay value for the 60 bucks.
  
  Also there is an online mode that rivals just about any user interface developed so far for XBL. 
 You start off in a lobby with a cutesy character of some sort. You can be a Ninja, a skeleton or 
 even a penguin, which you can also buy things for. Hats, flowers, and such can be purchased with 
 the money (or "Zach Points") that you win from beating opponents online. Just another addition 
 to the replay value. From there you enter the match watching and talking smack to all of your opponents 
 moving up the ladder until it is your turn to fight, the whole time watching and measuring your 
 opponents abilities and forming strategies against them. There are also a bunch of different options 
 for setting up the matches. Everything from winner stays to loser stays or Tag battle to Kumite. 
 There is an option for anyone and you can even choose the level of opponents you can fight via 
 a grade system (from SS to F-) . And although there is occasionally a small bit of lag online, it 
 usually fioxes itself withing a couple of seconds and most matches run extremely lag free. Unlike 
 some of the other XBL games available for the 360 **cough COD 2 cough***.
  
  Everything about this game screams quality. From the water effects on the stages, to character 
 balancing are wonderful and well thought out. This, in my oppinion, is one of the games that everyone 
 who owns a 360 should add to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinker03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the main reasons I purchased 360 so soon. I can't help to say though that is 
 just hasn't achieved the level it could have. However negative this review is let me make sure 
 I say, this is a GREAT game, and best fighting game to date.
  Likes:
  Very "next-gen" combat system with grabs, kicks, punches, combos, counters, and interactive levels.
 
  The bad:
  Grabs cann't be used unless the opponent is standing still. Even if he's dazed from a punch or 
 just got done throwing one you must wait until they are standing straight.
  Tag team cann't be done with 2 players on the same xbox on Live. This really sucks... hopefully 
 when I pick a stat guide up it will show me I'm doin something wrong.
  Graphics are great. 
  Audio sounds like 2.1 so it doesn't take advantage of 5.1
  Gameplay is 
 alsome. After my brother and I picked up the counter system well the battles just look the greatest.
 
  
  Regards,
  MadMule 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim_24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  There are a number of fighting games out there that kind of just toss you into heavy action and 
 hope for the best. Most of those, at the end of the day, are thankfully button mashers, and often 
 times have the full gamete of difficulty options for fighter game weakling like myself. Now I do 
 have my fighting games I'm good at. I'm still a master of the old school Mortal Kombat I and 2, 
 and I'm reasonably good at Tekken, but am only good enough with Soul Calibur 2 to survive the Normal 
 Difficulty. With DOA 2 Ultimate I managed to actually bite, scratch and scrape my way through the 
 hard mode, but it was not an easy thing to pull off, and it was something I swore I'd never put 
 myself through again. You see I'm a hard-core role player, but a casual fighting gamer. 
  I am a real life martial artist, though, so martial arts based fighting games do hold an interest 
 for me. I was eager to get DOA 4 because even though the screen shots for the XBox 360 games revealed 
 titles that looked a lot like their old Xbox counterparts I had already become aware of an amazing 
 but true little factoid. The 360 looks amazing in High Definition. I cannot lie, the same is true 
 of DOA 4, and it looks breathtaking, though the character models are sadly disappointing at this 
 point. I'd be nice if Team Ninja would have aimed for more realism. I also found the game's Barbie 
 doll like "partial nudity" laughable. I can't believe they got an M rating for Barbie doll nudity. 
 The ESRB must be overly strict... 
  The music, once more is awesome, and did I mention the graphics are amazing? I did? Oh... well 
 they really are, especially the scenery. There's hardly any jaggies at all, and I only noticed 
 one instance of any sort of graphical flaws.
  The fighting system is similar to DOA 3 but revamped so that the moves that worked in the previous 
 version don't quite have the same effect here, but here's where we get into my whining. There is 
 no easy mode. It's true that there is a training mode, but it does little to prepare you for the 
 raw aggression you're going to get from the computer run opponents. Simply put, for me, this game 
 is too hard, even on the lowest difficulty setting possible "Normal" which is "medium" in MK terms. 
 Clearing the game for newbies and people who are only casually interested in the DOA franchise 
 is no easy feat, and for those of us wanting to learn by hands on experience rather than an unmoving 
 un-reacting computer character it makes it difficult. I mean you can pause, and pull up a move 
 list, but when you try to execute it the computer run opponent will pummel you into oblivion. Worse 
 yet, the AI seems fully capable of breaking my combos (and I have learned a few sweet moves) but 
 even though I try doing what the game's manual suggests I find myself unable to stop myself from 
 taking a severe beating. 
  I'd love to give the single player mode a higher score, but as a casual fan of DOA, rather than 
 a hardcore fan, I can't help but feel like this game was built for the hardcore. Had Team Ninja 
 tossed in an easy mode it would be easier to pull like I did with DOA 2 Ultimate and eventually 
 work my way up to where I'm good enough to bite, scratch, kick, and break controllers on my way 
 through Hard or even very hard mode. Instead DOA 4 starts you in a difficult mode, and expects 
 you to go from there. 
  That's not to say this game is bad. To the contrary, it's still a great game, and the endings are 
 well worth suffering through the battle with the next-to-impossible-to-beat Kasumi clone at the 
 end, but one thing Team Ninja did that I'm really happy about is make the story much more coherent, 
 and the stories overlap each other so that you have a much better idea of the over all tale from 
 beginning to end, and everything in between. As a player for story, I was very happy about that. 
 And despite the game's increased and insane difficulty the great graphics make the game hard to 
 pull your eyes away from, kinda like RE 4 did on GameCube a year ago, sans the life like characters. 
 
  Online I cried. The lag I experienced was absolutely horrible. I am not sure why, I read that the 
 game had next to none. I may be experiencing technical problems, but I got beaten because of lag, 
 and that did not make me happy. I'm sure a number of players may make the same "claim" but rest 
 assured, I'm not the best at the DOA games, but I'm not the worst either, so I was really mad when 
 the game froze up in the middle of a combo I was doing and when it unlocked I had been beaten. 
 Then a similar problem occurred in the following round costing me the match. At any rate, the new 
 lobby sure is weird, and to be honest I'm not sure I like it. I think I prefer the more simplistic 
 approach taken by DOA Ultimate. 
  In the end, DOA 4 is a great game, but great for hardcore gamers. This game will try the patience 
 of casual gamers pretty bad. I definitely recommend this title for in home multiplayer though, 
 if you have a spouse, or sibling or friend or parent, etc. it can be great. Online seems to have 
 a few bugs, sadly. I'd say hardcore fans of DOA should get this right away; others may want to 
 rent it first and see if they can handle it. I don't regret buying it, but it is trying my patience 
 at the same time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pumph
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan nor expert on fighting games so take what I say into consideration. I am on the 
 other hand a pretty serious gamer, have all systems and have played alot of good and bad games. 
 As fighting games go I don't care for them beacuse they all seem to require a player to learn a 
 complex button mashing sequence to be really really good and in some cases to beat a game. 
  
  Personally, I don't have time to learn complex stuff so like games to be basic and playable 
 for even average peolpe. On the other hand, If you fancy that sort of thing DOA will deliver.
 
  
  The bottom line is that I've played all the DOA games on XBOX and never finished any of them. In 
 contrast, my daugther loves them, has beaten everyone and If it were not for her I wouldn't have 
 even purchsed DOA 4.
  
  Having said that I will say I have spent way more time playing DOA 4 then any of the others and 
 know I will finish it.
  
  The animations are amazing and the visuals rock. This is a game where the eye candy never get's 
 old. There always seems to be something amazing to see. I don't care for the end of story animations. 
 I'm satisfied with the ingame stuff.
  
  The online mode is cool too. The lobby is interesting but underdeveloped. I think the developer 
 didn't have time to make it what it could have been. There is lag in the game while fighting online 
 but not when watching. At times it's worse than others but the overall experience is better than 
 not. I think the lag problems are purely connection issues and time of day related. I have noticed 
 if I play during normal high internet traffic times there's more lag then when playing in off hours.
 
  
  The new characters are cool too. I haven't played as the Halo Character because you have to unlock 
 her by beating the entire story mode. I have played against her online though. If you unlock her 
 you can play her online against people who have not. Someone had her unlocked and we sparred. I 
 kicked her butt. It's pretty darn cool to beat the crap out of a Halo spartan.
  
  Overall it's the freshest gaming experience I've had on the 360. I have played all the note worthy 
 launch titles I normally am obsessed with and have had more fun and look more forward to playing 
 DOA 4 then any other title. This includes titles like Perfect Dark Zero, Call of Duty 2, Kameo, 
 King Kong, and and Quake 4.
  
  Hope this helps..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorSW
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, hmm. This is a familiar game. During the Xbox Generation, Dead or Alive and Halo 
 were the best 2 recognized Xbox game series. Dead or Alive 4 is a fighting game. Fighting games 
 are really fast and interesting. And this game really did not disappoint fighting game players. 
 Dead or Alive 4 has a lot of features. Also, it has some online features which you could play with 
 other gamers. There are many characters who have special fighting skills and features. They are 
 well balanced, so many people enjoy fighters. There are some new faces and old faces. The boss 
 fight, which is one of the most interesting part of action/fighting games, is quite hard. The boss 
 fight is a little bit of SNK Boss Syndrome. The boss, Alpha-152, is very dangerous. But it is fun. 
 There are good online features, and many players find this game interesting. However, there are 
 some problems in this game, as every game has. First of all, this game lacks powerful interest. 
 We can not find who's punching and who's being hit because their is no indication, although it 
 looks real. Also, there are some obstacles. The map of playing is so big, and when kicked out, 
 they go to another place. That is a bit annoying, because people like pure fighting. They don't 
 want obstacles taking their time and striking their fighters. That is really annoying when you 
 want to play with your friend. Graphics were good though. Also, some were boring. The game was 
 slightly lacking some gameplay. The game is a realistic and excellent game. It's a game with a 
 fame. It atrracts many gamers. However, if the developer could improve those problems, it would 
 be a better game. After all, all games have problems that should be improved. This game, Dead or 
 Alive 4 (DOA4) , is probably an interesting Xbox360 game you've been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madskillz999
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, the most recent iteration of the popular DOA series, is an incredible experience. 
 Everything is superb. The character models-though still cartoony in appearance-are still detailed 
 enough to drop a few jaws. All 22 fighters have multiple costumes that can be unlocked that are 
 almost life-like. Each costume has realistic textures to further enhance the experience, but the 
 true pinnacle of DOA4 (graphically) are the battlefields. It is apparent that the level designers 
 spent a lot of time crafting each individual level. All arenas feature multiple tiers, destructible 
 items, and backgrounds that will make you question if you're still in reality. 
  
  Aside from graphics, DOA4 boasts gameplay that is extremely fun and easy to get into. While beginners 
 may button-mash, the inclusion of small, yet important, improvements will keep veterans interested. 
 Such improvements include a more difficult counter system, and a more in-depth ground game. Furthermore, 
 all 22 fighters have their own unique fighting styles and each character has an expanded arsenal 
 of moves. 
  
  Overall, this game does not leave much to be complained about and is a solid addition to the library 
 of Xbox 360 games. If a game like DOA4 can achieve the best graphics of any game thus far only 
 a month after the launch of the 360, imagine what future games are capable of once game developers 
 adjust to the new system. 
  
  I would recommend Dead or Alive 4 not only to fans of the DOA series, but also to any fighting 
 game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finiarel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all I'll talk about the gameplay. Its everything you could ask for and more. Its lighting 
 fast and the counter system , if you can do it , makes it so that you cant get stuck into a never 
 ending combo. Another good thing is you dont have to be a master of fighting games to be good at 
 this one. The fighting is so fluid that kicks punches and blocks just melt together making it so 
 even your friends that come over that have never played it before can make a pretty good match 
 for you. Also every ones combos are relatively simple , except for hayabusa's , his is a little 
 harder. Story mode can get aggrivating sometimes especially when fighting Alpha 152. I'll move 
 on to the characters now. One thing the DOA series does very well il have a huge variety of characters. 
 Theres a fighter to fit every bodys style , Jann Lee being my personal favorite. All the characters 
 also have a huge variety of costumes that you can unlock. One flaw with the characters is that 
 out of the 16 stories you can complete only a few have a cool ending video. Next I'll talk about 
 graphics. As you could guess they are amazing . You can see every bulging muscle and vein on Jann 
 Lee and pants hair and dresses blow in the wind. The enviroments are breath taking , especially 
 the stage entitled Kyotos in Bloom. There are a couple of flaws though. Hair and Ribbons will go 
 straight through the shoulders alot of times and in a couple levels youll get slammed up against 
 something thats not there. The graphics arent perfect but but you sure as hell cant complain. Well 
 thats my review of dead or alive 4 and you better go out and buy it because the only way you couldnt 
 like this game is if you hated fighting games. Hope you find this helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best one of the Dead or Alive series. I just recently got it and fell in love 
 with the moment I started playing the game. The graphics are fantastic, the game play is great, 
 the controls are easy to learn, and the ladies . . . what else can you say but DAMN!!!! I cant 
 wait to try this game online once I get better at the game. They really came along and made this 
 game a must have for the people who own a 360. I definitely recommend this game to anyone who has 
 a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is not my taste but it is some of the best action ive seen in a fighting videogame, its 
 like watching the old kung fu chinese movies compared to american karate movies (which sucked) compared 
 2 the other hand 2 hand 3d fighting games. But they went to the extreme, being a fast game ,which 
 aint nothing new coming from a dead alive game. To me it moves unrealistically fast ,i know ninjas 
 are supposed to be supernaturally fast but this is ridiculous. Why the complaint about that, because 
 im a counter slash defensive fighter and its almost impossible to see things with your naked eye 
 and counter, majority of the time when you reverse somebody in this game it is by predictibility 
 ,accident or by knowing the characters real well. It wasnt no point using 60 frames per second for 
 the animations ,they could of got away with 30 because they fast fowarded all animations .The speed 
 is good for the more casual by popular demand button smash players ,because sad to say still majority 
 of the fights in this game are won by button mashing, which is a problem for me, whatever happen 
 2 timing, defense ,spacing and strategy. If you are into some what realistic fighting you will be 
 dissapointed. The overall gameplay is still not on the level of a Tekken or a Soul cailber, or even 
 virtua fighter but still pretty good. But enough with the complaints, the graphics without a question 
 are the best ive seen from a fighting game (which it should be) ,the backgrounds are sick and i 
 love how they really make the backgrounds apart of the fighting ,jumping over obstacles and kicking 
 your opponent ,slamming your opponent head into walls, real good stuff. But the anime models on 
 realistic looking backgrounds look a lil wierd but overall the visuals are almost perfect.
  
  The sound is good ,smacks, punches, grunts are done well ,music goes with the game, not a fan 
 of it though, your typical sound for a fighting game not nothing really innovative. They could of 
 had the accurate language for each of the fighters ,its kinda weird youll have a american fighter 
 and he or she is talking japanese.
  
  They should of had more male characters i personally cant really take this game serious because 
 of the ton of female brawlers and tecmos emphasis on trying to catch guys eyes on their polygon 
 hoes and strippers. This definitely is not a game for kids ,which it should be, because the gameplay 
 is so shallow. But the game is very good though and in my opinion a decent game to have if your 
 a fighting game fan. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SargeJoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing my favorite 360 game for sure. It will take hours to unlock all the characters, 
 but once you do you can just own people online a masterpeice. You ust buy this game if you have 
 a 360. It will get annoying haveing to unlock all the characters. Some parts will be very hard, 
 but just stick with it. Istayed up till 3:00am, but once i got all the characters it became the 
 greatest game ever. If you don't like this game it's probley you didn't give the effort to play 
 it to its full power. Just stick with it and you'll enjoy every minute of on-offline gameplay!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohan_3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is an awesome game, way to go team ninja. This game is pretty difficult and i only 
 suggest it to people who are willing to spend the time to master a character. Some people may not 
 like the cheapness of the final boss but i find it pretty fun because the more i play against her 
 the better i get at fighting her. The countering system is more difficult but makes it harder for 
 the better people to master. I have one complaint, the online lobbies weren't set up very well. 
 you can't be in the lobby and be in line to fight at the same time. and you can experience some 
 lag not much but some, luckily it doesn't really affect gameplay. The interactive eviroments are 
 good, but you really don't see people get hit by the car or cheetah to often. And the Graphics 
 are great but they are not photo realistic because that is not the team ninja art style. and dont 
 forget they love to make their games really difficult games so dont' get this if you don't plan 
 on putting hours into it, or get annoyed by losing to the a. i. many and many times otherwise you 
 will probably end up throwing your control through your tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Now this is what I'm talking 'bout right here. I've always been a DOA fan, followed the series 
 from PSone to Dreamcast up to PS2 and finally the Xbox. Upon it's announcement for the 360 though, 
 I found myself debating wether to follow the series through another leap. Don't get me wrong, I 
 love the games and all but with last years DOA ultimate I couldn't help but feel the whole formula 
 was getting a little bit old. So it was with much joy that I read countless interviews with the 
 infamous Itagaki (infamous amongst us internet nerds atleast) in which he proclaimed that he too 
 was somewhat sick of the way DOA played from 2-3-ultimate. He promised us a more offensive playing 
 style, said the characters would feel different. 
  
  I'm happy to say that he wasn't just blowing hot air. Now I like the series but I'd hardly consider 
 myself a master of it or anything, I can beat up my friends in it and that's about it but this 
 new one most definetly has plenty of new moves and older moves are altered in both damage intensity 
 and the difficulty required to pull them off. The easiest to spot new addition is the charge move 
 which is accompanied by a wonderful little dragonball style burst of air around the character using 
 one. The ninja's most especially kasumi and Ryu Hayabusa have almost entirely new movesets including 
 the ability to teleport. Counter attack timing has been tightened up a notch, no longer can you 
 repeatadly hold out your hands waiting to catch a kick or a punch, you now really do have to nail 
 the button press otherwise you just get a stinky foot to the nose. The game feels faster too, almost 
 like DOA 2 runing in fast forward at times, for the first time since DOA2 I feel excited to play 
 through a battle instead of somewhat forced. 
  
  Given their absence in DOA ultimate (it was just doa2 champion edition turbo alpha super ) the reappearance 
 of DOA3 newbies christie and Brad Wong is welcome, both are now properly balanced into the cast 
 instead of being somewhat overpowered like they were in 3. Mostly christie moreso then brad, she 
 still moves with the same voilent intensitiy but everyone else has been kicked up a notch to make 
 her fit better. New comers to this edition of dead or alive include Kokoro who utilizes the fighting 
 style made famous by Virtua Fighter's Akira. Early reports indicated she'd be harder to use but 
 I found her combo's elegent and effective, a nice addition to the cast. La Mariposa/Lisa was made 
 famous in DOA volleyball and her presence is most welcome here. She's fast paced and erradic in 
 the way she fights, almost like a speedier brad wong. Just a really fun character to use. Finally; 
 Elliot, is like a speedier version of former series heavyweight Gen Fu but still a decent addition 
 to fill out the cast further. 
  
  With all this gushing praise I've thrown out for DOA4 and the 9.2 score it's been awarded by me 
 you'd think it was damn near flawless. Now that would be a bit of a misconception, the game certainly 
 still has some problems retained from before mostly due to it's reliance on canned combo's but 
 there are only 2 things about it that bug me that much- The new boss is the cheapest in the series 
 history, alpha 152 is basically a turbo charged kasumi. The average opponent in this game takes 
 4-5 combo's or around 35 hits to KO, alpha 152 only has to hit you 3 times typically to kill you, 
 sometimes if you're really lucky only 2 hits from her will do you in. In story mode I can almost 
 deal with this, you don't thankfully have to fight it with every character but when you do it's 
 always a chore to beat it, like 5-10 attempts to win depending on who you use. The real offence 
 of this boss is that time attack mode, traditionally where you'd fight 10 regular characters in 
 a best of 3 battle , has now been graced with her presence at the end. You may notice the average 
 time for time attack completion is upwards of 40 minutes- you can bet it's taking these people 
 10 minutes to get to alpha 152 and 30+ minutes to beat her, see becuase the defualt settings say 
 you have to win twice , it's a frigging chore just to win once let alone twice. So yeah, the new 
 boss is basically a sucky pile of suck. Atleast it doesn't shoot projectiles like omega though 
 I suppose.
  
  The other problem is with the gameplay tweaks going for highspeed offensiveness , you wind up with 
 AI oppenents who consitently trap you in 8+ hit combo's as soon as it seems you'll beat them with 
 no way to seemingly escape them outside of countering, which only works if you are still on the 
 ground. Often these combo's will juggle you in air. Eventually though I got the hang of playing 
 the game differently to prevent getting trapped like this, but it is a valid concern that some 
 oldschool doa fans may get frustrated with. 
  
  Finally I'll mention the audio/visual presentation of this game, simply put it's midly inconsistent 
 but still pretty nice looking. about half the stage will make you say WOW while the rest will have 
 you wondering what about them really couldn't have been done on xbox 1. The character models all 
 sport new graphical touches like bump mapped clothing/ fur shading and higher poly hair and clothing 
 now with improved physics- unfortunatly the characters themselves still look like plastic dolls, 
 I don't mind the look but going by the hilarious CG cutscenes in this game they could still improve 
 them , especially by adding simple things like self shadowing. The other small inconsistency is 
 something this series is well known for-clipping problems with hair. Basically the girls hair looks 
 really nice when you are fighting but as soon as you stop the hair just falls into their bodies, 
 perhaps the physics didn't quite work right with proper clipping in place? Who knows. It's a minor 
 problem really and as such even with this added togethor it's still a pretty stunning looking game. 
 The music is about par for the course with the rest of the series- remixes of the songs from DOA1 
 and of course new stuff for the new characters. It's servicable but hardly catchy, it should also 
 be noted that once again Team Ninja has gone with aerosmith or cult favorite Bomb factory although 
 the choice in songs is allright. 
  
  On that note, I'm finished. Unless you really hate fighting games I suggest you run out and grab 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgracindo
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I am not the biggest fighting game fan. I enjoyed playing games like Def Jam, Soul Calibur, but 
 if the game is not real good I don't have much fun playing it. This was the case with DOA4. 
  The graphics are not what you would expect from a next-gen console. The characters lack in details, 
 there are several glitches, I felt in times, like I was having some dreamcast flashbacks. About 
 the graphics I would say that except for the ending movies and some environments, the game is just 
 passable. Sound is also poor, the songs, the characters noises during fighting all lack the depth 
 you'd like to improve your game experience.
  The one thing that was about right is the difficulty, this is not an easy game. Since I had experience 
 with other DOA, I finished all the charachter stories in one day, but there are some match ups 
 that are pretty hard. Stiil, in my opinion the gameplay is not believable, its pace is way to fast, 
 probably to increase difficulty, but at a high cost.
  I recommend this game strictly to die hard fighting fans, wiiling to overlook its flaws and have 
 fun playing the same kind of game over and over again. To other people a 2-day rental is probably 
 plenty of time to be done with DOA4.
  
  Ps. : You are probably going to see a lot of people not recommending this review. This is because 
 people who love fight games are not going to be bothered by DOA4 faults. If you are not one of 
 those people, trust me and rent it before expending 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvkal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game may not have gotten a good score but for me 8.8 is great. I love all types of fighting 
 games even if my mom doesn't but i don't really care i play them and final. This game has the best 
 graphics i can say that much the sounds arn't perfect but i would give them an 8. The gameplay 
 of the whole game is pretty cool too. You can learn how to play this game in less then 30 minutes 
 not a lot people can learn it that quick but i shouldn't take you longer then 30. Another reason 
 why i like this game is because the pictures when you come to see any game you like so basically 
 the pictures are pretty cool. This is all that i can say :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is truely a Next Generation fighter, don't believe those who claim it isn't, because 
 they can't compare it to anything, because there are no fighters for a next Gen console besides 
 this one, with that out of the way on with the review! 
  
  DOA4 is an incredible fighting game, graphics are phenomenal, characters models, enviornments, 
 everything. Not to mention the CGI cutscenes in game, which are probably the best graphics delivered 
 by any game to this date. Gameplay is superb, although it will take a whil to learn, each character 
 averages with around 80 moves, so as simple as a punch, others will have you pick your oppenent 
 up, throw them into the air, jump up and slam them into the grpund. Theres is almost infinite replay 
 value to be had here, bots are smart, and it's a blast to play with a group of friends, not to 
 mention the incredible online expirenece that runs desently smooth, running into lag here and there.
 
  
  Sound is excellent, catchy tunes that usually match the fighter or arena that your in, and it appears 
 that Team Ninja really like Aerosmith being that both 'Aamzing' and 'Eat the Rich' appear in game 
 but they don't hurt the expirence, in fact I really enjoyed hearing them.
  
  Overall DOA4 is an astonishing acheivement, by far the best fighter in years.
  
  9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict1207
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  yes it is a great looking game but behind all the makeup you have a game that :
  
  - should have never messed with the countering system because now it is pretty much impossible 
 to counter against anybody - unless you are playing someone that only uses high attacks or middle 
 attacks or low attacks... etc - yes you need to add a direction with the counter depending what 
 type of attack your opponent throws at you. try playing someone, especially online, that just mashes 
 the buttons and direction pad (pretty much all beginners) and try to counter... yeah its embarassing 
 because they will beat you every time unless you stoop to their level which makes this game annoyingly 
 dull.
  
  - should have given the game an "easy" difficulty level.
  
  ok i guess thats it which makes it frustrating - the game could have been perfect had they not 
 flopped and made the game more "hardcore" friendly - whatever that means.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007cryptkeeper
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  After many delays, gamers now get to see the final product, and it was well worth the wait. This 
 game is what DOA Ultimate online should have been. There are still a few online lags at times, 
 but it doesn't detract from the game experience to really be a bother. The lobby could have been 
 a little more intuitive, but overall, it's a great game (and a great online fighting game, which 
 is even rarer on consoles) . The graphics and sound are exquisite, and really must be seen in HD 
 to be believed. This is a true winner, that must not be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  the first time i picked up the game i thought wow thats some great stunning visuals you got there 
 i love the way the arena changes when you kick them out of the ring ive seen alot of fighting games 
 in my time but this is definanty in my top 3 of all of them probobly first but yet to say its great 
 to play online and kick all of your freinds buts totally worth $60 absolutly great game!!! must 
 of spent hours on this to date .the details in the background really make the game a pure xbox 
 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game meets every requirement that a good fighting game should have. The selection of game 
 modes and characters is great and the game itself looks stunning. Every single detail is added 
 in perfectly, whether it be the crowd or the fighters. It is amazing what Team Ninja has done with 
 the nex-gen console. Online play is fun but there is one problem... THE WAIT. Most of the time 
 the more people you have the more fun the game is right? In this game more people means an extremely 
 long wait. Some gametypes let you get in faster than others but others, like "winner stays" allows 
 one person at a time to challenge the previous winner. That means that unless you keep winning 
 you have to wait. But I guess that's a small price to pay when it comes down to the overall gameplay 
 of Dead or Alive 4. This is a must own game for all fans of fighting games, good graphics, and 
 fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immortal1974
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  The dead or alive series has come a long way from doa3 on the first gen xbox. This is definitely 
 one of the best xbox 360 games so far and it has enough content and gameplay to keep fans of fighters 
 going for a long time.
  
  The visuals in this game are incredible. Some might say that they dont look different from the 
 previous installment DOA Ultimate, I would disagree and agree, let me explain. If you are playing 
 this game on a normal tv you might say it looks not much different from DOA Ultimate but if you 
 play this game on an HD TV you will see a huge difference, the game truely comes to life.
  
  Let me elaborate just a little so its easier to understand. DOA Ultimate was capable of 480p 
 HD display, DOA4 is capable of 480p, 720p and 1080i resolutions. The difference here visually is 
 that even when both games are presented in 480p on each system, DOA4 still comes out on top in 
 a big way, its extremely noticeable and certainly shows that DOA4 is definitely superior to an 
 of the previous DOA games visualy and otherwise.
  
  The gameplay is improved and for the better. The most noticeable features that have changed are 
 the speed in which the characters move and also the difficulty of the game. I dont have alot of 
 space to write an indepth review here so I will say that DOA4 is the best fighter yet and far superior 
 to any DOA so far, the online has been much improved between network coding for reduction of lag 
 etc and the number of game modes and changes to past game modes to enhance the game online overall. 
 The sound and graphics are as expected, superb. This is definitely worth getting if you have even 
 the slightest interest in fighting games at all, it an incredible experience and a great party 
 game when you have friends or family over and want to vent some anger especially during the holidays 
 lol.
  
  I give it a 9.6 overall and Im looking forward to the next DOA installment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toocool_sammy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  wow amazing. some people say its da same graphics as DOA 3, it's dis and dat. i especially know 
 some are sony cows cause they come out there are so many better games on playstaton and so much 
 hype, rushed, bad game for xbox 1.5. F. U.. godammit. wat the hell is wrong wit u. da game is so 
 hottttt. the graphics have improved so much like da backgrounds, you can USE and interact wit the 
 background, the fighters look so much beter and the fighting system rocks. i kno whoever wrote 
 the bad reviews i know u didnt play it so **** off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytelynz420
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  I was just looking forward to a game that just blew me away but this is just another let down. It 
 has good graphics yeah maybe for the old xbox. to me they look exactly like the old games no imrovement 
 or at least not one to make you feel like this is a next-gen game and surely not worth the money. I'm 
 not saying it's a bad game by any means I love doa but it just does'nt stand up to my expectations 
 of a next-gen game maybe my expectations are too high but I haven't played a game on the 360 that 
 lives up to the hype yet, starting to wish I would of went with modding my old xbox instead of spending 
 $600 bucks on something that lets me down. You dont even get all of the features the 360 has to 
 offer unless you buy a bran new pc with windows media center and they just came out doesn't make 
 any sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuikZilver
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the meatiest fighters in history. The game has all the feature like online 
 mode, photomode, sparring mode, movie theather, leaderboards, etc, etc. Is a fighting genre meets 
 sim genre kinda thing. Which is new but manages to stay true to its core. 
  
  The gameplay is the faster than previous installments. it doesn't rely on counter's and blocking 
 as previous DOA titles but it gains balance and a more beginner friendly feel to it. Which encourages 
 you to try the online mode which is out of this world. Itagaki throws away menu style lobbies and 
 create's a 3d room lobby full of color an imagination.
  
  If you are fan of fighters this is the game for you. You will not be dissapointed with this gem. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickedo42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Even though it has nothing to do with the game itself, an opening scene would have been great. 
 The graphics are seemingly as good as it gets for now, even though they don't seem much better 
 than DOAU with HD cables for the original Xbox. Too many moves in my opinion, there are too many 
 moves that are similar button wise; therefore the move you wanna do you dont always pull off... although 
 my review seems a bit negative it's without a doubt a must own. no news on the multiplayer yet, 
 i need to get a cable modem to link up to Xbox live at home. If you are a novice you will definately 
 have some trouble at first just because there are so many moves for each character so it will take 
 time, but it is a great game. and for all you psychos out there who don't let you kids play fighting 
 games, there is no blood at all in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chzmunkey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  You know this game, doa 4? well, i have good news! I just save tons of money on car insurance by 
 switching to geico! Okay. Well, having never played this game, i really can't give a good review, 
 but from what is in the other doas, i can say this one is the best. the character models are amazing 
 and the new characters really are something, eh? The online is good, as well as the multiplayer 
 without online. What else to say................. Nothing! thsi game speaks for itself. Really 
 an instant classic. Play this game now! Did you know it and the and and are the most used words 
 in the english language!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  To be fair, 6000 miles is a somewhat excessive distance to travel to review a game. would it not 
 have been easier for the chaps at tecmo's tokyo office to bung a disc in a jiffy bag and stick 
 it on the next flight to heathrow? No? Didn't have enough cash for a stamp? Alright then microsoft, 
 we'll take a trip if you insist, fortunately it's an easy one to review is this: DOA4 is by far 
 and away the best fighting game on 360. Okay, So it's currently the only fighting game on 360, 
 glancing at the release schedules that's the way it's going to stay for far too long, but nonetheless 
 team ninja's latest effort does the series proud and is a more than worthwhile addition to your 
 360 games collection whether your a hardcore fan or a Dead or alive virgin.
  
  The first thing to note, even ahead of the game's added next gen bouncieness, is that DOA4's single 
 player modes are considerably harder than those of the last couple of games. DOA's legendary creator 
 and team ninja boss, tomonobu itagaki, reckons it'll take you 30 some hours to complete. 
  Itagaki starts to bemoan the lack of longevity in several of 360's launch titles, much to the discomfort 
 of the attendant microsoft PR Types. And indeed, as we settle down with the story mode in a cramped, 
 nicotine stained room, it becomes clear that doa4 is no pushover. You're going to really graft 
 to see those shiny FMV movies and, of corse unlock a certain famous or bonus character.
  
  If DOA veterans expect to pick-up the game and achieve success by pulling out the moves that served 
 them well in previous incarnations then it's time for a rethink, although the punch/kick/grapple/block 
 button configuration remains the same, each and every characters move set has been overhauled and 
 tuned so as to be barely recognisable (take ninja gaiden's hero ryu - the silly handstand/breakdancing 
 moves from DOA3 have largely been done away with and now his ninjitsu is simply devastating) and 
 the counter-move system is more complext and context sensitive than before. While this doesn't 
 exactky naje fir a kevek okyubg field, experienced scrappers will still hold a considerable advantage 
 over newbies, it does at least offer a challenge that feels a little fresher. No one wanted to 
 see a tired, rehashed offering of DOA3.
  
  There are three new fighters, Mariposa the masked wrestler with the skimpy outfit, Elliot is the 
 rather wet looking english public school boy and kokoro, the elegant lady with the long dark hair 
 and flowery kimono.
  Eliot, Apprentice to gen fu, is perhaps the hardest of the new fighters to master and we had plenty 
 of trouble effectively using his Xing Yi Quan fighting style. kokoro, on the other hand is a joy 
 to play with thanks to her dancing Ba Ji Quan fighting style and impossibly long legs that can 
 fend off almost any attack once you've started timing things correctly. 
  
  Oops, Forgot the one other new face, Nicole, Aka spartan-458. Yes it has to be one of the most 
 impressive  ever seen. Itagaki-san approached bungie with the 
 idea, they loved it and sent the necessary source material over to tokyow and the result is not 
 only the spartan character (who is suprisingly nimble for one clad in body armour and very tough, 
 but she doesn't wield any weapons.) but also the nassau space station level from the opening of 
 halo 2. certain liberties have been taken with teh design of the level - there are burnt out wraiths 
 lying around for one thing - but it's multi-levelled construction fits in perfectly with DOA's 
 fighting arena ethos. i don't want to spoil your fun so i'll leave the rest of nicol and nassau 
 for you to explore yourself.
  
  The story mode works to the tried and tested formula of a series bouts against a series of characters 
 as ever they get increasingly trickier to beat as you progress. While you can breeze through the 
 early rounds, the opposition in the latter stages has such tought al that you'll really have to 
 nail your chosen character's style, particularly their counter-moves, if you're to emerge with 
 your knockers intact. As before, some characters are a little more forgiving to play with - ayane 
 for example, specifically designed for the inexperienced. Others, especially the larger, slower 
 characters such as bass armstrong are harder to master.
  
  Test Drive:
  This is indicative of an overall attention to the game's finely tuned balancing. Itagaki-san and 
 his team have ensured that every component and every move and counter-move in the game has the 
 correct balance, employing some of japan's finest DOA fighters to rigorously test the game every 
 night after the day's coding has been completed. The result is a game that, in the versus modes 
 at least, suits every skill level and if you venture online then a comprehensive match-making system 
 akin to that of halo 2 will ensure that you'll be fighting games of the same competence.
  
  While we're on the subject of live play, DOA4 has the most surreal online element you're ever likely 
 to see. When you first hook upto live you'll need to make your own lobby. there are dozens of different 
 devor themes to choose from, all presented in a cartoon style ranging from an aquarium to a swap 
 and a space-station. Then you need a receptionist who'll look after the matchmaking side of things 
 (i chose a penguin) and then you need an avatar to represent your online self (i chose a clownfish) . 
 As you earn points through your live battles you'll be able to purchase accesories for both your 
 receptionist and avatar (i bought both a charming dandelion hat) . Live play itself is top notch 
 and there was no discernible lag when i took on some of the developers. A USB keyboard can be used 
 for text chat if you dont want to use the headseat.
  
  Phony norks
  And then there's DOA's most celebrated asset, the menu screens. Ho! We of course mean the enormous 
 bouncing knockers attached to the lady fighters. Yes, They're full of delightful wobbly next gen 
 goodness and many of the outfits are designed to show off this splendid gravity-defying bustiness 
 in all it's glory. But let me not linger on the subject of funbags lest any lady readers or certain 
 militant female game journos start labelling me a immature pervert, because i'm not. But will you 
 look at the **** on kasumi! Sorry.
  
  Appendages aside, the character and level design are really rather lovely, and the 'storyline' 
 FMV's more stunning than ever (although they're not created using the 360) . Itagaki-san is convinced 
 that his team has squeezed as much as much painting power out of the 360 as they possibly could 
 within the time constraint placed on them, watching it running at 60frames per second with strands 
 of hair and folds of material reacting to the fighters moves, while 3D crowed bay for bood in the 
 stands of the wrestling arena, then you execute a perfect, spectacularly animated kick-punch combo 
 to floor your opponent... it's hard to disagree.
  
  We didn't count how many levels there were in total but there are more than enough to keep things 
 interesting for months of play, a couple of standout arenas included the streets of las vegas, 
 where not only do you have to dodge attacks, you need to watch out for cars bombing down the streets.
 
  They ain't gonna stop and watch you scrap. Elsewhere, the amazonian rope bridge level offers some 
 pleasing water effects when you manage to knock your opponent from the bridge into the river below. 
 there's a new take on the lost world area from dead or alive 3 too: this time it's populated by 
 dinosaurs, although i didn't manage to get them to eat an opponent as i would have liked. For a 
 pure fighting experience without any injury-causing obstacles to aid or impede you, the tatami 
 mat room is the one to go for. It's just a plain dojo with a few carpets for decoration and is 
 sure to be favourite among the xbox live elite.
  
  All in all, then, this is definitely one of the superior 'launch window' games and a quality addition 
 to the DOA universe. It's easy to pick up but hard to put down and offers something for everyone, 
 even your missus who never plays games ( my missus never plays games yet conspires to thrash me 
 at DOA3 whenever it's wheeled out of an evening) . Technically it's superb and the attention to 
 detail and effort put in by team ninja is apparent from the first momeny you raise your fists in 
 anger. Sure it's the only fighting package for 360, but it's a beautifully complete one. Get involved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jud0ka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Welcome to DOA4. I have been waiting for this game to come for a while. I am pleased with the directions 
 Team Ninja took with the game. The countering system has been tweaked. The window of opportunity 
 was shortened, which I believe makes for a more balanced fight. Team Ninja also decreased the damage 
 that counters can do.
  
  Some characters Have been totally revamped (hayabusa being one of the best) . Plus a fighting game 
 that runs at 60 fps is darn good as well. If you read the lesser reviews on this site you will 
 gather that the opinions don't seem to hold up to well. I believe that most people who do not like 
 this fighting game simply cannot play it.
  
  The game has extras (not as much as DOAU) . This is not really a problem because Im sure Team ninja 
 is planing a patch or upgrade of some kind.
  
  The truth of the matter is that this system is deep. This game takes some time to get use too the 
 system. I came from a tekken background so I speak from experience. I also thought that this game 
 was too easy to pick up and was not in depth. When I started to learn the moves, counters and such 
 I found myself to be wrong. If you have a 360 you should pick up this game. This is a must for 
 any 360 owner that enjoys fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: straydog52a
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This series has turned out to be a real shame. Just a little while ago I was in DOA heaven with 
 Doa ultimate and now we are back to the rush probuction of DOA 4. It's the same thing that happened 
 to dead or alive 3. It Was rushed to make a dead line for MoneySoft. the perfect counting system 
 found In DOA ultimate has been replaced with a system that makes it feel more like a chore to do 
 instead of funto use. They might at well have taken out the grappling system there is no need for 
 one here, because after the first 2 matches in story mode the character never let down long enough 
 to use it! The character fight like MACHINES! they don't even know when to stop fighiting, they're 
 still kicking my ass after the match is over. I thought Kasumi was suppost to be peaceful and only 
 fight if she must. But instead I see she loves kicking my ass even after my defeat. 
  This worries me, the graphics are good, but like I said before. It looks more like Xbox 1.5 instead 
 of next generation. And what with all the congradulation on Xbox 360 launch signs everywhere. It 
 make be feel that the great Tomonobu Itagaki has sold out for money. could he be kissing Bill's 
 ass any harder! 
  Almost all the character costumes are remakes of one I've have seen since DOA1 (someone lost his 
 creativity) Or they are the same costume with different colors. I'm sorry but If I'm going to get 
 the living Hell beaten out of me about 30 time in a row by the cheapest character ever Jann Lee, 
 then please reward me with something.
  To be fair the endings are fun.... to watch about 2 time then just forget about them. OH look we 
 are still fighting DOAtec. I just can't wait to find out more in Dead or Alive 5. Which will probably 
 be rushed for XBOX 720 and will probably amazingly look alot like Dead or Alive 4, but this time 
 they'll add more monkies to the temple stage and Tomonobu Itagaki will make a special guess appearane 
 were he will flick us all off while counting his money Bill boy gave him for his soul!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlasterMaster08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow where do i start. I think i should first say i love this game. The visuals in this game are 
 crasy and look beautiful. The environment are spectacular and characters are also pretty awsome. 
 As for the fighting and the combat and fighting .. I LOVE IT. The moves are crazy and unlike anything 
 i have ever seen. It is also very fast paced which makes it fun and quick combat. The sound in 
 this game is also top notch especially at the waterfall and gamblers paradise stages. The music 
 is also great too. The tag mode in this game is awesome. I love the tag moves i havint seen something 
 like it for a long time since Tekken Tag for the PS2. i also like the watch mode eature were you 
 can have the comps battle it out and take pictures while they are doing so. I also Love the online 
 feature of course online is always awesome. Altogether I love this newest DOA and i strongly reccomend 
 buying it for the 360. It is a most own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatchetman696
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  So this game delivers a "WHAM!" to the Xbox 360, delivering it's first fighting game! What a way 
 Temco has kicked off the new year with a release like this! The game seems to live up to the expectations, 
 also may be one of the best Xbox 360 games to date. With great appearances from charecters like 
 Ryu Hayabusa (Ninja Gaiden) , and the Spartan-458, based on Halo style fighting machine, Master 
 Cheif, though it is NOT him. I am very happy about this game, though the story mode is lacking 
 story and the gameplay can be overly difficult at times, I am not disapointed. You pick up the 
 controller and drill away at your enemies, this game is easy to jump in to, and you can not be 
 disapointed. This game has brought back intrest in the fighting genre for me. Though the story 
 mode is short (8 matches) for each charecter, you will find a way to keep yourself busy playing 
 this instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike28647
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I got the crap beat out of me for two hours until i could even land a punch, the game is beautiful 
 game but every punch or kick i threw was countered and i was thrown against the wall and into one 
 of the many objects that lie around the level or was just pummeled into the ground. I recomend 
 this game to the hardcore fighting fan that is very good at fighting games and can remember long 
 combination strings. I can also recommend it to people who have friends that like to play fighting 
 games because after playing this for 5 minutes will want to give it away and be angry that you 
 wasted SIXTY bucks. There is not even an easy mode, it only goes to "Normal" which in my opinion 
 is very hard on this game, haven't even tryed it on hard or very hard. 
  Unless you are really good at fighting games, save your money and get something else that you can 
 actually have more fun with rather than frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray13021
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  What can i say. but awesome grafics kicks butt. story mode ok with some great videos after each 
 player you play in the story mode. outfits look great. now trying to get last player to complete. 
 online needs work still lag does not help believe me still have not won. music is good and still 
 wish they could talk english. overall great game. hard just plain hard. for me a first time buyer 
 of dead or alive series........ now some word killers the woman or this game are awesome or just 
 life size may i say... lol.. woman a perfect 10 oh boy.. one two tree four what am i looking for.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinian103
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game blows. The character roster in this game is the most ridiculous in any fighting game 
 (a female wrestler that wears a cowgirl stripper outfit) , that just screams creative thought from 
 the development team. Oh and lets throw Master Chief into the game, bravo guys! You know to please 
 the masses, hey even make them buy this disgrace of a fighting game. Hey I heard that Capcom is 
 going to put the space marine from Doom in the next street fighter game The graphics look the same 
 as DOA3, hell they look the same as DOA2, bravo again guys! The fighting engine itself like the 
 previous games is pathetically weak and shallow, like it was geared toward a drunken frat house 
 crowd. This game couldn`t possibly compete up against a real fighting game with a soul and true 
 depth, like Tekken or Street Fighter. Do yourself a favor and spend your time with those games, 
 not this shallow "hollywood" fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman4Life1217
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was well worth the wait. It expands on everything that is loved in the DOA series, while 
 taking some time to tweek what wasn't. I'm glad that counters aren't that easy to pull off anymore. 
 It makes the game that much more enjoyable, and adds a whole new layer of strategy to the matches. 
 Online is also fun, though there is a bit of lag here and there, but nothing that will hinder the 
 experiance for even the most hardcore gamer. Developers shold take note of how Team Ninja does 
 things, and not be pressured by the gaming public to release a game before they think it's ready. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dapmediainc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by saying that the game looks great. Team Ninja I think should have pushed the xbox 
 360 hardware to full throttle. The graphics good, but could have been better. Gameplay should have 
 been reworked and the online mode looks like something from a bad kids game.
  
  When I fist did the online mode, I could not believe that they set it up like that. Once you get 
 past the funny looking entrance, it fine. The game lags online, maybe that due to the people who 
 brought the verizon $14.95 dsl package that might hit the 768 download and 128 upload speeds. But 
 it works.
  
  Why is that the only player on DOA4 that speaks english is the Female SPARTIN. When you look at 
 the different bios on there, It shows a few that was born on USA, and ENgland, but they speak Japanese. 
 Can we fix that next time please. Oh and also they need more fighters next time.
  
  The game falls short from being a power hitter for a fighter games. These devolpers realy need 
 to push the xbox 360 power. The graphic are good but could be better. Hours of fun online and the 
 girls are hot. The audio is much beter from the other DOA. Lets hope the next round of games are 
 built from the ground up and not ported over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos113
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 brings a very challenging Single Player to the table. Even on normal (there is no easy) , 
 you will most likely be thinking how good your 360 would look in a million pieces. It forces you 
 to learn to use the right counter, when to block, and memorise combos. Basically you will have 
 to practice a lot if you want to stand a chance. The online portion is great and I have had no 
 lag whatsoever. The graphics are the best I have seen on the 360. It looks great even on a standard 
 TV. A definite recommend for any fighting fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Japanese developer Team Ninja is no slouch when it comes to deliver quality titles. With games 
 like Ninja Gaiden and Dead or Alive, the company is one thats widely known, especially among Xbox 
 fans thanks to the latest installments in these two series. Team Ninja mark their first game debut 
 on a next-gen system with Dead or Alive 4 on the Xbox 360, the latest installment in the popular 
 fighting series. Dead or Alive 4 does offer intense action and has good looks like the previous 
 Dead or Alive games, but it doesnt quite live up the quality that the series is known for.
  
  How Dead or Alive 4 will appeal to depends on whether youre a newcomer or veteran of the series 
 and how complex you like your fighting games. On one hand, if youre a long-time veteran of the 
 Dead or Alive games, youll feel right at home with this installment thanks to the extensive combo 
 lists and the more-complex-than-normal fighting system. However, if youre a newcomer to the series 
 than youre more than likely going to feel a little disappointed by this title and probably will 
 be wondering why a game like Dead or Alive has gotten the praise it has by many. Reason being is 
 because the combo lists for each character in the game is pretty long and will require some real 
 skill to nail down the more important moves. A lot of these useful combos are quite long and will 
 require you to string together many controls in order to nail them down, which is likely what Dead 
 or Alive veterans will be looking for.
  
  While some might think that combos arent that important and may rely on just button-mashing, Dead 
 or Alive 4 doesnt exactly reward players to fighting sloppily. The AI in the game ranges from 
 either pitifully dumb to tough as nails or at times downright impossible. For instance, the enemies 
 may dish out long, hard-hitting combos that can easily cut down over half of a full health bar 
 and will leave you little to no time to react and strike back. The biggest example of this can 
 be found in the games final boss-Alpha 152, who flat-out breaks the rules of fair fighting. Just 
 to give you an idea, 152 can drop your health down halfway with just one hit and will pull incredibly 
 long combos right off the bat that will leave you with barely one-fourth a full meter of health. 
 As a result, both skilled and amateur players will find themselves getting frustrated by this boss 
 and likely wanting to toss their controller into their TV like a mad baseball pitcher.
  
  Fortunately, Dead or Alive 4 serves up some great action and its this that makes the game stand 
 among other fighting games. When the punches and kicks start flying during battle, the intensity 
 of the fighting really picks up and gets even more chaotic when the characters are pulling off 
 swift and powerful combos. And with each blow hit to each character you get a real good rumble 
 effect from the controller. And speaking of the controller, playing the game on the Xbox 360 controller 
 is a joy, as the controls are so smooth and its so easy to move around the buttons and thumbsticks. 
 But what will really make the action better or worse for the player is how good they are with the 
 combos. If youre a skilled Dead or Alive gamer and can counter attacks well-which is quite tough 
 to successfully pull against the AI, than youre really going to appreciate the games action. 
 However, if you prefer your action and combos more simplistic and following a good-for-newcomers 
 formula than youre probably not going to appreciate the games intense action anywhere near as 
 much as those that are very good. This is mostly thanks to how complex the game plays and how tough 
 and unforgiving the enemy AI can get-which will be a complete nightmare for newcomers but likely 
 a blessing for veterans since theyre more used to this kind of treatment. 
  
  Dead or Alive 4s single-player mode has you select one character to battle through about eight 
 fights; give or take one or two and unlocking a video relating to that character upon completion. 
 These videos are mostly meant for humor and pleasure, if you get my drift. Whether youre skilled 
 or not at the game wont really matter in this mode, since you should be able to beat each characters 
 story in a matter of minutes; dont worry, its not going to take you over an hour to beat each 
 characters story on normal difficulty. That said, the single-player barely lasts any time and 
 beating it with each character available shouldnt take much longer than seven or eight hours total, 
 no matter what your skill level may be. But each time you do decide to beat a certain characters 
 story youll get an extra costume for that character. So, if you really like to see your character 
 wearing something different than theres some replay value offline to be found for you. But if 
 youre more concerned about just the action than youre not going to get much replay value beyond 
 the single-player if you dont have Xbox Live-which is where most gamers will find the games real 
 value at; that is, assuming they even have it.
  
  Speaking of characters, Dead or Alive has a good roster of fighters for you to do battle with. 
 The characters range from old-time favorites such as the swift and dangerous Ryu Hayabusa from 
 Ninja Gaiden, the ever-popular Kasumi and even a certain someone whos had enough of slaughtering 
 the Covenant. There are about twenty characters total and each have their own distinct combos and 
 moves and even veterans will want to experiment with each character to see which one fits their 
 fighting style best. Characters like Tina and Kasumi are weak at taking hits, but are fast and 
 swift on laying down multiple blows whereas fighters like Bass and Ein are slow but tough and lay 
 down powerful bashing attacks. Then there are characters like Hayate and Ryu Hayabusa who are just 
 good in-general but arent particularly good in one attribute. 
  
  With Dead or Alive 4 being on the Xbox 360, its easy to tell that the game will look good and 
 make a good first impression when you start your first fight. The character models do look sharp 
 and move very smoothly and accurately, which helps make for some impressive-looking moves when 
 fighting. The environments look pretty good too, most of the time at least. While some levels such 
 as one on a dinosaur-filled island and one outside of a dojo look great, others like the boxing 
 arena and dance-club-like levels look dull and very low-res. That said, Dead or Alive 4s graphics, 
 despite how good they may look, arent much of an improvement over Dead or Alive Ultimates visuals. 
 Nonetheless, the game looks great and even with all the intense action, it runs at a pretty smooth 
 framerate and theres rarely any slowdown. 
  
  Dead or Alive 4s sound and audio are what you could call a hit-or-miss; but it hits more than 
 it misses fortunately. What it hits on are the sound effects from not just the characters hitting 
 each other, but also how the sound from the destruction and damaging of various levels is done. 
 The very sound of punches and kicks making contact with the fighters is a joy to hear and really 
 gets the gamer more entranced by the games action. But what the game misses on is the music and 
 voice-overs. While not awful, the music in the game is mediocre in-general with most of the music 
 being barely hearable techno tracks and some cheesy pop and tragedy songs. As for the voiceovers, 
 all but one of them are Japanese, and even with the English subtitles on you still wont be able 
 to get over the fact that the characters all sound quite annoying when speaking. But when the action 
 starts and the characters start beating the living daylights out of each other, the sound effects 
 will make you forget all about what the game misses sound-wise.
  
  Overall, Dead or Alive 4 is a solid game; its good, but not great. It does provide intense action, 
 mind-blowing sound effects, and has good looks-not just graphically but the combo system and complexity 
 of the game make the whole game a hit or miss. If youre new to the Dead or Alive series than this 
 is worth checking out but youre better off renting it before deciding to buy it and get yourself 
 destroyed by the AI. However, if youre a veteran of the series and are looking for lots of different 
 combos and a fighting game thats more complex than most and want to take your battles online, 
 than youll definitely be doing yourself a favor by picking up this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajenspina
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  It has one of the best graphics while fighting, its almost like its real.
  Also, the storyline for all characters is outstanding and for all of the girl characters in the 
 game, they re' so freakin sexy, beautiful, hot........... etc.
  The way you can also take pictures during a fighting match and save the pictures in an album. But 
 there's only one single problem for some gamers, it might be hard for you to save your game because 
 I don't 
  even know how to save my data, so I keep my Xbox 360 on all day 
  (So can someone help me how to save my data?) .
  You just gotta buy it, rent it, whatever...... you 
 just gotta get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 247k
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Even though I do not own a xbox360 or a xbox I usually play by my friends house who loves the DOA 
 series and everything that Team Ninja has made, and he recently bought an xbox 360 when it launched 
 at midnight here in NYC. Everybody I know that has a 360 was waiting anxiously for the new DOA 
 game to come out, they wondered what new types of differnt game modes and new fighting skills they've 
 put into the game. When my friend bought the game that came out a couple of days ago he called 
 me and told me to come over right away, when I came over and we started to play the first thing 
 we noticed was the really beautiful HD graphics that the 360 is capable of. Wow but that was basically 
 the only thing good about the game, nothing else was new in the game and it was like playing DOA 
 for the normal xbox. So I would recommend if you have a 360, rent this game first cause you will 
 feel like you've wasted $60 bucks on a needless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukette
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 features some of the best graphics ive seen on 360 yet. they are amazing. this game also 
 includes some intersting new characters such as spartan 458. one of the only disappointments i 
 have is that the game is very difficult. and it only has normal hard and very hard difficulty settings. 
 but once you get the hang of it it get little bit easier. the online is very fun. the new lobbies 
 are much better than the old ones and they are customizable. which is fun. there aren't nearly 
 as many costumes as were in ultimate but they only put the good ones on this game so that is fine. 
 i think the only people that do not like this game are the ones that suck at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfnmosha
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  I just don't understand fighting games, they are absolutely great multilayer but when it comes 
 to story modes, i play 10 to 15 minutes 8 rounds to get rewarded with a clip of a partially nude 
 DOA vixen making a salad! or better yet a dream that she is a mermaid, some people may appreciate 
 this Japanese type quirkiness but having beat the game with all characters in one sitting, i would 
 say just rent this game, the new environments are unbelievable, the fighters look updated but mostly 
 in clothing detail and textures, if your a DOA fan then by all means pick this up, but if you just 
 want to see what this game has to offer just rent it and you can experience it all in just a couple 
 hours. thankfully the game has on-line multilayer so that prolongs the replay allot. I cant justify 
 spending $60.00 unless you know you are going to get your moneys worth and play on-line or have 
 tons of friends to come over and have tournaments thats where its justifiable otherwise im waiting 
 till its like a $20 greatest hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyjohnson117
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Basically, I want to tell you something about this game. First of all, the graphic is just pretty 
 much almost closer to 100% perfect. Also, there is a little bit problem awhile fighting is that 
 when you fall against to the wall. It didn't touch totally against the wall. Only barley about 
 1 or 2 inches... I thought X-Box said they are going to make perfect movement of action. Well, 
 they didn't though, but its okay though. Its better than the old version of X-Box, right? So, there 
 is the other thing that I agreed from other user review is that there is just different character, 
 the areas, and the fighting style. It just pretty much the same as Dead and Alive 1-3... It has 
 the best sound, graphic is good, and movement of action is pretty good too, and characters. The 
 value of the cost is just too expenvise and its not worth 60 bucks... It probably would worth like 
 35 dollar or less. Thanks to all for reading of my review. Thanks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmx_411
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  this is an awsome game with the graphix on my HD TV like bam.... and on the plus side you can see 
 undies ha ha ha ha... mystry grls are nice! halo girl??? it shud be master chief but oh well. I 
 would recomend getting this game if u got a huge HD TV with surround sound its so cool. Also it 
 is perrrfect for partys. At EB, FUTRE SHOP, AND BEST BUY there all gone... first day... scars me. 
 What kind of pplz go out and spent 500 dollers on a 360. most pplz cant even afford one so dey 
 stik it on der credit card and end up paying dubble. anny one no how much a ps3 is gunna be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang93302
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  i think DOA 3 is still the best fighting game ever made nothin matches up to it and i will still 
 play it to this day. doa4 dosent seem like an upgrade at all, new fighters and areas thats it. 
 i wanna know why the counter moves never work in this game, doa3 they worked perfectly. and why 
 WHY when u get hit and fly in the air u can never stop getting hit , u lose like half ur life thats 
 some bull$*!^. and my biggest complaint is why cant all the fighters have stories it just seems 
 like tecmo got lazy, and with Leon wtf happend there they made him so bad in this game, he was 
 the best fighter in doa 3, they took away some of his best moves and made some harder to pull off, 
 WHY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetcomand
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of dead or alive games . I have play the first two i naver play the thrid one 
 . But this game is awsome . The graphics are amazing they got a so much beeter from the last 3 
 ( i naver play the 3rd one but i have see videos of it ) ! The gameplay petry much the same from 
 the last 3 ! The game has great sound ! This game is awsome !!!!!!!!!! It a game worth geting a 
 xbox360 for ! The thing didn't like bout this game is characters talk in japanese except Nicole 
 but there are english subtitles for everyone. then the menus are of course english. The possitive 
 side bout this game is it has Master Chief is in it ( i'm a big fan of halo games ) And the graphics 
 are amazing & it A hard game to play ( for pepole who like hards games ) ! This game is awsome 
 !!!!!!!!!! it must buy game ! It the second best figthing game i ever play ! If not a fan of Dead 
 or alive games you will enjoy playing this game . Fans of the game will tons of playing game non 
 stop ! It way beter then Soul Calibur 3 or tekken 5 . I became a Dead or alive fan after playing 
 this !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbarr1981
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  I realize that there are hardcore fans out there ... even some "rabid" fans. But truth be told, 
 this doa is still just doa. Sure the graphics are slightly better. And the unlockables are awesome 
 (some of the best cg i've ever seen) . But those guys at tecmo just haven't done much with this 
 game since doa 2. It seems to me that with such great games like ninja gaiden (which completely 
 reinvented the wheel) , those guys at team ninja would try to do the same with this stagnant franchise. 
 Yet they seem fine about releasing this rehash with pretty graphics. The core gameplay is the same 
 (and just as flawed as ever) . Practice all you like, some random button mashing will do just fine 
 for this title. If you are a master at pushing the x button, you can counter the hardest moves 
 in this game. At the same time you can master every move, every throw, every punch ... it doesn't 
 matter. The same button counters. That is LAME. But it does have some cool options ... tag team, 
 online, singles, time attack, survival, etc. But after a while, they all start feeling the same. 
 About the only thing new in this game is a few new characters (one of which is a spartan from halo) . 
 While it is awesome to play as a spartan, it would be much cooler if the gameplay engine could 
 have been tweaked (or hell, completley redone) . If the masters of fighting games (namco ... booyah) 
 can reinvent their best franchises (i. e. tekken, soul calibur) , team ninja can certainly do a better 
 job with DOA ... please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaypie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  DOA 4 is the first xbox360 game i have played and it really looks like a next generation game with 
 it's beautiful graphics, highly detailed environments and characters. All the characters are great 
 and there are more added to the game (but my favourite is still Tina) The online mode is also well 
 done the sound, everything about this game is just perfect, the series of DOA has just gotten way 
 better. DOA ultimate was also great game but DOA4 took it to the next level on the next-gen system. If 
 you are not sure which Xbox360 game to get, look no further because DOA4 is simply the best XBOX360 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  DOA4 doesn't reinvent the wheel. It's nearly identical to Dead or Alive Ultimate in terms of its 
 feature set, and the gameplay itself also arguably hasn't changed much depending on how you look 
 at it. On first impression, this is good old Dead or Alive all right. The fighting is really easy 
 to get into like always, and if you're a veteran of the series, you can still rely on many of the 
 same moves and strategies that have served you well in past. Yet the more you play, the more you'll 
 pick up on the combined impact of all the numerous new and changed moves for returning fighters, 
 unique layouts of the different arenas, and tweaks to the fighting engine. Essentially, this game 
 has a smoother, more tactical, even faster, and simply better feel than its predecessors. More 
 importantly, the gameplay is some of the most highly refined and dynamic as you'll find in any 
 fighting game these days. And because of the substantial selection of playable characters and good 
 assortment of interactive arenas, there's a lot of variety where it's needed. 
  
  At the heart of every match type in Dead or Alive 4 is a contest between two fighters trying to 
 knock each other out using various punches, kicks, throws, and reversals. There are tag-team matches 
 where you may control a pair of fighters by quickly switching between them during the bout, but 
 even these boil down to a one-on-one fight. As you'd probably hope from an intense martial arts 
 competition, aggressive tactics are the order of the day -- overly defensive or hesitant players 
 tend to get slaughtered. But those who punch and kick with reckless abandon are also easy targets, 
 since reversals and well-timed counter blows can be used to crush careless opponents. A healthy 
 roster of nearly two-dozen unique fighters is available (a handful of them are hidden at first) , 
 and though their moves and fighting styles are all different, the same basic controls apply to 
 everyone. These controls are deceptively simple, but by using simple directional motions on the 
 D pad together with three action buttons -- one for punching, one for kicking, and one for guarding 
 and reversals -- it's possible to perform many dozens of different moves as all the various characters. 
 
  
  In practice, the typical DOA4 match has a good flow and rhythm to it, as well as a blazingly fast, 
 silky smooth look. There's a heavy emphasis on swift, painful-looking strikes and combos. All fighters 
 are readily capable of stunning their opponents or knocking them clean off their feet, the perfect 
 setup for a devastating string of follow-up attacks. As the showdown unfolds, occasional reversals 
 and throws make for spectacular, often decisive twists. At the default settings, a typical best-of-three-round 
 match can be over in less than a couple of minutes, but there tends to be an awful lot of action 
 crammed into that short space of time. 
  
  The expanded roster of fighters is definitely one of the main attractions. All the old favorites 
 are back, like ninja gals Kasumi and Ayane, Ninja Gaiden's more-famous-than-ever Ryu Hayabusa, 
 shapely pro wrestler Tina, and Bruce Lee clone Jann Lee. And they've got plenty of new tricks up 
 their sleeves. Dead or Alive 3's Brad Wong, a master of drunken fist kung fu (and a lush) , and 
 Christie, a scantily clad assassin, return after a hiatus and pack some of the more interesting-looking 
 moves of the bunch. The new fighters include Kokoro, a demure karate expert specializing in open 
 palm attacks much like those of Virtua Fighter's Akira; Eliot, a teenage boy who looks like a girl 
 but whose praying mantis-style martial arts are unmistakably effective; and La Mariposa, a masked 
 luchadora packing powerful kicks and stylish grappling moves. It would have been nice if DOA4's 
 roster included maybe a couple more fighters who, well, actually looked like fighters, rather than 
 all the outlandishly-dressed, doll-faced young ladies that dominate the lineup. Nevertheless, chances 
 are you'll find at least a few characters who appeal to you, even if the game's anime-inspired 
 character design and its fantastically proportioned female cast won't win over everybody. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GT_Drag
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Like i said, i love this game so much! i've played a lot of fighting games, but i really like this 
 one. i know people will say, "you're an idiot! tekken 5 is the best!". i don't care i love this 
 game.
  
  the overall gameplay is incredible. there are so many different moves to perform. the AI is extremely 
 difficult at times, which makes for a good challenge. you've got tag team battles for up to four 
 people to play in, survival mode, and team battle. all awesome.
  
  the graphics are the best graphics i've ever seen. absolutely stunning. the cutscenes, and even 
 in game graphics are just down right the best.
  
  everything sounds good. all the sound effects and voices are very good. i like how they keep in 
 the japanese and put in subtitles. the music is good, but you can always put in your own soundtrack 
 to make it better.
  
  overall, i say, if you have a 360, PLEASE GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithczq
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Is Dead or Alive 4 everything it's cracked up to be? As a key component in the next round of the 
 console wars, DOA4 arrives in much the same fashion as DOA3 did at the original Xbox's launch. 
 It is clearly the best-looking fighter around, thanks to the 360's emphasis on high-definition, 
 eclipsing even DOA Ultimate's stellar graphics with a combination of high-resolution textures, 
 brilliant lighting effects, and increased polygon counts on the characters. While the facial characteristics 
 of the DOA fighters still follow the anime style favored by Team NINJA, there is far more definition 
 in the musculature of the models, most notably applied to Jann Lee, whose every muscle and vein 
 seems to burst from his forearms and body. The familiarity of the inimitable DOA style, however, 
 ensures that things don't look overtly different than what's come before, resulting in character 
 models that appear refined rather than reinvented. But cloth textures and poly-counts don't tell 
 the whole story. Advanced cloth and hair animations add verve to the fighters thanks to ribbons 
 and hair that swing and sway with the action. Unfortunately there is clearly progress to be made, 
 as the game lacks any of the catchphrase "self-shadowing" that's so popular at the moment, the 
 same technique that give works like the Metal Gear Solid 4 trailer such life. Other little technical 
 details, like ponytails and whatnot generally cascading over a character's shoulders, but also 
 occasionally clipping through the body, are noticeable if not significant. But what little the 
 fighters may lack is more than compensated for in the game's huge new environments. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin_chua
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  Is Dead or Alive 4 everything it's cracked up to be? As a key component in the next round of the 
 console wars, DOA4 arrives in much the same fashion as DOA3 did at the original Xbox's launch. 
 It is clearly the best-looking fighter around, thanks to the 360's emphasis on high-definition, 
 eclipsing even DOA Ultimate's stellar graphics with a combination of high-resolution textures, 
 brilliant lighting effects, and increased polygon counts on the characters. While the facial characteristics 
 of the DOA fighters still follow the anime style favored by Team NINJA, there is far more definition 
 in the musculature of the models, most notably applied to Jann Lee, whose every muscle and vein 
 seems to burst from his forearms and body. The familiarity of the inimitable DOA style, however, 
 ensures that things don't look overtly different than what's come before, resulting in character 
 models that appear refined rather than reinvented. But cloth textures and poly-counts don't tell 
 the whole story. Advanced cloth and hair animations add verve to the fighters thanks to ribbons 
 and hair that swing and sway with the action. Unfortunately there is clearly progress to be made, 
 as the game lacks any of the catchphrase "self-shadowing" that's so popular at the moment, the 
 same technique that give works like the Metal Gear Solid 4 trailer such life. Other little technical 
 details, like ponytails and whatnot generally cascading over a character's shoulders, but also 
 occasionally clipping through the body, are noticeable if not significant. But what little the 
 fighters may lack is more than compensated for in the game's huge new environments. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 2.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was a huge disappointment way to start off the year with one of the worst Xbox 360 just 
 like Quake 4 . I preodered my copy and as soon as I played it I went to difficulty and there was 
 normal and hard i knew it was going to be hard and a horrible game, It's so frustrating all the 
 computer does is throw until you die you can't block throws . Never stop kicking and you never 
 get to block it they said x was to block but it does nothing. They could have at least given you 
 a block button Mortal Kombat is better than this game. They also give it an m rating and there's 
 no blood of call of duty 2 had blood and that was rated T. Thank god my dad saved the reciet I'm 
 taking this crappy and I'm getting a new one. My new years revolution take this game back and never 
 play it again! The graphics look like xbox not xbox 360. and they all talk in chinese even the 
 americans do most of the people who play this are american worst fighting game ever Also the story 
 lines are horrible its about a piece of lettuce were they high when they made this game they didn; t 
 even put in a easy difficulty level! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMS246
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  DOA 4 is a must have game for anyone who can get there hands on a xbox 360. By far this game has 
 the best graphics compared to other games of the same console, amazing, fast-paced gameplay, and 
 tons of extras besides the enjoyable story-mode. What I like about this game is that you can pick 
 just about any character you like and be good at that one rather than just picking the best and 
 most over powering character in the game, which seems to be the flaw in other fighters like mortal 
 kombat and street fighter. Also, all the characters have amazing moves, and all the old characters 
 moves got even cooler or their move list became bigger. I especially like Hyabusa's move list, 
 who is by the way my favorite character. He has his classic moves like the izuna drop (thats what 
 it was called in ninja gaiden) , plus more interesting new ones like his stance that allows him 
 to teleport and do other tricks. What I also liked was that the difficulty of the game has changed 
 and has become a little bit more hard, since I'm not the kind of person who likes playing the stupid 
 easy/no challenge at all kinds of games. Also, the computer is not as cheap as the one in DOA Ultimate 
 when it came to reversing your moves, and the computer is not only difficult for characters when 
 you face them like Ein. There was one thing that I didn't like that kind of hurt the gameplay for 
 the game. Sometimes when you are doing some moves on the new xbox controller with the joystick 
 like the ones where you are required to turn it 360 degrees, sometimes you end up hitting the back 
 button or the xbox guide button, which can be annoying when you're trying to do a hard move on 
 sparring mode or just fighting someone. You can also try using the directional pad but that can 
 be uncomfortable for your fingers when playing. Also, the buttons feel very wierd and plasticy 
 and sometimes kind of stick to your fingers as you are trying to do moves where you have to several 
 degrees. Thats my only real big complaint but i guess you can't really blame that on the game, 
 but more so of the design of the xbox 360 controller. Over all, I am still playing this game, but 
 I have just about played with every single character. I would like to update this review when i 
 get xbox live set up or when I have completely beaten the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddietheazn
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game feels like Halo 2 where the R trigger is stretch. That's just how the game feels because 
 the glitches that pester the gameplay force a terrible gameplay experience. Nearly every other 
 battle results in some glitch working its way to anny you. I can't believe how dissapointed i am 
 in this game. It's terrible! If i could sum up the game in my own words, i would call it "Be dead 
 so you don't have to play this game 4." Even stewie griffin hates this game. EVEN STEWIE GRIFFIN. 
 DOA4 is also pretty repetitive, which makes it unbearable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikedzback
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is one kick ass game if you like fighting games. Its an amazing game, it is fast, 
 has great graphics and sum cool moves. it takes some getting used to thought. First time i played 
 when i got it i got my ass kicked but then i practiced now im pritty good. It is deff. a must have 
 game. It is also very addicting. you just cant stop playing it. So in my opinion it has a great 
 replay value, the online is jsut great and the lobies are really cool if your just waiting or watching 
 some one else play. This game you will have for a long time, until Mortal combat comes out. :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Well DOA is finally here for the xbox 360 {henceforth known from now on in here as x360} and it 
 attempts to push the limits of first year next gen hardware and also ensure a load time that puts 
 the other x360 games to shame bigtime. The graphics are nice albeit for some hiccups and some collision 
 detection issues. The main problem is that this game couldve spent another year in development 
 to fix the online and offline component issues since people still encounter issues with their x360 
 and the fact that on message boards that they have encountered crash problems already. The one 
 praising fact is that the load time puts any x360 game to shame and its a shame that this fighting 
 game from japan speed loads faster than anything else and they say that this is supposed to be 
 next generation?!? well next generation shouldnt have to be 5-10 second loadtimes. That issue can 
 be resolved with the usage of the HDD but we already know how little the HDD will be utilized for 
 cache and speed access. now the main problem with doa 4 is that all the fighters are here and well 
 there is alot lacking and the fact that there is nothing new besides nicole the spartan and some 
 new movesets and the button tweak for countering etc. I personally think doa 4 is sexy and beautiful 
 but it needs to add more and I think I enjoy doa ultimate on the xbox far more than doa 4 because 
 of the costumes and stuff you can do etc. If i feel there is more to add then well so be it.
  Now the online galley and the avatars are silly and comical and it was the one issue that delayed 
 this game from launch day to the end of december. Now the problems with the offline component core 
 is that there is some buggy issues that can be fixed via patches to the hdd since that is what 
 it needs to be used for if there is a problem with a game as many have experienced it already.
 
  now the FMVS etc are all sexy and wonderful and the costumes are hot but really when it comes 
 down to it its all the same doa 4 but rumor has it the ending this time really makes more sense 
 than it has in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatzombie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. But it is VERY VERY hard. I get very frustrated playing this game. I know 
 you DOA fans out there are calling me a noob but im not i have them all. But this is the most difficult 
 one i have played. The graphics are pretty good. I think that they could be better but there are 
 good none the less. Gameplay is very smooth. There is quite a few things to unlock and it offers 
 a lot of gameplay. But the bottom line is this ia a great game i highly suggest you buy it. If 
 you have never played any of the doa's get some practice first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavier1415
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Doa4 is The best Fighting Game 2 date i'm sorry i was always a hardcore doa fan and mk fan but 
 doa just won me over more. it's 2 great everything about it is just perfect . i love tecmo/team 
 ninja their the best. can't wait 4 the next work of team ninja my gamertag on xbox live is Xavier1415 
 is u want 2 fight me in doa4 send me a message and we can do it iight. see ya'll on the battlefield.
 
  
  Xavier/Leifang 
  
  No one can defeat my ninjutsu.
  
  Doa 4 baby the best fighting game ever. doa is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying I'm not a fighting genre fan, in fact, I haven't play any fighting game, 
 other than some Soul Calibur at the arcades, so Dead or Alive 4 to start things off, impress me 
 and convinced me to buy the game even before Gamespot's review was out.
  
  DOA series had a reputation for lightning-fast and flashy graphics, though the character only improve 
 very little (because it was already excellent in previous games) it gave Tecmo a challange to improve. 
 Of course, with the 360, something must be enhance, and your arena's environment scenery is really 
 eye-catching. Whether it's the cherry tree or that impressive looking river, everything is detail 
 and realistic. Characters still have silky-smooth hair and best of all, it's fast.
  
  Dead or Alive 4 is a great fighting game, mainly because of the online, where you get to hang out 
 with people in the cartoon-ish lobby, with some off-the-hook avatar, it'll get you and your friends 
 a few good laughs. It's not ground-breaking or anything, but it is creative. Online does have lag, 
 and when it happens, it ruins the fun, but out of my 50 matches online, I only experienced about 
 2 minor lags. The game just came out so let's give it sometime to fix that issue. 
  
  There's just so many to do in DOA4, there's story mode, survival mode, time mode and online, there's 
 always something to do. Most noticably is the story mode, everyone will probably be working their 
 ass off to unlock the new Spartan-458. But the sotry mode probably is the onyl part where Tecmo 
 needs to work on. There are a total of 8 stages, and sometimes you can get stuck in a stage for 
 around 10+ fights because you can't beat the CPU. Luckily, there's unlimited continues, but it's 
 extremely difficult, because the CPU will unleash some 8-10 hits combo on you, while you'll be 
 lucky to get a 3-5 hits combo on them. They seem to counter your moves with ease. Block are crap 
 against them, they seem to know when you're blocking and they'll use the "hold" move, which can 
 break thru the block, but the problem is, they use a "hold" move jsut when you block, it's like 
 they know it coming so blocking would jsut absolutely backfire you. The CPU are challenging and 
 you might get stuck on one for a long time, but overall, you should beat the story mode in around 
 2 days, the main attraction is online.
  
  I, for one, was impressed by the game and what it had offered. The game is complete with everything 
 you can ask for, and it'll be worth every bang of your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groovus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to say first off, The graphics blew me threw a wall. I think Greg should have given 
 that a 10 off the bat. Seriously, I have NEVER seen this level of graphics in a PC or console. 
 The pre historic -stage, seaside market, the safari one and Las Vegas ones are just too much for 
 words. I'm playing it on a 27 inch LCD 1080i and I catch myself gawking at the scenes while I'm 
 getting my butt kicked. So jaw dropping. Remember when you saw Soul Caliber for the first time 
 on Dreamcast? That's what it's like when you see this. :)
  
  The gameplay is perfect. Very fluid, the fighters move with perfect grace. Also, easy to pick up 
 and get into. And for all the Hitomi fans.... she's back!!! (Wait till you see her end movie....:) 
 oo-la-la!!!) She totally pnws. And I noticed a considerable higher challenge in story mode. The 
 puter will most def pwn the newbskis. The reversals have been tweaked also. So it will take time 
 to get through just 1 story mode character. But in a good way. Nice challenge increase.
  
  I'm trying to find probs to tell you about, but really, none come to mind. I'll say this.... after 
 seeing this game. it makes me more excited to think what games are going to be like on this system 
 6 months to a year from now. (Gears of War, Elder Scrolls 4) I loved my 360 before I got DOA4... 
 I can't dream of not having one now after getting this. Rock the F on Tecmo.... awesome job. :) 
 Happy New Year all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjizzile11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  good : alot of combos , nice looking character models , hot girls , counter system
  
  bad: a little too hot , counter system , normal is hard as crap , a little too hard , getting countered 
 by about every character every time you attack over exaggerating a little 
  
  doa4 is a good game but i was hanging out in gamespot and i was watching people play doa4 . it 
 looked cool so i bought it that day . but what i dont understand what the people at gamespot ment 
 by it was broken they said doa is broken its always been broken . so if anybody reads this can 
 you tell me its been haunting me not really i just want to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slicnick
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  awesome graphics, awesome fighting, AWESOME GAME! this game is sweet. when i first heard about 
 this game and started looking at screen shots for it i wasnt too impressed. i probably wouldnt 
 have even gotten this game if there wasnt such a shorta of 360 games otu right now. but when i 
 put the game in and started playing it blew me away. the last doa game i played was a demo of doa 
 3 for the dreamcast. this game is probably the best fighting game i have ever played. i will admit 
 that it is pretty hard but thats what makes you wanna practice and get better. overall awesome 
 360 game. you should rent if not buy this game. there arent too many really good 360 games to choose 
 from right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lizard_corpse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I think I could qualify myself as a passing fan of the DOA series. I have always thought that DOA 
 was lacking in comparision to some of its competition. It was close with its innovative reversal 
 system.
  
  The AI is inspired and difficult, some complain too difficult, but if you find the AI too difficult 
 I guess you can always play with your little sister because the online competition only gets more 
 fierce. The gameplay moves quicker and smoother than ever before. I often find the game difficult 
 because I am mezmerized by the amount going on the screen at once.
  
  The backgrounds are photo realistic and sublimely surreal. The character models are more detailed 
 than ever before. Only awkward change is the flowing hair and how it clips through some of the 
 clothing.
  
  A not about the graphics and character models. They look this way for a reason. Not because they 
 could not make them more realistic, but it is an art style. The girls are fantasies and the guys 
 are stereo types. Like the actual review on the site said, action figures and dolls. They are idealized 
 representations. Complete anime style and they look the way they should.
  
  Those that do not see a change in the graphics have not spent much time with either game or have 
 unrealistic expectations of what next generation gaming will look like. They miss the amount interactive 
 objects, and movement taking place on screen all at once. 
  
  So the DOA fighting engine is finally blooming. This is a fighter so lets talk about the fighting. 
 Its nice to see the 4 point counter system return from 2 (and ultimate) , which increases depth. 
 It was surprising how fast paced and the limited ground game really pick up the pace of this fighter. 
 The reversal system and the background interaction really what make this game stick out. I could 
 not believe how cool it was the first time i took a flying leap over a low wall and turned it into 
 a jump kick.
  
  I just have a complete feeling from a DOA series fighter for the first time. Complaints about the 
 story should be filed into the same drawer as every other fighter. Standard fair you even get from 
 the competition. Plenty of modes to keep a single player busy online or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk420vt
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  There was alot of hype for DOA4 i got it. Big waste of money Same thing as DOA 3 just better graphics 
 and a few characters. Thing that sucks they made the single player AI way to hard to the point 
 it's not even fun to play all they do is get you in a corner and keep hitting you while your down 
 and in the corner really it's like playing a little kid. I was very disappointed in DOA4 for 360 
 i was a huge fan of the first 3 too bad Tecmo dropped the ball. Don't buy unless you want a bad 
 fighting game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:46 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja....... are you joking now? You guys did great with Ninja Gaiden, and Ninja Gaiden Black. 
 But the DOA series only makes men horny, because of all the chicks wearing tight clothing. Doa 
 4 is the same thing as Doa ultimate, Doa 3, and Doa 2, yes that far back, the graphics are improved, 
 but only by a bunch of little details. The story is 100% lackluster. Honestly, it's taken Bits 
 a pieces, with just about every character, you play through the story mode, by fighting a bunch 
 of random people, then fighting two people that actually have a thing to say. The story mode is 
 just plain old pointless. The online was semi-cool, semi-stupid. The online FIGHTING, well that 
 was just as bad as the pointless story mode. The online lobby, was awesome, I was going around 
 partying and butting into peoples' conversations like there was no tomorrow, and I made a name 
 for myself, but it doesn't look like i'll be going back to play it again. It's just such a dissapointing 
 thing, because DOA 4, has the same combat, same story, same characters, and almost the SAME GRAPHICS 
 (bunch o details, doesn't change too much) as DOA 2, DOA 3, and DOA ULTIMATE. Team Ninja, stop 
 making men horny with Kasumi, and start a Ninja Gaiden franchise. Because this isn't working for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandman15420
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  It seems for a 360 game to be rated over a 9.0 is harder than getting Nicole Kidman to return those 
 letters I've been sending. I say this becasue last night for hours on end I dedicated every bit 
 of attention I posesed to playing DOA 4. There has not been a game that I have been so impressed 
 with in the first hour. As the gameplay is packed full of great fighting action, good depth and 
 some of the most breathtaking backrounds in any fighting game, probably any game to date period. 
 
  
  I usually won't take time to share my thoughts on a game with anyone but my friends, mainly because 
 I am usually in agreement with Gamespot anf the review they did, but this game I feel deserves 
 a little bit higher of a score.
  
  A increddible game for anyone who loves fight games or anyone who just loves action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invader_luj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 is the next logical step in the DOA franchise. There is no major game-flow tweaks 
 or engine overhauls to make the gameplay anything completely new, but if you are familiar with 
 the previous iterations of the game this won't surprise you. The DOA franchise is know for sticking 
 to a tried and true gameplay formula and making it look better every time while adding a few characters 
 and a few throw away modes. This game is no exception and looks absolutely amazing especially with 
 an HD-TV.
  
  Gameplay:
  The same as all the other DOA games but with a few minor tweaks to the flow of fights, all to the 
 better of the game. It has the standard Story mode with little to no story along with all the other 
 modes you have come to know and love all of which are really just variations of a fighting game 
 classic arcade mode. As always time spent honing strategy in sparring mode is time well spent. 
 The standout mode for this iteration is the online mode. Although it was also in DOA Ultimate this 
 time it just seems more complete. There is almost no lag and online is one of the best places to 
 hone your skills and meet human challengers as a breath of fresh air from the computer.
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing as always with Team Ninja. Always improving their style and graphic effectiveness.
 
  
  Difficulty:
  As it seems with all Team Ninja games this game is easy to play and understand but hard to master 
 and win at. The lowest setting will give all newcomers to the series a run for their money but 
 for those of you who mastered the previous games there are two higher difficulty modes.
  
  Controls:
  Great as always, but the minor tweaks make it even better.
  
  Overall this game 
 is just what a fan wants, however if you did not like previous games in the series or just don't 
 like arcade style fighting games you most likely wont like this one. If you are a true fan of DOA 
 or fighting games buy it now, but otherwise buy DOA Ultimate or DOA 3 and wait for the price to 
 come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SITHMASTER31
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  Great Game!! Online play needs some work. lags & freezes. But is overall a very good game. I expect 
 a patch will be released for the online problems.
  
  Graphics are very nice. But I did expect some better graphics when comparing to PGR3 and NFS MW 
 on the 360. Graphics are still very good. I have only seen just a few flaws. 
  
  Controls are good, but right trigger is a little uncomfortable to reach if you use kicking a lot 
 (I do!) . 
  
  The new characters are great and the controls are same as DOA3 for original Xbox. The ability of 
 playing anyone in the world is great. It was worth the wait and the $60.00
  
  Not dissapointing at all. I will play it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I love fighting games, and Dead or Alive 4 is no exception. The graphics are 
 great, there are no framerate problems, the sound is well... sounds like a fighting game (dur) , 
 and the controls are tight as ever. 
  That said, I must say that this game is difficult. I'm a bit rusty on fighting games and I haven't 
 played any of the Dead or Alive games so I guess I'm a little biased in this statement. It's just 
 that, on the easiest level, I find my opponents pulling 20 move combos on me while I'm simply helpless 
 to watch the carnage as they devour 3/4 of my health meter. I'm getting a little better at it thought, 
 but I think, for value sake, that there should be a little more adjustment in the difficulty levels 
 for newcomers to the DOA series, such as myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonic223
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  DOA4 is definetly the best fighting game that i out now. In terms of graphics it really displays 
 what the next generation of gaming will look like. If you have played the other Dead or Alive games 
 in the series you are going to notice that the game is completely re-done. Yeah you will see that 
 all the characters are there from the previous versions but, you will also notice that it still 
 takes a lot of adjusting. For example, I was using Kasumi one of my better characters and I had 
 a hard time adjusting with her because only a few of her moves were exactly the same as in DOA2 
 and DOA3, counters however are basically the same as DOA2 Ultimate. One thing I found to be great 
 about this game is that it is harder to hit someone while they are on the ground. In addittion 
 to this you are also going to see that different moves cause a different reaction, an example of 
 this would be you getting knocked down with a low kick you would be able to get up faster as oposed 
 to getting knocked down with a strong blow to the gut. I most definetly think that this is the 
 best fighting game out mainly for the reason that it really displays all the things that you could 
 want in a structured fighting game. Therefore I think this is really a must get type of game if 
 you have an Xbox 360 right now, despite the game being harder to adjust to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTION82607
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game has beautiful graphics coupled with fast and exciting gameplay leading to an extremely 
 fun and addicting experience!
  The online mode is done very well and always has an opponent for somebody, whether you are a DOA 
 master or a fairly new button masher
  kinda player.
  The story is allright, not as good as 2, but it's still there, which is better than some fighting 
 games can boast.
  DOA games take some getting used to, which is why I don't recommend buying this if you are a first 
 time DOA player.
  If you have not played a DOA game, rent it first then, once you warm up to the controls and gameplay, 
 which as I mentioned earlier, are very easy and addicting, buy it!
  For all DOA veterans, IF YOU HAVE A 360 THIS GAME SHOULD ALREADY BE IN YOUR COLLECTION, IF NOT 
 YOU CAN'T CALL YOURSELF A DOA FAN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:58 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of DOA ultimate.... well that is pretty much what you get. The game doesn't feel 
 any better or worse. I have to say with the price spikes in the "nex-gen" of 3rd party game developers... that 
 the games would be 10's all the way across the board. I put this game in expecting to get blown 
 away... and it is like ugh.... I have this game already. The graphics... well.. are not what you would 
 say is "NEXT GENERATION". DEAD OR ALIVE ULTIMATE, HALO 2...... is what you would be concidering 
 to be "next generation" but those games have been out and are priced alot better than the things 
 we are seeing currently for a higher price. I really thought I would see PHOTO REALISM and all 
 I am getting is cartoons.... The game looks nice... don'get me wrong... ITS BETTER THAN MADDEN. :-)
 
  
  I thought we were stepping into this new phase of gameplay... and we are not going anywhere and 
 paying more for it. DOA 4.... is good... but it has been done previously... and you get just as good 
 of experience from the older versions and with just as good visuals.. if you do not have an HD TV. 
 Microsoft is taken us for a ride calling this a major step... the step was the online service over-all.... gaming 
 wise we are paying alot more for something that we already had. If you are really wanting a 360 
 and can not get one and are willing to pay retarded amounts for it.... DON'T!! Be cautious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swingtipshoes
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics? Yes. The characters are smoothly rendered and the sceneries are nicely animated 
 with animals, waterfalls, cars, etc. However, the game has little value after that. The fighting 
 moves are somewhat limited. Of course there are several moves per character, but most of them look 
 the same, the only difference is that you hitting different complex keys for very similar moves. 
 The story mode was very short-lived. The the computer AI was weak. I was able to defeat most fighters 
 (including the last one) by executing the same move over and over. Sure, the enemies are quick 
 to attack, but if you execute the right move at the right time, you can repeatedly deliver it and 
 cause damage. Then again, it is difficult to be fancy with your character and execute different 
 moves because the enemies attack so quickly (this is why I gave it a Hard difficulty rating) . Finally, 
 the dialogue in story mode is horrible, I was hoping for more of a story definition and with dialogue 
 that was more interesting than just saying "I'm not giving this up" and "I must destroy you" (varies 
 per character, and my citations here are not entirely accurate) . Since I haven't played the previous 
 DOA series, do they speak in Japanese (sorry if I'm mistaken about the spoken language) with English 
 subtitles? I just thought that Team Ninja would have taken the time to translate the entire spoken 
 dialogue. However, I would hate to know that Team Ninja would have had to delay the game some more 
 to do that. All in all, the game is beautiful to look at, but it gets boring very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffy1414
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  Dead Or alive 4 is one of the most amazing looking xbox 360 games to date!!! its amazing how they 
 improved the fighting system!!! a must own if you like fighting games, and or wanna play online!!!! you 
 will love the beatiful graphics it shows off, also the gameplay!! WOW! amazing! when i picked up this 
 game at best buy i was just really curious about this game... i thought i would be looken at the 
 same grapgics it shoed off on the xbox! but to my amazment!!!! this game is really soild! graphics 
 are the best!! Yes i do recommend this game to every xbox 360 owner... you will be playing this game 
 for awhile even if you have xbox live!! you will never stop playing it! its simply amazing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigballerlbj23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  It was amazing. Graphics are astonishing. Gameplay is good, envoiorments are destructible which 
 is a huge plus. different moves and cutscenes for each player and it all ties in together at the 
 end which is awesome. I was over all blown away by all of it. the online is sweet. creataing an 
 avatra, making a custon lobby complete with a tv to watch the current match while you wait. its 
 a great experience. And spartan!!! im a halo freak so that was a plus for me. everything about 
 it is great. it s amust own for any 360 owner.
  
  xbox gt- x10 TBK 18x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bert7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  When I first played DOA 3 I was like, "this is an amazing game, and I dont think there will be 
 a game that can beat it" until now DOA 4 does truly live up to DOA 3 and by far surpasses it. The 
 visuals are stunning and the gameplay is immpecable, plus the new characters are amazing; they 
 rock. (especially Nicole Spartan 458) The story is so good and the depth of the game is really 
 good. The music is great! The physics and gameplay graphics are really mind blowing, they truly 
 show the power of the Xbox 360. Needless to say I recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of 
 3d fighting games. Thats why I give this a perfect 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c2ccards
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:48 am PT
Review:  First off i love the DOS series and have alwasy been a big fan, and DOA 4 does not let me down 
 one bit. But not all games are perfect, the game looks outstanding, loading you barely notice (if 
 you have Hard Drive) and since i do not have a HDTV i don't get to see the game at 100% yet but 
 that will change. The only problem i have is some of the physics of combat has not improved as 
 much as they said it has how can you counter if i did not attack is my main gripe. I mean it's 
 great that you can surf your opponent down stairs and have a raptors run in there way. 
  
  The on-line lobbies is a great way to go as you can create your avatars and buy clothing or additional 
 lobbies etc. the on-line features are great addition.
  
  But all in all this game is a must have for any XB 360 owner and i'm sure they will have fun kicking 
 there friends or getting there butt's kicked by there friends.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:08 am PT
Review:  Alright, just for clarification, I'm a casual gamer. I enjoy playing games and winning without 
 much work. Call it what you will, but that's the fact. Having said this, I'm not all that happy 
 with Dead or Alive 4. Frankly, the difficulty level is just too high for someone like myself to 
 enjoy. I don't mind dying a few times, but when I can't seem to get the final opponent to less 
 than half of her hitpoints, despite dying over 20 times, then there's an issue.
  
  Gameplay:
  Honestly, it's almost exactly like DOA 3, but with a few tweaks. It works well, but 
 counters seem way too difficult to pull off unless you're the computer. That, and the AI plays 
 like seasoned DOA veterans. Now, if you're up for the challenge, that's great, but I'm not.
  
  Graphics:
  Ok, so they added a blur effect for the faster moves. Other than that, I really 
 don't see much of an improvement over DOA 3. Now, that's a compliment to DOA 3's graphics, but 
 a real let-down for DOA 4.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds in the game are fantastic. While the character sounds might get a little repetitive, 
 they still fit. It works really well.
  
  Value:
  This game is great if you plan on playing online. That alone boosts the score. However, for someone 
 like me who is the more casual gamer, you won't get much out of this game.
  
  Tilt:
  Alright, I know someone's not going to like the score I gave in this category, but I really don't 
 care. I'm not a huge fan of overly difficult games and this game is overly difficult. I shouldn't 
 die over 20 times against one opponent and still not come even close to beating her, at least not 
 for a computer. Honestly, I just gave up and turned off my 360. I got that frustrated. Hey, at 
 least I gave it a high enough score to raise the overall to a 7.0.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theveryfatman86
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first read the reviews by other users I was skeptical. I own the xbox dead or alive games, 
 but I wasn't sure if I would want to spend 60 on a game, but to sum it up I am glad that I did. 
 This is a great game and a must own for all of you out there with an xbox360. The single player 
 is great, with a lot of difficulty, to make you learn moves and reversals, to top it all of the 
 characters look outstanding, even better that visuals that already impressed on the xbox. The sound 
 is excellent especially in surround. The environments as hard as it is to believe are even more 
 interactive then they ever were, and there are hours of unlockables to top it all off. That just 
 sums up the single player experience. This game earns it's 10 with it's phenomenal multiplayer 
 experience on xbox live. I played around in the lobby and must say it is fun to be able to talk 
 to friends while waiting for your turn to play. To quote a person online "this feels like standing 
 in an arcade" finally an arcade fighting experience from the comfort of your own home. Also with 
 all this frantic fighting action I experienced no lag whatsoever. Also many have read about the 
 four second loading times, and I must tell you that they are a fact. This game's pace never even 
 slows down one bit. I have said it before and will stick by it, this game is a must own for anybody 
 who owns an xbox360, and may just be a reason to get an xbox360 when you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitokiri120
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Okay first, the point of Itagaki ( Team Ninja Leader) was to creat a world of outstanding inviroment, 
 interaction with that inviroment and good gameplay.
  The gameplay of the game is AWSOME, the Graphiques of the stages are incredible and the interaction 
 is even better than DOAU 2 and DOA3.
  The point of Team ninja wasn't to show that the characters could resemble to human beings as of 
 Perfect Dark zero or Call of duty, because DOA always as its "cartoon/anime" look with all the 
 characters, besides Jann-lee's body but thats to proove the powerfull engine of the muscles and 
 all. So I think that Team Ninja completed its goal by doin a Kick a** game, with awsome gameplay 
 and with graphiques conscentrated more on the backgroud then on the characters. And I KNOW THAT 
 THE HAIR HAS ERRORS, but who gives a damn about the hair, I rather have detailed costume and levels, 
 then having hair so fluid Like it USED A FULL BOTTLE OF HEAD &SHOULDER!!!! So my point is, people 
 have the right to give theire personnale rank, but to give 6.7, its a little shamefull cause the 
 reasons the guy gives are pointless and stupid.
  of course thats MY opinion but please if you wanna give a low or High rank , HAVE good reason (s) .
 
  and the ONE super reason why its not a rip off of DOAU, its because of the Frame advantage and 
 well in other words, the fightint system . And the music ain't that bad but HEY, you can put your 
 own music with the super option of the 360.... your own damn soundtrack!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow kinda good wow and kinda bad wow the gameplay isnt all that great but hey it was ok it had 
 some great moments like throwing someone off a bridge or down a flight of stairs. But the controls 
 theyre pretty unresponsive and go kinda slow. THe graphics well i was blown away by the graphics 
 they are amazing. Anyway the story mode becomes a bore when your just fighting but the multiplayer 
 is great unfortunately i didnt play online so i dont know what it is like so yeah. There is quite 
 a bit to do in the game but it is just kind of boring but the moves and everything are cool. Overall 
 i thought the game had some pretty good moments but i would just reccomen renting it. If your a 
 huge DOA fan or you love brawlers though you must buy this game! Also the controls are very tough 
 to figure out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4 has everything a next-gen game should have: wonderful graphics, amazing sound/music, 
 a great character scheme, and some very nice features. But with every good game comes bad things, 
 even Halo isnt perfect. More plot depth is needed. You fight a fair amount of one on ones and 
 then K. O. this really hard final boss to get a nice movie and some un-lockable features (costumes, 
 viewing the end movie for each character you beat the game with, and so on) I know that some people 
 like the all fight and little story type of game so give us an option under the game settings 
 to have that in our game. That way we can all be happy. Another thing, not much of a tutorial, 
 yes there is a nice press these buttons to do this attack feature, but it doesnt really explain 
 everything on a nice silver platter. But I digress. All in all DoA 4 is an amazing game and worth 
 the wait. Despite a few flaws I would recommend this game to any arcade fighter fan or to someone 
 who was interested I would advise them to rent it and give it a fair chance, it is a challenging 
 game but it is worth learning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flppr393
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  this game covered all the bases just amazing the ending movies were outstanding the graphics were 
 mind boggling. i love this game.
  
  character models were outstanding and the visuals were awesome, not to mention some of the best 
 levels i have ever played in any fighting game ever, bravo team ninja and tecmo.
  
  the sound is very good and it takes only a while to get back into the swing of things as far as 
 control goes.
  
  very creative in game cut scenes.
  
  but it comes full circle to the stunning visuals that are presented to us the gamers and i was 
 not let down at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raging_death
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, since this is my first ever DoA game, I can't compare it to any others. What I can do is 
 tell you how awesome this game is.
  
  When I first plug the game in, the first thing I notice are the next-gen graphics. Even on the 
 title screen they are life like. The first thing I do as I did in Soul Caliber 2 and so onis I 
 go the practice room. I try out a fair amount of characters and decide which one I want to learn. 
 The practicing has a neat little feature that shows you the button combination at the top of the 
 screen so you can try it out on the comp. If you get it right, it moves on. If you dont you can 
 try it again. If you get stuck on one, you can manually move it to the next move. Very neat feature 
 unlike having to sort though menus to find the combo like in Soul Caliber 2.
  
  So I decide to go onto the story mode. The first thing I notice is the music. Very nice, clean, 
 and clear background music that fits perfectly into the map. Much like Fable where you dont hear 
 the music more so feel it. Then WHAM it hits me, the voices are still in Japanese or Chinese. 
 Im thinking either I have a bugged version, or its meant to be like this.
  
  Either way I press on and after a while the voicing doesnt even really register anymore cuz you 
 just want to get straight to the fighting. The smooth style of the kicks and the clear animations 
 of razor fast punches come to life on the 360. The first few battles and even the first time I 
 played through the story line with a character, I lost many of those matches. It had some to do 
 with the shear beauty of the game but more or less to do with the learning curve; especially to 
 one who has never played a DoA game in his life. But after a while it gets fluent as any pick-up 
 and play style game should.
  
  To sum it all up, Dead or Alive 4 has everything a next-gen game should have: wonderful graphics, 
 amazing sound/music, a great character scheme, and some very nice features. But with every good 
 game comes bad things, even Halo isnt perfect. More plot depth is needed. You fight a fair amount 
 of one on ones and then K. O. this really hard final boss to get a nice movie and some un-lockable 
 features (costumes, viewing the end movie for each character you beat the game with, and so on) 
 I know that some people like the all fight and little story type of game so give us an option 
 under the game settings to have that in our game. That way we can all be happy. Another thing, 
 not much of a tutorial, yes there is a nice press these buttons to do this attack feature, but 
 it doesnt really explain everything on a nice silver platter. But I digress. All in all DoA 4 
 is an amazing game and worth the wait. Despite a few flaws I would recommend this game to any arcade 
 fighter fan or to someone who was interested I would advise them to rent it and give it a fair 
 chance, it is a challenging game but it is worth learning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzmosis69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of Dead or Alive. I purchased a Xbox 360 just for the Dead Or Alive 4. I 
 was desappointed when the game did not come out when the system came out. I pre-ordered the game, 
 and waited and waited and waited. Finally, it was here DOA4. Was it worth the wait? HELL YA! The 
 game is A+. Way to go Team Ninja and Tecmo! The graphics a great, the background is awsome, and 
 the fighting engine is supurb. The really could not find anything wrong with this game. It has 
 alot of characters to fight with plus more to unlock. I can not wait to see what else Team Ninja 
 well come up with for the 360. DOA Beach Volleyball??????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpapleux
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Got it today. It's smooth, it's nice, it's exciting ... what else can I say... oh! yes, I'm not 
 a fan of fighting games. This is my first ever. And I am HOOOKED!
  
  Got friends over and we started to discover the thing together. Play Versus on random players and 
 random arena and it's lots of fun all through.
  
  The learning mode allows to take the time to learn how to do combos etc. The whole thing is truly 
 impressive.... and I haven't seen any blood, just sheer violence...
  
  FORCING PEOPLE TO ENTER AT LEAST 100 WORDS IN A REVIEW IS NOT EXACTLY INVITING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAmbient408
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Dead or Alive 4, the first fighting game for the Xbox 360, is the one of the first 360 games to 
 use the next generation power that is packed in the 360's case. With high resolution textures, 
 maps, characters, the game succeeds graphically and is awe-inspiring.
  
  The gameplay, however, is severely different from Dead or Alive 3 or even Dead or Alive Ultimate 
 2. Many of the characters moves have changed and many of the new moves can be chained and linked 
 for 5-7-8-9 move combos. 
  
  The game offers the standard story, time attack, tag team, survival, and team battle modes that 
 we know and love. The DOA Online feature is now a perminate add-on to the series.
  
  The online mode is great and offers lots of features like match-making, the lobby system, Zack's 
 shop (a fake online store where you can buy stuff for the online mode and game like costumes and 
 accessories) , and ranking boards. Getting into a match is easy and play is great. Unfortunately, 
 more users kept hammering the Xbox Live servers causing lags and rumors of system failers. I hope 
 Microsoft and Tecmo fix this soon but the online experience is something to experience first hand. 
 
  
  The sound of the game is the same techno beats assigned to each character. Aerosmith makes another 
 cameo appearance in the series with song numbers in the prologue and epilogue scenes. The fighting 
 sounds are mode authenic and believable, making the fighting seem more realistic.
  
  In conclusion, Dead or Alive 4 is the MUST-HAVE game for the Xbox 360. Screw Call of Duty 2, screw 
 Perfect Dark Zero, screw Project Gotham 3, buy DEAD OR ALIVE 4 FOR THE XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fairfiaa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  this is the best fighting game i have ever played the graphics are so crisp the game play is so 
 good to rent or bye you wont be disappointed this game is worth every penny trust me. It is a complete 
 game the characters so detailed i love it you will love even if you dont like fighting games you 
 will still want to play dead or alive 4 the sound is perfect to this is now my favorite game now 
 next to resident evil 4 i hope in dead or alive 5 they will put a character from the resident evil 
 series that would be cool but i i like how they put a character from halo in this one. peace out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikeStud17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing for about 15 mins and ive unlocked one character and a few new costumes the graphics 
 are GREAT its really quick takes a little bit to get used to before you play on hard or very hard 
 ive gone on XBOX LIVE and i got my butt handed to me but all in all i think its a great game if 
 you get bored you can always go on xbox live and play its still fun but REALLY HARD ive used about 
 4 or 5 characters and beatn it on story mode BUT ITS STILL A GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuddlesTheBunny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game has amazing visuals from the things in the background all the way to your 
 characters face... and down a little more. Still its not the graphics that make this game great 
 but the gameplay. If you've played the other DOA games you'll notice a faster pace of fighting. 
 This is definitely an an improvement upon recent games, but can also cause a bit of frustration. 
 Bosses can be a pain in your behind at times because of constant combos that take away most of 
 your health before you have time to counter the attack. 
  
  If you are easily frustrated, you should 1. try renting the game first, or 2. play the game in 
 intervals. Even with the difficulty being pretty hard, this is easily on the best titles out right 
 now for the 360. You should pick this up even if you only have slight interest in fighting games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Growing up in the 90's during the golden age of fighting games. You have nothing but the highest 
 of standards for the genre. This is the one genre that put video games in the mainstream as a public 
 pastime. Going back to the beginning with Street Fighter 2 to the revolutionary gore of Mortal 
 Kombat to the intense combo memorization of Killer Instinct, (which I hope Rare Makes soon) , to 
 the evolution of 3d with Virtual Fighter, to the fluidity of Sould Blade/Sould Caliber, and overall 
 perfect competetion of Tekken, , every great fighting game has built upon the rest. But the common 
 thread that ties this genre together is accesibility of friendly to fierce competetion which brings 
 random people together to have a good time. This is what video games are suppose to do and to this 
 date DOA 4has done it to the best. 
  
  I reiterate my statement that Dead or Alive 4 is probably the best fighting game to date. Great 
 games achieve a unique balance between gameplay, graphics, and challenge, and DOA 4 has done that. 
 There are two schools of thought on fighting games. One school thinks that the game should be as 
 complicated as the martial arts themselves. In my opinion these are the nerds who have no lives 
 and nothing better to do than to spend thier brain memorizing 20 hit button combinations, just 
 so that they can have bragging rights to something in there lives. To me games are suppose to make 
 you feel like what your not. In a fighting game you should be able to feel like a Ninja, a Muy 
 Thai Boxer, a Master Submission grappler, without knowing a damn thing about how to do it in real 
 life. This is what DOA has done well since DOA 2. With it's simple setup of punch, kick, block 
 and grab, a novice can feel like a contender from the get go, and have absoublutly gorgeous visuals 
 to look at. This is the addicting factor. It's hard to look bad in DOA 4. Even getting your ass 
 handed to you looks pretty. In comparision I knew it would be hard to improve graphically for this 
 series but I guess I did expect a little bit more considering the graphics of games like Codemn 
 and NBA Live 2006, but the character models do have a slight upgrade over DOA 3. Bodies look more 
 solid and more realistic, proportionatly. But in a HIgh Definition TV you won't notice too much 
 difference in skin textures between character models from DOA 3 to there DOA 4 counterparts. You 
 would notice that the faces do have more polygons in them just because they look more natural. 
 The best improvement are in the moves per character and the audio of the blows. All the fighters 
 seem to have more realistic more hard hitting fighting style. Less flash more substance, which 
 is good for a fighting game. The sound of the hits has been changed from a the old western sounding 
 clap to a more denser sounding dud. Which does well to make you feel the pain of the blow. Over 
 all DOA 4 feels more painful than ever before, which is good. While in DOA Ultimate, the fights 
 felt more like a exhibition of moves, in DOA 4 fights, you actually feel like your doing damage 
 to each other.
  
  Tweaks to characters moves have been changed to a more realistic style, that you'll notice during 
 play. Even the Ninja's seem to throw more punches than finger jabs. Zack has a new cool hook punch 
 combo that he murders the body with. Hayate has tweeked his style to mix in more with his Ein Karate 
 syle. He now fights with a perfect blend of the two. Withe the swiftness and unpredictability of 
 this ninjitsu style but his standard attacks seem to focus more on punch and kick combinations 
 from his karate style. But those wishing for classic Ein as myself (personal favorite) he is a 
 unlockable character after beating the game with Hitomi, (how has the most idiotic story in the 
 game so far, "I want that Cabbage, LET"S FIGHT !!! LOL.) 
  
  Now to get to the real reason everyone is playing this game. ONLINE MODE. This game IS BETTER THAN 
 TEKKEN 5, AND SOUL CALIBER, YOU KNOW WHY, BECAUSE IT HAS ONLINE MULTIPLAYER. THERE IS ABSOUBLUTLY 
 NO POINT IN MAKING A FIGHTING GAME WITHOUT ONLINE MULTIPLAYER MODE. NAMCO SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF 
 THEMSELVES THINKING THAT THE AUDIENCE THAT GREW UP WITH TEKKEN AND SUPPORTED THROUGHOUT THE YEARS 
 HAS TIME TO GET FRIENDS OVER. WE ALL WORK NOW, THIS AIN'T HIGHSCHOOL ANYMORE !!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blahzie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Alright, here's the thing: 
  
  I've been gaming for a long while now, and as a gamer I've grown more sophisticated. Maybe it's 
 because I'm jaded or because I've practically seen it all, but I am no longer as easily impressed 
 as I was even three years ago. It takes a lot for a game to make a positive impression on me. That's 
 why DOA4 is such a suprise to me: it actually made me stand back and say, "this is a pretty damn 
 good game." It's not perfect, but it's easily the best fighter I've played since Evo. 
  
  Stuff that impressed me: 
  
  1. Production values: Wow. Stuff like knocking someone onto the 
 next level through a gang of balloons and watching the balloons float up after being hit, a stampeding 
 herd of bison as a level barrier as opposed to the same old invisible wall, the wind and thunder 
 that kick up during a charge move, the sheer variety of animations for specific circumstances - 
 all make this game feel a lot more like an interactive anime than a video game. And that's a good 
 thing. A good game always makes you forget that you're playing a game. 
  
  2. The sound! Saints alive, the sound is incredible. I like that characters grunt when getting 
 kicked around, there are different sound for impact into different surfaces such as metal vs. wood, 
 there are different impact sounds for different attacks, you hear the monkeys in the background, 
 running water, chirping birds, etc... DOA4 really ups the ante for immersion, even if the characters 
 look like they just stepped out of a manga. 
  
  3. The gameplay: While TN didn't reinvent the wheel or anything, some welcome additions are the 
 ground stun, environment specific moves (e. g. Leon's water choke slam) , spinning stun from circular 
 attacks, various knock-you-on-your-ass stuns, decreased knockback, universal high kick wakeup and 
 character-specific wakeup moves, etc... Lots uf this stuff hasn't been done before and i only preoves 
 that TN has the imagination to hang with the big boys. 
  
  Another VERY important change here is that, for he first time in DOA, you're beginning to see a 
 real separation between the characters; they have become much more unique. One of my biggest gripes 
 with DOA has been the same one I have with Tekken: doppelganger syndrome. To many characters played 
 like to many other characters. The lines between the character are becoming more clear, and now 
 there seems to be a reason to actually pick up Leon over Bayman, or Ein over Hitomi, or really 
 any ninja over any other ninja. 
  
  
  Stuff that didn't impress: 
  
  1. The gameplay: That said, DOA4 still won't be the deepest fighter you ever played. There will 
 soon be a very heated debate on how it stacks up with, say, Tekken, but I still don't believe there 
 is enough variation in move properties to legitimize a win for DOA4. I would like to have seen 
 TN move away from the PPcombo stuff that is becoming so tiring in fighting games lately. I would 
 like to have also seen many more attacks involving the walls as well. Someone mentioned sabakis 
 earlier... they may be in the game, but the game doesn't tell you how to do them. Which makes me 
 a little skeptical. I could be wrong, though. 
  
  I like the emphasis on charge attacks and catch throws, and they're implemented well, but there's 
 a whole host of other properties that could have been used. You get the imprssion that besides 
 multi-part throws, that's all there is to the gameplay. Safe moves, guard crush, charge moves, 
 PPcombo, and catch throws. This is only disappointing because the game still had more potential. 
 
  
  The other thing that's sort of a mixed bag is how the whole rock/paper/scissors thing has basically 
 been trashed (a good thing) . Counters have been significantly toned down (a good thing) , but as 
 a result of this plus the faster speed, throws seem to lose their effectiveness as an option (a 
 bad thing) , and the game becomes more of a striker than a fighter, if you catch what I mean. 
 
  
  2. Extras: Very disappointed here. Minor crap, but for whatever reason I was thinking 10 costumes 
 per character and there is not one character that makes it over 4 without loads of color swaps. 
 Bad form, TN, bad form. 
  
  Helena also should be available form the start. Again, not a huge thing, but still, it's annoying 
 that I have to spend 10 hours playing the game - thanks to kasumi alpha - just to see a character 
 that had been a standard in the series just about since it came out. 
  
  And Spartan: cool idea, but what's really the point? 
  
  3. Music: the music sucks. My opinion, 
 I know, but it does to me. Easily fixed too, thanks to 360's hard drive. Otherwise the sound is 
 top-freakin-notch.
  
  Overall it's still a very good game. Not once did I get the impression that this was DOA3.3, which 
 was my fear going in. Nice job, TN, too bad this may be the last one, because you finally made 
 one worthy of the "legitimate fighting game" label. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenOfThunder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This title proves that Dead or Alive, a title knows for its buxoum babes in skimpy clothing, is 
 not just about the nice panty shots you get when somebody is thrown in the air. DoA is a deep, 
 immersive fighter that offers a good challenge against CPUs and friends.
  
  I'm a DoA n00b. I have no idea what's going on in the story. I don't think it matters, the manual 
 does a pretty good job of an explination, but I would have liked a cutscene explaining what in 
 the world is happening. 
  
  All the fighters have returned, all rendered in beautiful XBOX360 glory. The cutscene are some 
 of the most beautiful ever created, I could watch the ending to Ryu's story over and over and over. 
 The enviroments look excellent too. Not one, not two, but 21 furry little monkies running around 
 the background dosen't even phase the game's framerate. And load times seem almost nonexistant. 
 Team Ninja didn't hold back on this one.
  
  DoA4 sounds equally great as well. Ever wonder what a cute, pink-haired Ninja girl sounds like 
 when smashed against an electrified fence? Wonder no more, this game answers all your wierd questions 
 (Except "What is the meaning of life?" The answer to that is 42) .
  
  The fighting engine is superb as well. I can really feel the flow of the moves and such when exectuing 
 them. You really can get lost in its smoothness. Although at times, the CPU can get frustrating. 
 Not too much that you can't win, you just have to calm downand time your attacks carefully. The 
 final boss, however, is way too unbablanced, and will throw you ever chance it gets. The only other 
 problems are little pet peeves of mine, not worth mentioning.
  
  I haven't had the chance to play the online multiplayer, but I was never a big online guy so I 
 won't bother factoring it into my review.
  
  This has got to be my favorite 360 title so far. After being dissapointed by Perfect Dark Zero 
 and GUN being a little above mediocre, I find that I will be spending a lot of time with Dead or 
 Alive 4, and that is not a bad thing at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was deff. not worth the hype or wait. The environments look good, but it looks like they 
 just ripped the char. models out of DOA2. witch was impressive, but 2 years ago. Story line has 
 NO depth at all, and all the diolauge is japanise. I hate reading sub-titles. I guess if your looking 
 for a DOA2 clone, this is the game for you. I was hoping for some "next-gen" fighting. Even the 
 fighting system is complicated and shallow. This would have been a great $20 budget title. I cant 
 see what took team ninja so long to put it out. If your looking for a good fighting game, your 
 just going to have to wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: augi90210
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  i have dead or alive 3, and i always wanted to play dead or alive 4 as soon as they released it 
 . to my suprise they have "nicole"who is a spartan from the halo universe in the game!!!!!!!!!!
 
  when i saw this i threw my controller down and screamed in joy because they have one of my favorite 
 charactors ,a spartan in one of my all time favorite game dead or alive 4 this totally rocks! now 
 i can kick @$$ in halo2 with a spartan and i can kick @$$ in dead or alive 4 with master chief!
 
  
  the other charactors i like are jan lee who is a clone of bruce lee.
  then i like ryu hyabusa a high flying ninja who starrs in other games like ninja gaiden and ninja 
 gaiden black.
  
  i think in dead or alive 5 they should put sam fisher from splinter cell series into the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabrielNHBnyc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Growing up in the 90's during the golden age of fighting games. You have nothing but the highest 
 of standards for the genre. This is the one genre that put video games in the mainstream as a public 
 pastime. Going back to the beginning with Street Fighter 2 to the revolutionary gore of Mortal 
 Kombat to the intense combo memorization of Killer Instinct, (which I hope Rare Makes soon) , to 
 the evolution of 3d with Virtual Fighter, to the fluidity of Sould Blade/Sould Caliber, and overall 
 perfect competetion of Tekken, , every great fighting game has built upon the rest. But the common 
 thread that ties this genre together is accesibility of friendly to fierce competetion which brings 
 random people together to have a good time. This is what video games are suppose to do and to this 
 date DOA 4has done it to the best. 
  
  I reiterate my statement that Dead or Alive 4 is probably the best fighting game to date. Great 
 games achieve a unique balance between gameplay, graphics, and challenge, and DOA 4 has done that. 
 There are two schools of thought on fighting games. One school thinks that the game should be as 
 complicated as the martial arts themselves. In my opinion these are the nerds who have no lives 
 and nothing better to do than to spend thier brain memorizing 20 hit button combinations, just 
 so that they can have bragging rights to something in there lives. To me games are suppose to make 
 you feel like what your not. In a fighting game you should be able to feel like a Ninja, a Muy 
 Thai Boxer, a Master Submission grappler, without knowing a damn thing about how to do it in real 
 life. This is what DOA has done well since DOA 2. With it's simple setup of punch, kick, block 
 and grab, a novice can feel like a contender from the get go, and have absoublutly gorgeous visuals 
 to look at. This is the addicting factor. It's hard to look bad in DOA 4. Even getting your ass 
 handed to you looks pretty. In comparision I knew it would be hard to improve graphically for this 
 series but I guess I did expect a little bit more considering the graphics of games like Codemn 
 and NBA Live 2006, but the character models do have a slight upgrade over DOA 3. Bodies look more 
 solid and more realistic, proportionatly. But in a HIgh Definition TV you won't notice too much 
 difference in skin textures between character models from DOA 3 to there DOA 4 counterparts. You 
 would notice that the faces do have more polygons in them just because they look more natural. 
 The best improvement are in the moves per character and the audio of the blows. All the fighters 
 seem to have more realistic more hard hitting fighting style. Less flash more substance, which 
 is good for a fighting game. The sound of the hits has been changed from a the old western sounding 
 clap to a more denser sounding dud. Which does well to make you feel the pain of the blow. Over 
 all DOA 4 feels more painful than ever before, which is good. While in DOA Ultimate, the fights 
 felt more like a exhibition of moves, in DOA 4 fights, you actually feel like your doing damage 
 to each other.
  
  Tweaks to characters moves have been changed to a more realistic style, that you'll notice during 
 play. Even the Ninja's seem to throw more punches than finger jabs. Zack has a new cool hook punch 
 combo that he murders the body with. Hayate has tweeked his style to mix in more with his Ein Karate 
 syle. He now fights with a perfect blend of the two. Withe the swiftness and unpredictability of 
 this ninjitsu style but his standard attacks seem to focus more on punch and kick combinations 
 from his karate style. But those wishing for classic Ein as myself (personal favorite) he is a 
 unlockable character after beating the game with Hitomi, (how has the most idiotic story in the 
 game so far, "I want that Cabbage, LET"S FIGHT !!! LOL.) 
  
  Now to get to the real reason everyone is playing this game. ONLINE MODE. This game IS BETTER THAN 
 TEKKEN 5, AND SOUL CALIBER, YOU KNOW WHY, BECAUSE IT HAS ONLINE MULTIPLAYER. THERE IS ABSOUBLUTLY 
 NO POINT IN MAKING A FIGHTING GAME WITHOUT ONLINE MULTIPLAYER MODE. NAMCO SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF 
 THEMSELVES THINKING THAT THE AUDIENCE THAT GREW UP WITH TEKKEN AND SUPPORTED THROUGHOUT THE YEARS 
 HAS TIME TO GET FRIENDS OVER. WE ALL WORK NOW, THIS AIN'T HIGHSCHOOL ANYMORE !!!
  
  The online mode was weird and jarring at first as your little avatar is trasported to this little 
 DBZ dimension where your watching the game online and making your little Ninja laugh, wash his 
 face. This is actually the game's lobby. At that point you have to press start to actually let 
 the game know you want to play. Why do you even be in the game lobby if you didn't want to play 
 is beyond me. It would be nice if there were minigames in the lobby, but it is a nice place to 
 be in when your changing your settings. There is less Lag than DOA Ulitmate so far, but a serious 
 problem occurs when people try to quite at the end of a match. Like most microsft products, the 
 game has had a tendency to freeze. You have to back to your xbox live dashboard in order to clear 
 it if it doesn't clear up on it's own. I really wish that this game got some dedicated servers 
 in the US, and not share it's servers with XBOX LIVE. If Halo 2 can play virtually lag free at 
 times this should also. Granted it's a more complicated online experiance but considering this 
 going to be one of the most xbox live games ever played, it should get special treatment.
  
  Overall this is the absoublute best fighting game you can get right now. It took getting past 
 the Golden age of Fighting games but the Dead Or Alive Series has finally made it's mark as the 
 premier fighting game to play above the rest, and has the most to offer above the rest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optimusv2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Now let me just say this game is absolutely amazing... Naturally it has the EXPECTED updates for 
 a next gen title the beautiful scenery and amazing looking characters, but this game is also next 
 gen when it comes to the fighting. There is no way I see this game becoming repetitive or boring 
 there is so much depth to how you can beat the crap out of someone.
  
  Every counter you pull off or every counter the enemy pulls off on you will make you love the game 
 even more. There is just so much to be said about this game. There are so many possibly methods 
 of attack I lost track whether you just got knocked over some rail there are many attack you can 
 chain together to take advantage of that fact, with style. 
  
  There are many different ways of putting your opponent through a window off a bridge down some 
 stairs I don't even know where to begin.
  
  This has everything its a pure fighter packed with tons of style and rewarding attack animations 
 that will make you even more glad you decided to buy this game.
  
  This is a such a killer app and ninety nine nights, blue dragon, enchant arm, lost odyssey, halo 
 3, cry on, and many many more are on the way baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGVARR
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The characters are well detailed with some major issues. First of all they look exactly how they've 
 been looking for the past two installments the only difference is there clothing has a textured 
 look ( which is a little weird, it's like cartoons with cloths) . Also there is a problem with there 
 hair going in and out of there bodies , it can be over looked , but I think it shouldn't be. We 
 all paid over $400.00 + for the 360 plus accessories. The amazing part of this title are the backgrounds. 
 The water effects and animals that attack you while your fighting are amazing. With that being 
 said the on-line counterpart is almost non-playable the severs lock-up all the time forcing you 
 to manually power down you xbox 360 and reboot. You may get one good match in and then boom you 
 either looking at A black screen or looking at the winner posing for ten or twenty minutes. It 
 has also locked up on me while I was playing off-line. So I give this title an 7.8 rating .... 
 Great game with great problems. Game play would be better if on-line was up to par with it's previous 
 title - Dead Or Alive Ultimate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biga407
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  Just picked it up and running it through the standard test's.. Grafix are sweet... vs is sick... 
 online is something new and cool.. also a cool thing is u can stream your music from your pc in 
 the other room onto your sound system while your fighting and knocking people off bridges and buildings.. 
 Currently im online lag free trying to get some Zack Z's so i could get new outfits... at 1st when 
 there was so many delays i was dissapointed but you know what? it all turned out to be worth it 
 in the end cuz this game is a nice piece of work and the best in fighting ive seen sense tekken 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger2099
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  A fantasitic addition to the DOA series.
  original charaters, superb graphics, nice soundtrack and best of all alot of violent moves.
  
 I personally wasn't a fan of the dead or alive series i still love stret fighter but this was fantastic 
 and it has one key element that most games are missing, it's difficult i tried it on normal and 
 i got leatherd all over.
  my tip to any one is pick one character learn all moves and just go for it.
  When the xbox360 
 is avalible to everyone (because there still sold out) it's a defenate game to own first, it shows 
 what the xbox360 can really do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doa_4_ever
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  man what a game perfect for the xbox 360 gaming console. with new characters and better graphics 
 this should be a perfect fighting game since tekken 5. And pretty easy game to learn unlike those 
 really hard ones like soul caliber. One of the best things you will see is the stunning graphics 
 and the characters especially the new ones like la mariosa, elliot, kokoro and the secret halo oneand 
 of course the classical characters come especially well known ones like kasumi (my favourite) , lei 
 fang, zack, ayane, tina etc. with a new story where we pick up from dead or alive 3 this time the main 
 focused character is helena in doa 3 it was ayane. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
